Hence, it follows that the substituted Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 is not confined to cases where male coparcener dies after the commencement of the Amendment Act, 2005. Substituted Section 6 also applies to cases where male coparcener had already died prior to the commencement of the Amendment Act, 2005. F 66. The Court explained the difference between prospective statute, retrospective statute and retroactive statute. It has been observed in para 61: “61. The prospective statute operates from the date of its G enactment conferring new rights. The retrospective statute operates backward and takes away or impairs vested rights acquired under existing laws. A retroactive statute is the one that does not operate retrospectively. It operates in futuro. However, its operation is based upon the character or status that arose earlier. Characteristic or event which happened in H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 57 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the past or requisites which had been drawn from antecedent A events. Under the amended Section 6, since the right is given by birth, that is, an antecedent event, and the provisions operate concerning claiming rights on and from the date of Amendment Act.” (Emphasis supplied) 67. Interpreting sub-section (1) of substituted Section 6 of the Act B 1956, the Court opined in para 60 as under: “60. The amended provisions of Section 6(1) provide that on and from the commencement of the Amendment Act, the daughter is conferred the right. Section 6(1)(a) makes daughter by birth a coparcener “in her own right” and “in C the same manner as the son”. Section 6(1)(a) contains the concept of the unobstructed heritage of Mitakshara coparcenary, which is by virtue of birth. Section 6(1)(b) confers the same rights in the coparcenary property “as she would have had if she had been a son”. The conferral of D right is by birth, and the rights are given in the same manner with incidents of coparcenary as that of a son and she is treated as a coparcener in the same manner with the same rights as if she had been a son at the time of birth. Though the rights can be claimed, w.e.f. 9-9-2005, the provisions are of retroactive application; they confer benefits based on the E antecedent event, and the Mitakshara coparcenary law shall be deemed to include a reference to a daughter as a coparcener. At the same time, the legislature has provided savings by adding a proviso that any disposition or alienation, if there be any testamentary disposition of the property or F partition which has taken place before 20-12-2004, the date on which the Bill was presented in the Rajya Sabha, shall not be invalidated.” (Emphasis supplied) 68. The Court further observed in para 68 as follows: G “68. Considering the principle of coparcenary that a person is conferred the rights in the Mitakshara coparcenary by birth, similarly, the daughter has been recognised and treated as a coparcener, with equal rights and liabilities as of that of a son.