13. Having considered the matter, this Court fi nds that, in the facts and circumstances of the present case, it was not proper for the High Court to have granted anticipatory bail to the respondent. 14. As would be manifest from the Impugned , the reasoning thereof is contained in Paragraphs 7-12. Closer perusal reveals what weighed with the High Court: (a) That the maximum sentence for the off ences in the First Information Report did not exceed 7 years. (b) That the possibility of the respondent infl uencing the investigation, tampering with evidence et al, could be taken care of by imposing stringent conditions. 4 2023 SCC Online SC 1062. 712 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. (c) That the respondent’s declaration as a proclaimed off ender was not on account of him deliberately avoiding court. (d) That the respondent was a fi rst-time off ender and deserved a chance to ‘reform and course correct’. 15. The logic of the High Court does not commend itself to us. The High Court placed reliance on Arnesh Kumar v State of Bihar, (2014) 8 SCC 273 to the eff ect that where the off ence is punishable with imprisonment for a term which may be less than seven years or which may extend to seven years, whether with or without fi ne, there is to be no automatic arrest. Having gone through the said as also its most recent reiteration in Md. Asfak Alam v State of Jharkhand, 2023 INSC 6605, we are in full agreement with the propositions enunciated therein. However, Section 364, IPC carries a term of imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment of ten years and fi ne. We are a bit perplexed as to how, despite addition of Section 364, IPC, the High Court took the view that Arnesh Kumar (supra) would aid the respondent in his quest for pre-arrest bail. 16. What the High Court (also) lost sight of was that the respondent was a declared proclaimed off ender. The High Court notes, at Paragraph 28, that it was not dealing with the prayer seeking quashing of the proclamation proceedings as the same were not made part of the petition before it. As things were, the respondent was declared a proclaimed off ender on 05.02.2021, and sought anticipatory bail from the High Court only in October, 2021. As such, it was not correct for the High Court to brush aside such factum, on the basis of averments alone, purporting to explain the backdrop of such declaration by mere advertence to a similar-sounding name, in the petition before it, as recorded at Paragraphs 9 and 10 of the Impugned . The declaration of the respondent as a proclaimed off ender, and such declaration subsisting on the date of the Impugned , we are unable to agree with the High Court that the respondent was entitled to ‘reform and course correct’. 5 2023 SCC Online SC 892. STATE OF HARYANA v. DHARAMRAJ 713 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 16. The respondent, without fi rst successfully assailing the declaring him as a proclaimed off ender, could not have proceeded to seek anticipatory bail.