D 11.2. In the recent decision of this Court in State of Karnataka v. M.R. Hiremath, (2019) 7 SCC 515, one of us (D.Y. Chandrachud, J.) speaking for the Bench has observed and held in para 25 as under: E “25. The High Court [M.R. Hiremath v. State, 2017 SCC OnLine Kar 4970] ought to have been cognizant of the fact that the trial court was dealing with an application for discharge under the provisions of Section 239 CrPC. The parameters which govern the exercise of this jurisdiction have found expression in several decisions of this Court. It is a settled principle of law that at the F stage of considering an application for discharge the court must proceed on the assumption that the material which has been brought on the record by the prosecution is true and evaluate the material in to determine whether the facts emerging from the material, taken on its face value, disclose the existence of the ingredients G necessary to constitute the offence. In State of T.N. v. N. Suresh Rajan, (2014) 11 SCC 709, adverting to the earlier decisions on the subject, this Court held: ‘29. … At this stage, probative value of the materials has to be gone into and the court is not expected to go deep into the matter and hold that the materials would not warrant a conviction. H CAPTAIN MANJIT SINGH VIRDI (RETD.) v. HUSSAIN 475 MOHAMMED SHATTAF & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] In our opinion, what needs to be considered is whether there is a A ground for presuming that the offence has been committed and not whether a ground for convicting the accused has been made out. To put it differently, if the court thinks that the accused might have committed the offence on the basis of the materials on record on its probative value, it can frame the charge; though for B conviction, the court has to come to the conclusion that the accused has committed the offence. The law does not permit a mini trial at this stage.” 13. The relevant part of the impugned passed by the High Court is reproduced below:- C “In the statement of Suresh Thapa dated 11.12.2006, he says he had attended party at the bungalow. In the statement of Collector Singh Thakur recorded on 9.12.2007, he refers tearing of papers by accused no.2 at 7 O’ clock on 13.5.2006. Even this statement primarily would not activate to nail the accused-applicants as the D incident of elimination/murder has taken place late in the night. Mr. Suresh Thapa, in his statement on 14.5.2006, refers that in the late night he was sitting of a platform at site, at such time a car came to drop deceased and thereafter the deceased went with his gardener Hari to his house. In further statement dated 28.6.2006, he refers of a silver colour Tata India Car coming to E the area of society and a person from the car called the deceased loudly, he was tall with long hair.