I will supplement his fi ndings with some of my own reasons. Since the broad arguments and submissions have been succinctly captured in the opinion of the learned Chief Justice, I fi nd no reason to separately enlist them here. 4. At the outset, I will set out my conclusions, which are also in complete consonance with that of Justice Bhat in his opinion. a. The question of marriage equality of same sex/LGBTQ+ couples did not arise for consideration in any of the previous decisions of this Court, including the decision in Navtej Singh Johar & Ors. v. Union of India1 and NALSA v. Union of India2. Consequently, there cannot be a binding precedent on this count. The reasons for arriving at this conclusion are articulated in the opinion of Justice Bhat. b. The rights of LGBTQ+ persons, that have been hitherto recognized by this Court, are the right to gender identity, sexual orientation, the right to choose a partner, cohabit and enjoy physical & mental intimacy. In the exercise of these rights, they have full freedom from physical threat and from coercive action, and the State is bound to aff ord them full protection of the law in case these rights are in peril. c. There is no unqualifi ed right to marriage guaranteed by the Constitution, that qualifi es it as a fundamental freedom. With respect to this, I agree with the opinion of Justice Bhat, but will supplement it with some additional reasons. d. The right to marriage is a statutory right, and to the extent it is demonstrable, a right fl owing from a legally enforceable customary practice. In the exercise of such a right, statutory or 1 (2018) 10 SCC 1 2 (2014) 5 SCC 438 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1517 OF INDIA [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] customary, the State is bound to extend the protection of law to individuals, so that they can exercise their choices without fear and coercion. This, in my opinion, is the real import of the decisions in Shafi n Jahan v. Asokan K.M.3 and Shakti Vahini v. Union of India4. e. The constitutional challenge to the Special Marriage Act, 1954 and the Foreign Marriage Act,1969 must fail, for the reasons indicated in the opinion of Justice Bhat. f. Similarly, Justice Bhat also rightly finds the semantic impossibilities of gender-neutral constructions of the Special Marriage Act, 1954 and the Foreign Marriage Act,1969. On both (e) and (f), the opinion of Justice Bhat is exhaustive as to the reasons, and they need not be supplemented. g. I fi nd that a right to a civil union or an abiding cohabitational relationship conferring a legally enforceable status cannot be situated within Part III of the Constitution of India. On this count too, I agree with the conclusions of Justice Bhat, and supplement them with my own reasons. h. I agree with the reasoning and the conclusion of Justice Bhat with respect to the constitutionality of Regulation 5(3) of the CARA Regulations, 2020.