The Commission also opined that Commercial space booked by the appellants was for earning profi t and ROHIT CHAUDHARY & ANR. v. M/S VIPUL LTD. 399 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] not for the purpose of earning livelihood by way of self-employment by relying upon the statement of fi rst appellant recorded by the Commission. Hence the appeal. 6 We have heard the arguments of Shri Digendra Sharma, Mr. Ajay Kumar Singh, Mr. Anubhav Bhandari and Mr. Niharika Dubey, learned counsel appearing for the appellants and Mr. M.R. Shamshad, Mr. Atul Sharma, Mr. Ankur Sharma and Mr. Alok Tripathi, learned counsel appearing for the respondent. 7 It is the contention of the learned counsel appearing for the appellants that the Commission had erred in not appreciating the fact of appellants having booked the commercial space only for the purpose of earning livelihood by way of self-employment and not for the purposes of reselling or making profi t due to escalation of price as pleaded in the complaint; in the statement that came to be recorded by the Commission, nowhere it has been stated by the appellants that commercial space booked by them was for the purpose of making profi t and mere running of a dealership business of Reliance Industries and engaging themselves in business of investment in property, perse would not indicate or suggest that appellants intended to sell the same; the appellants though had approached the respondent for delivery of possession of the commercial space allotted to them, till date it was not delivered and silence on the part of the respondent had caused mental agony, frustration and depression to the appellants; the unilateral change of the offi ce unit from Third fl oor to Eighth fl oor without consent of the appellants and forwarding a unilateral agreement and forcing the appellants to sign the same, by receiving all payments would tantamount to deceptive practice and falls within the meaning of ‘unfair trade practice’ as defi ned under the Consumer Protection Act; inordinate delay on the part of the respondent in completing the project and handing over possession of the offi ce space allotted to the appellants has resulted in appellants undergoing serious mental agony and as such they should be compensated as prayed for in the complaint. 8 Rebutting the said contentions, learned counsel appearing for the respondent Mr. M.R. Shamshad, Mr. Atul Sharma, Mr. Ankur Sharma and Mr. Alok Tripathi, has supported the impugned and has contended that appellants would not fall within the four corners of the defi nition of 400 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. ‘consumer’ as defi ned under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act and the statement of the appellant No.1 recorded on oath by the commission while hearing the maintainability of the complaint, clearly shows that fi rst appellant was earlier engaged in the business of caustic soda as a dealer of M/S Reliance Industries and presently engaged in the business of investments/dealing in property, and this would indicate that appellants were already engaged in the business and therefore, the property in question could not be said to be bought exclusively by the appellants for the purpose of earning their livelihood by self-employment and as such, the of dismissal would not call for interference.