C Contract – Contract of sale – Elements to constitute a valid contract of sale – Discussed. Contract – Contract of sale differentiated from other contracts – Question whether a given contract is one of sale or a contract of D any other description is one of substance and not of form – It depends on the real meaning and nature of the contract. Contract – Contract of sale – Condition and warranty – Held: A condition is a stipulation essential to the main purpose of the contract, the breach of which gives rise to a right to treat the contract E as repudiated – A warranty is, on the other hand, a stipulation collateral to the main purpose of the contract, the breach of which gives rise to a claim for damages but not to a right to reject the goods and treat the contract as repudiated – Whether a stipulation in a contract of sale is a condition or a warranty depends in each case on the construction of the contract – However, a stipulation F may be a condition, though called a warranty in the contract. Contract – Collateral contracts and collateral warranties – Discussed. Answering the Reference, the Court G HELD: 1. The entire controversy must be viewed in the perspective of a composite transaction and not in isolation as the dealer (assessee) would be acting under a warranty with there being a manufacturer on one end and the purchaser or customer of an automobile at the other end and the dealer acting on behalf H 1270 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A of the manufacturer or an intermediary between the said customer and manufacturer. The said transaction cannot be viewed in a myopic sense by truncating or excluding the role or action of a dealer under the warranty and viewing it only from the perspective of a transaction simpliciter between manufacturer and a dealer. Such an approach is not only skewed from a commercial B perspective but also jurisprudentially or in the legal sense. [Para 30][1326-F-H] 2. When a dealer–assessee sells an automobile to a customer containing a warranty for the replacement of a defective part of the automobile in terms of the warranty and when the C customer during the period of warranty approaches the dealer for the replacement of a defective part, the dealer could resort to the following: - (a) request the manufacturer to supply the defective part of the automobile for replacement. In such a situation, the manufacturer of the automobile could do any of the D following: - (i) send the spare part from his factory either as a manufacturer of the same to the dealer for replacement and seek return of the defective part, or (ii) purchase the spare part from the manufacturer of the particular part by paying the requisite taxes and send it to the dealer and seek return of the defective part, or (iii) purchase the spare part from the open market after E paying the requisite taxes and send it to the dealer for replacement of the defective part in the automobile and seek return of the defective part.