In B.P. Singhal v. Union of India and Another46, dealing with Article 156(1) which declares that a Governor shall hold office during the pleasure of the President. This Court held after declaring that the Governor is not an agent of the ruling party at the Centre, as follows:- E “71. When a Governor holds office during the pleasure of the Government and the power to remove at the pleasure of the President is not circumscribed by any conditions or restrictions, it follows that the power is exercisable at any time, without assigning any cause. However, there is a distinction between the need for a F cause for the removal, and the need to disclose the cause for removal. While the President need not disclose or inform the cause for his removal to the Governor, it is imperative that a cause must exist.” As regards the Limitations/ Restrictions on the exercise of removal G of Governor, this Court observed as follows: - “(iv)Limitations/Restrictions upon the power under Article 156(1) of the Constitution of India 46(2010) 6 SCC 331 H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 131 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 48. We may now examine whether there are any express or A implied limitations or restrictions on the power of removal of Governors under Article 156(1). We do so keeping in mind the following words of Holmes, J.: “… the provisions of the Constitution are not mathematical formulas having their essence in their form; they are organic, living B institutions… The significance is vital, nor formal; it is to be gathered not simply by taking the words and a dictionary, but by considering their origin and the line of their growth” (see Gompers v. United States [58 L Ed 1115 : 233 US 604 (1913)] , L Ed p. 1120).” (Emphasis supplied) C U. POWERS, FUNCTIONS AND JURISDICTION OF THE ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 150. Article 324 is a plenary provision clothing the Election Commission with the entire responsibility to hold the National and State elections and carries with it the necessary powers to discharge its D functions. However, the Commission cannot act against a law framed by Parliament or the State Legislature. The power of the Commission is also subject to norms of fairness and it cannot act arbitrarily. The action cannot be mala fide. Article 324 governs in matters not covered by legislation. Being a high functionary who is expected to function fairly E and legally if he does otherwise, the courts can veto the illegal action (See Mohinder Singh Gill and Another v. Chief Election Commissioner, New Delhi and Others,47). 151. The Election Commission under Article 324 can postpone an election on the basis of the opinion that there existed disturbed conditions F in the State or some area of the State thus making of holding free and fair elections not possible. The court followed the views in the Mohinder Singh Gill case (supra) that democracy depends on the man as much as on the Constitution [See Digvijay Mote v. Union of India and Others48].