[2023] 11 S.C.R. 264 : 2023 INSC 693 CASE DETAILS GOVERNMENT OF KERALA & ANR. v. JOSEPH AND OTHERS (Civil Appeal No. 3142 of 2010) AUGUST 09, 2023 [ABHAY S. OKA AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration : Whether the impugned , arising out of Second Appeal meets the established criteria for Second Appeal; and whether the respondents are entitled to the relief of adverse possession or is the claim so made, barred by the Kerala Land Conservancy Act, 1957. Adverse possession : Principles of – Land being a government poramboke land – Relief of adverse possession sought by the claimants contending that they had acquired title to the land in 1940 and had been in possession and in continued enjoyment since then – Entitlement to: Held : Claimants to be granted the enjoyment of the property, clear, continuous and hostile possession would have to be established by way of cogent evidence and animus possidendi must be demonstrated – On the basis of the estimated age of trees, the length of possession of the claimants is being calculated – Estimation of age of the trees cannot be termed as suffi cient proof required to disturb the title that rests with the Government – Merely a long period of possession, does not translate into the right of adverse possession – Surmises, conjectures and approximations cannot serve the basis for taking away the right over land resting with the State and place the said bundle of rights in the hands of one who did not have any such rights – Findings by the High Court that the witnesses established the claimants’ claims by way of adverse possession is erroneous – Also, the bar enshrined in s.20 cannot be applied – Furthermore, the impugned did not comply with the contours of s. 100 CPC – Thus, the passed by the High Court that the land rightfully belonged to 264 GOVERNMENT OF KERALA & ANR. v. 265 JOSEPH AND OTHERS the claimants by virtue of the principle of adverse possession set aside – Kerala Land Conservancy Act, 1957 – s. 20. [Paras 11, 19, 22, 27, 28, 37 and 38] Adverse possession: Claim of – Principles governing such claim: Held : Possession must be open, clear, continuous and hostile to the claim or possession of the other party – All three requirements must co-exist- nec vi, i.e., adequate in continuity; nec clam, i.e., adequate in publicity; and nec precario, i.e., adverse to a competitor, in denial of title and knowledge – Burden of proof rests on the person claiming adverse possession who must show clear and cogent evidence to substantiate such claim – Plea of adverse possession must be pleaded with proper particulars – Mere possession over a property for a long period of time does not grant the right of adverse possession on its own – Such clear and continuous possession must be accompanied by animus possidendi-intention to possess or in other words, the intention to dispossess the rightful owner – In case of Government land, the Court is duty-bound to act with greater seriousness, eff ectiveness, care and circumspection.