The Proclamation has a minimum tenure of two months which is extended upon a resolution passed by Parliament approving the Proclamation. Though the approval of the Proclamation by Parliament affi rms the principle of parliamentary democracy, it does not restore the principle of federalism. The majority in SR Bommai (supra) was conscious of the impact of the Proclamation on federal principles. This is evident from the observations of Justice Reddy that only those steps which are necessary for achieving the objective of the Proclamation must be taken. 193. The next issue that the Court addressed was whether the extent of power exercised by the President is justiciable. The petitioners in SR Bommai (supra) argued that the measures which would be needed to remedy the situation would vary depending on the nature of the situation or the degree of failure of the constitutional machinery. It was argued by the petitioners that it would be a “disproportionate and unreasonable exercise of power” if the President does not resort to diff erent remedies in diff erent situations. The submission is best refl ected in the following extract: “108. […] A strong contention was raised that situations of the failure of the constitutional machinery may be varied in nature and extent, and hence measures to remedy the situations may diff er both in kind and degree. It would be a disproportionate and unreasonable exercise of power if the removal of Government or dissolution of the Assembly is ed when what the situation required, was for example only assumption of some functions or powers of the Government of the State or of anybody or authority in the State under Article 356(1) (a). The excessive use of power also amounts to illegal, irrational 120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. and mala fi de exercise of power. Hence, it is urged that the doctrine of proportionality is relevant in this context and has to be applied in such circumstances.” 194. The issue of whether the extent of power used by the President is justifi ed in a particular situation is a question which in Justice Sawant’s opinion “would remain debatable and beyond judicially discoverable and manageable standards unless the exercise of the excessive power is so palpably irrational or mala fi de as to invite judicial intervention”. Applying a more stringent standard would, in his opinion, lead to the Court adjudicating the comparative merits of one measure over the other which would lead to it entering the ‘political-thicket’: “108. […] Hence it is possible for the President to use only some of the requisite powers vested in him under Article 356(1) to meet the situation in question. He does not have to use all the powers to meet all the situations whatever the kind and degree of the failure of the constitutional machinery in the State. To that extent, the contention is indeed valid. However, whether in a particular situation the extent of powers used is proper and justifi able is a question which would remain debatable and beyond judicially discoverable and manageable standards unless the exercise of the excessive power is so palpably irrational or mala fi de as to invite judicial intervention.