Where there is some evidence, which the authority entrusted with the duty to hold the enquiry has accepted and which evidence may reasonably support the conclusion that the delinquent offi cer is guilty of the charge, it is not the function of the High Court in a petition for a writ under Article 226 to review the evidence and to arrive at an independent fi nding on the evidence.” 13. Thus, in a proceeding under Article 226 of the Constitution, the High Court does not sit as an appellate authority over the fi ndings of the disciplinary authority and so long as the fi ndings of the disciplinary authority are supported by some evidence the High Court does not re-appreciate the evidence and come to a diff erent and independent fi nding on the evidence. This position of law has been reiterated in several decisions by this Court which we need not refer to, and yet by the impugned the High Court has re-appreciated the evidence and arrived at the conclusion that the fi ndings recorded by the enquiry offi cer are not substantiated by any material on record and the allegations leveled against the respondent no.1 do not constitute any misconduct and that the respondent no.1 was not guilty of any misconduct.” 36. It is now well settled that the scope of judicial review against a departmental enquiry proceeding is very limited. It is not in the nature of an appeal and a review on merits of the decision is not permissible. The scope of the enquiry is to examine whether the decision-making process is legitimate and to ensure that the fi ndings are not bereft of any evidence. If the records reveal that the fi ndings are based on some 672 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. evidence, it is not the function of the court in a judicial review to re- appreciate the same and arrive at an independent fi nding on the evidence. This lakshman rekha has been recognized and reiterated in a long line of s of this Court. 37. In the present case, it could certainly not be said that the report is based on no evidence or that it is perverse. The learned Single Judge transgressed the limits of judicial review in setting aside the enquiry proceedings and the punishment imposed. The Division Bench, in a short has, after extracting a part of the learned Single Judge’s , gone on to hold that having perused the records of the enquiry they do not fi nd that the charges have been dealt with in any manner of specifi city. Thereafter they conclude that the learned Single Judge was justifi ed in arriving at its conclusion. We are not able to sustain the s of the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench. Severability of charges 38. The question that remains is, in the light of the fi ndings above, does the of penalty imposed call for any interference? 39. The law is well-settled that if in a disciplinary proceeding, the of penalty can be imposed on the charges proved and the punishment imposed is lawfully sustainable on those charges, it is not for the Court to consider whether those grounds alone would have weighed with the authority in imposing the punishment.