[2023] 15 S.C.R. 597 : 2023 INSC 1024 CASE DETAILS JAIVEER SINGH AND OTHERS v. THE STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND OTHERS (Civil Appeal No. 7871-7872 of 2023) NOVEMBER 28, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI AND PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the High Court was justifi ed in holding that 18 months Diploma in Elementary Education-D.El.Ed conducted by National Institute of Open Schooling-NIOS through Open and Distance Learning-ODL mode is equivalent to the 2 years regular Diploma in elementary education as required under the Notifi cations of National Council for Teacher Education-NCTE. Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 – s. 23 – Qualifi cations for appointment and terms and conditions of service of teachers – Minimum qualifi cations for a person to be eligible for the appointment as teachers prescribed by National Council for Teacher Education-NCTE – Thereafter, issuance of Service Rules, 2012 and were amended time to time – Department of Higher Education- MHRD issued a letter directing that all the teachers in Government Schools must possess minimum qualifi cations as mandated and a last chance was given to all teachers to acquire the same till March 31, 2019 – Subsequently, NCTE issued a recognition , thereby conducting Diploma in Elementary Education-D.El.Ed programme through Open and Distance Learning-ODL mode by National Institute of Open Schooling-NIOS which reduced the duration of diploma from 2 years to 18 months – Thereafter, an offi ce by NIOS directing its Regional Directors to implement D.El.Ed. course for training of Untrained In- service teachers – Subsequently, issuance of advertisement for posts of Assistant Teachers in Primary Schools – Minimum qualifi cation for the post was 2 years Diploma in D.El.Ed.– In the meantime, passed permitting the candidates who passed 18 months Diploma of NIOS to apply for the post of Assistant Teacher (primary) against the 597 598 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. vacancies issued – However, the said was recalled – Writ petitions challenging the same – High Court held that the 18 months Diploma in D.El.Ed. conducted through the ODL mode in elementary education by the NIOS is a valid Diploma for applying to the post and that, in respect of the in-service teachers, who have undergone the 18 months D.El.Ed. programme cannot discriminated by debarring them from their candidatures – Challenged to, by the candidates who are holding the 2 years diploma in elementary education: Held: Government cannot amend or supersede statutory rules by administrative instructions, but if the rules are silent on any particular point, it can fi ll up the gaps and supplement the rules and issue instructions not inconsistent with the rules already framed – An authority cannot issue s/offi ce memorandum/executive instructions in contravention of the statutory rules – However, instructions can be issued only to supplement the statutory rules but not to supplant it – NCTE recognition was issued so as to give eff ect to the directives of MHRD so as to provide a one-time window to the teachers who were already working and who in terms of the 2017 Amendment Act were required to acquire the minimum qualifi cations prior to 01.04.2019 else would have faced dismissal from service – Said , cannot be held to be a direction to the State to act in contravention of its 2012 Service Rules and the advertisements issued on the basis of such Service Rules – Finding of the High Court that the 18 months D.El.