26. In determining the question at hand, it would also be useful to take note of the statutory scheme of the Jogighopa Act. Section 17 of the Act states that the State government or government company shall, within 30 days of the appointed day, pay in cash all amounts under Sections 8 and 9 of the Act to the Commissioner for discharge of the liability of the company. Section 19 states that every person having a claim to payments under the schedule shall make a claim before the Commissioner within a period of 30 days from specifi ed date. The proviso thereto states that the Commissioner also has the power to entertain claims made for an additional 30 days after the expiry of the initial period, but not thereafter. Section 20 read with the schedule, prescribes priority of payments when discharging the liabilities. As evident from the above referred to provisions, the state legislature was conscious of the aspect of limitation and has categorically therefore, prescribed periods for claims to be made so as to not leave open the possibility of a claim, indefi nitely. Crucially, the legislature omitted placing any period of limitation when it came to Section 22 (8) of the Act. 27. When a statute, either general or specifi c in application, provides for a limitation within which to fi le an appeal, the parties interested in doing so are put to notice of the requirement to act with expedition. However, opposite thereto, in cases such as the present one where neither statute M/S NORTH EASTERN CHEMICALS INDUSTRIES (P) LTD. 839 v. M/S ASHOK PAPER MILL (ASSAM) LTD. [SANJAY KAROL, J.] provides for an explicit limitation, such urgency may be absent. While it is still true that, as held in Ajaib (supra), this does not entitle parties to litigate issues decades later, however shorter delays, in such circumstances, would not attract delay and laches. 28. The present facts are that the Claimant - Appellants are aggrieved by an of The Commissioner of Payments dated 13 April 2005. The appeal fi led thereagainst was on 5 November 2008. In the intervening period, it is submitted by the Claimant - Appellants that they pursued remedies by way of a Contempt Petition before the High Court36 which came to be disposed of on 1 April 2008 without any particular relief having been granted. The appeal before the District Judge, under section 22(8) of the Jogighopa Act, came to be fi led thereafter and the in question was passed on 5 November 2008. 29. Consequent to the discussion made hereinabove, i.e., neither the general nor the specifi c statute providing for an appeal from an of the Commissioner of Payments within a specifi ed period of time, the Claimant – Appellants’ appeal cannot be said to be barred by time. The same would therefore, be maintainable. 30. The questions raised in this appeal are answered as under- 30.1 The Jogighopa (Assam) Unit of Ashok Paper Mills Limited (Acquisition Transfer of Undertaking) Act, 1990, is not governed by the prescription of limitation under Article 116 of the Limitation Act, 1963, as the appeal thereunder, from an of the Commissioner of payments cannot be said to be an appeal under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 for the Legislature of the State of Assam has been categorical in limiting the application of the code to certain aspects of the Act only.