4. The respondents contested the claim taking defence that the C deceased was not a bonafide passenger because his journey ticket was not found and only white coloured torn shirt in a mutilated condition with rose colour design lungi and red coloured underwear was recovered from the spot. As per the inquest report, the dead body was found with head decapitated at the level of right shoulder. It is stated that if deceased had fallen from running train, his body would not have been found outside D the railway track. However, looking to the nature of injuries, as mentioned in Post-Mortem Report, the allegation of death of the deceased due to untoward incident was denied, therefore Southern Railway is not liable to pay any compensation. 5.The record reveals that the claim petition was filed with some E delay which was condoned as per dated 01.11.2016 by the Claims Tribunal. The Claims Tribunal by its judgement dated 29.06.2017 dismissed the claim application holding that the appellants have failed to prove the death of deceased in an untoward incident and he was not a bona fide passenger making the Railway liable for grant of compensation. The F Claims Tribunal was influenced by the statement of one D. Ravishankar, Station Master before whom the search of dead body was made in the presence of deceased’s son and at that time, journey ticket was not found with the body. The Claims Tribunal has also relied upon the sketch map and post-mortem report, while non- suiting the appellants. 6.On filing Civil Miscellaneous Appeal No. 2442 of 2019 before G the High Court, it was dismissed making an observation that the findings of Claims Tribunal are not perverse as the deceased was not found to be a bona fide passenger and appellants have failed to prove the death of deceased is an outcome of untoward incident. H 404 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 7.Assailing those findings, learned counsel for the appellants relied upon the FIR, inquest report dated 27.09.2014 and the final report dated 14.11.2014 and contended that occurrence was an outcome of untoward incident as defined under Section 123(C)(2) of the Railways Act, 1989 (in short, “Railways Act”). It is further urged that as per the averments made in the claim petition and the statement of claimant-appellant B Manikandan (AW-1), it is apparent that he had purchased the ticket of Rs 10/- and handed it over to his father at Lalapettai Railway Station for the journey in Train number 56841 from Lalapettai to Karur. Learned counsel placing reliance on the judgement of Union of India v. Rina Devi1 urged, the initial burden of being bonafide passenger has been C discharged and the onus has been shifted on the Railway Authorities which has not been discharged by them. Therefore, the findings of the Claims Tribunal and the High Court are perverse. It is further urged in the light of judgement of UOI v. Radha Yadav2 because death is proved due to outcome of untoward incident of the deceased being bona fide passenger, the adequate amount of compensation may be awarded.