[K. M. JOSEPH, J.] non-existent, pending payment of stamp duty on the substantive A contract/instrument?” F. THE ACT 22. Section 2(b) of the Act defines an Arbitration Agreement to be ‘an agreement referred to in Section 7’. B 23. Section 5 of the Act declares as follows: - “5. Extent of judicial intervention. -Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, in matters governed by this Part, no judicial authority shall intervene except where so provided in this Part.” C 24. Section 7 of the Act reads as follows: “7 Arbitration agreement. — (1) In this Part, “arbitration agreement” means an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which D have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not. (2) An arbitration agreement may be in the form of an arbitration clause in a contract or in the form of a separate agreement. (3) An arbitration agreement shall be in writing. E (4) An arbitration agreement is in writing if it is contained in— (a) a document signed by the parties; (b) an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication which provide a record of the agreement; or F (c) an exchange of statements of claim and defence in which the existence of the agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by the other. (5) The reference in a contract to a document containing an G arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement if the contract is in writing and the reference is such as to make that arbitration clause part of the contract.” 25. Section 11 deals with Appointment of Arbitrators. Since we are concerned with the impact of Section 11(6A), which was inserted H 318 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A by Act 3 of 2016 w.e.f. 23.10.2015, we deem it appropriate to refer to the same: “6A. The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while considering any application under sub-section (4) or sub- section (5), shall, notwithstanding any , decree or B of any Court, confine to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement.” It must be noticed that the aforesaid provision stands omitted by Act 33 of 2019. But Act 33 of 2019 has not been brought into force. G. WHAT LED TO THE INSERTION OF SECTION C 11(6A)? 26. It is important to delve into the past and enquire as to what led to the insertion of sub-Section (6A) in Section 11 of the Act. The Act was passed in the year 1996. The Act is, undoubtedly, based on the UNCITRAL MODEL Law. The Hundred and Seventy-Sixth Report of D the Law Commission of India made its recommendations for enacting amendments to the Act. This is followed by the Justice B.P. Saraf Committee Report, which was submitted on 29.01.2005. The nature of the power exercised by the courts under Section 11 of the Act, was the subject matter of considerable case law.