All the witnesses have stated that it was a full moonlight and C there is no challenge to this statement. In such circumstances, the testimony of PW-5 is reliable. Consequently, the Trial Court and the High Court were justified in placing reliance on the same. 16. With regard to the testimony of PW-2, the learned counsel for the State submitted that PW-2 might not have been prompt in making a D disclosure to the police about the incident, but his testimony cannot be discarded merely on that ground because, here is a case where the accused were criminals, apprehension in the mind of witnesses cannot be ruled out. 17. In respect of the testimony of PW-6, it was argued that he too supported the prosecution case with regard to the deceased being with E the accused that fateful evening; therefore, his testimony could be used to corroborate the testimony of other witnesses. 18. The learned counsel for the State summed up his submissions by stating that the last seen circumstance has been proved to the hilt; the recovery of country made pistol has also been proved which along with F forensic report connects the recovered weapon with the empty cartridge found at the spot; the autopsy report/ medical evidence proves that death was a consequence of gunshot and also accepts the possibility of death in the night hours of 31.10.2001 when the deceased was last seen alive with the accused therefore, the chain of circumstances is complete, G leaving no room of doubt with regard to the guilt of the accused. Hence, the conviction recorded by the Trial Court, affirmed by the appellate court, calls for no interference. Discussion and Analysis:- 19. We have considered the rival submissions and have perused H the records carefully. The striking feature of the case is that the FIR of RAVI MANDAL v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 19 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] the case was lodged at 0730 Hours on 01.11.2001 after the dead body of A informant’s son was found in a forest. According to the testimony of police witnesses, it was the informant who gave information to the police about his son’s dead body being found in the forest and thereafter, on the basis of the FIR, investigation commenced. Whereas, according to PW- 1 the police informed him that his son’s dead body has been found in the B forest and thereafter, he went to the spot, brought the body to the police station and then lodged the report. This cleavage in the testimony of prosecution witnesses is important because it would throw a question as to whether the prosecution case is based on informant’s own knowledge and information or on suggestions/guess work, may be at the instance of the police. C 20. In the FIR there is no disclosure as to how the body was found in that forest. The only disclosure in the FIR is that on 31.10.2001 at about 2100 Hours, the informant’s son was seen in the company of his friends Govind (non-accused) and Ravi Bangali.