220 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 4E PSO.CR.RT.S 220 [2023] 4 S.C.R. A DINESH KUMAR v. THE STATE OF HARYANA (Criminal Appeal No. 530 of 2022) B MAY 04, 2023 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA AND SANJAY KUMAR, JJ.] Penal Code,1860 – ss.302,364,392,394,201 and 34 – Evidence Act, 1872 – ss.27,101,106 and 165 – The case of prosecution was based on circumstantial evidence i.e. the evidence C of ‘last seen’ and the ‘discoveries’ made from the information given by the appellant – Appellant(accused) and one co-accused convicted by Trial Court for the murder of the deceased – Two separate appeals were filed before the High Court – During the pendency of the appeal, the co-accused passed away, thus, his appeal stood abated D – The appeal of the present appellant was dismissed, thus conviction and sentence of the trial court was upheld by the High Court – On appeal, held: In the present case, when there is no close proximity between circumstances of last seen together and the approximate time of death, the evidence of last seen becomes weak, such circumstances by itself cannot form the basis of guilt – Further, the E evidence of recovery had already been disclosed by the co-accused by the time the present appellant was arrested and thus the relevant facts were already in the knowledge of the police – Thus, disclosure and discovery made thereafter cannot be read against the present appellant – There cannot be a “discovery” of an already discovered F fact – As far as the recovery of ‘Parna’ and watch of the deceased from the disclosure statement made by appellant, this evidence in itself is not sufficient to fix guilt on the appellant – Prosecution failed to establish important links in this case – Rigor mortis was present in the body after 90 days remained unexplained – Prosecution did not explain – Defence did not question – G Prosecution was not able to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt – of trial court and High court set aside. Evidence Act, 1872 – s. 165 – Judge’s power to put questions or production – Held: The duty of the presiding judge of a criminal trial is not to watch the proceedings as a spectator or a H 220 DINESH KUMAR v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 221 recording machine but he has to participate in the trial ‘by envincing A intelligent active interest by putting questions to witnesses in to ascertain truth.’ Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD:1. The recovery of the stolen tractor, the place where B the murder was committed and the place where body was thrown in the canal were facts which were already in the knowledge of the police, since it is the case of the prosecution that the co- -accused, who was arrested by the police 2 days preceding the arrest of the present appellant, had earlier led to the same discoveries on 12th, 13th & 14th of May, 2000. So, this disclosure C and discovery made thereafter cannot be read against the present appellant.