Acute symptoms can include: (a) fever (b) chills (c) night sweats (d) diarrhea; (e) headache (f) muscle aches (g) joint pain (h) sore throat (i) rash (j) swollen lymph nodes (k) mouth or genital ulcers Chronic HIV infection 69 https://www.healthline.com/health/hiv-aids/effects-on-body#respiratory-and- cardiovascular-systems, last accessed at 05:41 AM on 25th September, 2023. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 659 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] The next stage is called the chronic infection stage. It can last for as long as 10 to 15 years An HIV-positive person may or may not show signs or have symptoms during this stage. As the virus advances, the CD4 count decreases more drastically. This can lead to symptoms such as: fatigue; shortness of breath; cough; fever; swollen lymph nodes; weight loss; diarrhea; rash. AIDS If untreated HIV advances to AIDS, the body becomes prone to opportunistic infections. AIDS increases a person’s risk for many infections, including a herpes virus called cytomegalovirus (CMV). It can cause problems with the eyes, lungs, and digestive tract. Kaposi sarcoma, another possible complication, is a cancer of the blood vessel walls. It’s rare among the general population, but it’s more common in people with advanced HIV. Symptoms include red or dark purple lesions on the mouth and skin. It can also cause problems in the lungs, the digestive tract, and other internal organs. HIV and AIDS also put a person at higher risk for developing lymphomas. An early sign of lymphoma is swollen lymph nodes. Respiratory and cardiovascular systems HIV makes it hard to fi ght off respiratory problems such as the common cold and fl u. In turn, an HIV-positive person may develop related infections, such as pneumonia Without treatment for HIV, advanced disease puts an HIV-positive person at an even greater risk for infectious complications, such as tuberculosis and a fungal infection called pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PJP). PJP causes trouble breathing, cough, and fever. The risk of lung cancer also increases with HIV. This is due to weakened lungs from numerous respiratory issues related to a weakened immune system. According to available research, lung cancer is more prevalent among people with HIV compared to people without it. People with HIV are more likely to develop high blood pressure. HIV also raises the risk of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). PAH is a type of high blood pressure in the arteries that supply blood to the lungs. Over time, PAH will strain the heart and can lead to heart failure. 660 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. If a person has HIV with a low CD4 count, they’re also more susceptible to tuberculosis (TB). TB is an airborne bacterium that aff ects the lungs. It’s a leading cause of death in people who have AIDS. Symptoms include chest pain and a bad cough that may contain blood or phlegm. The cough can linger for months.” 89. In the present case, the appellant was diagnosed HIV positive, and immediately placed under ART which continues till date. His immune system has gone down, due to the untreated condition, for some undetermined time.