In that case, an agreement of sale was entered into by the fi rst and second respondents. The agreement described the second respondent as the ‘buyer’ and promoter of Indowind, the non-signatory. After a dispute arose, the fi rst respondent instituted an application under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act against the second respondent and Indowind. Indowind resisted the impleadment on the ground that it was not a party to the underlying sale agreement and, therefore, had not consented to be bound by the arbitration clause. The issue before this Court was whether the arbitration agreement contained in the sale agreement was binding on Indowind. This Court refused to join Indowind to the arbitration agreement on the ground that (i) Indowind was not a signatory to the sale agreement; (ii) Indowind and the promoter company were two independent companies with a separate and distinct legal existence; and (iii) the fact that Indowind did not sign the sale agreement indicated that it was the mutual intention of all the parties to not make it a party to the arbitration agreement. 23. The pre Chloro Controls (supra) position was characterized by three underlying precepts: (i) arbitration could be invoked at the instance of a signatory to the arbitration agreement only in respect to disputes with 14 (2008) 4 SCC 91 650 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. another signatory party;15 (ii) the court would adopt a strict interpretation of the provisions of the Arbitration Act, particularly the unamended Section 8 which only allowed reference of “parties” to an arbitration agreement; and (iii) there was an emphasis on formal consent of the parties, thereby excluding any scope for implied consent of the non-signatories to be bound by an arbitration agreement. This position of law underwent a signifi cant change when a Bench of three Judges of this Court in Chloro Controls (supra) allowed joinder of non-signatory parties to the arbitration agreement on the basis of the group of companies doctrine. a. Chloro Controls 24. In Chloro Controls (supra) this Court was called upon to determine an arbitral reference in case of multi-party agreements where performance of the ancillary agreements was substantially dependent upon eff ective execution of the principal agreement. In that case, a foreign entity and an Indian entity incorporated a joint venture company to market and distribute chlorination equipment. With respect to the joint venture, the related companies of both the Indian and foreign entity were also involved. Consequently, the parties concluded several ancillary agreements such as a Shareholders’ Agreement which contained an arbitration clause. All the contracting parties were not signatories to all the agreements, including the Shareholders’ Agreement. When disputes arose between the parties, the foreign entities sought to terminate the joint venture. The Indian entity fi led an application before the High Court seeking a declaration to restrain the foreign entities from repudiating their obligations under the agreements. In response, the foreign entities applied for referring the disputes to arbitration in view of the fact that the agreements were binding on the non-signatories because of the composite nature of the transaction.