xvii) On receipt of representation if any submitted by the alleged officer/official, the case should be finally decided by the competent authority as per procedure laid in CCS (CCA) Rules or CRPF Act & Rules as the case may be. 11. PERIODICAL REPORT The Frontier Complaints Committee shall prepare periodical reports giving a full account of its activities during the period and forward a copy thereof to the Central Complaint Committee in the following format:- 1. Date of incident. 2. Place of incident. 3. Name of complainant with Rank/Unit/GC/Offi ce. 4. Name against whom complaint is made with rank/unit/GC/offi ce. 5. Allegation in brief. 6. Date of receipt of complaint. 7. Whether any FIR lodged to Police, if so, outcome of Police investigation report. 8. Action taken on the complaint/ present status supported with authenticated copy of relevant documents. The Central Complaint Committee will submit annual report to the Ministry of Home Aff airs and other bodies wherever required. The Frontiers will submit report to Directorate half yearly i.e. in June and December. UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 535 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 12. ONUS OF THE SUPERVISORY/INSPECTING OFFICERS (cid:1)(cid:2) The senior offi cers during their visit/ inspections of the subordinate formations will reiterate the instruction in their meeting and Sainik Sammelans. (cid:1)(cid:2) They will review the complaints received by them in their respective offi ces. (cid:1)(cid:2) They will ensure that proper working environment is provided in their subordinate offi ces for the women and they are not discriminated on any point. 13. AWARENESS (cid:1) Awareness of the right of female employees in this regard should be created in particular by prominently notifying and displaying the guidelines at appropriate places. (cid:1)(cid:2)(cid:2)Women employees should be allowed to raise issues of sexual harassment at work places through personal interviews, ly rooms, welfare meetings, Sainik Sammelans etc. 14. SAVINGS Nothing contained in these standing s shall prejudice any right available to the employee or prevent any person from seeking any legal remedy under the National Commission for Women Act 1990, Protection of Human Rights Commission Act 1993 or under any other law for the time being in force. 15. INTERACTION OF COMMITTEE WITH WOMEN 1. The National Commission for Women has recommended that Proactive steps such as meeting with women offi cers and members of Complaints Committee with all women in the Force in small groups should be organized. This would help them to informally exchanging views on handling sexual harassment related matters and draw mutual strength. This would build confi dence for women to go forward professionally. 2. Keeping in view of this aspect it has been decided that henceforth the members of the Frontier level Complaints Committee will 536 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. organize the meeting with all women as well as women employees within their operational jurisdiction of the Frontier in small groups and exchange their views on handling sexual harassment related matters as frequently as possible. 3. The Committee will also include a progress report about the number of such meetings organized, number of women present participated points if any, projected and its solution in the half yearly report to be submitted to Central Committee Directorate General as per para 7 of above SOP.