1191 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] even if the resolutions passed on 23.06.2022 and on 11.07.2022 were A found to be illegal or against the byelaws, it was always open to 1/5th members of the General Council to convene a special meeting and reverse the resolutions passed in these two meetings but no such requisition was given by 1/5th of the General Council members and this factor operated against the claim of irreparable injury. B 26.2. The Division Bench also referred to the principles governing the grant or refusal of temporary injunction and pointed out that the directions given by the learned Single Judge for convening the meeting only with the joint consent of Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator was leading to a situation where the party as a whole would undergo C irreparable hardship because there was no possibility of the appellant and the respondent No. 1 – OPS and EPS– acting jointly to convene the meeting. The Division Bench pointed out that the directions of the learned Single Judge would only furtherthe”functional deadlock” already existing in the party. D 26.3. We are not elaborating on all other comments and observations made by the Division Bench of the High Court in the relevant passages quoted in extenso hereinbefore. Suffice it to observe for the present purpose that the Division Bench of the High Court, while passing the dated 02.09.2022, has amply and clearly pointed out as to how E the of temporary injunction as passed by the learned Single Judge was against the sound judicial principles and the discretion exercised by the learned Single Judge was suffering from arbitrariness as also perversity. F 27. In our view, the logic and reasoning of the Division Bench of the High Court stand in accord with law as also the facts of the present case. 28. The main plank of submissions on the part of the appellants in challenge to the dated 02.09.2022 has been that convening of the G meeting dated 11.07.2022 suffered from illegalities inasmuch as the meeting was not convened by an authorised person and that 15 days’ notice was not given. The same had been the reasoning adopted by the learned Single Judge while finding aprima facie case in favour of the plaintiffs. The said reasoning and similar arguments remain fallacious H and cannot be accepted. 1192 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 28.1. The facts of the case make it abundantly clear that so far as convening of the meeting dated 23.06.2022 is concerned, the same had never been in doubt or in any dispute. The said meeting was indeed convened by the Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator jointly. They had been working in tandem until that stage. However, they seem to have B fallen apart immediately thereafter, particularly when a proposition for amendment of the byelaws and reverting to the system of single leadership was in the offing. In any case, the meeting dated 23.06.2022 was duly convened and the efforts to prevent the same did not meet with success in the Court.