But, in a case where only one party has a right to appoint a sole arbitrator, its choice will always have an element of exclusivity in determining or charting the course for dispute resolution. Naturally, the person who has an interest in the B outcome or decision of the dispute must not have the power to appoint a sole arbitrator. That has to be taken as the essence of the amendments brought in by the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (3 of 2016) and recognised by the decision of this Court in TRF Ltd. [TRF C Ltd. v. Energo Engg. Projects Ltd., (2017) 8 SCC 377. (emphasis supplied) 19. In conclusion, the arbitration clause which authorises the Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, whose relationship with Union of India is that of an employee, to nominate an officer of the Ministry of D Law and Justice to act as a Sole Arbitrator, clearly falls within the expressly ineligible category provided in Paragraph 1 of Schedule VII, read with Section 12(5) of the Act. As the grounds of challenge to the appointment of an arbitrator under Section 12(5) of the Act operate notwithstanding any prior agreement to the contrary, we cannot give E effect to the appointment of an officer of the Ministry of Law and Justice as an arbitrator. The submission of the learned ASG in favour of such an appointment is therefore rejected. Re: Reliance on the decision in Central Organisation of Railway Electrifications F 20.We will now deal with the last limb of the learned ASG’s submissions, which relates to the precedent of Central Organisation of Railway Electrifications (supra). In this case, Clause 64(3)(b) provided for the constitution of an Arbitral Tribunal consisting of three members. The appointment procedure contemplated was such that the General Manager of the Appellant was required to nominate the panel G of four retired railway officers, out of which the respondent-Contractor had to select twonames. The General Manager was required to appoint at least one out of the selected officers as the contractor’snominee arbitrator(s), and unilaterally appoint the remaining arbitrators as well as the presiding officer to the tribunal. The decision of Perkins (supra) H was not applicable therein as the contract contemplated a three-member M/S GLOCK ASIA-PACIFIC LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA 729 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] arbitral tribunal, while Perkins (supra) applies to cases of unilateral A appointment of Sole Arbitrators. Further, the Court noted that, “absolutely, there is no bar under Section 12(5) of the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 for appointment of a retired employee to act as an arbitrator”13. The Court in Central Organisation of Railway Electrifications (supra) also relied on the B principle elucidated in the case of Voestalpine Schienen GmbH v. DMRC,14 wherein DMRC nominated a five-member panel comprising names of employees of Railways, Central Public Works Department or public sector undertakings and the Court upheld the nomination inter alia noting that empaneling of such retired persons was intended to utilise their technical expertise.15 In Central Organisation of Railway C Electrifications (supra) this Court relied on the aforementioned to state that: “27.