Such approaches would only delay the D resolution of disputes and complicate the redressal of grievances and of course unnecessarily increase the pendency in the court.” 78.7 Having noted that the Arbitration Act, 1996 is a special legislation, and that general law should yield to special law, let us now examine the principle of harmonious construction for the purpose of this reference. E ii) Harmonious Construction 79. It would be apposite to refer to the application of principle of harmonious construction as explained by Kasliwal, J. while expressing his partial dissent in St. Stephen’s College v. University of Delhi62 : F “140. … The golden rule of interpretation is that words should be read in the ordinary, natural and grammatical meaning and the principle of harmonious construction merely applies the rule that where there is a general provision of law dealing with a subject, and a special provision dealing with the same subject, the special prevails over the general. If it is not constructed in that way the G result would be that the special provision would be wholly defeated. The House of Lords observed in Warburton v. Loveland [(1831) 2 Dow & Cl 480 : 6 ER 806 : (1824-34) All ER Rep 589 (HL)] as under: (ER p. 814) H 62 (1992) 1 SCC 558 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 473 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] ‘No rule of construction can require that, when the words of A one part of a statute convey a clear meaning … it shall be necessary to introduce another part of the statute which speaks with less perspicuity, and of which the words may be capable of such construction, as by possibility to diminish the efficacy of the [first part]63.’ B [emphasis supplied] 79.1. On a harmonious reading of the inconsistencies in the provisions of the three different Acts quoted earlier, we find that the general law must yield to the special law in the sense, that an arbitration agreement cannot be rendered void on insufficient stamping by a general C law, especially when none of the provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which is a special Act provide for stamping. The requirement for the “formal” validity of an arbitration agreement under Section 7 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 would take precedence, considering the special nature of the Act and the principle of minimal judicial intervention. Applying D the rule of construction that in cases of conflict between a specific law and a general law, the specific law prevails and the general law like the Contract Act, 1872 applies only to such cases which are not covered by the special law; I therefore, hold that Section 2(e), 2(g), 2(h) of the Contract Act, 1872 cannot override Section 7contained in the special law i.e. the Arbitration Act, 1996 when it comes to formal validity. E 79.2. Moreover, when the words of the statute in Section 11 of the Arbitration Act,1996 do not mention “validity” or even “inoperable and incapable of being performed” as mentioned in Section 45 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 or “prima facie no valid arbitration agreement” in Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996, it must be F understood that the general words in a different statute such as the Contract Act, 1872 cannot override the specific words used in the special law.