on record. Once the presumption under Section 139 was given eff ect to, the Courts ought to have proceeded on the premise that the cheque was, indeed, issued in discharge of a debt/liability. The entire focus would then necessarily have to shift on the case set up by the accused, since the activation of the presumption has the eff ect of shifting the evidential burden on the accused. The nature of inquiry would then be to see whether the accused has discharged his onus of rebutting the presumption. If he fails to do so, the Court can straightaway proceed to convict him, subject to satisfaction of the other ingredients of Section 138. If the Court fi nds that the evidential burden placed on the accused has been discharged, the complainant would be expected to prove the said fact independently, without taking aid of the presumption. The Court would then take an overall view based on the evidence on record and decide accordingly. 56. At the stage when the courts concluded that the signature had been admitted, the Court ought to have inquired into either of the two questions (depending on the method in which accused has chosen to rebut the presumption): Has the accused led any defense evidence to prove and conclusively establish that there existed no debt/liability at the time of issuance of cheque? In the absence of rebuttal evidence being led the inquiry would entail: Has the accused proved the nonexistence of debt/liability by a preponderance of probabilities by referring to the ‘particular circumstances of the case’? 57. The perversity in the approach of the Trial Court is noticeable from the way it proceeded to frame a question at trial. According to the trial Court, the question to be decided was ‘whether a legally valid and enforceable debt existed qua the complainant and the cheque in question (Ex. CWI/A) was issued in discharge of said liability/debt’. When the initial framing of the question itself being erroneous, one cannot expect the outcome to be right. The onus instead of being fi xed on the accused has been fi xed on the complainant. Lack of proper understanding of the nature of the presumption in Section 139 and its eff ect has resulted in an erroneous being passed. 58. Einstein had famously said: “If I had an hour to solve a problem, I’d spend 55 minutes thinking about the problem and 5 minutes thinking about solutions”. 808 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Exaggerated as it may sound, he is believed to have suggested that quality of the solution one generates is directly proportionate to one’s ability to identify the problem. A well-defi ned problem often contains its own solution within it. 59. Drawing from Einstein’s quote, if the issue had been properly framed after careful thought and application of judicial mind, and the onus correctly fi xed, perhaps, the outcome at trial would have been very diff erent and this litigation might not have travelled all the way up to this Court.