The repudiation of the claim was made during the C pendency of the said complaint, purportedly due to breach of condition no. 1 and 5. The said complaint was withdrawn by the advocate of the complainant on the pretext of the case being prolonged by the advocate of the Insurance Company, without having express instructions for withdrawal of the said complaint. However, for the fault of the advocate, D the complainant cannot be made to suffer. Finally, the dismissal of the complaint was made by the National Commission under the wrong pretext that the earlier complaint had challenged the of repudiation. Thus, in our view, the complaint cannot be thrown out on the threshold of XXIII Rule (1)(4) CPC and in the peculiar facts, it requires consideration on merits. E In the facts of the present case, the main question that falls for consideration is: Whether the delay of 6 days in intimating the Insurance Company about the theft comes within the purview of breach of Condition No. 1 and also whether on facts there was breach of condition No. 5 of the insurance policy to justify the F rejection of the claim in toto? 9) A careful perusal of Condition No.1 shows that notice is to be given in writing to the Insurance Company immediately upon occurrence of any accidental loss or damage. The later part of the clause says that in case of theft or criminal act, which may be subject of a claim under G the policy, the insured shall give immediate notice to the police and cooperate with the Insurance Company in securing the conviction of the offender. In support of this interpretation to Condition No.1 and to bolster her plea that the appellant-Claimant did not breach Condition No.1, learned counsel for the appellant relied on the recent of this Court in Jaina Construction Company vs. Oriental Insurance Company H ASHOK KUMAR v. NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD. 1253 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] Limited and Another, [(2022) 4 SCC 527], wherein relying on and A reiterating the of a three-Judge Bench in Gurshinder Singh vs. Shriram General Insurance Co. Ltd. [(2020) 11 SCC 612], this Court held as follows:- “10. At the outset, it may be noted that there being a conflict of decisions of the Bench of two Judges of this Court in Om B Prakash v. Reliance General Insurance, [(2017) 9 SCC 724] and in Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Parvesh Chander Chadha, [(2018) 9 SCC 798], on the question as to whether the delay occurred in informing the Insurance Company about the occurrence of the theft of the vehicle, though the FIR was C registered immediately, would disentitle the claimant of the insurance claim, the matter was referred to a three-Judge Bench. 11. The three-Judge Bench in Gurshinder Singh v. Shriram General Insurance Co. Ltd., [(2020) 11 SCC 612] in similar case as on hand, interpreted the very Condition 1 of the insurance D contract and observed as under : (SCC pp. 618-21, paras 9-15, 17 & 20) xxx xxx xxx 12.