was not recordable and therefore I have opined that general condition of patient was poor.” Perusal of his cross-examination would indicate that he had treated the deceased for four days and the pulse rate and blood pressure was not recorded on the day of admission and it is kept blank in the case sheet Ex.P- 46. He also admits that entries in the case sheet would refl ect that the general condition of the deceased was poor. He further admits that blood pressure of the deceased was not recordable and pulse was feeble. He further admits that deceased was suff ering from breathlessness as per the entries found in Ex.P-46 (case sheet). He has also admitted that even though patient was conscious at times the patient had not been in a position to talk. 9.4 Dr. Mahalingappa Kori (PW32) who was CMO at Kumareshwar Hospital, Bagalkot during the relevant period when the dying declaration (Ex.P-45) was recorded has deposed that he was working as casualty medical offi cer at the hospital on 20.12.2010 from 2:00 PM to 8:00 PM. He has further deposed that Tahasildar (PW25) had expressed his intention to record the dying declaration of injured Mahadevi and he had requested 930 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. him to be present at the time of recording of the statement. He states that he examined Mahadevi at that time and she was conscious and in a condition to speak. He also states that the statement of Mahadevi was recorded between 4:20 PM to 5:15 PM. He has identifi ed his endorsement and signature at Ex-P45(b) on the dying declaration. 10. Taluka executive Magistrate Basappa Laxmappa Gothe PW-25 is said to have recorded the dying declaration of the deceased as per Ex.P- 45, based on which the accused has been convicted by the trial court and affi rmed by the High Court. PW25 who was the Tahasildar at Bagalkot during the relevant period has deposed that he was working as Tahasildar in Bagalkot from 08/07/2009 to 27/04/2011. He has deposed that Dr. Mahalingappa Kori (PW32) was present when he recorded the statement of Mahadevi from 4:20 PM to 5:15 PM. He further deposes that Dr. MC Kori had talked to the deceased and found that she was in a fi t condition to give statement. He further deposes that he was also convinced that Mahadevi was fi t to give statement. He has identifi ed the statement recorded by him as Ex-P45 and also the LTM of the deceased found in Ex-P45. He has deposed that doctor was present throughout the time of recording of statement and the signature & endorsement of the doctor marked as Ex- P45(b) has been identifi ed. PW25 had also conducted inquest panchnama (Ex.P-1) & recorded the statement of Renavva Chandappa Guli (PW22) and he has identifi ed his signature found on the statement of PW22 (Ex. P40) as Ex.P-40(a). He has denied the suggestion that deceased Mahadevi had not given any statement. 11. The learned Sessions judge has referred to the of this Court in the case of Salim Gulab Pathan vs. State of Maharashtra (2012) 6 SCC 606 whereunder it has been held that dying declaration can be the sole basis of conviction if it inspires full confi dence of the court.