Even after the issue of the Government , the detenu was not released from jail on the ground that the sentence of imprisonment awarded in Case No.260/2006 should start running from the date of G grant of remission in the first case. The detenu’s brother-in-law therefore approached the High Court by way of a writ of Habeas Corpus contending that the continued detention of the detenu after the grant of remission was illegal. The High Court accepted the contention and allowed the writ petition. It is against the said that State has come up with the above appeal. H THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH & ANR v. 487 VIJAYANAGARAM CHINNA REDDAPPA What is in question in this appeal is an interplay between Sections A 426 and 427 Cr.P.C. These sections read as follows: “426. Sentence on escaped convict when to take effect.-(1) When a sentence of death, imprisonment for life or fine is passed under this Code on an escaped convict, such sentence shall, subject to the provisions hereinbefore contained, take B effect immediately. (2) When a sentence of imprisonment for a term is passed under this Code on an escaped convict,- (a) if such sentence is severer in kind than the sentence which C such convict was undergoing when he escaped, the new sentence shall take effect immediately; (b) if such sentence is not severer in kind than the sentence which such convict was undergoing when he escaped, the new sentence shall take effect after he has suffered D imprisonment for a further period equal to that which, at the time of his escape, remained unexpired of his former sentence. (3) For the purposes of sub-section (2), a sentence of rigorous imprisonment shall be deemed to be severer in kind than a E sentence of simple imprisonment. 427. Sentence on offender already sentenced for another offence.-(1) When a person already undergoing a sentence of imprisonment is sentenced on a subsequent conviction to imprisonment or imprisonment for life, such imprisonment or F imprisonment for life shall commence at the expiration of the imprisonment to which he has been previously sentenced, unless the Court directs that the subsequent sentence shall run concurrently with such previous sentence: Provided that where a person who has been sentenced to G imprison- ment by an under section 122 in default of furnishing security is, whilst undergoing such sentence, sentenced to imprisonment for an offence committed prior to the making of such , the latter sentence shall commence immediately. H 488 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A (2) When a person already undergoing a sentence of imprisonment for life is sentenced on a subsequent conviction to imprisonment for a term or imprisonment for life, the subsequent sentence shall run concurrently with such previous sentence.” B At the outset, we must remember that we are dealing with the case of an escaped convict. Therefore, the case of the detenu would obviously be covered by Section 426(2)(b), which deals with case of an escaped convict, already serving a sentence severer in kind, but imposed with a less severe sentence in respect of a subsequent conviction.