The submissions of the petitioners indicate that this Court would be required to extensively read words into numerous provisions of the SMA and other allied laws. The Court is not equipped to undertake an exercise of such wide amplitude because of its institutional limitations. This Court would in eff ect be redrafting the law(s) in the garb of reading words into the provisions. It is trite law that judicial legislation is impermissible. We are conscious that the court usually fi rst determines if the law is unconstitutional, and 179 Article 13 of the Constitution 135 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. then proceeds to decide on the relief. However, in this case, an exercise to determine whether the SMA is unconstitutional because of under-inclusivity would be futile because of the limitations of this Court’s power to grant a remedy. Whether a change should be brought into the legislative regime of the SMA is for Parliament to determine. Parliament has access to varied sources of information and represents in itself a diversity of viewpoints in the polity. The Court in the exercise of the power of judicial review must be careful not to tread into the legislative domain. It is clarifi ed that this Court has not adjudicated upon the validity of any laws other than the SMA, the FMA, the Adoption Regulations, and the CARA Circular. d. The challenge to the FMA 209. Some petitioners have challenged the constitutionality of the FMA and have sought a declaration that it applies to any two persons who seek to get married, regardless of their gender identity and sexual orientation. The FMA applies to two categories of persons – to parties who seek to solemnize their marriage under the FMA in a foreign country180 and to those who seek to register their marriage under the FMA when their marriage has been solemnized in a foreign country in accordance with the law of that country.181 In both cases, at least one of the parties to the marriage must be a citizen of India.182 Section 4 of the FMA specifi es certain conditions which must be fulfi lled before the parties can avail of its provisions: “4. Conditions relating to solemnization of foreign marriages. — A marriage between parties one of whom at least is a citizen of India may be solemnized under this Act by or before a Marriage Offi cer in a foreign country, if, at the time of the marriage, the following conditions are fulfi lled, namely:— (a) neither party has a spouse living, (b) neither party is an idiot or a lunatic, (c) the bridegroom has completed the age of twenty-one years and the bride the age of eighteen years at the time of the marriage, and 180 Chapter II, FMA 181 Chapter III, FMA 182 Section 4, FMA; Section 17(2), FMA SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1351 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (d) the parties are not within the degrees of prohibited relationship: Provided that where the personal law or a custom governing at least one of the parties permits of a marriage between them, such marriage may be solemnized, notwithstanding that they are within the degrees of prohibited relationship.” 210.