Can it, therefore, be contended that the judge or judges, as the case may be, did not apply his or their mind while passing such an ? “115. The decision in Challappan case is, therefore, not correct with respect to the interpretation placed by it upon E Rule 14 of the Railway Servants Rules and particularly upon the word ‘consider’ occurring in the last part of that rule and in interpreting Rule 14 by itself and not in conjunction with the second proviso to Article 311 (2). Before parting with Challappan case, we may, also point out that case never held F the field. The in that case was delivered on September, 15, 1975, and it was reported in (1976) 1 SCR at pages 783 ff*. Hardly was that case reported then in the next group of appeals in which the same question was raised, namely, the three civil appeals mentioned earlier, an of reference to a larger Bench was made on November 18, 1976. The G correctness of Challappan case was, therefore, doubted from the very beginning.” “126. As pointed out earlier, the source of authority of a particular officer to act as a disciplinary authority and to dispense with the inquiry is derived from the service rules H DR. V. R. SANAL KUMAR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 787 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] while the source of his power to dispense with the disciplinary A inquiry is derived from the second proviso to Article 311 (2). There cannot be an exercise of a power unless such power exists in law. If such power does not exist in law, the purported exercise of it would be an exercise of a non-existent power and would be void. The exercise of a power is, therefore, B always referable to the source of such power and must be considered in conjunction with it. The Court’s attention in Challappan case was not drawn to this settled position in law and hence the error committed by it in considering Rule 14 of the Railway Servants Rules by itself and without taking into account the second proviso to Article 311 (2). It is also well C settled that where a source of power exists, the exercise of such power is referable only to that source and not to some other source under which were that power exercised, the exercise of such power would be invalid and without jurisdiction. Similarly, if a source of power exists by reading D together two provisions, whether statutory or constitutional, and the refers to only one of them, the validity of the should be upheld by construing it as an passed under both those provisions. Further, even the mention of a wrong provision or the omission to mention the provision which contains the source of power will not invalidate an E where the source of such power exists. (See Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar and Municipal Corporation of the City of Ahmedabad v. Ben Hiraben Manilal) The omission to mention in the impugned s the relevant clause of the second proviso or the relevant service rule will not, F therefore, have the effect of invalidating the s and the s must be read as having been made under the applicable clause of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) read with the relevant service rule.” 11.