C 6. Ms Meenakshi Arora, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association2 submits that the members of the Association are required by the Rules governing their practice as Advocates on Record to maintain an office within a stipulated radius of the Supreme Court. Learned senior counsel submitted that in the newly constructed chamber block in the Additional Building D Complex, approximately 70 percent of the chambers have been allotted to Advocates on Record (the remaining 10 percent being allotted to Senior Advocates and 20 percent to other Advocates). While emphasizing the needs of the Advocates on Record, Ms Arora submitted that this is a matter which SCAORA is agreeable to being taken up on the E administrative side with the Supreme Court. Learned senior counsel further submitted that at that stage, it would be desirable if an opportunity is granted to SCAORA to deliberate on the issue with the Building Committee of the Supreme Court. 7. Mr Manan Kumar Mishra, Mr S Prabhakaran, and Mr Debi Prasad Dhal, all learned senior counsel, appeared on behalf of the Bar F Council of India. 8. Mr Manan Kumar Mishra who is also the Chairperson of the Bar Council of India urged that (i) the Bar Council of India is a statutory body entrusted with duties and functions to regulate the legal profession; (ii) though the Bar Council has a building of its own, situated in proximity G to the Supreme Court, it is inadequate to meet its needs; (iii) the Bar Council of India has to carry out disciplinary functions and all its records are lodged in a godown; (iv) hence the space should be allotted to the Bar Council of India for the construction of a building complex which H 2 “SCAORA” SCBA v. MINISTRY OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT & ORS. 457 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] would facilitate the discharge of its statutory functions under the A Advocates Act 1961. Mr Manan Kumar Mishra, Mr S Prabhakaran and Mr Debi Prasad Dhal, learned senior counselhave, however, joined in stating that this is a matter which should be taken up only on the administrative side and the Bar Council would be content with such decision as may be taken by the Supreme Court to accommodate its B reasonable needs. 9. Mr R Venkataramani, learned Attorney General appeared on behalf of the Union Government. The Attorney General has submitted that the issue should be taken up on the administrative side by the Supreme Court and that in his own capacity, he will facilitate an attempt to secure C the needs of the institution and of its stakeholders. 10. Mr Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the SCBA has questioned the locus of the Bar Council of India in these proceedings, stating that SCBA is the recognized association representing lawyers practicing before the Supreme Court. Hence, D according to him, the Bar Council, which has a building of its own, has no locus standi to make any submissions for asserting its own demands in the land which has been allotted to the Supreme Court.