The precise boundaries were analysed by Lord Scarman, by reference to Chandler’s case in his speech in Council of Civil Service Unions v Minister for the Civil Service [1985] AC 374, 406. His analysis shows that F the Commission serves at least three important functions which were shown to be necessary by the decision in Chahal.First, the factual basis for the executive’s opinion that deportation would be in the interests of national security must be established by evidence. It is therefore open to the G Commission to say that there was no factual basis for the Home Secretary’s opinion that Mr Rehman was actively supporting terrorism in Kashmir. In this respect the Commission’s ability to differ from the Home Secretary’s evaluation may be limited, as I shall explain, by considerations inherent in an appellate process but not by the principle of the H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 655 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] separation of powers. The effect of the latter principle is only, A subject to the next point, to prevent the Commission from saying that although the Home Secretary’s opinion that Mr Rehman was actively supporting terrorism in Kashmir had a proper factual basis, it does not accept that this was contrary to the interests of national security. Secondly, the B Commission may reject the Home Secretary’s opinion on the ground that it was “one which no reasonable minister advising the Crown could in the circumstances reasonably have held”. Thirdly, an appeal to the Commission may turn upon issues which at no point lie within the exclusive province of the executive. A good example is the question, which arose in Chahal itself, as to C whether deporting someone would infringe his rights under article 3 of the Convention because there was a substantial risk that he would suffer torture or inhuman or degrading treatment. The European jurisprudence makes it clear that whether deportation is in the interests of national security is irrelevant to rights under D article 3. If there is a danger of torture, the Government must find some other way of dealing with a threat to national security. Whether a sufficient risk exists is a question of evaluation and prediction based on evidence. In answering such a question, the executive enjoys no constitutional prerogative. E (emphasis supplied) 74. The following principles emerge from the above judgements: (i) The party affected by the decision must establish that the decision was reached by a process that was unfair without complying with the principles of natural justice; F (ii) The State can claim that the principles of natural justice could not be followed because issues concerning national security were involved; (iii) The Courts have to assess if the departure was justified. For this purpose, the State must satisfy the Court that firstly, G national security is involved; and secondly, whether on the facts of the case, the requirements of national security outweigh the duty of fairness. At this stage, the court must make its decision based on the component of natural justice that is sought to be abrogated; and H 656 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.