On making a reference, the said controversy has been decided in the case of “Avtar Singh Vs. Union of India and Others, (2016) 8 SCC 471”. The Court after considering various s has taken a holistic approach and summarised certain yardsticks in Paragraph 38, which are reproduced as thus: 620 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. “38. We have noticed various decisions and tried to explain and reconcile them as far as possible. In view of aforesaid discussion, we summarize our conclusion thus: 38.1 Information given to the employer by a candidate as to conviction, acquittal or arrest, or pendency of a criminal case, whether before or after entering into service must be true and there should be no suppression or false mention of required information. 38.2 While passing of termination of services or cancellation of candidature for giving false information, the employer may take notice of special circumstances of the case, if any, while giving such information. 38.3 The employer shall take into consideration the Government s/instructions/rules, applicable to the employee, at the time of taking the decision. 38.4 In case there is suppression or false information of involvement in a criminal case where conviction or acquittal had already been recorded before fi lling of the application/verifi cation form and such fact later comes to knowledge of employer, any of the following recourse appropriate to the case may be adopted : - 38.4.1 In a case trivial in nature in which conviction had been recorded, such as shouting slogans at young age or for a petty off ence which if disclosed would not have rendered an incumbent unfi t for post in question, the employer may, in its discretion, ignore such suppression of fact or false information by condoning the lapse. 38.4.2 Where conviction has been recorded in case which is not trivial in nature, employer may cancel candidature or terminate services of the employee. 38.4.3 If acquittal had already been recorded in a case involving moral turpitude or off ence of heinous/serious nature, on technical ground and it is not a case of clean acquittal, or benefi t of reasonable doubt has been given, the employer may consider all relevant facts available as to antecedents, and may take appropriate decision as to the continuance of the employee. STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. MITUL KUMAR JANA 621 [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] 38.5 In a case where the employee has made declaration truthfully of a concluded criminal case, the employer still has the right to consider antecedents, and cannot be compelled to appoint the candidate. 38.6 In case when fact has been truthfully declared in character verifi cation form regarding pendency of a criminal case of trivial nature, employer, in facts and circumstances of the case, in its discretion may appoint the candidate subject to decision of such case. 38.7 In a case of deliberate suppression of fact with respect to multiple pending cases such false information by itself will assume signifi cance and an employer may pass appropriate cancelling candidature or terminating services as appointment of a person against whom multiple criminal cases were pending may not be proper.