In this manner, the Government of Oman would achieve its aim objective of promoting economic development within Oman by attracting investments. We presume from our recent discussions with you that the Indian investors in the above Project would be setting up Permanent Establishment in Oman and that their equity investments in the Project would be effectively connected with such Permanent Establishments. On the above presumption, we confi rm that tax would be payable on dividend income earned by the Permanent Establishments of the Indian PRINCIPAL COMMISSION ER OF INCOME TAX-10 v. M/S KRISHAK 599 BHARTI COOPERATIVE LTD. [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] Investors, as it would form part of their gross income under Article 8, if not for the tax exemption provided under Article 8 (bis). As the introduction of Article 8 (bis) is to promote economic development in Oman, the Indian Investors should be able to obtain relief in India ITA Nos. 6785 & 6786/DEL/2015 (AYRS. 2010-11 & 2011-12) KRISHAK BHARATI CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED VS. ACIT under Article 25 (4) of the Agreement for Avoidance of Double Taxation in India. All other matters covered in our letter No. FT/13/92 dated 6th August, 2000 remained unchanged.” 16. It is, thus, clear from the above letter of the Omani Finance Ministry that the dividend distributed by all companies, including the tax-exempt companies would be exempt from payment of income tax in the hands of the recipients. By extending the facility of exemption, the Government of Oman intend to achieve its object of promoting development within Oman by attracting investments. Since the assessee has invested in the project by setting up a permanent establishment in Oman, as the JV is registered as a separate company under the Omani laws, it is aiding to promote economic development within Oman and achieve the object of Article 8 (bis). The Omani Finance Ministry concluded by saying that tax would be payable on dividend income earned by the permanent establishments of the Indian Investors, as it would form part of their gross income under Article 8, if not for the tax exemption provided under Article 8(bis). 17. A plain reading of Article 8 and Article 8 (bis) would manifest that under Article 8, dividend is taxable, whereas, Article 8(bis) exempts dividend received by a company from its ownership of shares, portions, or shareholding in the share capital in any other company. Thus, Article 8(bis) exempts dividend tax received by the assessee from its PE in Oman and by virtue of Article 25, the assessee is entitled to the same tax treatment in India as it received in Oman. 18. Insofar as the argument concerning the assessee not having PE in Oman, it is signifi cant to note that from the year 2002 to 2006, a common was made under Article 26 (2) of the Income Tax Law of Oman. The High Court has extracted the opening portion of the above , which reads as under: 600 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. “We refer to the returns of income and determine the taxable income as under: Kribhco Muscat is a permanent establishment supported by M/s.