The off ence of money-laundering is not dependent on or linked to the date on which the scheduled off ence or if we may say so the predicate off ence has been committed. The relevant date is the date on which the person indulges in the process or activity connected with such proceeds of crime. These ingredients are intrinsic in the original provision (Section 3, as amended PAVANA DIBBUR v. THE DIRECTORATE OF 1061 ENFORCEMENT [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] until 2013 and were in force till 31.7.2019); and the same has been merely explained and clarifi ed by way of Explanation vide Finance (No. 2) Act, 2019. Thus understood, inclusion of Clause (ii) in Explanation inserted in 2019 is of no consequence as it does not alter or enlarge the scope of Section 3 at all.” (underline supplied) 15. Coming back to Section 3 of the PMLA, on its plain reading, an off ence under Section 3 can be committed after a scheduled off ence is committed. For example, let us take the case of a person who is unconnected with the scheduled off ence, knowingly assists the concealment of the proceeds of crime or knowingly assists the use of proceeds of crime. In that case, he can be held guilty of committing an off ence under Section 3 of the PMLA. To give a concrete example, the off ences under Sections 384 to 389 of the IPC relating to “extortion” are scheduled off ences included in Paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the PMLA. An accused may commit a crime of extortion covered by Sections 384 to 389 of IPC and extort money. Subsequently, a person unconnected with the off ence of extortion may assist the said accused in the concealment of the proceeds of extortion. In such a case, the person who assists the accused in the scheduled off ence for concealing the proceeds of the crime of extortion can be guilty of the off ence of money laundering. Therefore, it is not necessary that a person against whom the off ence under Section 3 of the PMLA is alleged must have been shown as the accused in the scheduled off ence. What is held in paragraph 270 of the decision of this Court in the case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary1 supports the above conclusion. The conditions precedent for attracting the off ence under Section 3 of the PMLA are that there must be a scheduled off ence and that there must be proceeds of crime in relation to the scheduled off ence as defi ned in clause (u) of sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the PMLA. 16. In a given case, if the prosecution for the scheduled off ence ends in the acquittal of all the accused or discharge of all the accused or the proceedings of the scheduled off ence are quashed in its entirety, the scheduled off ence will not exist, and therefore, no one can be prosecuted for the off ence punishable under Section 3 of the PMLA as there will not be any proceeds of crime.