Appearances: Anant Vijay Palli, Nikhil Palli, Nishant Kumar, Deepak Goel, Advs. for the Appellant. Chandra Shekhar, Prashant Shekhar, Yogesh Pachauri, Sanjay Kumar Tyagi, Advs. for the Respondent. / OF THE SUPREME COURT VIKRAM NATH, J. 1. This appeal assails the correctness of the and dated 23.08.2018 passed by the High Court of Delhi in RFA No.191 of 2013 between Shakeel Ahmed and Syed Akhlaq Hussain, whereby the appeal 592 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. was dismissed and the and decree of the Trial Court decreeing the suit for possession and mesne profi ts has been affi rmed. 2. The appellant is defendant in the suit for possession and mesne profi ts instituted by the respondent with respect to the property in question. The suit was fi led on the basis of a Power of Attorney, an agreement to sell, an affi davit and a will executed in favour of the respondent. The appellant, admittedly, was in possession of the property in question. The suit was contested on several grounds that the appellant was the owner of the property having received the same on the basis of a Hiba (oral gift) from its owner Laiq Ahmed his own brother. Secondly, that the suit was not maintainable as none of the documents on the basis of which the suit was fi led were neither admissible nor enforceable under law. Both parties led evidence - oral and documentary. The Trial Court framed as many as eleven issues, which read as follows: “1. Whether the plaintiff has locus-standi to fi le the suit? OPP 2. Whether it is collusive suit of the plaintiff and the defendant’s brother, if so, its consequences? BPD 3. Whether the suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary party, if so, whom and its consequences? BPD 4. Whether the suit is barred by provision of II Rule 2 CPC for want of suit for declaration? OPP 5. Whether the plaintiff came to Court without clean hands by suppressing material facts, if so, its consequences? OPD 6. Whether the defendant was licencee in the suit property and it was terminated by notice dated 23.01.2008 by plaintiff ’s predecessor in interest? OPP 7. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for decree of possession of suit property, as prayed in prayer clause (a), against the defendant? OPP 8. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for decree of permanent injunction, as prayed in prayer clause (b), against the defendant? OPP 9. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for decree of recovery of damages of Rs.2,10,000/- as prayed in prayer clause (c), against the defendant? OPP SHAKEEL AHMED v. SYED AKHLAQ HUSSAIN 593 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 10. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for decree of damages @ Rs.10,000/- per month, as prayed in prayer clause (c), against the defendant, if so, for what period? OPP 11. Relief.” 3. Findings recorded by the Trial Court were that all the issues were decided against the appellant and in favour of the respondent except issue no.8 and decree for possession along with mesne profi ts was granted.