It was submitted that Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. is a wholesome provision which has to be invoked by F the Sessions Court having regard to the evidence that has emerged in the trial and on the satisfaction derived by the trial court as has been envisaged by this Court in the case of Hardeep Singh V/s. State of Punjab &Ors. (2014) 3 SCC 92 (“Hardeep Singh”). Therefore, the said contentions of the learned counsel for the appellants may not be accepted was the joint plea of learned counsel for the respondents. G 18. Having heard learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the respective parties, at the outset, we would refer to the dated 8.5.2023 passed by this Court and the context in which notice was issued to the respondent(s) herein. The said context can be clearly discerned by the fact that Mr. Nagamuthu, learned senior counsel contended that H in paragraph 9 of the in Jogendra Yadav, it is clearly indicated YASHODHAN SINGH & ORS. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 1205 PRADESH & ANR. that the right of hearing must be afforded to a person summoned before A being added as an accused in the trial, and therefore, the impugned stood vitiated. 19. Before we proceed, we would refer to Sections 227 and 319 of the Cr.P.C., which are extracted as under: “227. Discharge.- If, upon consideration of the record of the B case and the documents submitted therewith, and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the prosecution in this behalf, the Judge considers that there is not sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused, he shall discharge the accused and record his reasons for so doing. C “319. Power to proceed against other persons appearing to be guilty of offence. - (1) Where, in the course of any inquiry into, or trial of, an offence, it appears from the evidence that any person not being the accused has committed any offence for which such person could be tried D together with the accused, the Court may proceed against such person for the offence which he appears to have committed. (2) Where such person is not attending the Court, he may be arrested or summoned, as the circumstances of the case may require, for the purpose aforesaid. E (3) Any person attending the Court, although not under arrest or upon a summons, may be detained by such Court for the purpose of the inquiry into, or trial of, the offence which he appears to have committed. (4) Where the Court proceeds against any person under sub-section F (1), then - (a) the proceedings in respect of such person shall be commenced afresh, and the witnesses re-heard; (b) subject to the provisions of clause (a), the case may proceed as if such person had been an accused person when the Court G took cognizance of the offence upon which the inquiry or trial was commenced.” 20. Section 227 Cr.P.C. provides for discharge of an accused if the court finds that there is no sufficient grounds or reasons for proceeding against him.