19. Though the trial court has referred to the fact of the case being registered against the complainant party for the off ences punishable under Sections 323, 341, 294, 147, 148 and 149 of IPC, the trial court observed that no fatal weapons were used by the complainant party in assaulting the 196 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. accused persons. However, on the contrary, the accused persons had used the fatal weapons. 20. We do not fi nd the said observation of the trial court correct. The injuries sustained by Ramrup @ Roopa is by a sharp weapon. It will be trite to refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Lakshmi Singh and Others v. State of Bihar3: “12. ……. It seems to us that in a murder case, the non-explanation of the injuries sustained by the accused at about the time of the occurrence or in the course of altercation is a very important circumstance from which the court can draw the following inferences: “(1) that the prosecution has suppressed the genesis and the origin of the occurrence and has thus not presented the true version; (2) that the witnesses who have denied the presence of the injuries on the person of the accused are lying on a most material point and therefore their evidence is unreliable; (3) that in case there is a defence version which explains the injuries on the person of the accused it is rendered probable so as to throw doubt on the prosecution case.” The omission on the part of the prosecution to explain the injuries on the person of the accused assumes much greater importance where the evidence consists of interested or inimical witnesses or where the defence gives a version which competes in probability with that of the prosecution one. In the instant case, when it is held, as it must be, that the appellant Dasrath Singh received serious injuries which have not been explained by the prosecution, then it will be diffi cult for the court to rely on the evidence of PWs 1 to 4 and 6, more particularly, when some of these witnesses have lied by stating that they did not see any injuries on the person of the accused. Thus neither the Sessions Judge nor the High Court appears to have given due consideration to this important lacuna or infi rmity appearing in the prosecution case. We must hasten to add that as held by this 3 (1976) 4 SCC 394 PARSHURAM v. STATE OF M.P. 197 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Court in State of Gujarat v. Bai Fatima [(1975) 2 SCC 7 : 1975 SCC (Cri) 384] there may be cases where the non-explanation of the injuries by the prosecution may not aff ect the prosecution case. This principle would obviously apply to cases where the injuries sustained by the accused are minor and superfi cial or where the evidence is so clear and cogent, so independent and disinterested, so probable, consistent and creditworthy, that it far outweighs the eff ect of the omission on the part of the prosecution to explain the injuries.