It was held, borrower “may have right and interest on the INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES LTD 1039 v. HDFC BANK LTD. & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] residual of deposits which is an excess of principal and interest for which security interest is created in favour of the lender which Escrow Bank is permitted to transfer to the borrower.” IL&FS’s argument that there was no assignment of the receivables, but only the creation of security interest in the receivables was rejected. It was also held that since there was an express assignment of lease rental- suffi cient to meet the principal and interest payments-, the “assignment has to be accepted as assignment” in favour of HDFC and that ‘pledge’ in AA did not take away the nature of the transaction documents which was the assignment of receivables. NCLAT also held that the freeze of 15.10.2018 did not negate the AA nor did it take away the property right of HDFC in the lease rental receivables. However, the right over receivables deposited in the Escrow Account to the extent they were in excess of principal and interest, was retained by the IL&FS and in the event, any amount in excess of the said principal and interest was transferred to or debited in the HDFC’s account and they needed to be reversed, after adjusting the shortfall in debiting any interest or principal of any earlier months. Parties’ contentions 9. Mr. Ramji Srinivasan, Sr. Advocate urged, on behalf of IL&FS that the MFA (dated 25.06.2018) and other agreements executed on 25.06.2018 clearly indicate that the Facility advanced to the Borrower was loan repayable within 96 months. The Security Interest was created by the Borrower and the receivables were nothing but security for repayment of the loan. The Escrow Account was created in the Escrow Bank to facilitate the repayment of principal and interest as per the repayment schedule. There was no transfer of title in the receivables from Borrower to Lender. The receivables deposited in the Escrow Bank were the assets of the Borrower which were deposited in the Escrow Bank as security for the repayment of the loan of ₹ 400 Crores. Till 15.10.2018, the escrow agent was debiting the amount as in terms of the Escrow Agreement. However, after the interim (dated 15.10.2018), the Escrow Bank was not entitled to debit any amount to the Lender’s Account which was prohibited by the interim (dated 15.10.2018) of NCLAT in the pending appeal. IL & FS secured repayment of the loan by assigning the lease rental to the extent of principal and interest payable per month. The MFA and all the agreements clearly depict the relationship between IL&FS 104 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. and HDFC. The AA cannot be read in isolation. The Escrow Bank held the amount in the account as a trustee and the Power of Attorney Agreement executed on 25.06.2018 was by way of security interest. Repayment was secured by receivables and other additional securities. 10.