If the I.O. was evading appearance, the search for truth made his appearance a compelling necessity for the Presiding Offi cer. The original seizure list went missing. The Presiding Offi cer took no steps for reconstruction or holding an enquiry why and how the seizure list has gone missing from the records. Affi davits fi led by the Public Prosecutor were accepted by the Presiding Offi cer as a gospel truth. The directions of the Division Bench of the duties of the Presiding Offi cer were completely ignored in the grab of a direction for expeditious disposal of the trial. The Presiding Offi cer did not notice the dichotomy that the Public Prosecutor himself fi led the application for recall of witnesses in the changed circumstances and then fi led affi davits on their behalf himself. The application of seizure 434 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. list witness, Kishori Rai, for his examination and that of the two F.l.R. witnesses was rejected on absolutely frivolous grounds even after noticing that the Public Prosecutor was not supporting the application. Cr. Misc. No.44589 of 2006, by Kishori Rai, a seizure list witness, was disposed with the observation that the Public Prosecutor has already been directed in Cr. W.J.C. No.717 of 2006 to move appropriately under Section 311 CrPC. The duty of the Presiding Offi cer was to search for the truth in the criminal trial. He completely abdicated his duties and consciously chose to ignore the of caution by the Division Bench reminding him of his duties. The manner in which the trial has been conducted by the Presiding Offi cer leads to only two possible conclusions. The is either based on extraneous considerations or the Offi cer completely lacks judicial acumen. I had called for random seven Sessions Trial s of the Offi cer. It cannot be said that he does not know the law. The public image of the judiciary is tested in such cases. The Offi cer has failed the institution. The desirability of appropriate action against the Offi cer merits serious consideration.” 52. The said report was placed before the Standing Committee of the High Court and considered in the meeting dated 07.07.2009 wherein it was resolved to accept the recommendation. Later on when the said minutes came up for confi rmation in the meeting dated 14.07.2009 it was resolved vide agenda item No.1(ii) that the recommendation made by the Inspecting Judge not only be accepted but be enlarged with further direction that the in question dated 24.10.2008 be listed on judicial side before appropriate Bench for considering suo motu exercise of revisional power under CrPC. The said resolution of the Standing Committee is reproduced hereunder: “Resolution It is resolved to confi rm the proceedings of the meeting of the Standing Committee held on 7th July 2009 with the following modifi cations. HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 435 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] i. Under the Agenda- Any other matter- it is resolved to place on record the appreciation of valuable contribution made by Hon’ble Mr. justice V.N.