The reason is that by wrongly deciding such a fact, the court or tribunal cannot give itself jurisdiction. 58. In Anisminic Ltd. v. Foreign Compensation Commission and Another, reported in (1969) 2 AC 147, the House of Lords has given a very broad connotation to the concept of ‘jurisdictional error’. It has been laid down that a tribunal exceeds jurisdiction not only at the threshold when it enters into an inquiry which it is not entitled to undertake, but it may enter into an enquiry within its jurisdiction in the fi rst instance and then do something which would deprive it of its jurisdiction and render its decision a nullity. In the words of Lord Reid: “But there are many cases where, although the tribunal had jurisdiction to enter on the enquiry, it has done or failed to do something in the course of the enquiry which is of such a nature that its decision is a nullity. It may have given its decision in bad faith. It may have made a decision which it had no power to make. It may have failed in the course of the enquiry to comply with the requirements of natural justice. It may in perfect good faith have misconstrued the provisions giving it power to act so that it failed to deal with the question remitted to it and decided some question which was not remitted to it. It may have refused to take into account something which it was required to take into account. Or it may have based its decision on some matter which, under the provisions setting it up, it had no right to take into account. I do not intend this list to be exhaustive.” 59. So far as the errors of law are concerned, a writ of certiorari could be issued if an error of law is apparent on the face of the record. To attract the writ of certiorari, a mere error of law is not suffi cient. It must be one which is manifest or patent on the face of the record. Mere formal or technical errors, even of law, are not suffi cient, so as to attract a writ of certiorari. CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 779 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] As reminded by this Court time and again, this concept is indefi nite and cannot be defi ned precisely or exhaustively and so it has to be determined judiciously on the facts of each case. The concept, according to this Court in K.M. Shanmugam v. The S.R.V.S. (P) Ltd. and Others, reported in AIR 1963 SC 1626, ‘is comprised of many imponderables… it is not capable of precise defi nition, as no objective criterion could be laid down, the apparent nature of the error, to a large extent, being dependent upon the subjective element.’ A general test to apply, however, is that no error could be said to be apparent on the face of the record if it is not ‘self-evident’ or ‘manifest’.