It would turn upon the facts. Coming to invalidity, a contract would be invalid as for instance if it is executed by a person of unsound mind. This would equally be the case where it is found that one of the parties was a minor. As far as the word ‘invalid’ is concerned, it has different shades F of meaning. In the context of a contract, we notice the following statement in a of the High Court of Karnataka reported in Imambi v. Khaja Hussain alias Khajasab29: “In the context that the words are used the meaning is to be as laid down in Jones v. Bank of Gumming as follows: - G “The word “invalid” as applied to a contract does not always mean an absolute nullity, for a contract may be so imperfect as not to be enforceable, but not such an absolute nullity that it cannot be perfected.” H 29 AIR 1988 Karnataka 51 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 353 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (Vide Words & Phrases – Permanent Edition – West Publishing A Co. Volume 22A)” 74. The aforesaid statement appears apposite in the context of an instrument which is unstamped or insufficiently stamped. This is for the reason that on the one hand as long as it is not stamped or is insufficiently stamped, it is both liable to be impounded under Section 33 of the Stamp B Act and it cannot be used as evidence or registered. This is apart from the unambiguous bar against ‘acting upon’ such an instrument. On the other hand, if after such an instrument is impounded and duty and penalty is paid and a certificate is endorsed upon it within the meaning of Section 42(2) signals that the instrument regains life, the bar in Section 35 of the C Stamp Act is removed permanently. Equally, under Section 36 in the case of an instrument (not secondary evidence of the instrument) which is allowed to be let in evidence without objection, then it would qualify as evidence founding a right. But this is an exception to the rule which is found in Section 35 of the Stamp Act. Thus, an unstamped or insufficiently stamped instrument represents a case of an agreement D which not being enforceable, in the sense that the sanctions in law through a civil action is impermissible, is in the said sense, invalid. It is not invalid or void in the sense of it being still born or null and void in the sense that life cannot be poured into it. We may sum up. An agreement which is unstamped or insufficiently stamped is not enforceable, as long as it E remains in the said condition. Such an instrument would be void as being not enforceable [See Section 2(g) of the Contract Act]. It would not in the said sense exist in law. It can be “validated” by only the process contemplated in Section 33 and other provisions of the Stamp Act.