56 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 3P OS.RCT.RS. 56 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A ANANT THANUR KARMUSE v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ORS. (Criminal Appeal No.13 of 2023) B FEBRUARY 24, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND C. T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.173(8) –Further Investigation – Transfer of Investigation to CBI –Appellant shared a viral picture of then Cabinet Minister on facebook–As per him, C appellant was forcibly took from his residence by police officers and beaten up and threatened by the police – FIR lodged by appellant, however, name of the Cabinet Minister not named in FIR – Writ Petition was filed in the High Court seeking transfer of investigation to CBI or to any other agency–During the pendency D of the writ petition, the trial Court framed the charges against the accused on the basis of the chargesheets filed –The High Court refused to transfer the investigation –High Court while dismissing the petition observed that once the charges have been framed by the Magistrate/Trial Court and therefore, it can be said that the trial has begun and therefore, thereafter, re- investigation/further E investigation is not permissible– On appeal, held : Investigation may be transferred to the CBI only in “rare and exceptional cases” –High Court has not committed any error in refusing to transfer the investigation to CBI –The real investigation started only after the intervention of the High Court and after passing various s in F the present proceedings by the High Court – Even according to the State investigating agency, still the further investigation is required on certain aspects – The victim has a fundamental right of fair investigation and fair trial –Therefore, mere filing of the chargesheet and framing of the charges cannot be an impediment in ing further investigation / re-investigation / de novo investigation, if G the facts so warrant – No proper investigation by the State investigating agency at the relevant time and even the material evidences were also not collected – High Court has committed a very serious error in not ing and/or permitting the State police agency to further investigate into the FIR. H 56 ANANT THANUR KARMUSE v. THE STATE OF 57 MAHARASHTRA & ORS. Partly allowing the appeal, the Court A HELD :1.Bearing in mind the position of law, in the facts, and circumstances of the case, this Court is of the opinion that the High Court has not committed any error in refusing to transfer the investigation to CBI. Even the appellant has not vehemently pressed such a prayer. The Court is in complete agreement with B the view taken by the High Court insofar as refusing to transfer the investigation to CBI is concerned. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the case of Dharam Pal and Bharati Tamang and to do the complete justice and in furtherance of fair investigation and fair trial, the constitutional courts may further C investigation / re-investigation / de novo investigation even after the charge sheet is filed and the charges are framed.