Explanation. - “Private company” and “Government company” shall have the meaning respectively assigned to them in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).” B 8.8 As per Section 44B of the Act, 1894, notwithstanding anything contained in the Act, no land shall be acquired under Part VII, except for the purpose mentioned in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 40, for a private company which is not a Government company. As per the Explanation, a “private company” shall have the meaning assigned to it C in the Companies Act, 1956. As per Section 40(1) read with Section 39, a previous consent of appropriate Government and execution of the agreement is necessary (Section 39) and which shall not be given unless the appropriate Government be satisfied, either on the report of the Collector under Section 5A, sub-section (2) or by an enquiry held provided that the purpose of the acquisition is to obtain the land for the erection of D dwelling-houses for workmen employed by the company or for the provision of amenities directly connected therewith. Sections 39 and 40 reads as under:- “39.Previous consent of appropriate Government and execution of agreement necessary. - The provisions of sections E 6 to 16 (both inclusive) and sections 18 to 37 (both inclusive) shall not be put in force in to acquire land for any company under this Part, unless with the previous consent of the appropriate Government, not unless the Company shall have executed the agreement hereinafter mentioned. F 40. Previous enquiry. - (1) Such consent shall not be given unless the appropriate Government be satisfied, either on the report of the Collector under section 5A, sub-section (2), or by an enquiry held as hereinafter provided, - (a) that the purpose of the acquisition is to obtain land G for the erection of dwelling houses for workmen employed by the Company or for the provision of amenities directly connected therewith, or (aa) that such acquisition is needed for the construction of some building or work for a Company which is engaged or H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 1017 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] is taking steps for engaging itself in any industry or work which A is for a public purpose, or (b) that such acquisition is needed for the construction of some work, and that such work is likely to prove useful to the public. (2) Such enquiry shall be held by such officer and at B such time and place as the appropriate Government shall appoint. (3) Such officer may summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses and compel the production of documents by the same means and, as far as possible, in the same manner as is C provided by the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) in the case of a Civil Court.” 8.9 Thus, at the relevant time, when the company was a private company, in view of the bar under Section 44-B, the lands in question could not have been sought to be acquired / acquired by the appellant D company de hors Section 44B read with Section 40(1)(a) of the Act, 1894.