Section 33-B inserted by the Representation of the People (Third Amendment) Act, 2002, provided inter alia, that “…no candidate shall be liable to disclose or furnish any such information, in respect of his election, which is not required to be disclosed or furnished under this Act or the Rules made thereunder”. This court, in its decision F reported as People’s Union for Civil Liberties v Union of India8 held that provision to be invalid and unconstitutional. The court ruled thatSection 33B imposed a “blanket ban on dissemination of information other than that spelt out in the enactment irrespective of the need of the hour and the future exigencies and expedients and secondly for the reason that the ban operates despite the fact G that the disclosure of information now provided for is deficient and inadequate.” This decisively ruled that providing information is vital for a vibrant and functioning democracy. 8 (2003) 4 SCC 399 H 1228 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 14. Pursuant to the decision and directions of this court, the Election Commission issued guidelines and also framed forms that were part of guidelines requiring declarations inter alia with respect to disclosure of pending criminal cases and those in which candidate(s) had been convicted. The relevant extract of the guidelines first issued by the Election Commission on 10.10.2018 inter alia reads as follows: B “2. In pursuance of the directions in the abovementioned , the Commission, after due consideration, has given the following directors to be complied with by candidates at elections to the Houses of Parliament and Houses of State Legislatures, who have criminal cases against them, either C pending cases or cases of conviction in the past, and to the political parties that set up such candidates. (a) Candidates at elections to the House of the People, Council of States, Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council who have criminal cases against them, shall publish a declaration D about their criminal cases, for wide publicity in newspapers with wide circulation in the constituency area. This declaration is to be published in Format C-1, attached hereto, at least on three different dates from the day following the last date for withdrawal of candidatures and up to two days before the E date of poll. xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx 3. The Political parties-recognized parties and registered un- recognized parties, which set up candidates with criminal cases, either pending cases or cases of past conviction, are F required to publish declaration giving details in this regard, for wide publicity, on their website as well as in TV channels and newspapers having wide circulation in the State concerned. Declaration in this regard shall be published in Format C-2, annexed hereto, and should be provided State G wise with separate statements for each State/Union Territory. Publishing of the declaration in newspapers and TV channels is required to be done at least on three different dates during the period mentioned in Para-2(a) above. As specified above, the declaration in newspapers should appear in at least 12 font size, and should be placed suitable so that the directions H BHIM RAO BASWANTH RAO PATIL v. K. MADAN MOHAN 1229 RAO AND ORS.