And for B finding out the legislative intent, the court must examine the scheme of the Act, purpose and object underlying the provision, consequences likely to ensue or inconvenience likely to result if the provision is read one way or the other and many more considerations relevant to the issue.” C 36. In for the word “may” to acquire the character of the word “shall”, the following aspects of the provision or legislation (or in this case, the Constitution) must be analysed: a. The legal and factual context of the conferment of the power; b. The purpose of the power; D c. Whether the statute (or the Constitution) specifies the conditions in which the power is to be exercised; and d. The intention of the legislature discerned inter alia from the scheme of the enactment, the purpose and object of the E provision, the consequences of reading the provision one way or another, and other relevant considerations. This is not an exhaustive list of factors which will aid courts in interpreting whether a provision is directory or mandatory. 37. Article 323-A does not specify the conditions in which the F power to enact laws providing for the adjudication of certain disputes by administrative tribunals must be exercised. It therefore cannot be said that Parliament was obligated to exercise this power upon the fulfilment of certain conditions. 38. The legal and factual context of the power to enact laws G providing for administrative tribunals may be understood from the Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Forty- fourth Amendment) Bill 1976. The Statement of Objects indicates that the object was “To reduce the mounting arrears in High Courts and to secure the H speedy disposal of service matters, revenue matters and certain ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 769 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] other matters of special importance in the context of the socio- A economic development and progress, it is considered expedient to provide for administrative and other tribunals for dealing with such matters while preserving the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in regard to such matters under Article 136 of the Constitution. It is also necessary to make certain modifications in the writ jurisdiction B of the High Courts under article 226.” The Statement of Objects and Reasons also sheds light on the purpose of the power to provide for administrative tribunals i.e., to reduce mounting arrears in the High Courts and to secure the speedy disposal of service matters. The purpose and the legal and factual context of the C power conferred by Article 323-A do not have the effect of narrowing the scope of the discretion afforded to Parliament by the word “may.” The purpose of reducing arrears in the High Courts or securing the speedy disposal of service cases is not of a nature as to cast an obligation upon Parliament to enact laws providing for administrative tribunals. This is because the same purpose can be achieved through other routes.