The position which emerges from the terms of the PPA is formulated thus: a. There are two types of tariff charges payable by MSEDCL – capacity charges under clause 5.2 and energy charges under clause 5.3; b. For the former, the rates are fi xed, having been fi nalized at the time of takeover by RGPPL, and are subject to revision by the Government of India or the Government of Maharashtra; c. For the latter, the rates are to be calculated by way of the formula stipulated in Clause 5.3; d. MSEDCL is required to schedule the sending of energy from RGPPL and the energy charges are payable according to the energy scheduled to be sent out from RGPPL to MSEDCL; e. Provisional billing of the two types of charges shall be made until the billing is approved by CERC; and f. The total gas requirements are to be procured through GAIL, by way of a GSA/GTA under the directions of the GOI. Before 774 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. entering into the GSA/GTA, RGPPL is supposed to obtain approval from MSEDCL on the terms of the contract and the price since such a GSA/GTA has ‘commercial implications’. 27. The fi rst respondent has consistently stated that the alternate arrangement in the form of GSA/GTA with GAIL and capacity declarations based on RLNG were necessitated on account of the unprecedented nationwide shortage of domestic fuel. But for such an alternate arrangement, the fi rst respondent would have been unable to meet the target availability, which would have in turn aff ected their ability to recover fi xed costs, and jeopardized the viability of the project. The appellant does not dispute the shortage of domestic fuel but merely objects to the “unilateral” decision to declare capacity based on RLNG, which the appellant states violated the mandatory approval requirement under clause 5.9 of the PPA, thereby exonerating it of the liability to pay fi xed capacity charges. 28. In accordance with settled principles governing the interpretation of contracts, the PPA is required to be read as a whole. Clause 4.3 has two parts: according to the fi rst, primary fuels include LNG/Natural gas and/or RLNG; according to the second, the appellant’s agreement is required in case liquid fuels are to be employed. A bare reading of the clause indicates that the requirement to seek such an agreement does not attach to the fi rst part of the clause which envisages RLNG as a primary fuel. An arrangement involving a transition from one primary fuel to another primary fuel is permissible by the clause, even without the appellant’s agreement. 29. The requirement of an agreement, mandated for an arrangement involving liquid fuel cannot be read into the plain text of the former part of Clause 4.3. Thus, the capacity declaration based on RLNG could be done unilaterally, unencumbered by the requirement of the appellant’s consent in the latter half or the prior approval requirement under Clause 5.9 of the PPA. FACTUAL CONTEXT AND THE INTENTION OF PARTIES TO THE CONTRACT 30.