Further, the deposition given by a witness under oath in the court constitutes and is read as evidence. Statements recorded under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. by a police officer during investigation cannot be used as evidence, albeit the accused may use a part of the statement in terms of the proviso to Section 162 of the Cr.P.C. G 12. We are not examining whether there is sufficient evidence and material to uphold the conviction of the respondent – Asharam @ Ashumal, independent of the evidence and material referred to in paragraphs 298 to 303 of the trial court . We refrain and would not like to go into these aspects as these are questions of merits to be H 14 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A considered by the High Court while adjudicating the criminal appeal against conviction. 13. Similarly, on behalf of the appellant – State of Rajasthan, it was submitted that Ajay Pal Lamba had made a specific disclaimer and had stated that the Book is a dramatized version of the events. We need B not examine this aspect in view of our findings recorded above. 14. This Court in Rajeswar Prasad Misra v. State of West Bengal and Another13has opined that as additional evidence may be necessary for various reasons, the legislature has refrained from curtailing such discretion of the appellate court. The touch stone of when the additional C evidence at the appellate stage may be taken on record is not the impossibility or inability to pronounce the in its absence, but whether there would be a failure of justice without such additional evidence. This discretion is not to be exercised lightly but requires caution and care as it is to be exercised only in cases when the appellate court finds, on good and justifiable grounds, that there would be a failure of D justice without the additional evidence being taken on record. However, once this condition is satisfied, there is no restriction on the kind of evidence received, which may be formal or substantial. 15. In Zahira Habibulla H. Sheikh and Another v. State of Gujarat and Others14, this Court has elaborately dealt with the aspect E of exercise of discretion, highlighting the balance which the courts have to maintain so as to not deny the right to additional evidence to do justice, and the importance of the right to fair hearing of the accused as well the prosecution. The right to fair hearing is inherent to the concept of due process of law and ascertainment of truth. Equally, there can be failure F of justice if this discretion to allow additional evidence at the appellate stage is exercised in a routine and liberal manner, without the court being satisfied that the prayer has imprints of reasonableness and genuineness to at least consider the worth, credibility and acceptability of the material sought to be brought on record. G 16. Both Sections 311 and 391 of the Cr.P.C. relate to power of the court to take additional evidence; the former at the stage of trial and before the is pronounced; and the latter at the appellate stage 13 (1966) 1 SCR 178.