A High Court , 1948 (for brevity ‘the 1948 ’) made by the Governor General in exercise of power conferred by section 229 of the Government of India Act, 1935 and as adopted by the India Provincial Constitution (Amendment) , 1948. In terms of paragraph 4 thereof, the High Court of Assam was conferred, in respect of the territories for the time being included in the province of Assam, all such original, appellate B and other jurisdiction as, under the law in force immediately before the prescribed day, was exercisable in respect of the said territories or any part thereof, by the High Court in Calcutta or by the Governor of Assam exercising the functions of a high court. 19. In 1962, by an Act of Parliament titled the State of Nagaland C Act, 1962 (for brevity ‘the 1962 Act’), the State of Nagaland was formed. While sub-section (1) of section 13 of the 1962 Act ordained that there shall be a common high court called the High Court of Assam and Nagaland, sub-section (3) thereof provided that expenditure in respect of the salaries and allowances of the Judges of the common High Court D shall be allocated between the States of Assam and Nagaland in such proportion as the President may by determine. 20. The 1962 Act was followed by the North-Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) Act, 1971 (for brevity ‘the 1971 Act’). This enactment contained provisions for the establishment of the States of Manipur and E Tripura and for the formation of the State of Meghalaya, and the Union territories of Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh, by reorganizing the existing State of Assam. Part IV of the 1971 Act titled “High Court” contained sections 28 to 43. Sections 28 and 29, being relevant are quoted below: “28. Common High Court for Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura.— (1) On and from the appointed day,— F (a) the High Court of Assam and Nagaland shall cease to function and is hereby abolished; (b) there shall be a common High Court for the States of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura to be called the Gauhati G High Court (the High Court of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura); (c) the Judges of the High Court of Assam and Nagaland holding office immediately before that day shall, unless they have elected otherwise, become on that day the Judges of the common High H Court: SHAH NEWAZ KHAN v. STATE OF NAGALAND 999 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] (2) Nothing in clause (a) of sub-section (1) shall prejudice or affect A the continued operation of any notice served, injunction issued, direction given or proceedings taken before the appointed day by the High Court of Assam and Nagaland under the powers then conferred upon that Court.” “29. Jurisdiction of the common High Court.—On and from the B appointed day, the common High Court shall have, in respect of the territories comprised in the States of Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Tripura, all such jurisdiction, powers and authority as under the law in force immediately before the appointed day, are exercisable in respect of those territories by C the High Court of Assam and Nagaland or the Court of the Judicial Commissioner for Manipur, or the Court of the Judicial Commissioner for Tripura, as the case may be.” 21.