It would, perhaps, be unfair and unrealistic to put government and private parties on the same footing in all respects in such matters. Implicit in the very nature of governmental functioning is procedural delay incidental to the decision-making process.” […] 26. Mst. Katiji (supra) was also noticed by a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court in State of Haryana v. Chandra Mani10 where we fi nd the following discussion: “11. *** When the State is an applicant, praying for condonation of delay, it is common knowledge that on account of impersonal machinery and the inherited bureaucratic methodology imbued with the note-making, fi le-pushing, and passing-on-the-buck ethos, delay on the part of the State is less diffi cult to understand though more diffi cult to approve, but the State represents collective cause of the community. It is axiomatic that decisions are taken by offi cers/agencies proverbially at slow pace and encumbered process of pushing the fi les from table to table and keeping it on table for considerable time causing delay — intentional or otherwise — is a routine. Considerable delay of procedural red-tape in the process of their making decision is a common feature. Therefore, certain amount of latitude is not impermissible. If the appeals brought by the State are lost for such default no person is individually aff ected but what in the ultimate analysis suff ers, is public interest. The expression ‘suffi cient cause’ should, therefore, be considered with pragmatism in justice-oriented approach rather than the technical detection of suffi cient cause for explaining every 10 (1996) 3 SCC 132. SHEO RAJ SINGH (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS. 755 & ORS. V. UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] day’s delay. The factors which are peculiar to and characteristic of the functioning of the governmental conditions would be cognizant to and requires adoption of pragmatic approach in justice-oriented process.” *** 27. This Court, in Special Tehsildar, Land Acquisition v. K.V. Ayisumma11, had the occasion to observe that it would not be necessary for the State to provide a day-to-day explanation of delay while seeking condonation of the same. The relevant observations therein read as follows: “It is now settled law that when the delay was occasioned at the behest of the Government, it would be very diffi cult to explain the day-to-day delay. The transaction of the business of the Government was being done leisurely by offi cers who had no or evince no personal interest at diff erent levels. No one takes personal responsibility in processing the matters expeditiously. As a fact at several stages, they take their own time to reach a decision. Even in spite of pointing at the delay, they do not take expeditious action for ultimate decision in fi ling the appeal. This case is one of such instances. It is true that Section 5 of the Limitation Act envisages explanation of the delay to the satisfaction of the court and in matters of Limitation Act made no distinction between the State and the citizen.