Hence, for the suit having rightly been dismissed, there was no reason to remand the case for a trial de novo.Learned counsel has referred to and relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Municipal Corporation, Hyderabad E v. Sunder Singh: (2008) 8 SCC 485. 7. Per contra, with reference to the background aspects, the learned counsel for the plaintiff-respondent No.1 has vehemently argued that the sale deed in question is a void document as no consideration was passed on to her and hence, the same is liable to be set aside. F According to the learned counsel, when the Appellate Court came to the conclusion that necessary evidence for proper determination of suit had not been brought on record, it had wide and ample powers to even suo motu remand the matter to the Trial Court; and the High Court cannot be faulted in adopting this course in the present matter for securing the ends of justice. Learned counsel has referred to the provisions contained G in Rules 23, 23-A, 24, 27(1)(b) and 33 of XLI of the Code of Civil Procedure, 19082 to submit that the High Court has rightly remanded the matter after coming to the conclusion that the evidence on record was insufficient to arrive at a proper finding in favour of or against the sale H 2 ‘CPC’, for short. SIRAJUDHEEN v. ZEENATH & ORS. 13 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] deed. It has also been submitted that as per Section 120 of the Evidence A Act, husband of the plaintiff-respondent No. 1was a competent witness as he was the Manager of the theatre and was having knowledge about all the affairs of the theatre and hence, it was entirely immaterial that the plaintiff-respondent No. 1 did not enter the witness-box. Learned counsel has reiterated the stand of the plaintiff that she was made to B sign on the sale deed as if it were a security document and therefore, the sale deed, suffering from misrepresentation by the defendants as also want of consideration, deserves to be set aside. It is also submitted that the alleged agreement for sale dated 23.11.2005 is also a disputed document and no reliance could be placed on the same. Learned counsel has referred to and relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of C Sanjay Kumar Singh v. State of Jharkhand: (2022) 7 SCC 247. 8. We have given anxious considerations to rival submissions and have examined the record with reference to the law applicable. 8.1. Though learned counsel for the parties have made a few D submissions touching upon the merits of the case but, we would leave those submissions concerning merits of the case at that only because the real question calling for determination in this appeal is as to whether the High Court has been justified in remanding the matter for trial de novo? E 9. As regards the question calling for determination in the present appeal and with reference to the submissions made, we may, in the first place, take note of the relevant provisions of law and the expositions of this Court in the cited decisions.