E 3. Publications by the applicant advocate 15 points 4. Test of personality and suitability on the 25 points basis of interview/interaction 10. The 2017 was thereafter given effect by the Supreme Court Guidelines to Regulate Conferment of Designation of F Senior Advocates, 2018 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘2018 guidelines’). 11. In paragraph 74 of the 2017 , this Court noticed that the guidelines enumerated may not be exhaustive and may require reconsideration by suitable additions/deletions in the light of the experience G to be gained over a period of time. Thus, the Bench left it open for consideration by this Court at such point of time that the same may become necessary. The debate before us in the present applications is in this conspectus. 12. At this stage, we must note that the submissions pertaining to the criterion in Sl. No. 1 do not really survive in view of this Court’s H MS. INDIRA JAISING v. SUPREME COURT OF INDIA, 439 THROUGH SECRETARY GENERAL [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] dated 04.05.2022. The norms, as enumerated in the 2017 , A required 10 points to be given for all advocates practicing between 10- 20 years and 20 points for advocates practicing beyond 20 years. The result would be that an applicant with 11 years of practice and an applicant with 19 years of practice would get the same points in this criterion. In to iron out this crease, this Court observed that under this category, B one mark each shall be allocated for every year of practice between 10- 20 years. 13. The issues remaining before us pertain to the manner of marking and the allocation of points at Sl. Nos. 2-4 in paragraph no. 73.7 of the 2017 . The debate before us is also over the manner of C the exercise conducted for designation of Senior Advocates. 14. We thus proceed to set forth the headings under which different aspects have been debated and our views on the same. Voting by Secret Ballot: D 15. The method of designation prior to the 2017 , was by a discussion followed by voting by secret ballot from Judges of the Full Court. The percentage of approval required ordinarily varied from 2/3rd to 50%. In the 2017 , it was noticed that a secret ballot was supposed to be a rarity rather than the norm and may be used only under certain unavoidable circumstances. E 16. Applicants before us submitted that designation through voting by secret ballot defeats the very purpose of setting up the Permanent Committee. There ought to be no need to resort to voting by secret ballot once a person scores marks above the cut off (if fixed). Further, despite the 2017 , the process of voting by secret ballot, which F was meant to be used in exceptional circumstances, is frequently resorted to. Even where the assessment has been carried out by the Permanent Committee, the ultimate decision hinged on a vote by the Full Court. It was averred that the process of designation was meant to be a selection, and not an election.