However, the two statements were subsequently retracted on the ground that those were obtained under coercion and duress. 14.2. Mr. Yashpal Sharma was arrested on 15.03.1999 under Section 135 of the Customs Act. He was enlarged on bail on 30.03.1999 by the Additional Sessions Judge, Patiala House, New Delhi conditional upon depositing Rs.30 lakhs, which he deposited. In his bail , the Additional Sessions Judge recorded that the statement made by Mr. Yashpal Sharma under Section 108 of the Customs Act was forcibly taken, and, therefore, could not be relied upon. 14.3. It has come on record that the foreign supplier had admitted before the Hong Kong customs authority that price of the goods declared in the initial export declarations was not correct because of mistake committed by the staff . It thereafter submitted a second set of export declarations where the price of the goods declared matched the price of the goods at the time of import in India. This was accepted by the Hong Kong customs authority but on payment of penalty which was paid by the supplier. 14.4. Be that as it may, the show cause notice proposed levy of higher customs duty with interest; confi scation of the imported goods; and imposition of penalty. 14.5. Respondents submitted their reply denying all the allegations. The show cause notice was adjudicated upon by the Commissioner of Customs (Adjudication-1), Mumbai. In his -in-original dated 17.06.2002 the adjudicating authority accepted the price mentioned in the initial export declarations fi led by the supplier before the Hong Kong customs authority in respect of nineteen consignments. In respect of one consignment where export declaration was not available, adjudicating authority accepted the price mentioned in respect of the nineteen consignments. Adjudicating authority brushed aside the objection raised by the respondents that copies of 190 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the export declarations available with the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence were not attested and were simply xerox copies. Adjudicating authority took the view that merely because the copies of the export declarations were not attested or were xerox copies, those would not become unreliable or unauthentic. According to the adjudicating authority, the supplier had acknowledged those export declarations. Therefore, he held that information obtained by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence based on the export declarations was correct and genuine. 14.6. He also rejected the objection of the respondents that statements of Mr. Yashpal Sharma and Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma were not voluntary and therefore could not be relied upon. According to the adjudicating authority, both the two persons had admitted to under invoicing of the price and this was buttressed by the fact that Mr. Yashpal Sharma had voluntarily paid Rs.30 lakhs towards the evaded customs duty during the investigation stage. Such objection was therefore held to be only an afterthought. 14.7. Further contention of the respondents that the declared price is correct when compared with the contemporaneous imports was not accepted by the adjudicating authority on the ground that invoices of contemporaneous imports did not reveal the specifi cation, quality, etc.