D. CONCLUSION : 21. In light of above discussion, we are of the considered view that while summoning of Appellant No. 1 sustains, but that of Appellant Nos. 2 and 3 will be farfetched and they cannot be subjected to trial on B the basis of mere strong suspicion. The High Court under challenge is accordingly set aside qua Appellant Nos. 2 and 3. 22. Having held that Appellant No.1 has been rightly summoned and is liable to be tried along with his son and wife, the next question that requires consideration is as to the manner in which the trial will proceed C hitherto. 23. The information available on record suggests that the trial is at the stage of defence evidence. The guidelines that the Trial Court must follow, while commencing the trial against Appellant No.1 have been extensively iterated by the Constitution Bench in Sukhpal Singh D Khaira (Supra), in the following terms: “41 (III). What are the guidelines that the competent court must follow while exercising power under Section 319 CrPC? 41.1 If the competent court finds evidence or if application under Section 319 of CrPC is filed regarding E involvement of any other person in committing the offence based on evidence recorded at any stage in the trial before passing of the on acquittal or sentence, it shall pause the trial at that stage. 41.2 The Court shall thereupon first decide the need or otherwise to summon the additional accused and pass F s thereon. 41.3 If the decision of the court is to exercise the power under Section 319 of CrPC and summon the accused, such summoning shall be passed before proceeding further with the trial in the main case. G 41.4 If the summoning of additional accused is passed, depending on the stage at which it is passed, the Court shall also apply its mind to the fact as to whether such summoned accused is to be tried along with the other accused or separately. H 528 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 41.5 If the decision is for joint trial, the fresh trial shall be commenced only after securing the presence of the summoned accused. 41.6 If the decision is that the summoned accused can be tried separately, on such being made, there will B be no impediment for the Court to continue and conclude the trial against the accused who were being proceeded with.” 24. The Trial Court shall, thus, follow the cited dictum and proceed against Appellant No. 1 in accordance with law. C 25. For the reasons aforestated but without expressing any views on merits, we partly allow this appeal and modify the impugned of the High Court dated 27.01.2020 in above terms. 26. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. D Ankit Gyan Appeal partly allowed. (Assisted by : Mahendra Yadav, LCRA) E F G H