[2023] 15 S.C.R. 525 : 2023 INSC 1008 CASE DETAILS PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. ETC. (Criminal Appeal No. 003549-003552/2023 of 2023) NOVEMBER 20, 2023 [B. V. NAGARATHNA AND UJJAL BHUYAN, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the power of the High Court or the Court of Session to grant anticipatory bail u/s 438 CrPC could be exercised with respect to an FIR registered outside the territorial jurisdiction of the said Court; and whether the practice of granting transit anticipatory bail or interim protection to enable an applicant seeking anticipatory bail to make an application u/s 438 CrPC before a Court of competent jurisdiction is consistent with the administration of criminal justice. Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 438 – Extra-territorial anticipatory bail – Power of the High Court or the Court of Session to grant u/s 438 CrPC, if could be exercised with respect to an FIR registered outside the territorial jurisdiction of the said Court: Held: An interpretation giving rise to an absolute bar on the jurisdiction of a Court of Session or a High Court to grant interim anticipatory bail for an off ence committed outside the territorial confi nes of a High Court or Court of Session may lead to an anomalous and unjust consequence for bona fi de applicants who may be victims of wrongful, mala fi de or politically motivated prosecution – In such circumstances, the Courts must balance the interest of the accused in the context of the salutary principle of access to justice which is a facet of Art. 21 of the Constitution as well as a Directive Principle of State Policy-Art. 39(A) as also Art. 14 – Power to grant extra-territorial anticipatory bail should be exercised in exceptional and compelling circumstances only which means where, denying transit anticipatory bail or interim protection to enable the applicant to make an application u/s 438 before a Court of competent jurisdiction would cause irremediable and irreversible prejudice to the applicant – Having regard 525 526 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. to the salutary concept of access to justice, the accused can seek limited transit anticipatory bail or limited interim protection from the Court in the State in which he resides but in such an event, a ‘regular’ or full-fl edged anticipatory bail could be sought from the competent Court in the State in which the FIR is fi led – This may also lead the accused to choose the Court of his choice for seeking anticipatory bail – Thus, in to avoid the abuse of the process of the Court as well as the law by the accused, it is necessary for the Court before which the plea for anticipatory bail is made, to ascertain the territorial connection or proximity between the accused and the territorial jurisdiction of the Court which is approached for seeking such relief. [Paras 26, 34, 37, 39, 40] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 438 – Direction for grant of bail to person apprehending arrest – Grant of transit anticipatory bail or interim protection to enable an applicant seeking anticipatory bail to make an application u/s 438 CrPC before a Court of competent jurisdiction, if consistent with the administration of criminal justice: Held: Accused cannot seek full-fl edged anticipatory bail in a State where he is a resident when the FIR has been registered in a diff erent State – However, he would be entitled to seek a transit anticipatory bail from the Court of Session or High Court in the State where he is a resident which necessarily has to be of a limited duration so as to seek regular anticipatory bail from the Court of competent jurisdiction – Need for such a provision is to secure the liberty of the individual concerned – Since anticipatory bail as well as transit anticipatory bail are intrinsically linked to personal liberty Art.