Additionally, activities which are regulated as per the specific ESZ notification, require approval as per that notification. As such, we find that there are inbuilt safeguards for preventing rampant construction E and abuse of process which may be detrimental to the development and maintenance of wildlife habitats. It is further to be noted that if the direction as contained in paragraph 56.5 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) that even for continuation of existing activities, the permission of the PCCF of each State or Union Territory would be necessary, remains unmodified, taking into consideration that in each State or Union Territory F there will be hundreds of villages wherein millions of people would be residing, the PCCF would be left with no other job except to consider such applications for permission to continue such activities. Even a farmer desirous to continue farming activities would be required to seek such permission. We find that such a direction is impossible to be implemented. G 51. We are of the view that if such a direction is continued, rather than avoiding man-animal conflict, it will intensify the same. As observed in the said Guidelines, the requirement of declaring ESZs is not to hamper day to day activities of the citizens but is meant to protect the precious forests/Protected Areas from any negative impact, and to refine the environment around the Protected Areas. H IN RE: T.N. GODAVARMAN THIRUMULPAD v. UNION OF 631 INDIA AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 52. As already discussed hereinabove, the necessity to have ESZs A is to provide a buffer zone around the Protected Areas. The rights of the villagers residing in the Protected Areas are required to be settled in accordance with the provisions contained in the 1972 Act and such villagers are rehabilitated outside the Protected Areas. However, no such settlement of rights is available to the villagers residing in the ESZs areas. B As stated in the said Guidelines, the purpose of declaring ESZs is not to hamper the day to day activities of the citizens. If the direction as issued is continued, it would certainly hamper the day to day activities of the citizens residing in ESZs. As such, we find that the said direction needs to be modified. C 53. It is further to be noted that the NBWL, in its meeting dated 17th March 2005, has also recommended that the delineation of ESZs should project as regulation rather than prohibition of activities. 54. As was pointed out by the counsel for one of the States, the entire municipal area of the Sulthan Bathery Block Panchayat is situated D within the ESZ area. 55. Insofar as direction in paragraph 56.1 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) is concerned, a perusal of various s would reveal that this Court has not directed any minimum area from the demarcated boundary of such Protected Areas. The area to be declared as ESZ E cannot be uniform and will be Protected Area specific. In some cases, it may be 10 kilometres on one side and 500 meters on the other side.