It further held that individual interests must yield to the larger interests of the community or the country as indeed every noble cause claims its martyr. 258. In any case now, the action which was taken by the Central E Government by the impugned Notification, has been validated by the 2016 Ordinance and which has fructified in the 2017 Act. The Central Government is answerable to the Parliament and the Parliament, in turn, represents the will of the citizens of the country. The Parliament has therefore put its imprimatur on the executive action. This is apart from F the fact that we have not found any flaw in the decision-making process as required under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act. 259. The decision-making process is also sought to be attacked on the ground that the decision was taken in a hasty manner. We find that the ‘hasty’ argument would be destructive of the very purpose of G demonetization. Such measures undisputedly are required to be taken with utmost confidentiality and speed. If the news of such a measure is leaked out, it is difficult to imagine how disastrous the consequences would be. 260. It will be interesting to note again from Volume III of the “History of the Reserve Bank of India” that, on 14th January 1978, one H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 127 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] R. Janakiraman, a senior official in the RBI was asked by some officers A of the Government of India to come immediately to Delhi for some urgent work. When he asked for what purpose he was called, he was told that the matters relating to exchange control need to be discussed. He, however, took along with him one M. Subramaniam, a senior official of the Exchange Control Department. On reaching Delhi, he was informed B that the Government had decided to demonetize the high denomination notes and was required to draft the necessary Ordinance within twenty- four hours. During the said period, no communication was allowed with anyone including the Bank’s central office at Bombay. R. Janakiraman and M. Subramaniam made a request for the 1946 Ordinance on demonetization to get an idea how it was to be drafted, which request C was acceded to by the Finance Ministry. The draft Ordinance was completed on schedule. It was finalized and sent for signature of the President of India in the early hours of 16th January 1978 and on the same day, the announcement to that effect was made on All India Radio’s news bulletin at 09.00 a.m. D 261. It can thus be seen that confidentiality and secrecy in such sort of measures is of paramount importance. When demonetization was being done in the year 1978, R. Janakiraman, who had drafted the Ordinance, was not permitted to communicate with anyone including the Bank’s central office at Bombay. It would thus show as to what E great degree of confidentiality was maintained. In any case, the material placed on record would show that the RBI and the Central Government were in consultation with each other for at least a period of six months preceding the action.