Thereafter, this Court held in M.C. Mehta vs. Kamal Nath (supra at footnote no.15) as G follows:- “10. In the matter of enforcement of fundamental rights under Article 21, under public law domain, the Court, in 71 (1997) 1 SCC 388 72 (1996) 5 SCC 647 H 73 (1996) 3 SCC 212 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 673 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] exercise of its powers under Article 32 of the A Constitution, has awarded damages against those who have been responsible for disturbing the ecological balance either by running the industries or any other activity which has the effect of causing pollution in the environment. The Court while awarding damages also B enforces the “POLLUTER-PAYSPRINCIPLE” which is widely accepted as a means of paying for the cost of pollution and control. To put in other words, the wrongdoer, the polluter, is under an obligation to make good the damage caused to the environment.” C (x) In Consumer Education & Research Centre & Ors. vs. Union of India &Ors.74, this Court held that in appropriate cases the Court could give appropriate directions to the employer, be it the State or its undertaking or private employer, to make the right to life meaningful, to prevent pollution of work place, protection of environment, protection D of the health of the workmen and to preserve free and unpolluted water for the safety and health of the people. The Court was dealing in that case with the occupational health hazards and diseases afflicting the workmen employed in asbestos industries. In paragraph 29 of the E Report, this Court said, “…It is therefore settled law that in public law claim for compensation is a remedy available under Article 32 or Article 226 for the enforcement and protection of fundamental and human rights. … It is a practical and inexpensive mode of redress available for the contravention made by the F State, its servants, its instrumentalities, a company or a person in the purported exercise of their powers and enforcement of the rights claimed either under the statutes or licence issued under the statute or for the enforcement of any right or duty under the Constitution G or the law.” (xi) In Vishaka vs. State of Rajasthan.75, this Court laid down guidelines, in the absence of a legislation, for the enforcement 74 (1995) 3 SCC 42 75 (1997) 6 SCC 241 H 674 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A of the right to gender equality of working women, in a class action petition that was filed to enforce fundamental rights of working women and to prevent sexual harassment of women in workplace. The guidelines imposed an obligation upon both public and private employers not to violate the fundamental rights guaranteed to working women under B Article 14, 15, 19(1)(g) and 21. In Medha Kotwal Lele & Ors. vs. Union of India76, this Court noted that even after 15 years of the in Vishaka (supra), many States had not made the necessary amendments or failed to effectively implement the guidelines.