Certainly, cases falling under Section 65 form exception to the mandate under Section 64 that documents must be proved by primary evidence. Section 65 provides that secondary evidence relating to documents may be given of the existence, condition or contents of a document in the various cases given thereunder. Section 65, in so far as, it is relevant for the purpose of this case reads thus:- “65. Cases in which secondary evidence relating to documents may be given.––Secondary evidence may be given of the existence, condition, or contents of a document in the following cases: –– (a).. (b).. (c).. (d).. (e) when the original is a public document within the meaning of section 74; ………………………………………………… In case (e) or (f), a certifi ed copy of the document, but no other kind of secondary evidence, is admissible.” (Underline supplied) 21. Section 74 deals with documents which are public documents. Sub-section (2) thereof makes public records kept [in any State] of private documents within the purview of “public document” under Section 74. Going by Section 76, certifi ed copies of public documents shall be given, on demand, by the public offi cer having the custody of public document, together with a certifi cate written at the foot of such copy that it is a true copy of such document or part thereof, as the case may be, and such certifi cate shall be dated and subscribed by such offi cer with his name and his offi cial APPAIYA v. ANDIMUTHU @ THANGAPANDI & ORS. 537 [C.T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] title. Such copies so certifi ed shall be called certifi ed copies in terms of Section 76. 22.It is to be noted that in the case on hand, a certifi ed copy of Exhibit A1 sale deed dated 27.08.1928 was produced by the appellant. As noted earlier, the Courts below found that it is registered with the Sub-Registrar’s Offi ce. The contention of respondent(s) is that it is only a certifi ed copy and not the original document. In the light of the aforementioned provisions under the Evidence Act there can be no doubt with respect to the permissibility for the production of such a certifi ed copy as secondary evidence in law, in regard to the existence, condition or contents of a document. As per Section 77 of the Evidence Act such certifi ed copies may be produced in proof of the contents of the public document concerned. Section 79 deals with presumption as to genuineness of certifi ed copies. Section 77 and 79 of the Evidence Act reads thus:- “77. Proof of documents by production of certifi ed copies. –– Such certifi ed copies may be produced in proof of the contents of the public documents or parts of the public documents of which they purport to be copies. 79. Presumption as to genuineness of certifi ed copies. – The Court shall presume [to be genuine] every document purporting to be a certifi cate, certifi ed copy or other document, which is by Law declared to be admissible as evidence of any particular fact, and which purports to be duly certifi ed by any offi cer [of the Central Government or of a State Government, or by any offi cer [in the State of Jammu and Kashmir] who is duly authorized thereto by the Central Government]: Provided that such document is substantially in the form and purports to be executed in the manner directed by law in that behalf.