(2) The provisions of Rule 10 of this shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to a Commissioner appointed under this rule as they apply in relation to a Commissioner appointed under Rule 9.” 14. In terms of XXVI Rule 10, the Commissioner has to submit a report in writing to the court. The report of the Commissioner and the evidence taken by him constitute evidence in the suit and form a part of the record. However, the court and, with its permission, any of the parties may examine the Commissioner personally in open court touching any of the matters referred to him or mentioned in the report or as regards the report including the manner in which the investigation has been made. The court is also empowered to direct such further inquiry if it is dissatisfi ed with the proceedings of the Commissioner. The evidentiary value of any report of the Commissioner is a matter to be tested in the suit and is open to objections including cross-examination. A report of the Commissioner does not by and COMMITTEE OF MANAGEMENT ANJUMAN INTEZAMIA MASAJID, 119 VARANASI v. RAKHI SINGH [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] of itself amount to a substantive fi nding on matters in dispute and is subject to the process of the court during the course of the trial. 15. At this stage, the court must notice that the District Judge while acting as a trial Judge in the suit exercised discretion under XXVI Rule 10A to direct a scientifi c investigation by the ASI. The of the learned Trial Judge under XXVI Rule 10A cannot prima facie be construed to be without jurisdiction. The High Court has found no reason to interfere, having set out the legal position which constrains the nature of the challenge under Article 227 of the Constitution while dealing with an interlocutory of this nature. At the same time, the High Court has introduced certain safeguards which need to be reiterated in the course of the present of this Court. 16. Having regard to the nature and ambit of a court appointed Commissioner, we are unable to diff er with the view of the High Court, particularly while exercising the jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution. The High Court has introduced certain specifi c directions to circumscribe the nature of the which was passed by the District Judge. Reading the directions which have been issued by the District Judge, it is apparent that they would be amenable to the carrying out of an excavation at the site. However, during the course of the proceedings before the High Court, ASI has clarifi ed on affi davit that it was neither carrying out any excavation nor would the survey involve any destruction of the property. 17. We reiterate the direction of the High Court that there shall be no excavation at the site which was in accordance with the statement which was made before the High Court by the Additional Solicitor General and which has been reiterated in the submissions made by the Solicitor General on behalf of the ASI.