4. It appears that in the said civil suit, the Trial Court held the service of summons on the defendant sufficient and proceeded ex parte for want of appearance on behalf of the defendant; and after taking evidence, on 09.03.2016, decreed the suit with costs, for recovery of D arrears of rent in the sum of Rs. 8,000/- and for eviction of the defendant from the suit shop while also holding the plaintiff entitled to receive damages from the defendant, for use and occupation of the suit shop, at the rate of Rs. 2,000/- per month until delivery of actual vacant possession. The operative part of the dated 09.03.2016 reads as under: - E “The suit of the plaintiff is decreed ex-parte with cost against the defendant for recovery of the rent Rs. 8,000/- and for eviction of the shop in question and the defendant is ed that he to hand over the vacant possession of the plaintiff’s shop which is at present situated in Municipality House No. 62/3, Ward No. 24, Malikmau Road, near Beliganj Phatak within the jurisdiction of F the Municipality, Pargana, Tehsil and District Raebareli, the four boundaries of which are – North by: Malikmau Road, South by: rest building of the plaintiff, East by: House of the plaintiff, West by: House of Hariom are situated, within two months. The plaintiff would be entitled to Receive Rs. 2,000/- per month as the G compensation for use of the aforesaid shop during the suit and till handing over the actual vacant possession and occupation of the said shop after paying the Court Fee in the Execution Department.” 5. Later on, the defendant, predecessor of the appellants, moved an application under IX Rule 13 CPC alongwith an application under Section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963 on 20.08.2016. He also moved H 878 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A an application under Section 17 of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887 (‘the Act of 1887’), alongwith a tender seeking permission to deposit the decretal amount to the tune of Rs. 11,212/-, inclusive of the amount of costs. An objection was taken by the plaintiff-respondent against the application so moved by the defendant with the submissions, inter alia, that under the decree in question, he was entitled not only to B the said arrears of rent and costs but also to damages at the rate of 2,000/- per month until possession continued with the defendant; and necessary deposit towards damages having not been made, the application for setting aside ex parte decree was not maintainable. It is noticed that during pendency of the application aforesaid, the defendant, father of C the appellants, expired on 26.09.2017; and an application was moved by the present appellantson 12.03.2018,for their substitution as applicants in place of the deceased applicant. 6. The Trial Court took note of the respective submissions of the parties and upheld the objections of the plaintiff-respondent while D observing, inter alia, as under: - “The applicant Mata Prasad by submitting an application 7g2 in the file of the present Miscellaneous Suit applied for depositing the decretal amount Rs.