When a copy of the report and the documents are supplied to the accused under Section 207 and/or Section 208, an opportunity is available for the accused to contend that he does not understand the language in which the fi nal report or the statements or documents are written. But he must raise this objection at the earliest. In such a case, if the accused is appearing in person and wants to defend himself without opting for legal aid, perhaps there may be a requirement of supplying a translated version of the charge sheet and documents or the relevant part thereof concerning the said accused to him. It is, however, subject to the accused satisfying the Court that he is unable to understand the language in which the charge sheet is submitted. When the accused is represented by an advocate who fully understands the language of the fi nal report or charge sheet, there will not be any requirement of furnishing translations to the accused as the advocate can explain the contents of the charge sheet to the accused. If both the accused and his advocate are not conversant with the language in which the charge sheet has been fi led, then the question of providing translation may arise. The reason is that the accused must get a fair opportunity to defend himself. He must know and understand the material against him in the charge sheet. That is the essence of Article 21 of the Constitution of India. With the availability of various software and Artifi cial Intelligence tools for making translations, providing translations will not be that diffi cult now. In the cases mentioned aforesaid, the Courts can always direct the prosecution to provide a translated version of the charge sheet. But we must hasten to add that a charge sheet fi led within the period provided either under Section 167 of CrPC or any other relevant statute in a language other than the language of the Court or the language which the accused does not understand, is not illegal and no one can claim a default bail on that ground. CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. NAROTTAM 319 DHAKAD & ANR. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] 20. There is one more aspect of the matter. There are central agencies like the National Investigation Agency, Central Bureau of Investigation, etc. These agencies investigate serious off ences or off ences having wide ramifi cations. Obviously, such central agencies, in every case will not be in a position to fi le the fi nal report in the language of the concerned Court as determined by Section 272 of CrPC. 21. Now, coming to the facts of the case, in Criminal Appeal arising out of SLP (Crl.) 5525 of 2018, a fi nding of fact was recorded by the trial court that the respondent is an educated person. The off ence relates to an examination for which one of the eligibility conditions was having a knowledge of the English language. Moreover, it was found that the advocate engaged by him also knows the English language.