Tribunal i.e., SDO in this case, is bound to consider the plea of recounting of votes and also declare the result accordingly. He also submitted that the agent of the petitioner had orally requested the Returning Offi cer to recount the votes, immediately on the announcement of total number of votes polled by each candidate, as required under Rule 80 of the Nirvachan Niyam, 1995, however Returning Offi cer did not pay any heed to it. 9. Rebutting the said submissions, learned counsel for the respondent no. 1 submitted that no such objection was raised either orally or by application in writing for re-counting of votes by the petitioner or her agent, either during the counting or after the completion of counting of votes. He further submitted that the only prayer prayed for by the petitioner in the election petition was for re-counting of votes at three selective booths, and such a prayer was not in consonance with Rule 6 of the said Rules of 1995. 10. At the outset, it may be noted that a three judge bench of this Court in Sohan Lal vs. Babu Gandhi and others (supra) dealing with the provisions contained in M.P. Panchayat Raj Evam Gram Swaraj Adhiniyam, 1993, similar to the provisions contained in the Chhattisgarh Act, 1993, did not agree with the earlier decision in Ram Rati vs. Saroj Devi and Others2 and held, inter alia, that there was no prohibition in the Act or under the rules prohibiting the Court or Tribunal to direct re-counting of the votes. The precise observations made in Para 14 are reproduced as under: - “14. In view of Section 122 and the Rules, we are unable to agree with the ratio laid down in Ram Rati case [(1997) 6 SCC 66 : AIR 1997 SC 3072] . It is not correct to hold that, in an election petition, after the declaration of the result, the court or tribunal cannot direct re-counting of votes unless the party has fi rst applied in writing for re-counting of votes. There is no prohibition in the Act or under the Rules prohibiting the court or tribunal to direct a re-counting of the votes. Even otherwise, a party may not know that the re-counting is necessary till after the result is declared. At this stage, it would not be possible for him to apply for re-counting to the Returning Offi cer. His only remedy would be to fi le an election petition under Section 122. In such a case, the court or the tribunal is bound to consider the plea and where a case is made out, it may direct re-count depending upon the evidence led by the parties. In 2 (1997) 6 SCC 66 DHARMIN BAI KASHYAP v. BABLI SAHU & OTHERS 157 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] the present case, there was obvious error in declaring the result. We, therefore, hold that the ratio laid down in Ram Rati case [(1997) 6 SCC 66 : AIR 1997 SC 3072] is not correct.” 11.