The selection and appointments were challenged before the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir and were quashed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court of Jammu and H 724 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Kashmir at Srinagar, by and dated 18th December 2015, in SWP No. 1356 of 2009 and connected matters. The said was affirmed by the Division Bench of the High Court by the impugned dated 29th October, 2021, passed in Letters Patent Appeal No. 277 of 2015 and connected matters. The appellants in SLP (C) No.976 of 2022 have challenged the and dated 6th July, 2017 B passed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir at Jammu, whereby, relying on the and of the learned Single Judge of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir at Srinagar dated 18th December, 2015, the writ petition filed by some of the appellants herein was dismissed. Hence, these appeals. C 5. Succinctly stated, the facts leading to the present appeals are as follows: 5.1. On 05th May, 2008, the Jammu and Kashmir Subordinate Services Selection and Recruitment Board (hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) in exercise of the powers enshrined under the Jammu and D Kashmir Subordinate Services Recruitment Rules, 1992, (hereinafter referred to as ‘1992 Rules’) issued Advertisement Notice No. 3 of 2008, inviting applications for filling up vacancies in twenty services. The Advertisement Notice provided the breakup of available vacancies as also the eligibility criteria prescribed under the relevant Recruitment Rules. E The total number of posts advertised were 549. The said Advertisement invited applications for 72 posts of drug inspectors out of which 42 posts were to be filled from the open merit category; 14 posts were to be filled by Residents of Backward Areas (hereinafter referred to as “RBA”) and 16 posts were to be filled by various other reserved categories including Other Social Categories (hereinafter referred to as “OSC”). F The requisite qualifications prescribed in the advertisement, to apply for the post of drug inspector, was as under: (a) The candidate must have a degree in Pharmacy or Pharmaceutical Chemistry or a Post-Graduate Degree in Chemistry with Pharmaceuticals as a special subject of a University established in India G by law or must have an equivalent qualification recognized and notified by the Central Government for such purpose by the appointing authority or the Associateship Diploma of the Institution of Chemists (India) by passing the examination with analyst of drugs and pharmaceuticals as one of the subjects; or H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 725 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (b) The candidate must be a graduate in Medicine or Science A from a University recognized for this purpose by the appointing authority and must have at least one-year post-graduate training in a laboratory under: i) Government Analyst appointed under the Act; B ii) Chemical examiner of the Head of the institution specially approved for the purpose by the appointing authority.