31. Insofar as the investigation regarding the incident of abduction is concerned, the Division Bench, although noticed that the same was deplorable at that time but as it was still at the stage of investigation, the Advocate General assured that it would be done in a fair and impartial manner and also expeditiously. Directions were also issued that the report of Dr. Gautam along with the copy of the , be sent to the Director General of Police and the Home Secretary, Bihar to take curative measures in the matter without any loss of time. The last part of the contains the directions issued by the Division Bench with respect to the murder trial which was pending at Bhagalpur. The Division Bench found the suggestions given by the Advocate General positive and fully acceptable. Apart from transferring the trial out of Bhagalpur, the Court also issued a couple of other directions. The said directions are reproduced hereunder: HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 421 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] “…In light of the discussions made above, it becomes necessary to give the following directions with regard to Sessions Trial No.19 of 2003 arising from Masrakh (Panapur) Police Station Case No.62 of 1995. i. The proceedings of Sessions Trial no.19 of 2003 pending before the 7th Additional Sessions Judge, Bhagalpur is directed to be transferred to Patna. The records of the case should be transmitted forthwith to the Sessions Judge, Patna who should either keep the case in his own court or assign it to some Additional Sessions Judge or a Fast Track Court who would hold the trial on a propriety basis so as to conclude it without any undue delay and preferably within three months from the date of receipt of the records ii. The Statement Government is directed to appoint a Special P.P. to conduct the trial. The Government shall take into account the way the trial was tried to be subverted in the past and would appoint as P.P. an experienced lawyer of reputed integrity. iii. The deposition of Lalmuni Devi taken on 03.11.2006 would stand scrapped and she will be examined afresh before the Trial Court at Patna under Section 311 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. iv. The passed by the Bhagalpur Court closing the prosecution case is set aside and the trial shall proceed from the stage of examination of Lalmuni Defendant vi as directed above. v. It will be open to the Special P.P. to make an application for recall of witness(establishment) earlier examined. In case such a petition is fi led, the Trial Court shall pass appropriate s, in accordance with law. vi. The report of Hon’ble Mr. Justice C.K. Prasad is directed to be placed before the Standing Committee of the Court for consideration and suitable action. vii. The Bihar State Bar Council is directed to examine the roles of the P.P. and the defence counsel who were conducting Sessions Trial No.19 of 2003 before the 7th Additional Sessions Judge, Bhagalpur and to take appropriate action in the matter.