It is further submitted that except the five allottees who were before the High Court, all others had deposited additional price C demanded from them on account of enhanced compensation. 9. On the other hand, learned counsel for the Respondents-Plaintiffs submits that neither in the allotment letter nor in the lease-cum-sale agreement there is any clause in terms of which the Appellant could demand additional price from the allottees except on account of variation D of size. Clause 5 of the allotment letter only gives an option to the Appellant to re-determine the price in case the size of the plot is finally found to be different than the allotted. To demand additional price from an allottee on any other ground, there has to be specific clause in the allotment letter otherwise the price mentioned is final. Even the clause as mentioned E in the lease- cum-sale agreement also does not come to the rescue of the Appellant for the reason that it talks about the negotiated price between the vendor and the vendee. The same is clearly mentioned in allotment letter otherwise the agreement would be vague with reference to the sale consideration. DISCUSSION: F 10. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant referred record. 11. The relevant clauses of the allotment letter and the Lease- cum-Sale Agreement, as have been referred to by the Appellant, are G extracted below: “Allotment Letter: “Clause 5: The dimensions noted are approximate subject to verification at the time of handing over possession and 2 (2008) 3 SCC 21 H 866 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A allottees will have to pay proportionate increase price according to actual measurements. The value of the site is Rs.50,000/-+10% Augmentation of water supply charges is Rs.5,000/- Tentatively = Rs.55,000/-.” B “Lease-cum-Sale Agreement: “whereas there were negotiations between the lessee/ purchaser on the one hand and the lessor/ vendor on the other for allowing the lessee/ purchaser to occupy the schedule property as lessee until the payment in full of the C price of the schedule property as might be fixed by the lessor/ vendor as hereinafter provided;” 12. In Ishwar Dass Nassa & Ors. v. State of Haryana & Ors.3 this Court considered similar issue. There was hire- purchase agreement executed by Haryana Housing Board in favour of the allottee. The clause D as contained in hire-purchase tenancy agreement, as referred to in para no.3 of the , is extracted below: “2. (w) If after the receipt of the final bills for the construction of tenements or as the result of land award or arbitration proceeding or enhancement in cost of land on any account, E the Board considers it necessary to revise the price, already specified, it may do so and determine the final price payable by the hirer who shall be bound by this determination and shall pay dues, if any, between final price so determined and price paid by him including the price paid in lump sum, provided that no change in the price shall be made after 7 F years from the date of allotment.” 13.