The appellant also relies upon Nandkumar Narayanrao Ghodmare v. State of Maharashtra16 where the court had to deal with an aspirant to the position of Agriculture Offi cer. He was assessed to colour blindness. The court directed that the dis or so-called defect should not constitute a bar to appointment and that he should be provided employment, commensurate with the organisation’s other requirements. The court was of the view that except some posts, there were other positions in the cadre that needed no perfect colour vision and that persons with colour blindness would also be accommodated. The court therefore directed the State to grant employment. Reliance also was placed upon the more recent in Pranay Kumar Poder v. State of Tripura17 where the Court highlighted the features of the Ishihara colour vision test. It was emphasized that colour vision defi ciency is neither impairment of vision and in that sense falling within the disability spectrum calling for treatment under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 nor is it of such condition as to bar suffi ciently qualifi ed persons’ entitlement to be employed in an organization that can accommodate her educational attainments and talents. Learned counsel also relied upon Ashutosh Kumar v. Film and Television Institute of India18 where like in the present case, the expert body which is the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) reported that the petitioner suff ered from colour vision defi ciency. 16 1995 (Supp 4) SCR 565. 17 2017 (2) SCR 797. 18 [2022] 16 S.C.R 1094. MOHAMED IBRAHIM v. THE CHAIRMAN & MANAGING 935 DIRECTOR & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] The FTII had refused him admission. The court referred to the technical experts’ report, and stated that the overall emphasis of the course- the admission of which was sought placed emphasis on appreciation of art and culture, of innovation, intuitiveness unrestricted by impediments which can be overcome by assistance. The court was therefore of the opinion that that despite the colour vision defi ciency, the applicant should be granted admission. 15. It is further pointed out that in the hierarchy of posts, the junior most would be a lineman; the next in line would be a Technical Assistant, who is a diploma holder; above whom would be the Junior Engineer (Grade-II). It was emphasized that the Junior Engineer (Grade-II) would thus supervise and oversee the work of Technical Assistants and Lineman who would be the individuals or employees responsible to actually visit the site. The AE would be in a position therefore, fourth in the hierarchy above the Lineman, Technical Assistant and Junior Engineer (Grade-II). It was highlighted -based upon the organizational division of the corporation that there are several branches where Assistant Engineers are accommodated. For instance, the AE who functions as a Section Offi cer, can also be asked to participate as AE (Substation Maintenance). In other words, these posts are inter-changeable. Likewise, the AE (Shift Engineer) is inter-changeable with Substation Maintenance Department AEs. The AEs are also expected to work in the offi ce of the Superintending Engineer (SE).