A from the Assam and Chhattisgarh models of the Diploma Course and sought to affiliate these courses/programs to a University or Regulatory Body. Therefore, the Medical Council of India has itself acknowledged the Assam experience and sought to create a course on the same lines in the interest of public healthcare. B viii. That it is a well-known fact that M.B.B.S. doctors prefer not to practice in rural areas and thus, there is an acute shortage of such doctors in rural areas all over the country. To address such an issue, the Assam Act was brought into force by the State Legislature of Assam. Thus, striking it C down would be counter-productive and contrary to the interests of the rural population of Assam. ix. That as per the impugned Assam Act, Rural Health Practitioners can only practice in rural areas and that too, in a limited manner to treat basic common diseases and to D prescribe basic medicines. Learned Senior counsel submitted that the impugned may be set aside and the Assam Act may be declared to be a valid piece of legislation. 5.2 Sri. Sanjay Hedge, learned Senior Counsel, drew our attention E to two s of this Court in the case of Dr. Mukhtiar Chand and Subhasis Bakshi to contend that this Court has recognised the practice in Allopathic medicine under various enactments and that the said s would squarely apply to the facts of this case. The s relied upon by Sri Sanjay Hedge shall be discussed later. F Arguments on behalf of Respondent No. 1 Indian Medical Association: 6. Learned counsel Sri Shivam Singh appearing for Respondent No. 1, Indian Medical Association submitted as under: G i. That the Assam Act is repugnant to the provisions of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, (IMC Act, 1956) i.e. the Central Act. ii. That the role of the Central Government in granting permission for commencement of a “new or higher course” H as prescribed under Section 10A(b)(i) of the Central Act, BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 935 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] cannot be diluted nor given a go-by. Section 10(A)(1)(b) of A the Central Act requires that previous permission of the Central Government be obtained prior to offering a new or higher course of study for obtaining a “recognised medical qualification” at an already established medical college. However, as regards prospective medical colleges, B obtainment of previous permission of the Central Government is mandatory regardless of whether the medical college intends to offer a recognised medical qualification or a non-recognised medical qualification. iii. That the term “Medical College” is not defined in the IMC C Act, 1956, thus, reliance must be placed on the definition of “Medical Institution” as defined in Section 2(e) of the IMC Act, 1956. Thus, the term Medical College must be understood in a wide sense to even include those that do not offer a ‘recognised medical qualification’. It was submitted that, the term “medical college” used in Section D 10A(1)(a) of the IMC Act ought not be restricted as only “medical college offering a recognised medical qualification” within the meaning of the IMC Act, 1956. iv.