Manohar Lal was an illegal occupant when he was put into possession of the Suit Land on the basis of the E Sale Deed. He vehemently argued that the Sale Deed was null and void as the vendor himself had no ownership title which he could lawfully alienate; b) It was argued that even otherwise the Respondents’ status remained that of illegal occupants as the initial lease period ended in F 1954 and since no renewal was granted by the State. Hence, it was submitted that the Suit Land stood automatically resumed in favour of the State after the expiry of the lease period; c) The 1924 Lease Deed explicitly stated that there would be no application of tenancy law benefits as applicable to the lessees of the G Suit Land. Furthermore, it was submitted that after the 1960 State amendment to the Government Grant Act of 1895, the applicability of the tenancy laws as well as Transfer of Property Act was retrospectively barred. Hence in effect, no tenancy rights were ever created in favour of Respondents, nor could they claim lawful tenancy by evoking the doctrine of holding over; H STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR 959 (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] d) It was also argued that 1967 Eviction Suit and 1978 Mutation A Proceedings never decided the issue of ownership or tenancy status. Therefore, these proceedings cannot be treated to have decided the principal issues on merits. e) It was also argued that mere longstanding entries in favour of Respondents would not be sufficient to establish the claim of ownership B and that the same were made fraudulently in connivance with revenue authorities. In other words, mutation entries in no way confer the title. f)Finally, the Courts or quasi-judicial authorities have merely followed each other without going into the root question as to how the Respondents claimed to have become the owner or ‘Bhumidhar’ over C the Suit Land. 33. On the contrary, Mr. Harin P. Ravel, learned senior counsel for the Respondents initiated his arguments on the first day of hearing by submitting that the Respondents claimed ownership on two independent grounds, firstly through the Sale Deed and secondly, on D the strength of status accorded under the applicable tenancy laws. However, on the final day of arguments, Mr. Ravel clarified the abovementioned stand by stating that the Sale Deed pertained to sale of leasehold rights and not the sale of title or ownership rights. Therefore at present, the claim of the Respondents is actually based on the strength E of status accorded under the applicable tenancy laws as we will note while reiterating Mr. Ravel’s arguments which are as follows - a) It has been submitted that there was no mandatory requirement of prior approval from the Deputy Commissioner at time of the execution of the Sale Deed. The Respondents have relied upon the decision in U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad v Friends Coop. Housing Society F Ltd.1to contend that there is a distinction between the term ‘approval’ and ‘permission’ wherein when the former term is used, all actions hold good until they are explicitly disapproved.