According to Explanation I, the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener was deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition 354 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. of the property had taken place immediately before his death, irrespective of whether or not he was entitled to claim partition. Explanation I as it stood prior to the Amending Act of 2005 has been introduced by the legislature as an Explanation to sub-section (3), post amendment. The Explanation to sub-section (3) mandates that the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener would be ascertained on the basis that a partition has taken place of the property immediately before his death. His interest is deemed to be the share in the property which would have been allotted in a partition at a point of time immediately before his death, irrespective of whether or not he was entitled to seek partition. 37. The crucial words of sub-section (3) of Section 6, for the present purposes, are “shall devolve by testamentary or intestate succession, as the case may be, under this Act and not by survivorship”. Section 8 provides for the general rules of succession applicable to the devolution of the property of a male Hindu dying intestate.44 The property devolves fi rstly, on the heirs specifi ed in Class I of the Schedule; if there is no heir of Class I, then, on the heirs specifi ed in Class II; if there is no heir in any of the two classes, on agnates and if there are no agnates, then upon the cognates of the deceased. Section 9 provides for the of succession among the heirs in the Schedule. Section 10 provides for the distribution of property among heirs in Class I of the Schedule in the following terms: “10. Distribution of property among heirs in class I of the Schedule.— The property of an intestate shall be divided among the heirs in class I of the Schedule in accordance with the following rules:— Rule 1.— The intestate’s widow, or if there are more widows than one, all the widows together, shall take one share. 44 8. General Rules of Succession in the case of males.—The property of a male Hindu dying intestate shall devolve according to the provisions of this Chapter— (a) fi rstly, upon the heirs, being the relatives specifi ed in class I of the Schedule; (b) secondly, if there is no heir of class I, then upon the heirs, being the relatives specifi ed in class II of the Schedule; (c) thirdly, if there is no heir of any of the two classes, then upon the agnates of the deceased; and (d) lastly, if there is no agnate, then upon the cognates of the deceased. REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 355 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Rule 2.— The surviving sons and daughters and the mother of the intestate shall each take one share. Rule 3.— The heirs in the branch of each pre-deceased son or each pre- deceased daughter of the intestate shall take between them one share.