Court when the arguments were concluded and the was reserved, non-consideration of the same by the High Court could not be made the basis for challenging the said in the SLP before this Court. 14. It cannot be gainsaid that every party approaching the court seeking justice is expected to make full and correct disclosure of material facts and that every advocate being an offi cer of the court, though appearing for a particular party, is expected to assist the court fairly in carrying out its function to administer the justice. It hardly needs to be emphasized that a very high standard of professionalism and legal acumen is expected from the advocates particularly designated Senior advocates appearing in the highest court of the country so that their professionalism may be followed and emulated by the advocates practicing in the High Courts and the District Courts. Though it is true that the advocates would settle the pleadings and argue in the courts on instructions given by their clients, however their duty to diligently verify the facts from the record of the case, using their legal acumen for which they are engaged, cannot be obliviated. 15. In the instant case, though the Court had specifi cally drawn the attention of all the learned counsels appearing for the appellant with regard to the ex-facie inconsistencies appearing in the grounds mentioned in the SLP and in the certifi cate and affi davit fi led at the bottom of the SLP, as per the dated 09.10.2023, again an attempt was sought to be made by fi ling a smartly drafted affi davit, avoiding to answer the query raised by the court. Such an attempt made by and on behalf of the appellant is strongly deprecated. As such, the appeal deserves to be dismissed on that ground alone. However, since the learned counsels for the parties have made their submissions at length, the Court deems it proper to deal with the appeal independently and on merits also. 16. Learned senior counsel, Mr. Siddharth Aggarwal, for the appellant made following submissions: - (i) The appellant was not named in the FIR dated 12.07.2022 nor in the ECIR dated 29.09.2022 registered against the accused- Suryakant Tiwari, yet the appellant was arrested on 02.12.2022, though she had co-operated during the course of interrogation by the ED. 858 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (ii) The charge-sheet in the FIR No. 129/2022 fi led against the accused-Suryakant Tiwari having been fi led by the Karnataka Police for the off ence under Sections 204 and 353 only, the proceedings in relation to Sections 384 and 120-B, IPC could not be said to have survived as regards the said charge-sheet. (iii) The proceedings under the PMLA are contingent on the existence of the scheduled off ence, and no proceedings under the PMLA can be continued against the person in absence or in isolation of scheduled off ence, in view of the decision of this Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors.1 (SLP(Crl.)