In such a case, should the allegations of mala fide be of some prima facie worth, would pale G into insignificance if sufficient materials are gathered for sending the accused up for a trial; hence, the plea of mala fide may not per se form the basis for quashing the first information report/ complaint. If criminal prosecution is based upon adequate H 138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A evidence and the same is otherwise justifiable, it does not become vitiated on account of significant political overtones and mala fide motives. [Paras 71][161-A-G] State of Bihar v. P.P. Sharma (1992) 1 Supp SCC 222 : [1991] 2 SCR 1 – relied on. B 1.4 The first information report in a disproportionate assets case must, as of necessity, prima facie, contain ingredients for the perception that there is fair enough reason to suspect commission of a cognizable offence relating to “criminal misconduct” punishable under the P.C. Act and to embark upon C an investigation. Having regard to what has been observed in paragraph 49 and to maintain probity in the system of governance as well as to ensure that societal pollutants are weeded out at the earliest, it would be eminently desirable if the high courts maintain a hands-off approach and not quash a first information report pertaining to “corruption” cases, specially at the stage of D investigation, even though certain elements of strong-arm tactics of the ruling dispensation might be discernible. The considerations that could apply to quashing of first information reports pertaining to offences punishable under general penal statutes ex proprio vigore may not be applicable to a P.C. Act E offence. Majorly, the proper course for the high courts to follow, in cases under the P.C. Act, would be to permit the investigation to be taken to its logical conclusion and leave the aggrieved party to pursue the remedy made available by law at an appropriate stage. If at all interference in any case is considered necessary, the same should rest on the very special features of the case. F Although what would constitute the special features has necessarily to depend on the peculiar facts of each case, interference could be made in exceptional cases where the records reveal absolutely no material to support even a reasonable suspicion of a public servant having intentionally enriched himself G illicitly during the period of his service and nothing other than mala fide is the basis for subjecting such servant to an investigation. There are no cogent grounds for quashing the FIR in the present case even on the ground of mala fide. The impugned and is set aside and the writ petitions are dismissed. [Paras 74-76][162-D-H; 163-A, C-D] H THE STATE OF CHATTISGARH & ANR. v. AMAN KUMAR 139 SINGH & ORS. ETC. ETC Lalita Kumari v. Govt. Of U.P. (2014) 2 SCC 1 : [2013] A 14 SCR 713 – followed. State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal and Ors. (1992) 1 Supp. SCC 335 : [1990] 3 Suppl.