The respondents have acted purely in an arbitrary manner in keeping the 14th post vacant and not fi lling it by the appointment of the appellant. 9. The relevant paragraph 7 of the above decision reads as under:- “It is not correct to say that if a number of vacancies are notifi ed for appointment and adequate number of candidates are found fi t, the successful candidates acquire an indefeasible right to be appointed which cannot be legitimately denied. Ordinarily the notifi cation merely amounts to an invitation to qualifi ed candidates to apply for recruitment and on their selection they do not acquire any right to the post. Unless the relevant recruitment rules so indicate, the State is under no legal duty to fi ll up all or any of the vacancies. However, it does not mean that the State has the licence of acting in an arbitrary manner. The decision not to fi ll up the vacancies has to be taken bona fi de for appropriate reasons. And if the vacancies or any of them are fi lled up, the State is bound to respect the comparative merit of the candidates, as refl ected at the recruitment test, and no discrimination can be permitted. This correct position has been consistently followed by this Court, and we do not fi nd any discordant note in the decisions in State of Haryana v. Subhash Chander Marwaha, Neelima Shangla v. State of Haryana, or Jatendra Kumar v. State of Punjab”. 10. A simple reading of the above paragraph would reveal that though it is up to the employer or the State to fi ll up all the notifi ed vacancies or to keep all of them or any of them vacant but it does not mean that the employer/ State can act arbitrarily in not fi lling up those posts and the decision not to fi ll up the vacancies has to be a bona fi de one supported by appropriate reasons. 11. The relevant rules of 2007, do not oblige the State to fi ll up all the vacancies advertised. 12. The respondents, in to justify the non-appointment of the appellant on the 14th vacancy, submitted that the notifi cation/advertisement 418 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. dated 18.05.2007 advertised 22 posts for direct recruitment in the higher judicial service, out of which 14 were meant to be fi lled up by general category candidates but only 13 selected general category candidates were appointed. The reason being that 5 general category candidates who were working as Additional District & Sessions Judges (Fast Track Court) in Haryana pursuant to the notifi cation dated 26.05.2003 applied for their absorption and fi led writ petition No.8587 of 2007 seeking their regularisation on substantive posts which petition came to be disposed of vide dated 30.05.2007 directing them to make representation on administrative side to the High Court in terms of Brij Mohan Lal (1) v. Union of India (2002) 2 SCC 1. Acting on the aforesaid representation, the selection committee of the High Court recommended for absorption of the above 5 Fast Track Court judges on fresh posts.