Sub-rules (4) to (6) of Rule 48 provide as follows: “(4) The accused may call witnesses in defence and the officer recording the evidence may ask any question that may be necessary to clarify the evidence given by such witnesses. (5) All witnesses shall give evidence on oath or affi rmation: provided that, no oath or affi rmation shall be given to the accused nor shall be cross-examined. (6)(a) The statements given by witnesses shall ordinarily be recorded in narrative form and the offi cer recording the evidence may, at the request of the accused, permit any portion of the evidence to be recorded in the form of question and answer; (b) The witnesses shall sign their statements after the same have been read over and explained to them.” Sub-rule (8) of Rule 48 provides that after the recording of evidence is completed the offi cer recording the evidence shall give a certifi cate in the following form: - “Certifi ed that the record of evidence ed by … Commandant … was made in the presence and hearing of the accused and the provisions of rule 48 have been complied with.” 26. Rule 49 of the BSF Rules, 1969 provides for preparation of an abstract of evidence. Sub-rule (2)(a) of Rule 49 provides that the abstract of evidence, shall include,--- (i) signed statements of witnesses wherever 130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. available or a precis thereof, or (ii) copies of all documents intended to be produced at the trial. Sub-rule 2(b) of Rule 49 provides that where signed statements of any witnesses are not available a precis of their evidence shall be included. Sub-rule (3) of Rule 49 provides: “49 (3). A copy of the abstract of evidence shall be given by the offi cer making the same to the accused and the accused shall be given an opportunity to make a statement if he so desires after he has been cautioned in the manner laid down in sub-rule (3) of rule 48: Provided that the accused shall be given such time as may be reasonable in the circumstances but in no case less than twenty- four hours after receiving the abstract of evidence to make his statement.” 27. In the instant case, from the materials brought on record we fi nd that the original petitioner was placed under open arrest on 20.06.2005. On 21.06.2005, the Commandant of 128 Battalion BSF, wherein the original petitioner was posted, issued an for recording of evidence. During the course of recording of evidence, the last witness statement, that is of PW-10, was recorded on 29.06.2005. On 29.06.2005 itself, the original petitioner was asked to give his statement. According to the original petitioner, the abstract of evidence was not provided to him and twenty-four hours’ time was not given to him for refl ection therefore, there was a clear infraction of the proviso to sub rule (3) of Rule 49 of the BSF Rules, 1969. Hence, according to the original petitioner, confession, if any, made during the course of preparation of the record of evidence, is liable to be ignored.