It has also been submitted that the cause of action of the suits in question goes beyond the transaction containing the arbitration agreement where even the case of serious fraud has been alleged against the appellant and the F dispute also pertains to mortgage. It has been particularly emphasised that the tripartite agreement involving the appellant, respondent No.1 and Bank of Baroda lacks arbitration clause; and the dispute emanating from the tripartite agreement and also pertaining to the questioned deeds of conveyance cannot be correlated with the arbitration agreement in the main licence agreement dated 07.04.2005. G 7.2. Learned counsel has also argued that for a matter to be referred to arbitration, the entire subject-matter should be subject to arbitration and while relying on Sukanya Holdings (supra),has submitted that the suit cannot be bifurcated partially to refer a part of the suit to arbitration and to allow the rest of it to continue. It has further been H 126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A submitted that the reliefs claimed in the suits in question fall outside the licence agreement and the disputes pertaining to different agreements/ transactions and causes of action arising therefrom goes beyond the arbitration agreement. 7.3. Learned Counsel has further submitted that the supplementary B agreement dated 07.04.2005 is ancillary to original agreement dated 07.04.2005 executed between the appellant and respondent No. 1 but, the said tripartite agreement does not have any ancillary relationship with the main agreement and the tripartite agreement having Bank of Baroda as a party is independent of the original agreement. C 7.4. Learned counsel also highlighted the amendment in the Act of 2015, wherein Section 8 was amended envisaging that if the judicial authority is of the opinion that prima facie the arbitration agreement exists, then it shall refer the dispute to arbitration, and leave the existence of the arbitration agreement to be finally determined by the arbitral tribunal. However, if the judicial authority concludes that the agreement D does not exist, then the conclusion will be final and not prima facie. The amendment also envisages that there shall be a conclusive determination as to whether the arbitration agreement is null and void. 7.5. Learned counsel has also placed reliance on S.N. Prasad v. Monnet Finance Ltd. and Ors. : (2011) 1 SCC 320 and Deutsche E Bank Home Finance Ltd. v. Taduri Sridhar and Anr. : (2011) 11 SCC 375 wherein guarantors were not held to be bound by arbitration agreement as they were not party to tripartite agreements having arbitration clause. Learned counsel would also submit that the decisions relied upon by the appellant do not apply to the present case because of non-existence of arbitration agreement in relation to dispute in question. F 8. We have given anxious considerations to the rival submissions and have examined the record with reference to the law applicable. 9. For dealing with the vexed question in these appeals as to whether the parties were required to be referred to arbitration by allowing G the applications moved by the appellant under Section 8 of the Act of 1996, appropriate it would be to take note of the provisions contained in Section 8, as existing before its amendment by Act 3 of 2016 (w.r.e.f.