He would elaborate his submissions by contending that appellants are already engaged in the business and the Act would exclude those persons who avail services for commercial purposes and the offi ce space was not purchased by the appellants exclusively for the purpose of earning livelihood; the complaint does not disclose any cause of action and it also ought to have been dismissed for suppression of fact namely the appellants having defaulted in the payments. Accordingly, he has sought for dismissal of the appeal. DISCUSSION AND OUR FINDINGS: 9 The National Commission at the outset considered the question as to whether the appellants are “Consumer” and answered in the negative. It has been held that appellants would not be entitled to seek redressal of their grievance under the provisions of the Act. On the basis of the statement of the complainant made before it, the Commission has arrived at a conclusion that complainant No.1 was running a dealership business of M/s. Reliance Industries for their livelihood and they are also engaged in the business of investment in property. Hence, the commercial space booked by the complainants cannot be said to be for the purposes of earning livelihood by self-employment or in other words the appellants are not consumers as defi ned under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act. In this background it would be necessary to note Section 2(1)(d) of the Act and it reads as under: “consumer” means any person who,— (i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or promised or partly ROHIT CHAUDHARY & ANR. v. M/S VIPUL LTD. 401 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] paid or partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such use is made with the approval of such person, but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose; or (ii) 12 [hires or avails of] any services for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any benefi ciary of such services other than the person who 12 [hires or avails of] the services for consideration paid or promised, or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such services are availed of with the approval of the fi rst mentioned person 13 [but does not include a person who avails of such services for any commercial purpose]; (Emphasis supplied by us) 10. The aforesaid defi nition has received the attention of the National Commission in the case of Synco Textiles Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Greaves Cotton and Company Ltd. reported in 1990 SCC OnLine NCDRC 3 : (1991) 1 CPJ 499 and approved by this Court in Lilavati Kirtilal Mehta Medical Trust v. Unique Shanti Developers and others (2020) 2 SCC 265.