The High Court concluded that the FIR was based on the report of the auditor who was appointed under Section 81(3)(c) and hence it was not open to the appellant to fall back on the general principle that the criminal law can be set in motion by any individual upon which the police are duty bound to register an FIR absent a statutory prohibition. 8. We have heard Mr Prashant Shrikant Kenjale, counsel for the appellant and Mr V Giri and Mr Deepak Nargolkar, senior counsel with Mr Shantanu Phanse, counsel for the respondents. Mr A N S Nadkarni, senior counsel and Mr Sunil Fernandes, counsel appeared for the intervenor. 9. Notice was issued by this Court in these proceedings on 29 April 2022 since the interpretation of the provisions of Section 81(5B) of the 1960 Act is involved. 10. The 1960 Act was enacted to provide ly development of the co-operative movement in Maharashtra. Chapter VIII of the 1960 Act provides for ‘audit, inquiry, inspection and supervision’. Section 81 mandates the society to cause its accounts to be audited at least once every fi nancial 4 “CrPC” 302 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. year by an auditor from a panel prepared by the Registrar and approved by the State government. The fi rst proviso to Section 81(1)(a) empowers the Registrar to audit or cause to be audited the accounts of a society by a panel of auditors approved by the State government. Section 81(3) stipulates that the Registrar or the person authorized shall for the purpose of audit at all times have access to books, accounts, documents, papers, securities, cash and other properties belonging to or in the custody of the co-operative society. Section 81(3)(c) empowers the Registrar or any person authorized to carry out or cause to be carried out a test audit of the accounts of the co-operative society. Section 81(5B) details the subsequent actions required to be taken by the auditor or the Registrar after the preparation of the audit report: “81(5B) The auditor shall submit his audit report within a period of one month from its completion and in any case before issuance of notice of the annual general body meeting to the society and to the Registrar in such form as may be specifi ed by the Registrar, on the accounts examined by him and on the balance sheet and profi t and loss account as on the date and for the period up to which the accounts have been audited, and shall state whether in his opinion and to the best of his information and according to the Explanation given to him by the society, the said accounts give all information required by or under this Act and present the true and fair view of the fi nancial transaction of the society: Provided that, where the auditor has come to a conclusion in his audit report that any person, is guilty of any off ence relating to the accounts or any other off ences, he shall fi le a specifi c report to the Registrar within a period of fi fteen days from the date of submission of his audit report.