It was additionally argued that all imports under C an authorization were subject to “actual user condition”. Therefore, manufacturer exporters were not allowed to sell or dispose of input raw materials imported free of duties against any authorization. Regular exporters conducted their business in a cycle, i.e., by importing input- raw materials free of duties against several authorizations granted to them, and utilizing such goods for manufacturing final products for export D with reference to those several authorizations. Consequently, there could be no ‘one to one’ correlation between import of a consignment of inputs against one particular authorization and utilization of such inputs for manufacturing final products for export against those particular authorizations only – such a scenario was not possible for E regular manufacturer-exporters. On realizing that the ‘pre-import condition’ did not serve any purpose, the Union deleted the condition on 10.01.2019, which vindicated the exporters’ stand that the condition was irrelevant to the scheme, and that condition had no nexus with the objectives of the AA scheme. F 31. It was submitted that the ‘pre-import condition’ violated Article 14, which permitted reasonable classification to achieve specific ends. The respondents relied on Laxmi Khandsari vs. State of Uttar Pradesh20; State of Haryana v Jai Singh21; Welfare Association ARP v Ranjit P. Gohil22; and urged that for classification to be reasonable, it should fulfil the two tests. One, it should not be arbitrary, artificial or G evasive, and should be based on intelligible differentia, some real and substantial distinction, which distinguished persons or things grouped together in the class from others left out of it. Two, the differentia 20 1981(3) SCR 92. 21 2003 (9) SCC 114. H 22 2003 (9) SCC 358. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. COSMO FILMS LIMITED 207 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] adopted as the basis of classification must have a rationale or reasonable A nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the statute in question. 32. Counsel argued that the High Court concluded, correctly, that the introduction of the ‘pre-import condition’ was an instance of class legislation. The Union meted out differential treatment to the same class of license holders by enabling only certain class of license holders to B avail the IGST benefit. This was because those who fulfilled the export obligation before importing the goods were denied the opportunity to avail the benefit of IGST exemption. 33. The imposition of ‘pre-import condition’ on AAs issued prior to 13.10.2017 placed the exporter-respondents in the shoes of any C importer who did not hold any license. The respondents had imported the goods after fulfilling the corresponding export obligation. It was impossible to fulfil the ‘pre-import condition’ mandated for old AAs through a retrospective application of an amendment in the impugned notifications, even though the respondents could demonstrate D that all imported goods were subsequently used for manufacturing export products. 34. Learned counsel for the respondents highlighted that there was no reason for differential treatment of BCD and IGST under the AA scheme.