Sreemuthin, Ms. Priyadarshini Priya, Saransh Kumar, Vishnu Jain, Shreekant Neelappa Terdal, Abhinav Mukerji, Mrs. Bihu Sharma, Ms. Pratishtha Vij, Mohit Prasad, Sanjay Kumar Tyagi, Satish Pandey, Akbar Ali, Manmohan Sharma, Ms. Jay Jaimini Pandey, Ms. Sadiya Shakeel, Mrs. Lalita Gupta, Pradeep Kumar Dwivedi, Harendra Kumar Sharma, Mukesh Kumar Verma, Shah Syed Samadur Rahman, Abdul Qadir, Umang Tripathi, Manish Kumar Tiwari, Prabhoo Dayal Tiwari, Anirudh Bankura, Dr. Nafi s A.siddiqui, Malak Manish Bhatt, Shailesh Madiyal, Sunny Choudhary, Sandeep Sharma, Karan Bishnoi, Kunal Chatterji, Ms. Maitrayee Banerjee, Rohit Bansal, Ms. Kshitij Singh, Sohhom Sau, Ms. Uttara Babbar, Ms. Sampriti Baksi, Sandeep Sudhakar Deshmukh, Nishant Sharma, Akshay Subhash Jagtap, Swapnil Anil Walde, Kabir Dixit, P. V. Yogeswaran, Ashok Mathur, Sameer Abhyankar, Ms. Vani Vandana Chhetri, Ms. Nishi Sangtani, Naman Jain, Anand Dilip Landge, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Bharat Bagla, Sourav Singh, Aditya Krishna, Anandh Kannan N., M/s. Plr Chambers And Co., Ms. Jesal Wahi, Sanjai Kumar Pathak, Arvind Kumar Tripathi, Mrs. Shashi Pathak, Ms. Aswathi M.K., Shovan Mishra, Samar Vijay Singh, Keshav Mittal, Ms. Sabarni Som, Mrs. Lakshmi Rao, Ms. Vidhi Udayshankar, Ms. Sakshi Garg, Harshit Goel, Siddhant Singh, Girish Chowdhary, Ms. Sagun Srivastava, Ms. Shreya Bansal, Braj Kishore Mishra, Atanu Mukherjee, Sandeep Singh, Sanjay Kumar, Ajay Kumar Pandey, Mimansak Bhardwaj, Narendra Kumar, Maibam Nabaghanashyam Singh, Shakti K Pattanaik, Ms. Anjali Dhingra, Ms. Bipasa Tripathy, Ms. Yagya Kalla, Mayank Dahiya, Ms. Sugandh Rathor, M. Bangaraswamy, S. Shashank Reddy, Ms. Shubhangi Agarwal, Ms. Tanya, Dr. Arun Kumar Yadav, Shobhit Jain, Aakash Nandolia, Bimlesh K. R. Singh, Advs. for the Respondent. Intervenor-in-person 270 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. / OF THE SUPREME COURT DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI 1. This Writ Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, in the nature of Public Interest, seeks two distinct reliefs. The fi rst prayer relates to expeditious disposal of criminal cases against elected members of the Parliament and Legislative Assemblies1. The second prayer relates to the constitutional validity of Section 8 of the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951. By this , we dispose of this Writ Petition as regards the fi rst prayer after formulating certain guidelines for expeditious disposal of the subject cases. We have also requested the learned Chief Justices of the respective High Courts to constitute a Special Bench to review and monitor the progress of these cases from time to time. 2. A short reference to the s passed by this Court from time to time, affi davits of the State Governments, and reports of the High Courts as analyzed by the Amicus in his written submissions are necessary before articulating the guidelines and disposing of the writ petition with appropriate directions. These proceedings commenced with notices being issued to the Union of India, State Governments and High Courts. At a later stage, this Court also appointed Shri Vijay Hansaria, Ld. Senior Advocate as Amicus Curiae. We place on record appreciation for his invaluable contribution and assistance. 3. In fact, this is not the fi rst case in which the need for an expeditious disposal of criminal cases against elected members of the Parliament and Legislative Assemblies is examined.