However, many documents emerged- selectively, including the admission and discharge slips signed by the treating doctor (Lt. Col. Devika Bhat). (b) The documents which respondents stated were missing, somehow were traced and produced during the CoI. These included extracts of registers, containing details of records destroyed; selective production makes the inquiry and its conclusions suspect to say the least. (c) After categorically denying the existence of any records, somehow the respondents were able to retrieve them. These included a register containing details of the transfer of blood units from 166 MH to 171 MH. (d) The deposition of Col. Nijhawan admitted that the responsibility of testing/screening blood for markers was that of 166 MH. He also admitted that there was no document to prove that the blood had been tested for markers. (Reply to Question 950). However, Lt. Col Devika Bhat asserted that the blood was “duly screened as per guidelines then in vogue: (Reply to Question No. 451). 50 Col. Nijhawan was asked – “Can you produce Case Sheet With document stating that blood has been duly screened for markers as per policy including HIV?” and it was replied that “No records are available”. 51 Lt Col Devika Bhat was asked – “Was the screening of blood for HIV before transfusion dispensed with?” and she replied that –“The requisite blood was duly screened as per existing guidelines in vogue at that time. The same may please be confi rmed from 171 MH.” CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 639 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (e) The deposition of Lt. Col. Jyoti Borpujari states that 171 MH was transferred one unit of B Negative blood on 12.01.2002; she further deposed that there was no other record of transfer of blood to 171 MH later, or during July 2002. She mentioned the relevant markers to test blood. However, she nowhere stated that such procedures were in fact used to test the blood actually transferred to 171 MH. 63. The fi nal opinion of the CoI, based on the (allegedly scanty) documentary evidence presented to it, and the testimonies of Col. Sanjay Nijhawan, Lt. Col Devika Bhat, Lt. Col. Jyoti Borpurari (of 166 MH) is summarized as follows, in that document: “As per the statements of Col. Sanjay Nijhawan, (171 MH) Lt. Col Devika Bhat, and Lt. Col. Jyoti Borpujari OIC Blood Bank 166 MH the following facts emerge: (a) One unit of blood transfusion was given to 741 41570 B Ex-Cpl Ashish Kumar Chauhan, at 171 MH (Samba) in July 2002 for severe Macrocytic aneamia along with conservative treatment. (b) No records are available at 171 MH pertaining to screening of blood for HIV, Blood demand and Blood transfusion during the period Jun-July 2002. (c) No records are available at 166 MH regarding issue of blood during the period Jun-July 2002. (d) An SOP for ad-hoc Blood Bank was promulgated at 171 MH (Samba) for Transfusion of blood during the ‘OP PARAKRAM’ as 171 MH was not authorised Blood bank /Pathologist during that period.