This is because one party would be the bride or the wife in the marriage and the other party would be the bridegroom or the husband. The laws governing marriage are framed in the context of a heterosexual 247 See, for instance, Section 5, HMA; Section 60, Indian Christian Marriage Act 1872; Section 3, Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act 1936 248 Section 4, SMA 249 See, for instance, Section 2, Dissolution of Muslim Marriages Act 1939 138 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. relationship. Since a transgender person can be in a heterosexual relationship like a cis-male or cis-female, a union between a transwoman and a transman, or a transwoman and a cisman, or a transman and a ciswoman can be registered under Marriage laws. The transgender community consists of inter alia transgender men and transgender women. A transgender man has the right to marry a cisgender woman under the laws governing marriage in the country, including personal laws. Similarly, a transgender woman has the right to marry a cisgender man. A transgender man and a transgender woman can also marry. Intersex persons who identify as a man or a woman and seek to enter into a heterosexual marriage would also have a right to marry. Any other interpretation of the laws governing marriage would be contrary to Section 3 of the Transgender Persons Act and Article 15 of the Constitution. 278. In Kanailal Sur v. Paramnidhi Sadhu Khan,250 this Court held that the fi rst and primary rule of construction was that the intention of the legislature must be found in the words used by the legislature itself. The terms “bride” and “bridegroom,” “wife” and “husband,” “male” and “female,” and “man” and “woman” in the statutes which regulate marriage cannot be read as governing marriages between cisgender men and cisgender women alone. Nothing in these statutes indicates that their intended application is solely to cisgender men and cisgender women. The plain meaning of the gendered terms used in these statutes indicates transgender persons in heterosexual relationships fall within their fold. The contention of the Union of India that “biological” men and women alone fall within the ambit of these statutes cannot be accepted. No law or tool of interpretation supports the interpretation proposed by the Union of India. The provisions on the prohibited degrees of relationship in the laws governing marriage continue to apply. The in NALSA (supra) also recognized the importance of the right of transgender persons to marry. Moreover, State Governments have formulated and implemented schemes which encourage and support transgender persons vis-à-vis marriage.251 250 AIR 1957 SC 907 251 For instance, the Kerala State Government announced Rs. 30,000/- by way of ‘marriage assistance’ to couples where at least one person was a transgender person. Government of Kerala, Social Justice Department, ‘Marriage assistance for legally SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1385 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 279. In Arunkumar v. Inspector General of Registration,252 the fi rst petitioner was a man and the second petitioner was a woman who happened to be transgender.