40.1. After adverting to the procedural aspects provided in the Customs Valuation Rules, more particularly in Rules 3 and 4 thereof, this court referred to its earlier decision in Eicher Tractors Limited (supra) and held that the price paid by the importer to the vendor in the ordinary course of commerce shall be deemed to be the value in the absence of any special circumstances indicated in Section 14(1) and particularised in Rule 4(2). COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 209 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] However, when the transaction value under Rule 4 is rejected, the value shall be determined by proceeding sequentially through Rules 5 to 8 of the Customs Valuation Rules. This court held as follows: 23. In Eicher Tractors this Court held that the value, according to Section 14, shall be deemed to be the price at which such or like goods are ordinarily sold or off ered for sale, for delivery at the time and place of importation in the course of international trade. It was further held that by Rule 4(1) mandate has been cast on the authorities to accept the price actually paid or payable for the goods in respect of the goods under assessment as the transaction value but this mandate is subject to certain exceptions specifi ed in Rule 4(2). It was also held by this Court in Eicher Tractors [(2001) 1 SCC 315] that both Section 14(1) of the Act and Rule 4 provide that the price paid by the importer to the vendor in the ordinary course of commerce shall be deemed to be the value in the absence of any of the special circumstances indicated in Section 14(1) and particularised in Rule 4(2). However, when the transaction value under Rule 4 is rejected, the value shall be determined by proceeding sequentially through Rules 5 to 8 of the Rules. 40.2. This court also referred to the decisions in Rabindra Chandra Paul (supra) and South India Television (P) Ltd. (supra) to reiterate the recognised legal position that transaction value can be rejected if the invoice price is not found to be correct but it is for the department to prove that the invoice price is incorrect. 41. Thus, on a cumulative analysis of the facts and the legal position as alluded to hereinabove, we have no hesitation in coming to the conclusion that both the department as well as the adjudicating authority were not justifi ed in rejecting the import invoice price of the goods as not correct and enhancing the price by straightaway invoking Rule 8 of the Customs Valuation Rules when there was no evidence before them to do so. In these circumstances, CESTAT was justifi ed in setting aside the in original. 42. We, therefore, do not fi nd any error or infi rmity in the impugned and of CESTAT. The appeals fi led by the department are devoid of merit and those are accordingly, dismissed. No costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals dismissed.