It provides A that if the contractor should abandon the contract, or persistently disregard the instructions of the Project Manager or contravene any provisions of the contract…. then the Project Manager on behalf of the Company may serve the contractor with a notice in writing to that effect and if the contractor does not within 7 days after the delivery to him of B such notice proceed to make good his default in so far as the same is capable of being made good and carry on the work or comply with such directions as aforesaid to the entire satisfaction of the Project Manager, the Company (IRCON) shall be entitled after giving 48 hours notice in writing under the hand of the Project Manager (to remove the contractor from the whole or any portion or portions as may be specified in such C notice) of the works without thereby avoiding the contract or releasing the contractor from any of his obligations or liabilities. It further provides that in such a case the Project Manager on behalf of the IRCON shall be entitled to rescind the contract, in which case the security deposit shall stand forfeited to IRCON without prejudice to IRCON’s right to D recover from the contractor any amount by which the cost of completing the works by any other agency shall exceed the value of the contractor. 7.3 Thus, both, under Clause 17.4 and 60.1, on failure of the contractor to complete the work, the IRCON is justified in rescinding the contract and forfeit the security deposit. At the cost of repetition it E is observed that the learned Arbitral Tribunal on appreciation of entire evidence on record, had specifically observed that the contractor failed to complete the work even within the stipulated extended period of time and even abandoned the work and therefore, the IRCON was justified in rescinding the contract. The said finding as observed hereinabove has attained finality. Therefore, the IRCON was absolutely F justified in forfeiting the security deposits and therefore, the learned Arbitral Tribunal was absolutely justified in rejecting Claim Nos.33 and 34, which were with respect to forfeiture of security deposits by the IRCON. Both, the learned Single Judge as well as Division Bench of the High Court have seriously erred in setting aside the award passed G by the learned Arbitral Tribunal rejecting Claim Nos.33 and 34. We are of the opinion that the learned Single Judge, therefore, exceeded in its jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act quashing and setting aside the well-reasoned award passed by the learned Arbitral Tribunal on rejecting Claim Nos.33 and 34, which the Division Bench of the High Court has wrongly affirmed. H 726 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 7.4 Under the circumstances, the impugned and passed by the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court quashing and setting aside the award passed by the learned Arbitral Tribunal rejecting Claim Nos.33 and 34 deserve to be quashed and set aside and the award passed by the learned Arbitral Tribunal rejecting Claim Nos.33 and 34 is required to be restored and upheld.