There is no explanation which has been given for this delay in getting the approval. In the recently decided case of Hasmukhlal D. Vohra and Anr. v. State of Tamil Nadu1, criminal proceedings were quashed against a Petitioner on the grounds that the substance in question was not a drug under Indian Pharmacopoeia. One of the considerations was the delay B in the proceedings against which the following observations were made, ‘25. In the present case, the Respondent has provided no explanation for the extraordinary delay of more than four years between the initial site inspection, the show cause notice, and the complaint. In fact, the absence of such an explanation C only prompts the Court to infer some sinister motive behind initiating the criminal proceedings. 26. While inordinate delay in itself may not be ground for quashing of a criminal complaint, in such cases, unexplained inordinate delay of such length must be taken into D consideration as a very crucial factor as grounds for quashing a criminal complaint. 27. While this court does not expect a full-blown investigation at the stage of a criminal complaint, however, in such cases where the accused has been subjected to the anxiety of a E potential initiation of criminal proceedings for such a length of time, it is only reasonable for the court to expect bare- minimum evidence from the Investigating Authorities.’ 14. The sanction for prosecution given in the present case appears, prima facie, to suffer from the vice of non-application of mind. There is F no reference to any of the documents, evidence or the submissions submitted by either of the parties, no reasons assigned or even an explanation pertaining to the delay which indicates it has been passed in a mechanical manner. This Court in the case of Mansukhlal Vithaldas Chauhan v. State of Gujarat2, highlighted the importance of a prior sanction granted under Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, G 1973 while quashing the criminal proceedings instituted against a Divisional Accountant engaged with the Medium Irrigation Project Division, Gujarat. It was observed as follows: 1 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1732 H 2 (1997) 7 SCC 622 S. ATHILAKSHMI v. THE STATE REP. BY THE DRUGS 925 INSPECTOR [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] ‘19. Since the validity of “sanction” depends on the applicability A of mind by the sanctioning authority to the facts of the case as also the material and evidence collected during investigation, it necessarily follows that the sanctioning authority has to apply its own independent mind for the generation of genuine satisfaction whether prosecution has to be sanctioned or not.’ B 15. The possession of the drugs is not disputed in this case by either side. However, this Court in the case of Mohd. Shabir v. State of Maharashtra3 while allowing an appeal in part and directing the release of an Appellant who had been prosecuted under the provision 18(c) of the 1940 Act, this Court observed that possession simpliciter would not C itself be an offence but the prosecution had to prove the essential ingredient under Section 27 which was that even a ‘stock’ of the medicine was for sale.