83.25 lacs for execution of the sale deed in view of the prevailing rate being Rs. 3.2 Crores per acre for residential purposes and for commercial use would be Rs.4.48 Crores being enhanced by 40%. 11. The respondent challenged the reply dated 25.07.2012 by way of Writ Petition No. 10338 of 2013. The said petition was disposed of by dated 14.08.2014 with a direction to the respondent to submit a representation and a further direction to the appellant to decide the said representation within two months. 12. The representation submitted by the respondent was rejected by the appellant. The respondent thereafter preferred Writ Petition No. 1605 of 2015, praying for a direction to the appellant to execute the sale deed in their favour, as according to them, they had fulfi lled all the formalities. Before the High Court, the respondent also fi led a communication which took place between the appellant and the audit department, wherein the appellant sent a response to the audit objection justifying that the prevailing rate was Rs. 1 Crore per acre and not Rs. 3.2 Crore per acre. 13. The learned Single Judge, vide dated 03.09.2015, relying on the said audit objection and its response by the appellant, allowed the Writ Petition No.1605 of 2015. Appropriate directions were issued to appellant to execute the sale deed. Subsequent thereto the appellant fi led an intra Court appeal and also fi led a review. Further, after dismissal of review, appellant fi led another intra Court appeal and also fi led a review before the Division Bench. Finally, came the judgement of the Division Bench dated 28.07.2017. Same is impugned in this appeal. The fact remains that the Writ Petition fi led by the respondent was allowed by the Single Judge and the intra court 780 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. appeal fi led by the appellant was dismissed by the Division Bench. This gave rise to the fi ling of the present appeal. 14. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material on record. 15. The submissions advanced by learned counsel for the appellant are summarized as hereunder: (a) The Division Bench committed an error in dismissing the appeal primarily on the ground of delay of 459 days, which was not satisfactorily explained. The Division Bench failed to take into consideration the time spent by the appellant in taking recourse to other legal measures permissible under the law before a valid forum. The appellant was entitled to benefi t of section 5 of the Limitation Act, 19632. Reliance has been placed on the of this Court in the case of Union of India vs. West Coast Paper Mill3. (b) The Single Judge and the Division Bench erred in relying upon the communication or the correspondence with respect to the objections raised in the audit report merely because the appellant was trying to justify the demand of Rs. 5 Lakhs, the said justifi cation being on a wrong premise, cannot deprive the appellant, which is a Public Sector Undertaking, from recovering the valid dues payable by the respondent which is a commercial entity.