is that there should appear some evidence against a person not proceeded against; the stage of the proceedings is irrelevant. Section 319 Cr.P.C. is an empowering provision particularly where the complainant is circumspect in proceeding against several persons, but H 1210 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A the court is of the opinion that there appears to be some evidence pointing to the complicity of some other persons as well. (v) It was further observed that circumstances which lead to the inference being drawn up by the court for summoning a person under Section 319 arise out of the availability of the facts and material that B come up before the court. The material should disclose complicity of the person in the commission of the offence which has to be the material that appears from the evidence during the course of any inquiry into or trial of offence. (vi) It was also observed by this Court in Hardeep Singh that C apart from evidence in the strict legal sense recorded during trial, any material that has been received by the court after cognizance is taken and before the trial commences, can be utilised only for corroboration and to support the evidence recorded by the court to invoke the power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. Holding that the expression “evidence” must be given a broad meaning, it was observed that material which is not D exactly evidence recorded before the court, but is a material collected by the court, can be utilised to corroborate evidence already recorded for the purpose of summoning any other person, other than the accused. Such material would be supportive in nature to facilitate the exposition of any other accomplice whose complicity in the offence may have been E suppressed or had escaped the notice of the court. Therefore, any material brought before the court even prior to the trial can be read within the meaning of the expression “evidence” for the purpose of Section 319 Cr.P.C. While considering the evidence that emanates during the trial, it was observed by this Court that evidence recorded by way of examination-in-chief and which is untested by cross-examination is F nevertheless evidence which can be considered by the court for the exercise of power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. so long as, it would appear to the court that some other person who is not facing the trial, may also have been involved in the offence. (vii) Further, Section 319 Cr.P.C. also uses the words “such person G could be tried”, which means not to have a mini-trial at the stage of Section 319 Cr.P.C. by having examination and cross-examination and thereafter coming to a prima facie conclusion on the overt act of such person sought to be added. Such a mini-trial will affect the right of the person sought to be arraigned as an accused rather than not having any cross-examination at all. As under Section 319 (4) Cr.P.C., such a person H YASHODHAN SINGH & ORS. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 1211 PRADESH & ANR.