Subsequently, they were handed over to the Anthikkadu Police on 2nd December 2000. Based on E the disclosure statement of Shibu @ Shibu Singh (accused No. 1), the spade with which the deceased’s burial spot was dug was recovered near the site where the body was exhumed from, concealed in a plastic bag. 2.4 At the conclusion of investigation, a charge-sheet came to be F filed before the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Court–II, Thrissur, who committed the case to the Sessions Court, Thrissur for trial. 2.5 Charges came to be framed by the trial court for the offences punishable under Sections 395, 364, 365, 380 and 302 read with Section 34 of the IPC. G 2.6 All the accused persons pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. The prosecution examined 33 witnesses to bring home the guilt of the accused persons. The prosecution also placed on record 14 Material Objects which were marked as M.O. 1 to M.O. 14. During the cross- examination from the defence side, Sekharan (DW-1), father of the H deceased was examined. The accused persons were questioned under BOBY v. STATE OF KERALA [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 341 Section 313 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (for short, “the A Cr.P.C.”) wherein they denied the circumstances that appeared against them in evidence which were put to them. At the conclusion of trial, the learned trial court found Shibu @ Shibu Singh (accused No. 1), Biju @ Babu (accused No. 2) and Boby (accused No. 3/appellant herein) guilty of the offences charged with and accordingly sentenced them to undergo B life imprisonment for the offence punishable under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC. It further directed them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for different periods for the offences punishable under Sections 364, 395, and 201 read with Section 34 of the IPC. The sentences were directed to run concurrently. C 2.7 Being aggrieved thereby, accused Nos. 1 to 3 preferred their respective appeals before the High Court. The High Court, by the impugned judgement, dismissed the appeals preferred by Shibu @ Shibu Singh (accused No. 1) and Boby (accused No. 3/appellant herein), but was pleased to allow the appeal preferred by Biju @ Babu (accused D No. 2), thereby setting aside the of conviction and sentence of the trial court insofar as Biju @ Babu (accused No. 2) was concerned. 3. Being aggrieved thereby, the present appeal. 4. We have heard Shri R. Basant, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant–Boby and Shri K.N. Balgopal, E learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent–State of Kerala. 5. Shri Basant, learned Senior Counsel would submit that both the trial court and the High Court have erred in convicting and sentencing the appellant–Boby for the offences punishable under Sections 395, 365, F 364, 201, 380, 302 and 302 read with Section 34 of the IPC. He submitted that the prosecution has failed to prove its case against the appellant– Boby beyond reasonable doubt and that there are glaring lacunae in the case of the prosecution.