It was to be handed over to the Municipal Council as one of the pre-conditions for converting the land from a ‘No Development Zone’ to a ‘Residential Zone’. Not only that, but acting on the said Notifi cation, the landowners entered into more than one agreement with the Municipal Council, thereby agreeing to hand over the ‘open space’ as well as the ‘amenity space’ to the Municipal Council. The sanctioned layout also earmarked the area admeasuring 4143.24 sq. mtrs. as ‘amenity space’. 22. Insofar the reliance by the High Court on the of this Court in the case of Pt. Chet Ram Vashist (Dead) By LRs (supra) is concerned, 554 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. in the said case, this Court was dealing with the issue of compulsorily reserved land and held that while sanctioning a plan, a Corporation cannot insist on a condition that the same should be transferred to it. However, in the present case, insofar as the compulsory reserved land is concerned, it pertains to ‘open space’ and we do not propose to interfere with the fi nding of the High Court in that regard. However, insofar as the ‘amenity space’ is concerned, it was on the basis of the conditions imposed by the State of Maharashtra while converting the land, which was reserved for a ‘non- residential’ purpose, to a ‘residential’ purpose. The landowners not only accepted the said condition but also acting on the basis of the same entered into more than one agreement with the Municipal Council transferring the ‘amenity space’ in favour of the Municipal Council. 23. It can be noticed that this Court in the case of Narayanrao Jagobaji Gowande Public Trust v. State of Maharashtra and others7 has held that if a Government gives the benefi t of development of land concerned with permission to sub-divide the same and uses it for commercial purpose and it, in turn, requires the landowner to handover part of land free of cost for public utility purpose, such a clause cannot be held to be illegal. As such, we fi nd that the High Court has grossly erred in allowing the writ petitions. 24. We, therefore, allow the appeals and quash and set aside the impugned common and dated 4th July 2019 passed by the High Court. The writ petition fi led by the plot holders also shall stand dismissed. 25. Learned counsel for the landowners/plot holders had submitted that in the event this Court was inclined to allow the present appeals, which we hereby do, they had an alternate prayer. It was submitted that the land which is reserved for ‘amenity space’ consists of trees which are aged about 100 years or more. They, therefore, made an off er that if the landowners are permitted to retain the said land, they are willing to transfer another piece of land of the same or near about the same area. We fi nd the said request to be reasonable. We, therefore, permit the landowners/plot holders to make a representation to the Municipal Council for providing/transferring another piece of land on the same road having the same or near about the same area.