E 57. We have already observed that common parlance test continues to be one of the determinative tests for classification of a product whether medicament or cosmetic. There being no change in the nature, character and uses of DML, it has to be held to be a tooth powder – as held in Baidyanath 1. DML is used routinely for dental hygiene. Since tooth powder is specifically covered by F Chapter Sub-Heading 3306, it has to be classified thereunder. By virtue of Chapter Note 1(d) of Chapter 30 even if the product DMLhas some therapeutic or medicinal properties, the product stands excluded from Chapter 30. 58. The learned Senior Counsel for Baidyanath relied upon the G of this Court in Vicco Laboratories [(2005) 4 SCC 17 : (2005) 179 ELT 17] to show that in Baidyanath I [(1996) 9 SCC 402], no tests for classification were laid down. First, in Baidyanath I [(1996) 9 SCC 402] common parlance test applied by the Tribunal has been approved. Second, and more importantly, H 328 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A with regard to the very same product (DML), this Court held that it could not be classified as ayurvedic medicine and rather the product is a toilet requisite. Baidyanath I [(1996) 9 SCC 402] , no doubt relates to the old Tariff period i.e. prior to enactment of the new Tariff Act but since the product in its composition, character and uses continues to be the same, B even after insertion of new Sub-Heading 3301.30, we have already held that change in classification is not justified as common parlance test continues to be relevant for classification. Vicco Laboratories [(2005) 4 SCC 17: (2005) 179 ELT 17] is of no help to the assessee.” C (emphasis supplied) 15. As regards the test to be applied for determination of the proper classification of a product and construction of the tariff entries with reference to a product, we may refer to the other cited decisions as infra. D 15.1. The case of Alpine Industries (supra) essentially related to the question of classification of the product ‘Lip Salve’, manufactured in accordance with the defence services specifications and supplied entirely to military personnel, as a ‘medicament’ under Chapter 30 or as ‘a preparation for care of skin’ under Chapter 33. This Court, while dealing E with common parlance theory, held that the entries are not to be understood in their scientific or technical sense, but by their popular meaning for the purpose of interpretation. This Court said: - “5. It is well established that in interpreting tariff entries in taxation statute like the Excise Act, where the primary F object is to raise revenue and for that purpose various products are differently classified, the entries are not to be understood in their scientific and technical meaning. The terms and expressions used in tariff have to be understood by their popular meaning that is the meaning that is attached to them by those using the product. See the decision of the G Supreme Court on the dispute regarding classification for excise duty, the product — Lal Dant Manjan manufactured by Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhavan Ltd. reported in the case of Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhavan Ltd. v. CCE [(1996) 9 SCC 402].