to both the parties because of the pendency of the Writ Petition. A monetary loss was being caused to the appellant- trust as it was losing the interest on the awarded amount under Section 11 of the said Act, and the respondent no. 1- Committee though was in dire need of the land, was deprived of the possession of the said lands under Acquisition. As per the said consent terms, both the parties had agreed that the relevant date for determining the market value of the lands in question would be 17.12.1994. It was further agreed that the appellant- trust would hand over the vacant and peaceful possession to the respondent- Committee and the appellant would be paid the amount determined under the Award under Section 11 of the Act by the respondent- Committee within four weeks from the date of the passed by the Court. Lastly, it was agreed that the appellant- trust shall within a period of four weeks fi le an application to the respondent no. 2 under Section 18 of the Act and the respondent no. 2 shall send the said reference for determination of value of the land as on 17.12.1994 to the District Court, Nashik. The High Court disposed of the said Writ Petition giving directions in terms of the said consent terms. 6. Now, since the consent terms as well as the directions contained in the of High Court were silent as to within what period the appellant should make application to the respondent- Collector seeking Reference under Section 18 of the Act, the respondent- Committee taking undue advantage of such ambiguity in the consent terms, raised the issue of limitation before the Reference Court. Such a plea raised after taking over the possession of lands in question from the appellant was not only not in consonance with the tenor of the consent terms but it smacked of ulterior motive on the part of the respondent. The High Court while disposing of the Writ Petition No. 607 of 1996 had given directions in terms of the consent terms, and both the parties were expected to act accordingly. In view of said directions given by the High Court, the issue of limitation contained in Section 18 of the Act had clearly paled into insignifi cance, and the respondent could not have raised such a plea before the Reference Court or before the High Court. 7. There cannot be any disagreement to the legal proposition that in view of the proviso to Section 18 of the said Act, every application to the Collector seeking reference under Section 18 is required to be made within the time limit prescribed in the proviso to Section 18. However, in the instant case, the parties having entered into the consent terms on 20.10.1997 after the award under SHRI NASHIK PANCHAVATI PANJARPOL TRUST AND ORS. v. 601 THE CHAIRMAN AND ANR. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] Section 11 was made on 12.01.1996, and the respondent having specifi cally agreed to pay the compensation awarded under Section 11 and take over the vacant and peaceful possession of the lands in question from the appellant as also having agreed to make reference to the District Court, Nashik, for the determination of market value of the said lands as on 17.12.1994, it did not lie in the mouth of the respondent- Committee to say that the application made by the appellant- trust seeking reference to the District Court, Nashik was beyond the period of limitation prescribed under Section 18 or was not in consonance with the consent terms arrived at between the parties.