NCTD, similar to other States, also represents the representative form of government. The involvement of the Union of India in the administration of NCTD is limited by constitutional provisions, and any further expansion would be C contrary to the constitutional scheme of governance. 161. We shall take the example of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, which deal with the posting of IAS Officers. Rule 2(a) defines ‘cadre officer’ to mean a member of IAS. Rule 2(b) defines ‘Cadre post’ as any post specified under item I of each cadre in the D schedule to the Indian Administrative Service (Fixation of Cadre Strength) Regulations, 1955. Rule 2(c) defines ‘State’ to mean a State specified in the First Schedule of the Constitution and includes a Union Territory. Rule 2(d) defines ‘State Government concerned’, in relation to a Joint cadre, to mean the Joint Cadre Authority. The constitution and composition of a ‘Joint Cadre Authority’ is understood with reference to the All India E Services (Joint Cadre) Rules 1972. The 1972 Rules apply to a “Joint Cadre constituted for any group of States other than the Joint Cadre of Union Territories.”52 Rule 3 of the IAS (Cadre) Rules 1954 provides for the constitution of cadres for each State or group of States “as a ‘State Cadre’ or, as the case may be, a ‘Joint Cadre’”. Rule 5 empowers the F Central Government to allocate cadre officers to various cadres. In terms of Rule 5(1), the allocation of cadre officers to the various cadres shall be made by the Central Government in consultation with the State Government or the State Government concerned. Rule 7 stipulates that all appointments to cadre posts shall be made “on the recommendation of the Civil Services Board” — by the State Government “in the case of G a state cadre”, and by the State Government concerned, as defined in Rule 2(d), “in the case of a joint cadre”. Under Rule 11A, the “Government of that State” is provided with powers to take decisions under Rule 7 (and other mentioned rules) in relation to the members of the Joint Cadre H 52 Section 1(i), All India Services (Joint Cadre) Rules 1972 GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 581 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Service “serving in connection with the affairs of any of the Constituent A States”. A combined reading of Rules 2, 7, and 11A indicates that the postings within the State Cadre as well as Joint Cadre of a Constituent State shall be made by the “Government of that State”, that is, by the duly elected government. In our case, it shall be the Government of NCTD. We accordingly hold that references to “State Government” in B relevant Rules of All India Services or Joint Cadre Services, of which NCTD is a part or which are in relation to NCTD, shall mean the Government of NCTD. 162. We reiterate that in light of Article 239AA and the 2018 Constitution Bench , the Lieutenant Governor is bound by the C aid and advice of the Council of Ministers of NCTD in relation to matters within the legislative scope of NCTD.