which was held by the other candidates. In para 10 of the said case, it was stated as under: “We find absolutely no force in the argument advanced by the respondents that B.Ed. qualifi cation is a higher qualifi cation than TTC and therefore, the B.Ed. candidates should be held to be eligible to compete for the post…………….” These fi ndings were reiterated by Supreme Court in Yogesh Kumar v. Government of NCT, Delhi14, holding that though B.Ed. is a well-recognized 13 (2003) 3 SCC 541 14 (2003) 3 SC 548 182 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. qualifi cation in the fi eld of teaching, yet it is a training which equips a candidate to teach higher classes, not classes at primary level. 27. B.Ed. is not a qualifi cation for teachers at Primary level of schooling. The pedagogical skills and training required from a teacher at Primary level is not expected from a B.Ed. trained teacher. They are trained to teach classes at higher level, post primary, secondary and above. For Primary level i.e. class I to class V the training is D.El.Ed or what is known as diploma in elementary education. It is a D.El.Ed. training course which is designed and structured to impart skills in a teacher who is to teach Primary level of students. Therefore, by implication the inclusion of B.Ed. as a qualifi cation amounts to lowering down of the ‘quality’ of education at Primary level. ‘Quality’ of education which was such an important component of the entire elementary education movement in this country, which we have discussed in the preceding paragraphs of this . 28. We are also conscious of the fact that, till the notifi cation dated 28.06.2018, the consistent policy of NCTE had been to exclude B.Ed. candidates from the eligibility criteria of Primary School Teachers. In the 23.08.2010 notifi cation – the fi rst given by NCTE in its capacity as the “academic authority” under Section 23 of the RTE Act, which has been referred in the preceding paragraphs, B.Ed. qualifi ed teachers were not considered for primary classes. All the same, purely in to equip the various State governments to establish enough training colleges/centres for imparting specialised training centres for elementary teachers, the B.Ed. candidates were to continue for a very limited period. 29. This was during the initial period starting from the year 2010 onwards, when the Act and the subsequent of NCTE laid down the qualifi cations for Primary School Teachers throughout the country. But essentially B.Ed. qualifi ed teachers were kept out from the purview of the eligibility of the teachers in primary schools as B.Ed. was not considered a “qualifi cation” for teachers at primary level. The inherent pedagogical weakness in B.Ed. courses (for primary classes), is well recognised, and it is for this reason that in the impugned notifi cation itself it is provided that B.Ed. trained teachers will have to undergo a six months training in elementary classes, within the fi rst two years of their appointment.