In terms of Section 5(b), the recruitment to, and the pay, allowances and all other conditions of service of the members of the Fire Service shall be such as may be prescribed. Section F 3 stipulates that there would be one fire service for the whole of Delhi and all officers and subordinate ranks of the fire service shall be liable for posting to any branch of the Fire Service. Chapter II of the Act provides for the organization, superintendence, control and maintenance of the fire service. Chapter III provides for the control and discipline of G the fire service. 153. The Delhi Fire Service is constituted under the Delhi Fire Service Act 2007, enacted by the Legislative Assembly of NCTD. 50 Section 65, The Delhi Fire Service Act 2007 H 578 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Provisions relating to administration, recruitment and conditions of service have been provided in the framework of the Act. In terms of Section 4, the superintendence of, and control over, the Fire Service vests in the Government, as defined in the Act. Section 6 provides for the classification of posts of the Fire Service into Group A, B, C and D posts. Section 7 stipulates that the Government shall make appointments B to any Group A or Group B posts after consultation with the Union Public Service Commission. Section 8 stipulates the appointment of a Director of the Delhi Fire Service for the direction and supervision of the Fire Service in Delhi. Section 14 stipulates that the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules 1964 and the Central Civil Services (Classification, C Control and Appeals) Rules 1965 and the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules 1972, as amended, shall be extended mutatis mutandis to all employees of the Delhi Fire Service. 154. Furthermore, under the powers conferred by Section 63 of the Act, the Lieutenant Governor has notified the Delhi Fire Service D Rules 2019, regulating the establishment, organization, and management on the Services. Rule 9 provides that the recruitment to various ranks in Fire Service shall be made in accordance with the recruitment rules notified by the Government. Rule 10 provides that the pay and allowances for various ranks in Fire Service shall be in accordance with the recommendations of the Pay Commission or any other authority as may E be appointed by the Government. 155. On an analysis of the provisions of the Delhi Fire Service Act 2007 and the Rules of 2019, it is clear that the statute includes posts, their recruitment process, salary and allowance, disciplinary power and control – all of which are constituents of a “service” under F Entry 41 of the State List, as held in Raman Law Keshav Lal (supra). Thus, the Delhi Fire Service Act 2007 was enacted by the Legislative Assembly of NCTD in exercise of its power under Entry 41 of the State List. 156. NCTD has already exercised its legislative power relating to G Entry 41 of the State List. However, the contours of “services” are very broad, and may be related to even “public ”, “police”, and “land” – which are outside the legislative domain and executive domain of NCTD.