160. The time, therefore, is ripe to deal with the meaning of the words open space reservation of land for communal and recreational purposes. 161. Group development falls under Rule 19(b)(2) of the DCR. E Group development is defined as accommodation for residential or commercial or combination of such activities housed in two or more blocks of buildings in a particular site irrespective of whether these structures are interconnected or not. Rule 19(b)(ii) proceeded to provide for the minimum width of the public road on which the site abuts. The F vehicular access way including passage if any within the site was to have a minimum width. It also referred to set back requirements.Parking standardswere prescribed [See 19(b)(ii)(v)]. It is, thereafter, that the open space requirement was provided by declaring that reservation of land for communal and recreational purposes shall be as follows and it must at this juncture be noticed that there is an explanation,which reads G as follows: - “Explanation: - (1) For the purposes of this rules, existing development defined as one “Where the extent of ground area covered by structures H 1154 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A already existing (prior to application) in 25% and above of the total site area”. (2) In case of existing development where it is difficult to leave the 10% area as open space for communal / recreational purposes, the Authority reserves the right to collect the market value of B equivalent land in lieu of the land to be reserved. However, if on a future date the developer wants to demolish the existing structures and raise new structures on the site in question, the communal and recreational space shall be reserved, as per rule. (3) The land so reserved shall be free from any construction by C the owner or promoter or developer. The land for communal and recreational purposes shall be restricted at ground level in a shape and location to be specified by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority.” 162. In the case of Writ Petition No. 691 of 2015 wherein the regulation of the year 2008 has been challenged as we have noticed D there is no challenge to Regulation 29(6)(a), which, inter alia, provides how the land reserved is to be restricted at the ground level. It is true that there is a challenge to Annexure XX, which we have extracted in paragraph 118 of the . But the absence of challenge to Regulation 29(6) is fatal.We must proceed on the basis that there is no challenge to E the terms of the explanation to Rule 19(b)(II)(vi) which in Clause (iii) provides that the land so reserved shall be free from any construction by the owner, promoter or developer, and what is more important, the manner in which the land is to be provided for communal and recreational purpose is that it is to be restricted at ground level in a shape and location to be specified by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority. This F provision has not been expressly challenged.