This being the fundamental right guaranteed to the arrested person, the mode of conveying information of the grounds of arrest must necessarily be meaningful so as to serve the intended purpose. It may be noted that Section 45 of the Act of 2002 enables the person arrested under Section 19 thereof to seek release on bail but it postulates that unless the twin conditions prescribed thereunder are satisfi ed, such a person would not be entitled to grant of bail. The twin conditions set out in the provision are that, fi rstly, the Court must be satisfi ed, after giving an opportunity to the public prosecutor to oppose the application for release, that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the arrested person is not guilty of the off ence and, secondly, that he is not likely to commit any off ence while on bail. To meet this requirement, it would be essential for the arrested person to be aware of the grounds on which the authorized offi cer arrested him/ her under Section 19 and the basis for the offi cer’s ‘reason to believe’ that he/she is guilty of an off ence punishable under the Act of 2002. It is only if the arrested person has knowledge of these facts that he/she would be in a position to plead and prove before the Special Court that there are grounds to believe that he/she is not guilty of such off ence, so as to avail the relief of bail. Therefore, communication of the grounds of arrest, as mandated by Article 22(1) of the Constitution and Section 19 of the Act of 2002, is meant to serve this higher purpose and must be given due importance. 736 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 30. We may also note that the language of Section 19 of the Act of 2002 puts it beyond doubt that the authorized offi cer has to record in writing the reasons for forming the belief that the person proposed to be arrested is guilty of an off ence punishable under the Act of 2002. Section 19(2) requires the authorized offi cer to forward a copy of the arrest along with the material in his possession, referred to in Section 19(1), to the Adjudicating Authority in a sealed envelope. Though it is not necessary for the arrested person to be supplied with all the material that is forwarded to the Adjudicating Authority under Section 19(2), he/she has a constitutional and statutory right to be ‘informed’ of the grounds of arrest, which are compulsorily recorded in writing by the authorized offi cer in keeping with the mandate of Section 19(1) of the Act of 2002. As already noted hereinbefore, It seems that the mode of informing this to the persons arrested is left to the option of the ED’s authorized offi cers in diff erent parts of the country, i.e., to either furnish such grounds of arrest in writing or to allow such grounds to be read by the arrested person or be read over and explained to such person.