Article 152 indicated that after the obliteration of the distinction between Part A and Part B States (as a consequence of which Jammu and Kashmir was classifi ed as a State in the First Schedule), Part VI would still not apply to it. 311. Sub-clause (b) of clause (1) of Article 370 limited the power of Parliament to make laws for the State of Jammu and Kashmir. It stipulated in 247 Article 152 “In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires, the expression “State” does not include the State of Jammu and Kashmir”. 190 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. sub-clause (b)(i) of clause (1) that the Dominion Legislature may enact laws on those matters in the Union and the Concurrent Lists of the Seventh Schedule which as declared by the President in consultation with the Government of the State to correspond to matters specifi ed in the IoA. Sub-clause (b)(ii) covered “such other matters” in the said Lists, that is, the Union and Concurrent Lists which the President could with the concurrence of the Government of the State ‘specify by ’. Sub-clause (b), in other words, dealt with the specifi cation of matters by the President among the subjects comprised in the Union and the Concurrent Lists over which Parliament would have power to make laws with respect to Jammu and Kashmir. Sub-clause (b)(i) provided for consultation by the President with the State Government while sub-clause (b)(ii) provided for the concurrence of the State Government. 312. Both the above sub-clauses dealt with the scope of the power of Parliament to make laws for Jammu and Kashmir with respect to matters in the Union and the Concurrent Lists. With respect to matters which were set out in the IoA, a consultative process with the State Government was envisaged. However, where the matters to be specifi ed in the Union and the Concurrent Lists were not comprehended in the IoA as matters on which Parliament could legislate, the concurrence of the State Government was required. The IoA conferred power on Parliament to enact laws on four subjects namely defence, external aff airs, communications and ancillary matters. The Explanation below sub-clause (b)(ii) indicated that for the purposes of the Article the Government of the State would mean the person for the time being recognized by the President as the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir acting on the advice of the Council of Ministers under the Proclamation of the Maharaja dated 5 March 1948. Though the Explanation appears immediately below sub-clause (b)(ii), it is evident from the use of expression “for the purposes of this Article” that the Explanation applies to the entirety of Article 370. 313. Sub-clause (c) of Article 370(1) provided that Article 1 and Article 370 “shall apply in relation to that State”. As a consequence, Jammu and Kashmir became on the adoption of the Constitution on 26 January 1950 an integral part of “India that is Bharat” which as Article 1(1) stipulates “shall be a Union of States”. The provisions of Article 370(1)(c) made it clear that Jammu and Kashmir was governed by Article 1.