Section 6, in other words, excluded the devolution of property by testamentary or intestate succession by expressly incorporating the principle of survivorship. The proviso to Section 6 however contained an exception where the deceased had left surviving a female relative specifi ed in Class I of the Schedule or a male relative of the class who claimed through such a female relative in which case the interest of the deceased in the Mitakshara coparcenary property would devolve by testamentary or intestate succession of property under the Act and not by survivorship. Explanation 1 to Section 6 contained a deeming fi ction according to which for the purpose of the Section, the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener was deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death. 28. The provisions of Section 6, as they stood prior to the amendment, came up for consideration before a three-judge Bench of this Court in Gurupad Khandappa v. Hirabai Khandappa Magdum43. In that case, 43 (1978) 3 SCC 383 348 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Khandappa, who had an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property,died on 27 June 1960 leaving his wife Hirabai, his two sons, and three daughters. Hirabai instituted a suit for partition. Since the widow and daughters were amongst the family relatives specifi ed in Class I of the Schedule, the proviso to Section 6 came into play and the normal rule of survivorship was excluded. This Court noted that the plaintiff ’s relief was determined by two things: (i) her share in her husband’s share; and (ii) her husband’s own share in the coparcenary property. Since the deceased was survived by two sons, three daughters and his widow, the Court observed that each of the six sharers would have an equal share of 1/6th. The next step was to determine the share which the deceased had in the coparcenary property. Elaborating on that, the Court held: “9. The next step, equally important though not equally easy to work out, is to fi nd out the share which the deceased had in the coparcenary property because after all, the plaintiff has a 1/6th interest in that share. Explanation 1 which contains the formula for determining the share of the deceased creates a fi ction by providing that the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death. One must, therefore, imagine a state of aff airs in which a little prior to Khandappa’s death, a partition of the coparcenary property was eff ected between him and other members of the coparcenary. Though the plaintiff , not being a coparcener, was not entitled to demand partition yet if a partition were to take place between her husband and his two sons she would be entitled to receive a share equal to that of a son.