A to consider the same in invocation of the power under Article 136. While considering this appeal, in that view of the matter, it is only proper and profitable to refer to the following crucial and relevant facts obtained in the case: (i) Exhibit 128 is a registered sale deed. B (ii) Its execution is admitted by both the original defendants. (True that the second defendant (first respondent herein) contends that it was executed as a collateral security at the time of a money lending transaction). (iii) The second defendant (first respondent herein) has also C admitted execution of registered sale deed in favour of defendant No. 1 (earlier in point of time than Exhibit 128) in respect of 2 acres and 20 guntas. (Here also, the second defendant claimed that the sale deed was executed as a collateral security for the money borrowed and therefore repayable to him along with the quantified fixed interest thereon). D 11.We have already referred to the issues/points formulated by the courts below and the findings returned by the respective courts which formed the basis for their respective s. Bearing in mind the decisions referred supra and also the relevant facts available, as noted above and also the relevant provisions under the relevant enactments, to E be referred to hereafter, we may proceed to consider this appeal. 12.As noted earlier, after reversing the and decree of the First Appellate Court, the High Court restored the decree of the trial Court. In this context, it is apt to note the re-framed substantial question of law No. 3 by the High Court, extracted above, that carries the query F whether, while reversing the findings recorded by the trial Court, the lower appellate Court had ignored the findings recorded by it on the material facts in the light of undisputed factual position. We may hasten to add here that a bare perusal of the impugned would reveal that after framing such a question of law the High Court did the very G seemingly attributed act inasmuch as it did not consider the legal impact and effect of Ext. 128, registered sale deed, which was taken into consideration by the First Appellate Court, while reversing the and decree of the First Appellate Court. 13.A scanning of the trial Court would reveal indubitably H that despite the admission of the execution and registration of Exhibit DAMODHAR NARAYAN SAWALE (D) THROUGH LRS. v. SHRI 189 TEJRAO BAJIRAO MHASKE & ORS. [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] 128 sale deed dated 21.04.1979 by the second defendant in favour of A the plaintiff and also that of the sale deed dated 04.07.1978 by him to the first defendant, it had failed to consider the legal effect and impact of execution and registration of such a sale deed in view of the provisions under the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, as also the Registration Act, 1908, and sans such consideration accepted the second defendant’s B contention that it is a sham document. Paragraph 7 of the of the trial Court would reveal that despite the admission of execution and registration of Ext.