That a presumption ought not to have been drawn in the present case as the plaintiffs have failed to produce H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 169 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] the power of attorney or even a copy thereof to prove the existence of A the same. 11. It was further contended that even if it was to be assumed that a power of attorney was executed by Braja Mohan Dey in favour of plaintiff no. 2, the same would still not be valid in the eye of law owing to reasons of non- satisfaction of the statutory requirements of Section B 33 (1) (c) of the Registration Act, 1908. That it was an undisputed fact that as on the date on which the power of attorney is stated to be executed, Braja Mohan Dey was residing in East Pakistan. That a power of attorney executed in a foreign country, in to be valid would have to be executed in accordance with Section 33 (1) (c) of the Registration Act, C 1908. However, in the instant case, there is no evidence to demonstrate that the power of attorney was executed in accordance with the said statutory provision. That since the execution of the power of attorney was not in accordance with Section 33(1)(c), no statutory presumption can be drawn under Section 60 of the Registration Act, 1908, as to the validity of the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968. D 12. It was next submitted that the conduct of plaintiff no. 2 required consideration inasmuch as he executed the second sale deed in favour of his wife, as the power of attorney of the original owner, even though he could have executed the same in his capacity as owner of the suit property by virtue of the sale made in his favour on 03rd September, E 1968. 13. Sri Rana Mukherjee, Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the defendants- appellants contended that a party who avers title in a property must prove the same and such party is not relieved of the onus probandi. That assuming for the sake of argument that the F suit was not defended by the defendants, the plaintiffs would still have to prove their title in to be entitled to a decree. With the aforesaid averments, it was prayed that the impugned of the High Court be set-aside and the of the Trial Court which was affirmed by the first appellate court, be restored. G 14. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondents-plaintiffs supported the impugned of the High Court and contended that the High Court rightly drew a statutory presumption as to the validity of the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968. That it is trite law that registration of a document is a solemn act and the recitals of a registered H 170 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A document are presumed to be valid unless such a presumption is rebutted by strong evidence to the contrary.