The subsequent correspondence show that the work of cutting, filling, levelling and terracing was completed, only to enable the H GODREJ AND BOYCE MANUFACTURING COMPANY LTD. THR. ITS 81 CONSTITUTED ATTORNEY v. THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER MUMBAI [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] Corporation to accept the surrender of land and grant TDR. This will be A clear from the letter dated 20.07.1995 issued by the Chief Engineer laying down certain conditions including the construction of Storm Water Drains, for the purpose of grant of DRC even for the surrender of land; (vi) It is only in the letter dated 28.09.1995 sent by Worthy Enterprises that a mention about “additional amenity” is made for the B first time. Till this letter, there was no mention about any “additional amenity” and all the activities of development agreed to be undertaken or actually undertaken were for the purpose of convincing the Corporation to accept the land and grant TDR; (vii) Even internal note dated 30.11.1995 speaks about conditions C for the grant of DRC towards TDR and not about additional TDR; (viii) A perusal of the possession receipt dated 09.12.1995 contains a description of the subject matter as follows:- “Grant of DRC in lieu of land….” D This possession receipt notes that a compound wall with a gate has been provided and that the D.P. Road with provisions of Storm Water Drain has been constructed and that the possession of the land is taken subject to the owner agreeing to rectify the defects in the works. Therefore, it is clear that whatever works were undertaken by appellant No.1 and their Architects, were part of the conditions fulfilled to make the Corporation E accept the surrender of land and issue a DRC towards TDR. (ix) If cutting, filling, levelling, terracing etc., formed part of the development of the amenity for gaining additional TDR, there was no necessity for appellant No.1 to have got into a tie-up with appellant No.2, the partner of Mayfair Housing and that too after the handing F over of possession. In fact, as noted earlier, appellant No.2 and Mayfair Housing jumped into the fray only after appellant No.1 completed the work of filling, levelling, construction of Storm Water Drains etc., through their Architects and handed over possession on 09.12.1995 and received DRC for the surrender of the land on 02.01.1996; G (x) It is interesting to note that the two deeds of Power of Attorney executed by appellant No.1 in favour of appellant No.2 are dated 24.12.1996. But even before the said date, Mayfair Housing writes a letter dated 20.11.1996 seeking permission to develop and maintain a garden in the land. At the cost of repetition, it should be stated that if H 82 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A cutting, filling, levelling etc., constituted the development of amenity for the purpose of earning Additional TDR, they have all been done even before Mayfair Housing came into the picture. If the development of amenity had already taken place, there was nothing for Mayfair Housing to do and yet they seek by a letter dated 20.11.1996 permission to develop and maintain a garden; B (xi) A list of works to be carried out for the purpose of maintenance of the garden annexed to the note of the Deputy Municipal Commissioner shows that they were primarily for the maintenance of the existing facilities; C (xii) Another conundrum evidenced by the documents is that the second deed of Power of Attorney dated 24.12.1996 authorises the power agent to apply for getting permission from the authorised department of the Corporation for the construction of Recreation Ground.