Insofar as inter-State transfer of any suit, appeal or other proceeding is concerned, a plain and literal reading of section 25 of the F CPC does suggest that the power to so transfer lies with the Supreme Court only. Paragraph 54 of Durgesh Sharma (supra), heavily relied upon by Mr. Balgopal, lends support to his contentions. Having regard to the scheme of section 25 of the CPC and on its plain terms, read with Durgesh Sharma (supra), Mr. Balgopal seems to have a point that G such an inter-State transfer of the nature prayed by the appellants cannot be ed under section 24. However, something more seems to be visible when we put on our judicial lens to resolve the issue. 37. Section 24 of the CPC is a general power of ‘transfer and withdrawal’ capable of being invoked by the High Courts at any stage H either suo motu without notice or on the application of any of the parties SHAH NEWAZ KHAN v. STATE OF NAGALAND 1007 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] after notice, whereas section 25 confers exclusive power on the Supreme A Court, on the application of either of the parties and after notice, to transfer suits, etc. from the Courts stated therein. While section 24 is part of the general law, section 25 is the special law. Clause (b) of sub- section (1) of section 24, which is relevant for the present case, opens up an avenue for the High Court, upon reaching a satisfaction that a B case for transfer has been made out, to withdraw any suit, appeal or other proceeding pending in any court subordinate to it and (i) to try and dispose of the same; or (ii) to transfer the same for trial or disposal to any court subordinate to it and competent to try or dispose of the same; or (iii) to retransfer the same for trial or disposal to the court from which it is withdrawn; whereas, section 25 empowers the Supreme Court on a C satisfaction being recorded that an is expedient for the ends of justice to direct that any suit, appeal or other proceeding be transferred (i) from one High Court to a High Court; and (ii) from other Civil Court in one State to other Civil Court in any other State. The text of the two sections, therefore, makes the position clear about the powers reserved D for the High Courts and the Supreme Court to transfer suits, appeal or other proceedings. Law is well-settled, and we may profitably refer to the decision in Amarendra Pratap Singh vs. Tej Bahadur Prajapati8, that a general law cannot defeat the provisions of a special law to the extent to which they are in conflict; else, an effort has to be made at reconciling the two provisions by homogenous reading. What, therefore, E needs to be seen and appreciated is whether there is any conflict or inconsistency between the general law (section 24) and the special law (section 25) for the former to yield to the latter, and ascertain whether the High Court still has the jurisdiction under the general law to an inter-State transfer notwithstanding the special law vesting the Supreme F Court with such power of transfer.