There has been increasing clamour to decriminalise polity and hold elected representatives accountable for their criminal antecedents. It is a hard truth 982 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. that persons with a criminal background are potential threats to the very idea of democracy, since they often resort to criminal means to succeed in elections and other ventures. In the present context too, substantial doubt has been cast upon the Appellant’s criminal antecedents along with the veracity and threat posed by these claims, in light of the many FIRs that have been produced in these proceedings. 20. While this concern is undeniably pertinent, it remains the duty of the courts to interpret the law in its current form. Although ‘moral turpitude’ may carry relevance within the context of elected representatives, the courts are bound to construe the law in its extant state and confi ne their deliberations to those facets explicitly outlined, rather than delving into considerations pertaining to the moral rectitude or ethical character of actions. This is especially true when it is solely motivated by the convicted individual’s status as a political representative, with the aim of disqualifi cation pursuant to the RPA. 21. Having said so, we hasten to hold that societal interest is an equally important factor which ought to be zealously protected and preserved by the Courts. The literal construction of a provision such as Section 389(1) of the CrPC may be benefi cial to a convict but not at the cost of legitimate public aspirations. It would thus be appropriate for the Courts to balance the interests of protecting the integrity of the electoral process on one hand, while also ensuring that constituents are not bereft of their right to be represented, merely consequent to a threshold opinion, which is open to further judicial scrutiny. 22. We are of the further considered opinion that, the phenomena of docket explosion or the high backlog of cases should not be construed as valid grounds for thwarting the legislative intent enshrined in Section 8(3) of the RPA, which inter alia provides that: “…..(3) A person convicted of any offence and sentenced to imprisonment for not less than two years [other than any off ence referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)] shall be disqualifi ed from the date of such conviction and shall continue to be disqualifi ed for a further period of six years since his release….” AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 983 [SURYA KANT, J.] 23. It is therefore imperative to weigh the competing interests presented by both the Appellant and the State. This case pertains to (a) the Appellant’s disqualifi cation as a Member of the Lok Sabha under Section 8(3) of the RPA, which disentitles a person who has been convicted and sentenced for a period exceeding two years, from holding offi ce or contesting elections; and (b) the State’s pursuit of a conviction under Section 3(1) of the UP Gangsters Act, which penalises individuals labelled as a ‘gangster’ for participation in organised crime and engaging in anti-social activities.