A down any guidelines. Thus, by reason of such a provision alone, the regulation-making power cannot be exercised so as to bring into existence substantive rights or obligations or disabilities which are not contemplated in terms of the provisions of the said Act. 26. We may, in this connection refer to a decision of this Court B in Kunj Behari Lal Butail v. State of H.P. [(2000) 3 SCC 40] wherein a three-Judge Bench of this Court held as under: (SCC p. 47, para 14) “14. We are also of the opinion that a delegated power to legislate by making rules ‘for carrying out the purposes of the Act’ is a general delegation without laying down any guidelines; it cannot C be so exercised as to bring into existence substantive rights or obligations or disabilities not contemplated by the provisions of the Act itself.” [See also State of Kerala v. Unni [(2007) 2 SCC 365] (SCC paras 32 to 37) and A.P. Electricity Regulatory Commission v. R.V.K. D Energy (P) Ltd. [(2008) 17 SCC 769 : (2008) 9 Scale 529] ] 55. The case law is relied upon to contend that the impugned provisions, in the cases before us, purport to achieve, what is not contemplated by the Act. In other words, the Act does not contemplate the execution of the gift deed. It becomes impermissible for the Delegate E of the Law Giver to make subordinate legislation to provide so. We may only finally notice the recent of this Court in Indian Young Lawyers Association and others (Sabarimala Temple-In Re.) v. State of Kerala and others33, where this Court has reiterated the aforesaid principles. (See paragraphs 137 to 140 and paragraph 373). F THE IMPACT OF SECTIONS 36 AND 37 56. The appellants/petitioner would argue that Sections 36 and 37 contemplate acquisition of the lands which are reserved. This means that there cannot be a gift deed, as contemplated in the impugned Rules/ Regulations. G 57. We are afraid that though at first blush, the argument may appear to be attractive, it cannot pass muster on a deeper scrutiny. What Section 36 provides is, for power to acquire land, under the Land Acquisition Act. It goes on to provide that any land required, reserved or designated in a regional plan, master plan, detailed development plan, is H 33 (2019) 11 SCC 1 ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1083 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] deemed to be land needed for a public purpose under the Land Acquisition A Act. What is more, such land can be acquired under the said law, as modified in the Act. It is thereafter that Section 37 contemplates that upon publication of the notice in a Government Gazette of the preparation of the plan that any land is required, reserved or designated in such plan, the appropriate Planning Authority, which includes, no doubt, the CMDA, B can do two things: (1) It may enter into an agreement for the acquisition by purchase of any land.