At this stage, in our view, the High Court had gone wrong and was influenced with the condition of eligibility to be looked into on the last date of application, while examining the production of certificate of the category to which the candidate belong and participated in the selection process is in no manner co-related with the F conditions of eligibility and the s relied upon to non-suite the claim of the appellants has no application in the facts of the instant case. 40. To understand the dynamics, the Government has come out with the Circulars earlier dated 9th September, 2015 followed with 08th October, 2019 of which reference has been made, but it has always G to commensurate with the process of selection when the advertisement has been published by the recruiting authorities for making open selection and in every advertisement notified by the recruiting authority, the last date of application is bound to differ and that may change the complete dynamics of the certificate which the applicant holds and he is not supposed to obtain the certificate of category in conformity with each H SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 611 OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] advertisement and it is not being practically possible and that appears to A be the reason since there was no scheme or instructions in place which may regulate and streamline as to what is the procedure the applicant has to follow while participating in the selection process intending to avail the benefit of reservation for various categories and to overcome the on-going litigation, the State Government has stepped in and clarified B under its directives dated 17th October, 2022 indicating that if the applicant has failed to furnish the certificate on the last date of application or furnish the same of the date later to the last date of application, he has to furnish an affidavit that if it is found to be incorrect or false, such appointment will be cancelled. To our mind, it may be an ad-hoc situation noticed to meet out the current exigency by the Government, but the C recruiting authority or the Government, as the case may be, has to examine the issue in totality and take into consideration the grievances which are being raised and considered by the Court at various stages and to issue clear guidelines with wide circulation which the candidates have to follow who wants to avail the benefit of reservation to avoid/overcome the D litigation. 41. To sum up further, as noticed by this Court, the final merit list of 120 selected candidates was notified by the respondents as indicated in the notice dated 30th August, 2022 and there is no provision under the Scheme of Rules, 2010 of having any waiting list/reserve list. Thus, no E further appointments could be made after the final select list of 120 candidates has been exhausted on account of non-joining or for any other reason of the candidates. 42. It is informed to this Court that out of 120 candidates who were recommended for appointment, appointment s were issued F to 119 candidates on 09th March, 2023 and five candidates have not joined and that apart in MBC (NCL) category, five vacancies were reserved and only two candidates are appointed and three vacancies are filled by open category.