Thus, an effort must be made to give effect to both Entries and thereby G arrive at a reconciliation or harmonious construction of the same. In other words, a construction which would reduce one of the Entries nugatory or dead letter, is not to be followed. 11.10. The sequitur to the aforesaid discussion is that if the Legislature passes a law which is beyond its legislative competence, it is H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 949 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] a nullity ab-initio. The Legislation is rendered null and void for want of A jurisdiction or legislative competence vide RMDC vs. Union of India, AIR 1957 SC 628, (“RMDC”). 11.11. Under the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, Lists I & II are divided essentially into two groups: One, relating to the power to legislate on specified subjects and the other, relating to the power to tax. B In Hoechst Pharmaceuticals Ltd. vs. State of Bihar, AIR 1983 SC 1019, (“Hoechst Pharmaceuticals Ltd.”), it has been categorically held that taxation is considered as a distinct matter for purposes of legislative competence. 11.12. Having regard to the aforesaid discussion, we now answer C the points for consideration. While doing so, the following approach is being adopted with regard to the interpretation of the Entries of the Lists of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution: i) The Entries in the different Lists should be read together without giving a narrow meaning to any of them. The powers D of the Union and the State Legislatures are expressed in precise and definite terms. Hence, there can be no broader interpretation given to one Entry than to the other. Even where an Entry is worded in wide terms, it cannot be so interpreted as to negate or override another Entry or make E another Entry meaningless. In case of an apparent conflict between different Entries, it is the duty of the Court to reconcile them in the first instance. ii) In case of an apparent overlapping between two Entries, the doctrine of pith and substance has to be applied to find out the true nature of a legislation and the Entry within F which it would fall. iii) Where one Entry is made ‘subject to’ another Entry, all that it means is that out of the scope of the former Entry, a field of legislation covered by the latter Entry has been reserved to be specially dealt with by the appropriate G Legislature. iv) When one item is general and another specific, the latter will exclude the former on a subject of legislation. If, however, they cannot be fairly reconciled, the power enumerated in List II must give way to List I. H 950 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A v) On a close perusal of the Entries in the three Lists of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, it is discerned that the Constitution has divided the topics of legislation into the following three broad categories: (i) Entries enabling laws to be made; (ii) Entries enabling taxes to be imposed; and (iii) Entries enabling fees and stamp duties to be collected.