C 2.3 The learned trial Court framed the following issues: “1. Whether plaintiff had performed his part of the contract, thereby entitling him for specific performance of the agreement? 2. Whether plaintiff has got any cause of action against defendants? 3. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to the reliefs sought? D 4. Relief and costs?” 2.4 On appreciation of the entire evidence on record, the learned trial Court decreed the suit for specific performance of agreement to sell dated 07.08.2005. However, at the same time and to do complete E justice between the parties, the learned trial Court directed the plaintiff to pay 25% more amount, over and above the agreed consideration i.e., sale consideration at the rate of Rs. 11,000/- per cent (Rs. 8750/- per cent + 25% = 10,037/-, rounded off to Rs. 11,000/-). The learned trial Court also directed the plaintiff to deposit the balance sale consideration, i.e., Rs. 3,97,000/-, within a period of two months. F 2.5 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the and decree passed by the learned trial Court decreeing the suit for specific performance of agreement to sell dated 7.8.2005, the defendants preferred an appeal before the High Court. Without upsetting the findings recorded by the learned trial Court on execution of agreement to sell G dated 7.8.2005; payment of part sale consideration and the other issues held in favour of the plaintiff, straightway the High Court considered Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act and opined that the trial Court was not justified in enhancing the sale consideration and ought not to have exercised the discretion in favour of the plaintiff. By the impugned H 254 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A and , the High Court, while relying upon and/or considering Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, has partly allowed the appeal and has set aside the and decree for specific performance and has directed the defendants to pay Rs. 3,10,000/- to the plaintiff. 2.6 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned B and passed by the High Court, setting aside the and decree passed by the learned trial Court for specific performance of agreement to sell, the original plaintiff has preferred the present appeal. 3. It is vehemently submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that in the facts and circumstances of the case, C the High Court has committed an error in reversing the decree of specific performance. 3.1 It is submitted that the execution of the agreement to sell and receipt of part sale consideration have not been disputed by the defendants. D 3.2 It is submitted that as per the conditions mentioned in the agreement to sell, the balance sale consideration was required to be paid within a period of six months from the date after measuring the property provided the defendants make available the documents of title including the purchase certificate under Kerala Land Reforms Act, which was yet to be obtained. E 3.3 It is submitted that even the purchase certificate was issued by the Government during the pendency of the suit.