): The group of companies doctrine has an independent existence as a principle of law which stems from a harmonious reading of s.2(1)(h) along with s.7 of the Arbitration Act. [Para 165] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Group of Companies doctrine – In Chloro Controls case, a three Judge Bench of Supreme Court read the said doctrine into the phrase “claiming through or under” in s.45 of the Arbitration Act – Challenge to. Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The approach of the Supreme Court in Chloro Controls case to the extent that it traced the group of companies doctrine to the phrase “claiming through or under” is erroneous and against the well-established principles of contract law and corporate law. [Para 165] Arbitration – Group of companies doctrine – Applicability – Non-signatory, if party to arbitration agreement – Determination – Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s.7(4)(b). Held (per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.) (Concurring with Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI): An agreement to refer disputes to arbitration must be in a written form, as against an oral agreement, but need not be signed by the parties – Under s.7(4)(b), a court or arbitral tribunal will determine whether a non-signatory is a party to an arbitration agreement by interpreting the express language employed by the parties in the record of agreement, coupled with surrounding circumstances of the formation, performance, and discharge of the contract – While interpreting and constructing the contract, courts or tribunals may adopt well-established principles, which aid and assist proper adjudication and determination – The Group of Companies doctrine is one such principle. [Para 56] COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 629 Arbitration – Group of companies doctrine – Arbitration agreement – Ascertaining the intention of the non-signatory. Held (per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.) (Concurring with Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI): The Group of Companies doctrine is also premised on ascertaining the intention of the non-signatory to be party to an arbitration agreement – The doctrine requires the intention to be gathered from additional factors such as direct relationship with the signatory parties, commonality of subject-matter, composite nature of the transaction, and performance of the contract. [Para 56] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s.7(4)(b) – Inquiry by a court or arbitral tribunal under s.7(4)(b) and Group of companies doctrine. Held (per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.) (Concurring with Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI): Since the purpose of inquiry by a court or arbitral tribunal u/s.7(4)(b) and the Group of Companies doctrine is the same, the doctrine can be subsumed within s.7(4)(b) to enable a court or arbitral tribunal to determine the true intention and consent of the non- signatory parties to refer the matter to arbitration – The doctrine is subsumed within the statutory regime of s.7(4)(b) for the purpose of certainty and systematic development of law. [Para 56] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – ss.2(1)(h), 7, 8 and 45 – Expression “claiming through or under” in ss.8 and 45 – Diff erence from expression ‘party’ in s.2(1)(h) and 7.