The High Court vide the Impugned reversed the of acquittal passed by the Trial Court qua the appellant whereas the appeal against the co-accused-Accused No.2 (hereinafter referred to as “A2”) was dismissed. The same is under challenge in the present appeal by the appellant. SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANT: 7. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the ground for acquittal by the Trial Court is based on evidence and the reasons given are cogent for holding that the prosecution had failed to prove its case against the accused under Sections 302 and 2012 of the IPC. It was further submitted 2 201. Causing disappearance of evidence of off ence, or giving false information to screen off ender.—Whoever, knowing or having reason to believe that an off ence has been committed, causes any evidence of the commission of that off ence to disappear, with the intention of screening the off ender from legal punishment, or with that intention gives any information respecting the off ence which he knows or believes to be false, if a capital off ence.—shall, if the off ence which he knows or believes to have been committed is punishable with death, be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fi ne; if punishable with imprisonment for life.—and if the off ence is punishable with imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment which may extend to ten years, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fi ne; if punishable with less than ten years’ imprisonment.—and if the off ence is punishable with impris-onment for any term not extending to ten years, shall be punished with imprisonment of the description provided for the off ence, for a term which may extend R. SREENIVASA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 59 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] that the High Court erred in reversing the of acquittal against the appellant whereas not interfering with the acquittal of the A2 as, basically, the role(s) assigned to both is the same. 8. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that in the charge framed by the Trial Court, it was clearly mentioned that the specifi c allegation was that A2 was the person who had come to the house of the deceased two days prior to the fateful incident and taken him away on the pretext that the appellant’s father wanted to meet him whereas during deposition, PW3 and PW8 have stated that it was the appellant who had come and taken the deceased with him. 9. Learned counsel submitted that this very basic aspect which completely changes the theory of last seen cannot result in conviction of the appellant as that is the sole ground for reversal of acquittal by the High Court. It was submitted that the only material to hold that the deceased was last seen in the company of the appellant, by the High Court, was the testimony of PW10, that too based on the extra-judicial confession by the appellant before the police, when PW10 during trial had turned hostile.