There is an aspect of a citizen’s right to vote D being imbued with the fundamental freedom under Article 19(1)(a). The right of the citizen to seek and receive information about the candidates who should be chosen by him as his representative has been recognised as a fundamental right [SeePublic Interest Foundation (supra)]. The Election Commissioners including the Chief Election Commissioner blessed with nearly infinite powers and who are to abide by E thefundamental rights must be chosen not by the Executive exclusively and particularly without any objective yardstick. Y. THE SYMBOLS ; THE MODEL CODE OF CONDUCT F 166. Apart from the 1950 and 1951 Acts, the Code of Election Rules, 1961 came to be made. In the year 1968,The Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) , 1968[hereinafter referred to as, ‘the Symbols ’] came to be made by Notification dated 31.08.1968, in exercise of powers conferred under Article 324 of the Constitution read with Section 29A of the 1951 Act and Rules 5 and 10 of the Conduct of G Elections Rules. The Symbols deals with allotment and classification of symbols. Political parties are broadly divided into recognised political parties or unrecognised political parties. A recognised party may be a national party or a state party. Conditions for recognition of a party as national party and state party are separately laid down. Paragraph-15 of the Symbols reads as follows: H 140 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “15. Power of Commission in relation to splinter groups or rival sections of a recognised political party– When the Commission is satisfied on information in its possession that there are rival sections or groups of a recognised political party each of whom claims to be that party, the Commission may, B after taking into account all the available facts and circumstances of the case and hearing such representatives of the sections or groups and other persons as desire to be heard, decide that one such rival section or group or none of such rival sections or groups is that recognised political party and the decision of the Commission shall be binding on all such rival sections or groups.” C 167. Paragraph-16 deals with power of the Commission in case of amalgamation of two political parties. 168. In the very same year, that is 1968, a Model Code of Conduct also came to be issued. As of date, a large body of norms, forming part of the Model Code of Conduct, have been put in place. The Model Code D of Conduct for Guidance of Political Parties and Candidates provides, inter alia, as follows: “1. No party or candidate shall include in any activity which may aggravate existing differences or create mutual hatred or cause tension between different castes and communities, religious or E linguistic. xxx xxx xxx 3. There shall be no appeal to caste or communal feelings for securing votes. Mosques, Churches, Temples or other places of worship shall not be used as forum for election propaganda. F 4. All parties and candidates shall avoid scrupulously all activities which are “corrupt practices” and offences under the election law, such as bribing of voters, intimidation of voters, impersonation of voters, canvassing within 100 meters of polling stations, holding public meetings during the period of 48 hours ending with the hour G fixed for the close of the poll, and the transport and conveyance of voters to and from polling station.” 169.