The revocation of the permission was not the least restrictive means available at the disposal of MIB; and (iii) The High Court relied on material that was placed in a sealed cover to reject the challenge to the revocation . This G course of action undertaken by the High Court violates the principles of natural justice. 12 (2020) 3 SCC 637 H 13 (2017) 10 SCC 1 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 625 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 16. Mr Mukul Rohatgi, senior counsel appearing for the Kerala A Union of Working Journalists14 submitted that the freedom of the press protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution is one of the most precious freedoms and must not be infringed callously. He contended that though the conditions for renewal of permission are different from the conditions for the grant of permission, the High Court applied the B same standard for both the grant of permission and renewal of license. On the disclosure of relevant material to the High Court in a sealed cover, it was submitted that if there was sensitive information in the material, the respondent could have redacted it before allowing the appellants to peruse the file. It was argued that the sensitivity of material cannot preclude the affected party from viewing the remaining portions. C 17. Mr K M Nataraj, Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the respondents made the following submissions: (i) Paragraphs 9.2 and 10 of the Uplinking Guidelines demonstrate that security clearance is a pre-condition for D renewal of license; (ii) MIB was justified in revoking the permission granted to Media One because MHA denied security clearance; and (iii) The principles of natural justice stand excluded when issues of national security are involved (Ex-Armymen (supra) E and Digi Cable (supra)). C. Issues 18. The following issues arise in the course of determining the validity of the issued by MIB refusing to renew the uplinking and downlinking permission granted to MBL to operate the television channel, F Media One: (i) Whether security clearance is one of the conditions required to be fulfilled for renewal of permission under the Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines; G (ii) Whether denying a renewal of license and the course of action adopted by the Division Bench of the High Court violated the appellants procedural guarantees under the Constitution; and 14 SLP (C) No. 4678 of 2022 H 626 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (iii) Whether the denying renewal of license is an arbitrary restriction on MBL’s right to the freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. 19. Before proceeding to the analysis, certain factual aspects need to be noticed. On 3 May 2021, MBL submitted an application for renewal B of uplinking and downlinking permission to MIB. The application stated that the uplinking and downlinking permissions granted to Media One would expire on 30 September 2021 and 29 September 2021 respectively. In the statement filed by the ASG before the Kerala High Court, it was submitted that: C (i) the application for ‘renewal’ filed by the MBL was forwarded by MIB to MHA; and (ii) by a letter dated 29 December 2021, MHA denied security clearance to MBL for ‘renewal’ of uplinking and downlinking permission.