[…]An explanatory Act is generally passed to supply an obvious omission or to clear up doubts as to the meaning of the previous Act. It is well settled that if a statute is curative or merely declaratory of the previous law, retrospective operation is generally H 384 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A intended. The language ‘shall be deemed always to have meant’ or ‘shall be deemed never to have included’ is declaratory and is in plain terms retrospective. In the absence of clear words indicating that the amending Act is declaratory, it would not be so construed when the amended provision was clear and unambiguous. An amending Act may be purely clarificatory to B clear a meaning of a provision of the principal Act which was already implicit. A clarificatory amendment of this nature will have retrospective effect and, therefore, if the principal Act was existing law when the constitution came into force, the amending Act also will be part of the existing law.” C [Emphasis by us] 8.3. This Court in Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay vs. Podar Cement Pvt. Ltd., (1997) 226 ITR 625 (SC) noted that circumstances under which an amendment or modification was introduced and the consequences thereof would have to be borne in mind while D deciding the issue as to whether the amendment was clarificatory or substantive in its nature and whether it would have retrospective effect or not. 8.4. In Allied Motors Pvt. Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, Delhi, (1997) 224 ITR 677 (SC), this Court found that certain E unintended consequences flowed from a provision enacted by the Parliament. There was an obvious omission. In to cure the defect, a proviso was sought to be introduced through an amendment. The Court held that literal construction was liable to be avoided if it defeated the manifest object and purpose of the Act. This Court held that if the amendment was not read into the relevant provision F retrospectively, it would be impossible to reasonably interpret the said provision. That since there was an obvious omission in the provision, an amendment was necessitated which would clarify/ declare the law retrospectively. 9. The proposition of law that a clarificatory provision may be G made applicable retrospectively is so well established that we do not wish to burden this by referring to rulings in the same vein. However, it is necessary to dilate on the role of a clarification/explanation to a statute and how the same may be identified and distinguished from a substantive amendment. H SREE SANKARACHARYA UNIVERSITY OF SANSKRIT & 385 ORS. v. DR. MANU & ANR. [NAGARATHNA, J.] 9.1. An explanation/clarification may not expand or alter the scope A of the original provision, vide Bihta Cooperative Development Cane Marketing Union Ltd. vs. Bank of Bihar, A.I.R. 1967 SC 389. Merely describing a provision as an “Explanation” or a “clarification” is not decisive of its true meaning and import. On this aspect, this Court in Virtual Soft Systems Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, Delhi, B (2007) 289 ITR 83 (SC) observed as under: “Even if the statute does contain a statement to the effect that the amendment is declaratory or clarificatory, that is not the end of the matter.