C 6. It is the case on behalf of the Revenue that once upon the search under Section 132 or requisition under Section 132A, the assessment has to be done under Section 153A of the Act, 1961 and the AO thereafter has the jurisdiction to pass assessment s and to assess the ‘total income’ taking into consideration other material, though no incriminating material is found during the search even in respect of D completed/unabated assessments. 7. At the outset, it is required to be noted that as such various High Courts, namely, Delhi High Court, Gujarat High Court, Bombay High Court, Karnataka High Court, Orissa High Court, Calcutta High Court, Rajasthan High Court and the Kerala High Court have taken the E view that no addition can be made in respect of completed/unabated assessments in absence of any incriminating material. The lead is by the Delhi High Court in the case of Kabul Chawla (supra), which has been subsequently followed and approved by the other High Courts, referred to hereinabove. One another lead on the issue is the decision of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Saumya Construction F (supra), which has been followed by the Gujarat High Court in the subsequent decisions, referred to hereinabove. Only the Allahabad High Court in the case of Pr. Commissioner Of Income Taxv.Mehndipur Balaji, 2022 SCC OnLine All 444 : (2022) 447 ITR 517 has taken a contrary view. G 7.1 In the case of Kabul Chawla (supra), the Delhi High Court, while considering the very issue and on interpretation of Section 153A of the Act, 1961, has summarised the legal position as under: H PRINCIPAL COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, CENTRAL-3 929 v. ABHISAR BUILDWELL P. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Summary of the legal position A 38. On a conspectus of Section 153A(1) of the Act, read with the provisos thereto, and in the light of the law explained in the aforementioned decisions, the legal position that emerges is as under: B i. Once a search takes place under Section 132 of the Act, notice under Section 153A(1) will have to be mandatorily issued to the person searched requiring him to file returns for six AYs immediately preceding the previous year relevant to the AY in which the search takes place. C ii. Assessments and reassessments pending on the date of the search shall abate. The total income for such AYs will have to be computed by the AOs as a fresh exercise. iii. The AO will exercise normal assessment powers in respect of the six years previous to the relevant AY in which the search takes place. The AO has the power to assess and reassess the D ‘total income’ of the aforementioned six years in separate assessment s for each of the six years. In other words, there will be only one assessment in respect of each of the six AYs “in which both the disclosed and the undisclosed income would be brought to tax”. E iv. Although Section 153 A does not say that additions should be strictly made on the basis of evidence found in the course of the search, or other post-search material or information available with the AO which can be related to the evidence found, it does not mean that the assessment “can be arbitrary F or made without any relevance or nexus with the seized material.