Therefore, when the defi nitions of the terms ‘motor vehicle’ and ‘business’ were read into the charging provision, the inference was, only those who were not in the business of carrying passengers and goods, would not be covered by the charging provision. This loophole has also been plugged by way of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, inasmuch as the defi nition of ‘business’ has been enlarged and it now includes, besides the business of carrying passengers and goods by motor vehicles, any trade, commerce or manufacture, or any adventure or concern, whether or not the same is carried on with a profi t motive; and any transaction in connection with, incidental or ancillary to such trade, commerce or manufacture. That ‘business’ now means just any business, carried on with or without a profi t motive, or any ancillary NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 21 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] transactions in connection with such business. The said expression having being widened, a macro meaning and interpretation must be given to the same, was the submission. iv. That simply for the reason that notices had been issued to the owners or assessment s had been passed against the owners of the vehicles, it could not be said that the tax was being levied on the motor vehicles. The tax sought to be imposed was on the passengers and goods carried by road and the operators/owners of the motor vehicles were simply required to facilitate payment of tax by collecting the same from the passengers and depositing it with the Respondent Authorities. That the Act of 1955, as amended by the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, was enacted on the strength of Entry 56 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India, which pertains to “taxes on goods and passengers carried by road and inland water ways.” With the aforesaid submissions, it was prayed that the present appeals be dismissed as being devoid of merit and the impugned s of the High Court, be affi rmed. Points for Consideration: 6. Having heard learned counsel for the respective parties and on perusal of the material on record, the following points would emerge for our consideration: i. Whether, by enacting the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, the Himachal Pradesh State Legislature had validly removed the basis of the of the Division Bench of the High Court dated 27 March, 1997, whereby the Act of 1955 had been held not to include within its scope the activity of the appellants of providing gratis transport facilities for their employees and their children? ii. Whether the activity of the appellants of providing gratis transport facilities for their employees and their children, would now be a taxable activity under Section 3(1-A) of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997? 22 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. iii. Whether the impugned of the High Court calls for any interference? iv. What ? Legal Framework: 7. Before proceeding further, it would be useful to refer to the legal framework relevant to the issues which arise in these appeals.