On the issue of time period within which the claim was to be made, the terms of the MoU were referred to, requiring the claim to be made and notified immediately to the Appellant, which had admittedly not been done. In fact, it was notified to the Appellant insurance company on 24.04.2011 i.e. after eleven years and after the Respondent No. 2 E had filed the writ petition before the High Court of Patna. 17. The crucial issue, emphasised before us, was that the terms of the insurance policies are to be strictly construed and undisputedly accepted. F Respondent No.1’s case: 18. On behalf of the Chief Electoral Officer, a slightly divergent case as apparent from the impugned was sought to be made before us countering any admission of liability to pay the insurance amount in the supplementary counter affidavit. It was submitted that the Supplementary Counter Affidavit in the Writ petition only stated that it G was a fit case to be recommended for payment in view of the in Kamlawati Devi v. The State of Bihar & Ors.7 19. The letter dated 10.02.2000 issued by the Chief Electoral Officer had clarified that the primary burden to file the claim for H 7(2002) 3 PLJR 450 NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. v. THE CHIEF 321 ELECTORAL OFFICER & ORS. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] insurance amount before the Appellant insurance company was on the A wife of the deceased. It is mentioned that there was also an inordinate delay in the representation made by Respondent No.2 wife and that it was made for the first time on 21.11.2008, almost seven and a half years after the death of the police official. 20. It had been clarified that the death of the police official was B caused by a heat stroke and his death was not covered under the MoU and, thus, delay in raising claim was not exclusively driven by the Chief Electoral Officer. The role of the Chief Electoral Officer was limited to forwarding the recommendation, which it duly did. The husband of Respondent No.2 C died during the currency of the insurance policy and, thus, it was pleaded that the Appellant insurance company as the insurer was under an obligation to honour the promise of paying the insured amount in case of death of an employee while on election duty during the sustenance of the insurance policy. D Our view: 21. On consideration of the rival contentions, there are two aspects which needs to be flagged: firstly, the consequences of delay in claiming the amount from the Appellant insurance company; secondly, whether at all the insurance policy covered the scenario of the death of the E constable. 22. On the first aspect, the admitted position is that Respondent No.2 never raised a claim even on the Chief Electoral Officer seeking an entitlement of the claim till the letter dated 21.11.2008 after seven and a half years. Thus, by any standards this claim was beyond any F reasonable time period.