The mere fact that there is no express reference to plant and machinery in the Recital Clause cannot mean that the C interest in the plant and machinery which stood attached to the land, which was scheduled, was not conveyed to the first respondent. The value of, what was actually purchased, has been expressly set out in the Preamble to the sale deed. The value has been reflected as Rs.8.35 crores. The sum of Rs.8.35 crores had been, in unambiguous terms, indicated as the total sale D consideration for the asset sold to the first respondent, comprising of land, building, civil works, plant and machinery and current assets, etc. The first respondent has taken out the value of the land, building and civil works, and shown it at Rs.10105000/ -, and then indicating only the said amount as value. This is E apparently to tide over the liability to stamp duty for what was actually, in law, conveyed to the first respondent. The Division Bench appears to have proceeded on the basis that the first appellant could not force Respondents 1 and 2 to pay stamp duty on the value of the plant and machinery, when they do not seek its registration. As respondents 1 and 2 had given up their claim F for exemption based on the Government , the Division Bench accepted the same. The Division Bench overlooked the nature of the transaction, the effect of the auction sale, the property sold and their value, and the fact that the Company Judge had by dated 15.06.2004 left it open to the authority to G determine the liability. The Division Bench did not consider the preambular part. It also failed to bear in mind the power available with the authorities. [Paras 36, 37][1134-F-H; 1134-A-G] 1.3 The effort of respondents 1 and 2 was to avoid payment of the stamp duty as due in law. The Division Bench erred in not H THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S 1103 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. noticing the true purport of the sale deed in conjunction with A Section 8 of the Transfer of Property Act and the definition of the word ‘immovable property’. Viewed in the context of Duncans Industries Limited and Member, Board of Revenue, as also the other attendant facts, including the contents of the Preambular portion, as also the conduct of the Respondents 1 and 2, it would be clear B that the sale deed operated to convey the rights over the plant and machinery as well, which was comprised in the land scheduled in the sale deed. As far as the plant and machinery is concerned, it must, however, be only such plant and machinery, which was permanently embedded to the earth and answering the description of the immovable property as defined. It would appear that such C an inquiry was not done to ascertain the same by the appellants. [Para 38][1136-A-C] Duncans Industries Limited v. State of Uttar Pradesh and others (2000) 1 SCC 633; Member, Board of Revenue v. Arthur Paul Benthall AIR 1956 SC 35 : D [1955] SCR 842 – referred to.