Thus, confidentiality and national security are legitimate goals recognised F by the Constitution for the purpose of limiting procedural rights. (I) Confidentiality and IB Reports 81. The state has to now prove that these are the two purposes that the state action seeks to serve. MHA in response to MBL’s request for disclosure of reasons for denial of security clearance states that the G reasons cannot be disclosed because reports from investigative agencies are “secret” in nature. MHA has made a general claim that all reports of the investigative agencies are confidential. We are unable to accept 61 Aharon Barak (n 38 ) 289 H 62 Article 359 of the Constitution MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 659 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] such an argument. Investigative agencies such as the CBI and IB are A required to conduct background checks on innumerable personnel and entities for a multitude of reasons. The interaction between private individuals and the State has increased by virtue of which the involvement of intelligence agencies has also proliferated. The reports of the intelligence agencies are not merely fact-finding reports. As it would be B evident from the extractions of the material below, reports of investigative agencies make observations and provide inferences on the conduct of individuals which are then relied upon by the decision making authority. To argue that reports of the intelligence agencies may contain confidential information is one thing but to argue that the all such reports are confidential is another. Such an argument is misplaced and cannot be C accepted on the touchstone of constitutional values. The reports by investigative agencies impact decisions on the life, liberty, and profession of individuals and entities, and to give such reports absolute immunity from disclosure is antithetical to a transparent and accountable system. (II) National Security D 82. The MHA also opined that the relevant material must not be disclosed in the interest of national security. The issue before us is whether the court can judicially review this inference, and if it can, the extent of such review. We must refer to the jurisprudence on the extent of judicial review of national security claims before assessing if the action E serves the purpose of national security. 83. It is now settled that the Courts do not resort to a hands-off approach when it is claimed that national security implications are involved. In Manohar Lal Sharma v. Union of India63, a three-Judge Bench of this Court held that though the extent of judicial review in F matters concerning national security is limited, it does not mean that the State gets a free pass every time the argument of national security is made. This Court held that the State must plead on affidavit and prove that disclosure of information would injure national security. The court observed: G “50. Of course, the Respondent-Union of India may decline to provide information when constitutional considerations exist, such as those pertaining to the security of the State, or when there is a specific immunity under a specific statute.