B SEBI was informed that the individual shareholding of Respondent No. 1 in the Appellant now stands below 5%. It has been submitted before us that SEBI has not taken any regulatory action. 9. During the pendency of the petition under Section 111A, the 2013 Act came into force, and the matter stood transferred to the Tribunal. C The Tribunal framed just one question - Whether the acquisition of shares by the Respondents without complying with the statutory provisions of disclosure norms under SEBI Regulations is valid? of the Tribunal: 10. By its dated 05.07.2017, the Tribunal held that the D intimation dated 16.08.2004 is in violation of the SEBI (PIT) Regulations since the said declaration had to be filed within four working days of the receipt of intimation of allotment of shares or the acquisition of shares or voting rights, as the case may be. The Tribunal also held that the term ‘person’ in the SEBI (PIT) Regulations can be construed to include all E other Respondents, besides Respondent No. 1, as persons acting in concert. The reason for this was that the exercise of control in the management of the Appellant would be done jointly by all the Respondents. Further, the Tribunal also held that there has been a violation of the SEBI (SAST) Regulations as the Respondents did not make the disclosure in the proper format. F 11. In so far as the exercise of power under Section 111A of the 1956 Act is concerned, the Tribunal held that in case of violation of SEBI regulations, Section 111A empowers a company to apply for rectification, and in such cases, the Tribunal is entitled to pass an to undo the mischief. The Tribunal opined that the regulatory jurisdiction G of SEBI would not bar the Tribunal from exercising its power under Section 111A of the 1956 Act. However, the Tribunal held that the powers exercised by the CLB and SEBI fall in different and distinct jurisdictional fields and therefore, the present will not preclude SEBI from deciding any violation of its regulations. Allowing the company petition, H IFB AGRO INDUSTRIES LTD. v. SICGIL INDIA LTD. AND 537 OTHERS [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] the Tribunal held that the acquisition of shares in excess of 5% was in A violation of the SEBI (PIT) Regulations and the SEBI (SAST) Regulations. The final passed by the Tribunal is as follows: “The present Company Petition is allowed. The Respondents having furnished the declaration at a later B point of time are hereby barred from exercising their rights as to the shares acquired by them in the Petitioner Company in excess of 5% the company is hereby authorised to buy back the shares that the Respondents hold in excess of 5% of the shareholding in the Company at the rate which was prevailing on the date of presentation of the Petition or market value, C whichever is higher. The Respondents are directed to hand over the share certificates and share transfer forms within 30 days of the to the Company and in response to that the Petitioner will be liable to pay the buyback price which shall be the value of shares which was prevailing on the date of D presentation of the petition or market value whichever is higher.