The discussion in the preceding paragraphs reveals the diversity of the queer population. People may be queer regardless of whether they are from villages, small towns, or semi-urban and urban spaces. Similarly, they may be queer regardless of their caste and economic location. It is not just the English-speaking man with a white-collar job who lives in a metropolitan city and is otherwise affl uent who can lay claim to being queer but also (and equally) the woman who works in a farm in an agricultural community. Persons may or may not identify with the labels ‘queer,’ ‘gay,’ ‘lesbian,’ ‘trans,’ etc. either because they speak languages which are not English or for other reasons, but the fact remains that many Indians are gender queer or enter into relationships with others of the same sex. In the words of a person (assigned female at birth) who worked at a factory in Ajmer: “You ask if I have heard the word “lesbian”. No, I have not heard it. … I consider myself a male. I am attracted to women. Why create categories, such deep diff erences between male and female? Only our bodies make us diff erent. We are all human beings, aren’t we? … When a human being is born, he does not know anything. He is told, “These are your parents, sisters, father and brothers”. Similarly we are told, “You are boys, and you are girls”. But I say I am a man. I choose to be one. Despite our physical diff erences, we can be who we want to be and do what we want to do. … But the fi nal analysis, we are all the same, we are all human beings, we are all equal, regardless of what 130 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. kind of bodies we have. This common factor should be considered, not the ways in which we are diff erent.”95 93. To imagine queer persons as existing only in urban and affl uent spaces is to erase them even as they exist in other parts of the country. It would also be a mistake to confl ate the ‘urban’ with the ‘elite.’ This renders invisible large segments of the population who live in urban spaces but are poor or otherwise marginalized. Urban centres are themselves geographically and socially divided along the lines of class, religion, and caste and not all those who live in cities can be termed elite merely by virtue of their residence in cities. 94. Finally, it is essential to recognize that expressions of queerness may be more visible in urban centres for a variety of reasons. For one, cities may aff ord their inhabitants a degree of anonymity, which permit them to live their true lives or express themselves freely. This may not always be possible in smaller towns or villages, where the families or communities of queer persons may subject them to censure and disapprobation, or worse.96 The experiences of queer persons may also be more visible in urban spaces because such persons have greater access to the various resources required to make one’s voice heard.