It does not and cannot affect the interpretation of the items enumerated in the Schedule. This logic of the Tribunal is, therefore, clearly wrong.” 34. This supports the case of the appellant when it is contended that there is no good reason to change the C classification merely on the ground of coming into force of the new Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 without showing more that the product has changed its character. 35. The learned counsel also placed reliance on a number of s to support his argument that in common and commercial D parlance the product is known as medicine rather than cosmetic. As pointed out already and in support of that submission, affidavits and letters from chemists, doctors and customers are filed to show that the product is sold under prescription only in chemists’ shops unlike shampoos sold in any shop including provision shops. This conclusion, namely, that the product is understood in the common E and commercial parlance as a patent and proprietary medicine was also found by the Central Board of Excise and Customs as early as in 1981 and accepted by the Excise authorities and in the absence of any new material on the side of the respondents there is no difficulty in accepting this contention without referring to F decision cited by the counsel for the appellants. 36. Yet another reason given by the CEGAT for not accepting the case of the appellants was that the product is sold with a pleasant odour and, therefore, it must be treated as a cosmetic. Selenium Sulfide has an unpleasant odour and to get rid of it insignificant amount of perfume is used and make it acceptable to the G consumers. A medicine, for example, sugar-coated pill will nevertheless be medicine notwithstanding the sugar-coating. Likewise the addition of insignificant quantity of perfume to suppress the smell will not take away the character of the product as a drug or medicine. Again one other reason given by the Tribunal H 322 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A is regarding the packing. The Tribunal has held that the product is cosmetic because it is packed in an attractive plastic bottle. This by itself will not change the character, as cosmetic is put up for sale with some indication on the bottle or label that it is to be used as cosmetic or it is held out to be used as a cosmetic. As already noted the label here gives warnings. The fact that it is packed in a B plastic bottles is a wholly irrelevant criteria. 37. On a perusal of the entire material we are satisfied that the product in question, having regard to the preparation label, literature, character, common and commercial parlance understanding and the earlier decisions of the Central Board of C Excise and Customs, would fall under Sub-heading No. 3003.19 and there is no justifiable reason for changing the classification. As we have reached the above conclusion with reference to the materials placed before us on facts, we do not think it necessary to go into other decisions cited at the Bar.