28. We are therefore of the view that the High Court transgressed its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution by directing the cinema E hall owners not to prohibit movie goers from carrying eatables and beverages from outside within the precincts of a cinema hall and by directing the state to enforce this direction to the cinema hall owners. Absent a statutory regulation which regulates the right to conduct the business of operating a cinema hall, the imposition of such a restraint would affect the legitimate rights of a theatre owner. F 29. However, this is not to say that the terms and conditions imposed by cinema owners or other commercial entities bind the consumer or the customer in every case. As held by a catena of decisions of this Court, when one party has unequal bargaining power relative to the other party, any terms and conditions which are unreasonable may G not be enforced as against the party with lower bargaining power.4 In Central Inland Water Transport Corpn. v. Brojo Nath Ganguly5, 4 Central Inland Water Transport Corporation v. Brojo Nath Ganguly, (1986) 3 SCC 156; IREO Grace Realtech (P) Ltd. v. Abhishek Khanna, (2021) 3 SCC 241; Jacob Punnen v. United India Insurance Co. Ltd., (2022) 3 SCC 655 H 5 (1986) 3 SCC 156 K C CINEMA (CORRECT NAME K C THEATRE) v. STATE OF JAMMU 587 AND KASHMIR [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] this Court held that whether parties can be said to have unequal bargaining A power and whether a bargain is unfair or unreasonable must be decided on the facts and circumstances of each case: “89. … This principle is that the courts will not enforce and will, when called upon to do so, strike down an unfair and unreasonable contract, or an unfair and unreasonable clause in a contract, B entered into between parties who are not equal in bargaining power. It is difficult to give an exhaustive list of all bargains of this type. … It will apply to situations in which the weaker party is in a position in which he can obtain goods or services or means of livelihood only upon the terms imposed by the stronger party or go C without them. It will also apply where a man has no choice, or rather no meaningful choice, but to give his assent to a contract or to sign on the dotted line in a prescribed or standard form or to accept a set of rules as part of the contract, however unfair, unreasonable and unconscionable a clause in that contract or form or rules may be. … there can be myriad situations which result in D unfair and unreasonable bargains between parties possessing wholly disproportionate and unequal bargaining power. These cases can neither be enumerated nor fully illustrated. The court must judge each case on its own facts and circumstances.” 30. The test in Central Inland Water Transport Corpn. (supra) E is not only to assess whether the parties have unequal bargaining power relative to one another but also to ascertain whether a contractual term or a contract is unfair, unreasonable or unconscionable.