[2023] 4 S.C.R. 397 397 SIJU KURIAN A v. STATE OF KARNATAKA (Criminal Appeal No. 64 of 2021) APRIL 17, 2023 B [SURYA KANT AND ARAVIND KUMAR, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860: ss. 302, 201, 404 and 419 – Circumstantial Evidence – Reliance upon – Prosecution case that the accused- labourer in the farmhouse of the victim, murdered the victim by hitting C him with iron rod and then hid the dead body in a pit located in the garden – Other articles also concealed – Accused stole the articles in the farm house and sold them as also sold the land to make undue monetary gain – Acquittal by the trial court on the ground that prosecution failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt – However, the High Court convicted and sentenced the accused for D the offence punishable u/ss. 302, 201, 404 and 419 – On appeal, held: Death of the victim being homicidal stands proved by the post mortem report – Prime witnesses as also other prosecution witnesses testified that accused last seen in the company of the victim – Recovery of dead body as also articles of the deceased on basis of E the voluntary statement of accused, and was also proved through the prosecution witnesses – Articles sold by the accused were recovered on the strength of the voluntary statement of the accused – Plea that confession statement is to be discarded in its entirety cannot be accepted – Also it cannot be said that the statement was not being voluntary or it was recorded improperly – Thus, the F conclusion arrived at by the High Court is based on sound appreciation of evidence and proper application of law – No material irregularity in the of the High Court – On re- appreciation of entire evidence by the High Court in proper perspective, it was rightly held that the accused alone committed G the murder of the victim and there being no other possible view which could be considered as missing in the link of chain of circumstances – Thus, the passed by the High Court upheld – Evidence Act 1872 – ss. 8, 25 and 27. H 397 398 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Evidence Act, 1827: s 27 – How much of information received from accused may be proved – Held: Section 27 permits the derivative use of custodial statement in the ordinary course of events – There is no automatic presumption that the custodial statements have been extracted through compulsion – In pursuance to a voluntary statement made by the accused, a fact must be discovered B which was in the exclusive knowledge of the accused alone – In such circumstances, that part of the voluntary statement which leads to the discovery of a new fact which was only in the knowledge of the accused would become admissible u/s.27 – Such statement should have been voluntarily made and the facts stated therein should not C have been in the knowhow of others.