B 213. Unfortunately, the date on which HEH the Nizam was impleaded as defendant No.156, is not brought on record before us. But it is on record that he died on 24.02.1967. Before his death, his power agent namely, Taraporwala seems to have executed a sale deed in favour of Dinshaw Company (later Cyrus). However, the sale deed was presented for registration after the death of the Nizam. Therefore, we C are not in a position to verify the correctness of the contention that defendant No.156 (Nizam) died even before he was impleaded as a party to the suit. If what the applicants say is true, then they may be right in the contention that whatever was done in the name of the dead person is null and void. D 214. But for want of particulars regarding the date of the impleading HEH the Nizam as defendant No.156, we are not pronouncing our final word on this aspect. Suffice to note for the present that in view of the dismissal of the appeals filed by Sameena Kausar and others, this intervention application is liable to be dismissed without getting into the E merits of their contention. Part-VIII I.A. No.112090 of 2022 in Special Leave Petition (C) Nos.2373-2377 of 2020 F 215. This application has been taken out by an Asset Reconstruction Company, by name M/s Rare Asset Reconstruction Ltd. (formerly Raytheon Asset Reconstruction Pvt. Ltd.). They seek to implead themselves as parties to the Special Leave Petitions, on the ground that a company by name of M/s MBS Jewellers Pvt. Ltd. availed certain credit facilities from the Punjab National Bank, Andhra Bank G (now Union Bank of India) and Indian Overseas Bank and that as security for due repayment of the loans, third parties created an equitable mortgage by deposit of title deeds relating to plot No.10 in Survey No.172 measuring acres 196.20 guntas in Hydernagar village. The third parties who created such equitable mortgage were M/s India Telecom Finance Corporation H Ltd., M/s Sai Anupama Agencies Pvt. Ltd, M/s Keerti Anurag M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 371 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] Investments Pvt. Ltd., M/s Jayasree Agencies Pvt. Ltd., M/s Sai Keerti A Constructions Pvt. Ltd., M/s Sai Pavan Estates Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Greater Golkonda Estates Pvt. Ltd. According to the Asset Reconstruction Company, the deposit of title deeds took place on 25.03.2009. The total amount due to the consortium of banks was around Rs.550 crores. It appears that the banks filed applications before DRT, Hyderabad and B these applications are pending. Therefore, the Asset Reconstruction Company claims that if the mortgagors suffer an from this Court, it is the public money belonging to the banks that will eventually suffer. 216. Shri Dushyant Dave, learned senior counsel appearing for the Asset Reconstruction Company contended that irrespective of the C dispute between private parties, it is public money which is at stake. The learned senior counsel drew our attention to several provisions of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 and the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (SARFAESI Act), in support of his contention that even the jurisdiction of the Civil Court is barred D and that the provisions of these two enactments will override all other enactments.