We are of the view that the of this Court in Jonas Woodhead and Sons would not come to the aid of the respondent-assessees because the issue before this Court in the said case did not relate to a single right wherein the payment made towards the same was held to be partly capital and partly revenue. The purpose of payments in the said case was traceable to two diff erent subject matters and therefore apportionment between capital and revenue expenditure. However, in the present case, the entry fee as well as variable licence fees are traceable to the same source. 24.2. Similarly, in Best and Co., this Court decided the nature of expenditure on two separate transactions, though payments made were consolidated in nature. The fi rst transaction related to the compensation paid by the principal for the termination of agency business, while the second was with respect to the payment made towards the non-compete clause. On the fi rst aspect, namely, the compensation received for the loss of agency, it was held that what would be determinative was whether loss of agency would aff ect the entire business structure, resulting in a loss of 466 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. enduring nature, or, whether it was a loss due to an ordinary incident in the course of business. If it was the former, it would be capital, and if it was the latter, it would be revenue in nature. It was concluded vis-à- vis the fi rst transaction that the loss of the said agency by the assessee was only a normal trading loss and therefore the income received in this regard was a revenue receipt. As regards the non-compete clause it was held that the same was a restrictive covenant and was therefore, capital in nature. In paragraph 14 of the of this Court, it was recorded in unequivocal terms that the “compensation paid was in respect of two distinct matters, one taking the character of a capital receipt and the other of a revenue receipt.” Therefore, Best and Co. is a case where two independent transactions were considered, one of which was held as capital and the other as revenue. This case did not decide the expenditure towards the same right to be partly capital and partly revenue. 24.3. We shall now consider the decision of the Madras High Court affi rmed by this Court in Southern Switch Gear Ltd. Paragraph 2 of the of the High Court records two distinct transactions: one, for provision of technical know-how for the manufacture of switch gear products and the second, was to share modern developments and also train necessary personnel in the factory in United Kingdom. The consideration was fi xed £20,000 payable in fi ve instalments of £4000 each. Paragraph 5 of the judgement of the High Court referred to clause 6 of the agreement which dealt with know-how and clause 7 thereof, which dealt with supervision and direction, besides recommending appointment or dismissal of employees and also training them in the factory.