The built-up area for the purpose of FSI credit in the form of a DRC shall be equal to the gross area of the reserved plot to be surrendered and will proportionately increase or decrease according to the permissible FSI of the zone where from the TDR E has originated. Provided that in specific cases considering the merits, where Development Plan Roads/ reservations are proposed in No Development Zone, the Commissioner with prior approval of the Government shall grant FSI for such road land/reserved land F equivalent to that of the adjoining zone. 6. When an owner or lessee also develops or constructs the amenity on the surrendered plot at his cost subject to such stipulations as may be prescribed by the Commissioner or the appropriate authority, as the case may be and to their satisfaction G and hands over the said developed/ constructed amenity to the Commissioner/ appropriate authority, free of cost, he may be granted by the Commissioner a further DR in the form of FSI equivalent to the area of the construction/development done by him, utilisation of which etc. will be subject to the Regulations H contained in this Appendix. 76 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 7. A DRC will be issued only on the satisfactory compliance with the conditions prescribed in this Appendix.” 37.The High Court, after scanning the correspondence came to the conclusion that clause 5 of Appendix VII alone is applicable to the case on hand, since the appellants made a claim only for TDR equivalent B to the gross area of the reserved plot surrendered to the Corporation and that clause 6 was not applicable as the owner did not develop or construct the amenity on the surrendered land at his cost. Therefore, it is necessary to go back to certain factual details to find out (i) whether appellant No.1 did develop the amenity; and (ii) whether they made a claim traceable only to clause 5 and not to clause 6 of Appendix VII to C the Regulations read with Regulation 34. 38.The answer to the first question whether appellant No.1 did develop the amenity or not, lies in the correspondence. As we have pointed out earlier, the word “amenity” means several things including “recreation ground.” The word “development” includes under Section D 2(7), mining or other operations in or over the land or the making of any material change in any building or land and reclamation, redevelopment and layout and sub-division of any land. Keeping these definitions in mind, if we go back to the correspondence, the picture that unfolds is as follows :- E (i) By the letter dated 08.10.1994, the Architects of appellant No.1 informed the Director (ES&P) of the Bombay Municipal Corporation that they “intended to develop the surrendered land before handing over, by suitably cutting, levelling, filling and terracing etc., in to have a Recreation Ground with utility and beauty”; F (ii) A plan was also attached to the said letter dated 08.10.1994 showing the proposed overall development; (iii) Pursuant to the said letter, the Superintendent and Deputy Superintendent of Gardens visited the site, as could be seen from the letter dated 24.11.1994 addressed by the Architect to the Superintendent G of Gardens.