It can be seen from the formula that the total head offi ce overhead during the contract period is fi rst determined by comparing the value of work carried out in the contract period for the project with the value of work carried out by the contractor as a whole for the contract period. A share of head offi ce overheads for the contractor is allocated in the same ratio and expressed as a lump sum to the particular contract. The amount of head offi ce overhead allocated to the particular contract is then expressed as a weekly amount by dividing it by the contract period. The period of delay is then multiplied by the weekly amount to give the total sum claimed. The Eichleay Formula is regarded by the Federal Circuit Courts of America as the exclusive means for compensating a contractor for overhead expenses. 105. Before us several American decisions have been referred to by Mr Dipankar Gupta in aid of his submission that the Emden Formula has since been widely accepted by the American courts being Nicon Inc. v. United States [ Decided on 10-6-2003 (USCA Fed Cir), 331 F. 3d 878 (Fed. Cir. 2003)] , Gladwynne Construction Co. v. Mayor and City Council of Baltimore [ Decided on 25-9-2002, 807 A. 2d 1141 (2002) : 147 Md. App. 149] and Charles G. William Construction Inc. v. White [ 271 F 3d 1055 (Fed. Cir. 2001)] . 106. We do not intend to delve deep into the matter as it is an accepted position that diff erent formulae can be applied in diff erent BATLIBOI ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS LTD v. 455 HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM CORP. LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] circumstances and the question as to whether damages should be computed by taking recourse to one or the other formula, having regard to the facts and circumstances of a particular case, would eminently fall within the domain of the arbitrator. 107. If the learned arbitrator, therefore, applied the Emden Formula in assessing the amount of damages, he cannot be said to have committed an error warranting interference by this Court.” 15. McDermott International Inc. refers to Sections 559 and 7310 of the Indian Contract Act, 187211, which deal with the eff ect of failure to perform at 9 Section 55 - Eff ect of failure to perform at fi xed time, in contract in which time is essential - When a party to a contract promises to do a certain thing at or before a specifi ed time, or certain things at or before specifi ed times, and fails to do any such thing at or before the specifi ed time, the contract, or so much of it as has not been performed, becomes voidable at the option of the promisee, if the intention of the parties was that time should be of the essence of the contract. Eff ect of such failure when time is not essential.—If it was not the intention of the parties that time should be of the essence of the contract, the contract does not become voidable by the failure to do such thing at or before the specifi ed time; but the promisee is entitled to compensation from the promisor for any loss occasioned to him by such failure.