The Code has been enacted with the objective of reorganisation and insolvency resolution of corporate persons, partnership firms and individuals in a time-bound manner for maximisation of the value of assets, F promote entrepreneurship, enhance availability of credit and balance the interests of all stakeholders, including by alteration in the priority of payment of government dues, to establish an Insolvency and Bankruptcy Fund, and matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. The G 4 See – The Report of High Level Committee on Law Relating to Insolvency and Winding Up of Companies, 2000, The Report of the Expert Committee on Company Law dated 31.05.2005, 57th Report of the Standing Committee of 15th Lok Sabha on Finance on The Companies Bill, 2011, The Report of the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee dated 04.11.2015, The Report of Joint Committee on Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2015 of the 16th Lok Sabha and The report of the Insolvency Law Committee dated 26.03.2018.0 H 116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A objective is to improve the ease of doing business and facilitate more investments, leading to higher economic growth and development. 8. We have earlier referred to, in detail, the divergent opinions expressed while enacting the Code on the status of the workmen’s dues and the hierarchy in which they should be placed. The waterfall B mechanism now prescribed in the Code with reference to the workmen’s dues is a well-considered and thought-out decision. The waterfall mechanism and the hierarchy prescribed to the workmen’s dues should be seen in the overall objective of the Code, which is to explore whether the corporate debtor can be revived so that jobs are not lost, the use of economic assets is maximised, and there is an effective legal framework C which enhances the viability of credit in the hands of banks and financial institutions. The Code recognises the financial impact on secured creditors or financial institutions dealing with public money, as their economic health is equally important for the general public as well as the national economy. Unless there is economic growth and fresh investments D in the industry, employment opportunities will not be available, which would in turn lead to economic woes, insolvencies and bankruptcies. These are all complex economic matters wherein various conflicting interests have to be balanced, and a holistic rather than a one-sided, approach is to be taken. Each opinion may have merit, but the court can hardly substitute its own wisdom or view for that of the legislature, E especially when the enactment is the outcome of a thought-out and ruminated review on complex fiscal and commercial challenges facing the economy. It is in this context, this Court, while upholding the Constitutional validity of the Code on the challenge of discrimination made by the operational creditors in Swiss Ribbons Private Limited F and Another. v. Union of India and Others.5 had observed as under: “Judicial hands-off qua economic legislation **** 21. In this country, this Court in R.K. Garg v. Union of India, (1981) 4 SCC 675, has held : G “8.