504 and 506(2) not made out. [Para 29] Interpretation of statutes – Penal statute – Interpretation of: Held: Must be strictly construed – Court must see that the thing charged is an off ence within the plain meaning of the words used and must not strain the words. [Paras 19 and 21] 316 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. FIR – Quashing of – Invocation of inherent powers u/s. 482 CrPC or extraordinary jurisdiction u/Art. 226 of the Constitution – Duty of the court: Held: Whenever an accused seeks quashing of the FIR or the criminal proceedings essentially on the ground that such proceedings are manifestly frivolous or vexatious or instituted with the ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance, in such circumstances the Court owes a duty to look into the FIR with care and a little more closely – It would not be just enough for the Court to look into the averments made in the FIR/ complaint alone for the purpose of the alleged off ence are disclosed or not – In frivolous or vexatious proceedings, the Court owes a duty to look into many other attending circumstances emerging from the record of the case over and above the averments and, if need be, with due care and circumspection try to read in between the lines – Court is empowered to take into account the overall circumstances leading to the initiation/ registration of the case as well as the materials collected in the course of investigation. [Para 26] FIR – Importance and object of: Held: FIR in a criminal case is an extremely vital and valuable piece of evidence for the purpose of corroborating the oral evidence adduced at the trial – Object of insisting upon lodging of the FIR to the police in respect of commission of an off ence is to obtain early information regarding the circumstances in which the crime was committed, the names of the actual culprits and the part played by them as well as names of the eye witnesses present at the scene of occurrence. [Para 32] Delay/ Laches – Delay in lodging FIR – Ground to quash FIR: Held: Delay in the registration of the FIR, by itself, cannot be a ground for quashing of the FIR – However, delay with other attending circumstances rendering the entire case put up by the prosecution inherently improbable, may at times become a good ground to quash the FIR and consequential proceedings – If the FIR, like the instant one, lodged after a period of more than one year without disclosing the date and time of the alleged incident and further without any plausible and convincing explanation for such delay, the accused cannot defend himself in the trial – Allegations are too vague MOHAMMAD WAJID AND ANR. v. STATE OF U.P. 317 AND ORS. and general – In the absence of all this material, the State cannot prove its case against the accused persons. [Paras 32 and 33] Criminal Law – Criminal antecedents of the accused – Eff ect of, on the criminal proceedings: Held: Criminal antecedents of the accused cannot be the sole consideration to decline to quash the criminal proceedings – An accused has a legitimate right to say before the Court that howsoever bad his antecedents may be, still if the FIR fails to disclose commission of any off ence then the court should not decline to quash the criminal case – Initiation of prosecution has adverse and harsh consequence for the persons named as accused – Thus, the requirement and need to balance the law enforcement power and protection of citizens from injustice and harassment must be maintained – State owes a duty to ensure that no crime goes unpunished as also owes a duty to ensure that none of its subjects are unnecessarily harassed.