However, the Corporate Debtor’s representative insisted that this be discussed. RP said H he would seek the opinion of the Applicant, being TFCI in this M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 811 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] case. Mr. Anoop Bali from TFCI said that he can’t opine on A this letter as it is addressed to the CoC, when prompted by Mr. Kaliannan, that this letter is being put up through TFCI, Mr. Anoop Bali said that this can’t be taken up as it has not come in the appropriate required form and he will not be able to comment on this and requested the RP to carry on with the B agenda for the day, that of voting on the Resolution Plan. Mr. Senni Malai requested other creditors to comment. Mr. Arun Shah of Aryav Exports said that CoC can discuss this. However other creditors with significant voting share such as SBI, Bank of India said that we should stick to the Agenda on hand and not deviate from the main agenda. RP then requested the C representatives from Corporate Debtor to allow for the agenda items to go through as the majority of the CoC in favour of that and no further discussions can be made on the letter sent to the CoC.” 86. A perusal of the aforesaid minutes would show that the promoter D of the Corporate Debtor has proposed for a 12A settlement only at the 9th CoC meeting, when the Resolution Plan of the Resolution Applicant was about to be put to vote. Further, it is also seen that the Petitioning Creditor viz. Toursim Finance Corporation of India (TFCI) was also kept in dark about the 12A proposal by the E promoters and also flagged an issue stating that the letter has been addressed to the CoC and not to them. However, it is seen that the said agenda of proposal to be made under Section 12A was not considered by the CoC and that they proceeded to vote for the Resolution Plan. F 87. It is also seen that the Term Sheet relied on by the Learned Senior Counsel for the promoter in to substantiate that they have the source to settle the entire dues of the CoC, it is seen that the said Term Sheet dated 22.01.2021 issued by Deutsche Bank would start of with a disclaimer as follows; G “Please note that the terms set out in this Term Sheet are indicative only and do not constitute an offer to finance the Facility. The terms and conditions of the term sheet remain subject to the diligence, internal approvals, credit committee approval, successful syndication, KYC and satisfactory documentation.” H 812 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 88. Thus, it is seen that the proposal as projected by the Learned Senior Counsel for the promoters to be made under Section 12A, seems to be only an eye wash and a dilatory tactics to delay the process of CIRP in relation to the Corporate Debtor and that the fact that the proposal has been mooted only during the eleventh hour is to stall the Resolution Plan as moved by the Resolution B Applicant.