E From the and dated 20.11.2018 of the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity, New Delhi in Appeal No.121 of 2015. With Civil Appeal Nos.11927, 12190 of 2018, 1670 Of 2019, 12232 of F 2018 and 1742 of 2019 G. Umapathy, P. Chidambaram, M.G. Ramachandran, Rana Mukherjee, Sajan Povayya, Sr. Advs., Rohit K. Singh, Anand K. Ganesan, Ms. Poorva Saigal, Nikunj Dayal, Shubham Arya, Amal Nair, Ms. Kritika Khanna, Ms. Pallavi Saigal, Ms. Reeha Singh, Ms. Shikha Sood, Ms. Anumeha Smiti, K. V. Mohan, K.V. Balakrishnan, Ravi Nair, G Rahul Kumar Sharma, Rakesh K. Sharma, Rajiv Srivastava, Nishant Sharma, Ms. Gargi Srivastava, Ms. Adviteeya, Ms. Aparna Bhat, Amit Kapur, Pukhrambam Ramesh Kumar, Rahul Kinra, Aditya Ajay, Karun Shrama, Girdhar Gopal Khattar, Ms. Aliva Ahmed, Ms. Raksha Agrawal, Ms. Divyya Kaul, Hasan Murtaza, Advs. for the appearing parties. H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 5 LTD. & ORS. The of the Court was delivered by A K. M. JOSEPH, J. (1) The six appeals with which we are concerned have been filed under Section 125 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Act’ for brevity). The appeals are directed against the passed by the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (hereinafter referred to as ‘Tribunal’ B for brevity) in an appeal carried by the first respondent under Section 111 of the Act. (2) The appeal before the Tribunal, in turn, was lodged against the passed by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (hereinafter referred to as ‘Commission’ for brevity). The Commission C passed the purporting to be one under Section 79(b) inter alia of the Act in a petition filed by the first respondent. FACTS (3) It was decided to set up an Ultra Mega Power Project. Towards this end, the Power Finance Corporation Limited of India was to be the D nodal agency. It incorporated a Special Purpose Vehicle, which is the first respondent. The idea was to set up the Ultra Mega Power Project which would be operated by the successful bidder selected through an international competitive bidding. The power generated by the successful bidder was to be supplied through procurers (the appellants before us), E who can be described also as the distribution licensees under the Act. The appellants were to supply the power so procured finally to the consumers. (4) Since what was contemplated was seeking shelter under Section 63 of the Act, we must refer to the guidelines which have been F issued by the Central Government purporting to act under Section 63. Guidelines were issued on 19.01.2005. We deem it appropriate to set out the following guidelines: “2.1 These guidelines are being issued under the provisions of Section 63 of the Electricity Act, 2003 for procurement of electricity by distribution licensees (Procurer) for: G (a) long-term procurement of electricity for a period of 7 years and above; (b) Medium term procurement for a period of upto 7 years but exceeding 1 year. H 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 2.2 The guidelines shall apply for procurement of base-load and seasonal power requirements through competitive bidding, through the following mechanisms: i.