This approach of the High Court in our considered opinion was not correct. 26. The High Court has gone wrong in its appreciation of the case, both on facts as well as on law. The statement of an injured eye-witness is an important piece of evidence which cannot be easily discarded by a Court. Minor discrepancies do not matter. In State of M.P. vs. Mansingh and Others (2003) 10 SCC 414 where conviction of the accused by the trial court, inter alia, under Section 302, was set aside by the High Court on the so called discrepancies of an injured witness this court while allowing the State’s appeal against the acquittal said this : “9. The evidence of injured witness has greater evidentiary value and unless compelling reasons exist, their statements are not to be discarded lightly. Merely because there was no mention of a knife in the fi rst information report, that does not wash away the eff ect of the evidence tendered by the injured witnesses PWs 4 and 7. Minor discrepancies do not corrode the credibility of an otherwise acceptable evidence. The circumstances highlighted by the High Court to attach 98 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. vulnerability to the evidence of the injured witnesses are clearly inconsequential.” 27. The reasons assigned for disbelieving the statement of PW-2 by the High Court are not correct. The High Court discredits the statement of PW-2 because of the discrepancies in her earlier statement given under Section 161 Cr.P.C., and the one given in her examination-in-chief. This as we have already discussed was not suffi cient to totally discredit an injured eye witness. Apart from this eye-witness, there were other eye-witnesses as well, which we have referred above. Further, there is also the recovery made of the weapons and the blood-stained cloth of the accused. There is nothing to doubt either the recovery or the manner in which the recovery has been made. The conclusion derived by the High Court that the assailants were not having common intention or common object of killing deceased Chandernath is not entirely correct. 28. The grounds for acquitting the accused under Section 302 & Section 307 of IPC were mainly based on the presumption that it was not a pre meditated attack, rather it was a clash between two groups, where both were somewhat armed, which resulted in injuries on both sides, though somewhat larger injuries and a death, on the side of the complainant. This determination of the High Court is based on primarily on two aspects, fi rst that the assailants too had sustained injuries and secondly the discrepancies in the evidence of PW-2. 29. As far as the injuries sustained by some of the accused is concerned this could never be proved in the trial. DW-4 who was produced as a witness stood thoroughly discredited and rightly so, as we have discussed in the preceding paragraphs. As to the so-called discrepancies in the statement of PW-2 we are again of the view that this witness is an injured eye witness and therefore her evidence cannot be completely disregarded.