The Act punishes persons who ‘advocate or teach the G duty, necessity, or propriety’ of violence ‘as a means of accomplishing industrial or political reform’; or who publish or circulate or display any book or paper containing such advocacy; or who ‘justify’ the commission 48 (2011) 1 SCC 784 49 395 U.S. 444 (1969) H 574 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A of violent acts ‘with intent to exemplify, spread or advocate the propriety of the doctrines of criminal syndicalism’; or who ‘voluntarily assemble’ with a group formed ‘to teach or advocate the doctrines of criminal syndicalism.’ Neither the indictment nor the trial judge’s instructions to the jury in any way refined the statute’s bald definition of the crime in terms of mere advocacy not distinguished from incitement to imminent B lawless action. Furthermore, it held that the Constitutional guarantees of free speech and free press do not permit a State to forbid or proscribe advocacy of the use of force or of law violation except where such advocacy is directed to inciting or producing imminent lawless action and is likely to incite or produce such action. C 34. In United States v. Eugene Frank Robel50, the constitutionality of S. 5(a)(1)(D) of the Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950, was drawn into question before the Supreme Court of the United States of America. S.5(a)(1)(D) of the Act provided that, when a Communist-action organization is under a final to register, it shall D be unlawful for any member of the organization ‘to engage in any employment in any defense facility.’ In this case, the appellee was indicted since he was a member of the Communist Party and was employed at Todd Shipyards Corporation, which was designated as a ‘defense facility.’ The Court declared S.5(a)(1)(D) as unconstitutional and held that: E “It is precisely because that statute sweeps indiscriminately across all types of association with Communist-action groups, without regard to the quality and degree of membership, that it runs afoul of the First Amendment.” F Background, import and relevance of decisions of Supreme Court of United States relied on in Indra Das 35. In Indra Das, the learned bench of two Judges relied on and followed its earlier in Arup Bhuyan and while similarly relying on the American decisions discussed henceforth, it was held that S.3(5) G of TADA/S.10 of UAPA have to be read down to bring them in consonance with the Constitution. 36. Reliance was placed on Elfbrandt (supra),as discussed above. H 50 389 U.S. 258 (1967) ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 575 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 37. The learned division bench relied on Scales v. United States51, A to make a distinction between an active and a passive member of an organization. In this case, the Petitioner’s conviction under the Smith Act came in review before the Supreme Court of the United States of America. This act, made a felony “the acquisition or holding of knowing membership in any organization which advocates the overthrow of the B Government of the United States by force of violence.” Further, the Court, while overruling the Petitioner’s constitutional challenge observed that: “The clause does not make criminal all association with an organization which has been shown to engage in illegal advocacy.