Where the dispute raised by the claimant with regard to validity of the discharge voucher or no-claim certificate or settlement agreement, prima facie, appears to be lacking in credibility, there may not be a necessity to refer the dispute for arbitration H at all.” NTPC LTD. v. M/S SPML INFRA LTD. 857 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Genus Power Infrastructure Ltd.15, this Court A observed that allegations of fraud, coercion, duress or undue influence must be prima facie substantiated through evidence by the party raising the allegations. 18. In a legislative response to these precedents, through the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act 2015,16 sub-section (6A) B was added to Section 11 of the Act, which reads as follows: “(6-A) The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while considering any application under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or sub-section (6), shall, C notwithstanding any , decree or of any court, confine to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement.” (emphasis supplied) D 19. Taking cognizance of the legislative change, this Court in Duro Felguera (supra), noted that post the 2015 Amendments, the jurisdiction of the court under Section 11(6) of the Act is limited to examining whether an arbitration agreement exists between the parties – “nothing more, nothing less”17. E 15 (2015) 2 SCC 424: “10. In our considered view, the plea raised by the respondent is bereft of any details and particulars, and cannot be anything but a bald assertion. Given the fact that there was no protest or demur raised around the time or soon after the letter of subrogation was signed, that the notice dated 31-3-2011 itself was nearly after three weeks and that the financial condition of the respondent was not so precarious F that it was left with no alternative but to accept the terms as suggested, we are of the firm view that the discharge in the present case and signing of letter of subrogation were not because of exercise of any undue influence. Such discharge and signing of letter of subrogation was voluntary and free from any coercion or undue influence. In the circumstances, we hold that upon execution of the letter of subrogation, there was full and final settlement of the claim. Since our answer to the question, whether G there was really accord and satisfaction, is in the affirmative, in our view no arbitrable dispute existed so as to exercise power under Section 11 of the Act. The High Court was not therefore justified in exercising power under Section 11 of the Act.” 16 Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act 2015 (Act 3 of 2016); hereinafter referred to as ‘the 2015 Amendments’. 17 Duro Felguera supra note 7, para 59 (concurring opinion of Kurian Joseph, J). H 858 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 20. However, in the year 2019, in United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Antique Art Exports Pvt. Ltd.18, this Court had nevertheless accepted an objection of ‘accord and satisfaction’ in opposition to an application for reference to arbitration.