(Duties of distribution licensee and open access): --- ×× ×× ×× Provided further that such surcharge shall be utilised to meet the requirements of current level of cross-subsidy within the area of supply of the distribution licensee:” 17 “Section 42. (Duties of distribution licensee and open access): --- ×× ×× ×× “Provided also that such surcharge and cross-subsidies shall be progressively reduced in the manner as may be specifi ed by the State Commission:” M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 359 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] surcharge will not be leviable in case open access is provided to a person who has established a CGP for carrying electricity to the destination of his use. The fourth proviso reads: “42.Duties of distribution licensee and open access.— ×× ×× ×× Provided also that such surcharge shall not be leviable in case open access is provided to a person who has established a captive generating plant for carrying the electricity to the destination of his own use:” In our opinion, the fourth proviso deals with the second situation elaborated by us above, that is, when the person who has established a CGP, invokes his right to open access for the purpose of carrying electricity from the CGP to the destination of his own use in terms of Section 9(2) of the Act. In such cases, no surcharge is leviable even if the right to open access is invoked. However, wheeling charges have to be paid to the distribution licensee for the use of his distribution system to supply electricity to the destination of his own use. 15. The aforesaid interpretation of Section 9 and Section 42 of the Act, respectfully follows the view expressed by this Court in Chhattisgarh State Power Distribution Company Limited v. Chhattisgarh State Electricity Regulatory Commission and Anr.18 and Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited v. JSW Steel Limited and Ors.19 16. In Maharashtra State Electricity20, the specifi c question answered was whether captive consumers are liable to pay additional surcharge leviable under the Act. The answer in the negative, holds that levy of additional surcharge would be contrary to Section 42(2) of the Act read with the defi nition of “consumer” vide Section 2(15) of the Act21, which means 18 (2022) SCC Online SC 604; for short, “Chhattisgarh State Power”. 19 (2022) 2 SCC 742; for short, “Maharashtra State Electricity”. 20 Supra note 19. 21 2. Defi nition.—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— ×× ×× ×× (15)‘consumer’ means any person who is supplied with electricity for his own use by a licensee or the Government or by any other person engaged in the business of 360 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. a person who is supplied with electricity by the licensee or the government or any other person engaged in the business of supplying electricity to the public and includes a person whose premises for the time being are connected for the purpose of receiving electricity with the works of a licensee, government, or such other person, as the case may be.