In Ghaziabad Development Authority Vs. Balbir Singh – (2004) 5 SCC 65, while observing that the power and duty to award compensation does not mean that irrespective of facts of the case, compensation can be awarded in all matters on a uniform basis, the Hon’ble Supreme Court G gave certain instances and indicated the factors, which could be kept in view while determining adequate compensation. One of the illustrations given in the said decision was between the cases, where possession of a booked/allotted property was directed to be delivered and the cases where only monies paid as sale consideration, are directed to be refunded. The Hon’ble Court H 1110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A observed, in this behalf, that in cases where possession is directed to be delivered to the Complainant, the compensation for harassment will necessarily have to be less because in a way that party is being compensated by increase in the value of the property he is getting. But in cases where monies are being simply refunded, then the party is suffering a loss inasmuch as he had deposited B the money in the hope of getting a flat/plot. He is not only deprived of the flat/plot, he has been deprived of the benefit of escalation of the price of the flat/plot. Additionally, in my view, in such a situation, he also suffers substantial monetary loss on account of payment of interest on the loans raised; depreciation in the money C value and escalation in the cost of construction etc. 22. From the above it is apparent that this Commission can pass s regarding the refund of the amount deposited to the company by the complainants, notwithstanding the proceedings pending in any other forum.” D 6.3. After the observations afore-stated, the State Commission took note of a few decisions against the builders or the real estate developers and on the rights of the allottee to decline possession at the belated stage. Thereafter, the State Commission referred to the contentions urged on behalf of the complainant on the point of E compensation based on the decision of COMPAT in the case of Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga, which was affirmed by this Court. In paragraph 29 of the judgement, the State Commission presented its observations as also extractions from the said decision of COMPAT in the following manner: - “29. The ld. Counsel for the appellant while arguing on the point F of compensation has submitted that the case under consideration is on the facts of Manjit Kaur Monga versus K.L. Suneja and ors decided by the Hon’ble COMPAT and upheld by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in the matter of Manjit Kaur (Supra)- (2018) 14 SCC 679 holding as under:- G “36…. It is clear that the respondents had made a false representation to the general public including Smt. Gursharan Kaur about the time within which the project was to be completed i.e. three years but did not complete the construction for more than one decade.