The distinction pointed out by the petitioners is that transitional provisions as they were involved in those cases become the part of the Constitution, as they continued and still continue in force long after the amendment. Whereas in the present case, Section 19 has a limited life and would not ever become part of the Constitution. 75. The question is – Is that really so? It is undisputed that the amendment was enacted pursuant to what is now recognized as constituent power, which is sourced from Article 368. The present frame of Article 368 underwent a change after the Constitutional 25th Amendment Act of 1971. Before that amendment, the title of the provision was “procedure for amendment of the Constitution”. By virtue of the amendment, Article 368 is described as “power of Parliament to amend the Constitution and the procedure therefor”. Article 368 (2) outlines the manner of initiation of the amendment i.e. through a Bill and thereafter outlines the procedure of that as such majority of not less than two thirds of the members present and voting in both the Houses of Parliament. After the passage of the Bill, it is to be presented to the President for assent. Unlike in the case of recommendations of the cabinet, or when any other bill is presented, the President has no choice, but “shall” assent to the Amendment. The proviso to Article 368 requires that wherever enumerated provisions or parts of the Constitution are sought to be amended in addition there is a category of amendments which have to be ratifi ed by the legislature of not less than one half of the States by the resolutions of their state legislatures. 76. It is unnecessary to recount the well documented path that led to the amendment of Article 368 and the subsequent amendments or the fate they 182 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. met with. What needs to be underlined is that unlike ordinary legislation, which is traced to the power of Parliament or any other legislative body, the amendment power is distinct inasmuch as it is expressly a constituent power. In Kesavananda Bharati v State of Kerala31 case, the largest bench formed, this court ever sat in (13 Judges) declared that the power under Article 368 though constituent and though seemingly unbounded and does not expressly constrict, yet has impliedly limited by the “essential features” or“basic structure” doctrine. 77. An ordinary law such as an Act of Parliament, is a product of a legislative exercise. The source of that power is traced to the Constitution in some specifi c provisions or through fi elds of legislation enumerated in one or the other lists. Constitutional law on the other hand is that it arises out of the Constitution and creates diff erent organs of the State, defi nes their power and imposes limitations on the functioning of the Executive and legislative wings through the fundamental rights and other limitations. An ordinary law can be made or changed by the same body, the legislating body in exercising legislative power.