14. In case where the Bank shall have fi rst lien as provided in Rule No. 13 above, the Trustees shall on receipt of the resolution passed by the Bank’s Board of Directors pay to the Bank out of such member’s individual account in the Fund, such portion thereof not exceeding the Bank’s contribution to it, as the Board might ask the Trustees to pay, and the receipt of the Bank for any payment so made, shall be complete discharge to the Trustees. In the event of any such payment, the remaining amount out of the Provident Fund balance shall be paid to him. The recovery of such losses by the Bank shall be limited to the extent of such fi nancial loss only.” JYOTIRMAY RAY V. THE FIELD GENERAL MANAGER, 205 PUNJAB NATIONAL BANK [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] On perusal, it is clear that the Bank shall have fi rst lien on the contributions made by it to the individual account of any member together with interest thereon or accretions thereto, to recover any loss, damages and liabilities, sustained any time by the Bank or incurred by reasons of any dishonest act, deed or omission or gross misconduct of the member. It is further apparent that the Board of Directors shall pass an to pay the contribution of the Bank which is in the account of fund to the Bank to the extent of recovery of the loss, damages and liabilities. 11.Let us apply the said Rules to the facts of the present case in the context of the allegations made in the chargesheet dated 16.10.2009 and supplementary chargesheet dated 20.11.2009 to consider the position that emerges. 12. It was alleged that while granting the loans or extending cash credit facilities under the CGTMSE or otherwise, due diligence of the procedure was not followed by the appellant. In the charge-sheet, it is not alleged that by such an act, the Bank has suff ered loss nor has the quantifi cation of the amount of loss been done. In the report of enquiry, fi nding about loss being caused or quantifi cation of the amount of loss has not been recorded. The contribution of Bank to provident fund was forfeited as per resolution dated 20/12/2010 of the Board of Directors based on the communication dated 19/11/2010 as referred by the learned Single Judge. The said resolution refers that the Bank has suff ered a loss of Rs. 77.59 lakhs by an act of the appellant for which the penalty of compulsory retirement has been directed. However, the recommendations were made for appropriation of the Bank’s contribution of provident fund to the tune of Rs. 8,80,085/- and it was withheld from the provident fund account of the appellant. By fi ling this appeal, the appellant has averred and produced the report of the internal auditor dated 27/7/2009 (Annexure P-1). The said report was of the prior date, from the date of issuance of the chargesheet. However, relying on the said report, it is submitted that no loss has been caused to the Bank.