It was argued that unless the penalty is of a nature which is personal to the assessee and if it is merely ed against the goods imported it is an allowable deduction. That, in our opinion, C is an erroneous distinction because disbursement is deductible only if it falls within s. 10(2)(xv) of the Income-tax Act and no such deduction can be made unless it falls within the test laid down in the cases discussed above and it can be said to be expenditure wholly and exclusively laid for the purpose of the business. Can it be said that a penalty paid for an infraction of the law, even though D it may involve no personal liability in the sense of a fine imposed for an offence committed, is wholly and exclusively laid for the business in the sense as those words are used in the cases that have been discussed above. In our opinion, no expense which is paid by way of penalty for a breach of the law can be said to be E an amount wholly and exclusively laid for the purpose of the business. The distinction sought to be drawn between a personal liability and a liability of the kind now before us is not sustainable because anything done which is an infraction of the law and is visited with a penalty cannot on grounds of public policy be said to be a commercial expense for the purpose of a business or a F disbursement made for the purposes of earning the profits of such business.” 21. CIT v. S.C. Kothari, 1972 (4) SCC 402 21.1 The decision rendered in BadridasDaga (supra) was quoted with approval. However, it was the view expressed that if the profit is to G be taken for the taxable income, a resultant expenditure/loss cannot be avoided, notwithstanding the nature of business. We must hasten to note that the decision rendered in S.C. Kothari (supra)may not be in tune with BadridasDaga (supra) wherein this Court held that allowing a deduction depends upon the statute and commercial principles, while H 118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A applying the test of ‘purpose of business’ and‘incidental to business’ and not by way of a general principle. Hence, non-allowance of a deduction on the ground of one incurred as an expenditure for a purpose which is an offence or prohibited by law can be disallowed otherwise through a statute. This Court in SC Kothari (supra) had merely laid down the general proposition of law by taking note of the position prevailing in B other countries, but in any case, it has got no application over a case of either a penalty or confiscation. 21.2 The law as laid down in Haji Aziz (supra)despite being noted, was not followed on both the counts, viz., the deduction of loss qua an offence and the consequence of a penalty imposed for an C infraction of law. 21.3 We must further add that in S.C. Kothari(supra), this Court was concerned with Section 10(2)(xv)of the Old Act, which did not contain any explanation as introduced to Section 37(1) of the Act.This subsequent change in law will certainly have a bearing on the D understanding of the said .