(Vide National Small Industries Corpn. Ltd. v. Harmeet Singh Paintal). In the case on hand, particularly, in Para 4 of the complaint, except the mere bald and cursory statement with regard to the appellant, the complainant has not specifi ed her role in the day-to-day aff airs of the Company. We have verifi ed the averments as regards to the same and we agree with the contention of Mr. Akhil Sibal that except reproduction of the statutory requirements the complainant has not specifi ed or elaborated the role of the appellant in the day-to-day aff airs of the Company. On this ground also, the appellant is entitled to succeed.” 15. Paragraph 19 of the Ashok Shewakramani’s case (supra) is also relevant for the purpose of the case and it, in so far as relevant, reads thus: 830 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “19. Section 141 is an exception to the normal rule that there cannot be any vicarious liability when it comes to a penal provision. The vicarious liability is attracted when the ingredients of sub-section 1 of Section 141 are satisfi ed. The Section provides that every person who at the time the off ence was committed was in charge of, and was responsible to the Company for the conduct of business of the company, as well as the company shall be deemed to be guilty of the off ence under Section 138 of the NI Act. In the light of sub-section 1 of Section 141, we have perused the averments made in the complaints subject matter of these three appeals. The allegation in paragraph 1 of the complaints is that the appellants are managing the company and are busy with day to day aff airs of the company. It is further averred that they are also in charge of the company and are jointly and severally liable for the acts of the accused No.1 company. The requirement of sub-section 1 of Section 141 of the NI Act is something diff erent and higher. Every person who is sought to be roped in by virtue of sub-section 1 of Section 141 NI Act must be a person who at the time the off ence was committed was in charge of and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company. Merely because somebody is managing the aff airs of the company, per se, he does not become in charge of the conduct of the business of the company or the person responsible for the company for the conduct of the business of the company. For example, in a given case, a manager of a company may be managing the business of the company. Only on the ground that he is managing the business of the company, he cannot be roped in based on sub-section 1 of Section 141 of the NI Act. The second allegation in the complaint is that the appellants are busy with the day-to-day aff airs of the company. This is hardly relevant in the context of subsection 1 of Section 141 of the NI Act.