29. The circumstances, i.e., the presence of the deceased at the spot; the ownership of the trolley and the goods loaded therein; the presence of this supervisor of the employer company; and details mentioned in the 10 Annexure P – 1 at page 23 11 annexure P – 6 at page 9 of application to place on record additional documents 384 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. inquest panchnama form, when considered together, point to the aspect of the deceased person being on the roll of the employer. 30. It is well-established that the Act is a social welfare legislation and, therefore, it must be given a benefi cial construction. Matters thereunder are to be adjudicated with due process of law and also with a keen awareness of the scope and intent of the act. This Court has, time and again, reiterated this principle. We may refer to K. Sivaraman v. P. Sathishkumar12 wherein, speaking for the Court, Dr. D.Y Chandrachud J., observed: – “25. The 1923 Act is a social benefi cial legislation and its provisions and amendments thereto must be interpreted in a manner so as to not deprive the employees of the benefi t of the legislation. The object of enacting the Act was to ameliorate the hardship of economically poor employees who were exposed to risks in work, or occupational hazards by providing a cheaper and quicker machinery for compensating them with pecuniary benefi ts. The amendments to the 1923 Act have been enacted to further this salient purpose by either streamlining the compensation process or enhancing the amount of compensation payable to the employee.” (Emphasis supplied) 31. It may be noted that the Commissioner had not returned any fi ndings in respect of the validity or invalidity of the license of the deceased nor was it one of the questions framed by the Commissioner for consideration. In such a situation, while exercising powers within the limited purview allowed by Section 30 of the Act, the learned Court below erred in making observations and giving a holding in that regard. 32. In the facts at hand, with the cumulative sum of circumstances pointing to the employment of the deceased with the employer company; in keeping with the principles of the legislation being intended for social welfare and protection of employees; the Commissioner being the last authority on facts; the scope of an appeal under the said Act being limited only to substantial questions of law; and no perversity could be demonstrated 12 (2020) 4 SCC 594 FULMATI DHRAMDEV YADAV & ANR. v. NEW INDIA 385 ASSURANCE CO. LTD. & ANR. [SANJAY KAROL J.] from the of the Commissioner, we set aside the passed in First Appeal No.3487 of 2013. The Appeal is allowed. 33. As a consequence thereof, the passed by the Commissioner, Workmen Compensation Act, Bhuj (Kutch), Gujarat in W.C.F.C.No.08/10 is restored. The amount as deposited, per this (the remaining 80%, after the release of 20% of the sum awarded being ed by the Court below in Civil Application No.12822 of 2013 vide dated 25th June, 2014) and placed in cumulative fi xed deposits, shall become payable to the claimants forthwith, in compliance of the terms and conditions set out therein.