At this juncture, it also will be apposite to consider the well settled principle of law that the of the Hon’ble Supreme Court and/or of this Hon’ble Court cannot be read as a statute. I say that the Petitioner wants C this Hon’ble Court to read the of the Hon’ble Supreme Court as a statute, which is impermissible.” 10. The above averments in the affidavit which was filed by MMRCL indicate that it was well aware of the fact that the of this Court continued to operate. MMRCL sought to justify its application for felling of trees in excess of what was permitted by the specific directions D of this Court. Such an exercise was clearly not contemplated in the of this Court. We are constrained to observe that MMRCL has made an attempt to overreach the jurisdiction of this Court. 11. The issue which, however, needs to be considered in the application for clarification is whether permission should be granted in E terms of the which has been passed by the Superintendent of Gardens. 12. In the IA for clarification, it has been submitted that subsequent to the of 29 November 2022, a joint inspection took place on 19 December 2022 between the officers of the Municipal Corporation and F MMRCL since a period of approximately three years and ten months covering four monsoon seasons had elapsed from the date of the previous inspection which took place on 20 March 2019. It has been stated that in the course of the joint inspection, it was found that some trees were “missing/dead/fallen” and additional plants and trees had grown since G the date of the previous inspection. Hence, it has been sought to be urged that the updated number of affected trees were estimated at 185, pursuant to which a public notice notice was issued by the Tree Authority on 12 January 2023. H IN RE: FELLING OF TREES IN AAREY FOREST (MAHARASHTRA) 397 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 13. The Solicitor General, while adverting to the contents of the A IA, also submitted that a compilation of relevant documents was placed on the record of this Court on 5 April 2023. 14. On the other hand, it has been submitted by Mr C U Singh and Mr Gopal Sankaranarayanan that a survey was conducted in 2020 and, as a matter of fact, it was based on the survey that MMRCL had sought B permission to prune a certain number of trees and to fell 84 trees. Senior counsel submitted that this Court permitted MMRCL to move the Tree Authority specifically with reference to the proposal for 84 trees. In other words, it has been urged before this Court that the fresh proposal which was made before the Tree Authority after the of this Court C dated 29 November 2022 was clearly not bona fide having due regard to the events which had transpired, resulting in the of this Court. 15. It was improper on the part of MMRCL to move the Tree Authority for the felling of any trees in excess of 84 trees.