H 424 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 16. As it is, the jurisdiction conferred on courts under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act is fairly narrow, when it comes to the scope of an appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act, the jurisdiction of an appellate court in examining an , setting aside or refusing to set aside an award, is all the more circumscribed.” B 13.7. The learned Attorney General has referred to another 3- Judge Bench decision of this Court in the case of Sal Udyog Private Limited (supra), wherein this Court indeed interfered with the award in question when the same was found suffering from non-consideration of a relevant contractual clause. In the said decision too, the principles aforesaid in Delhi Airport Metro Express, Ssangyong Engineering C and other cases were referred to and thereafter, this Court applied the principles to the facts of that case. We shall refer to the said decision later at an appropriate juncture. 13.8. Keeping in view the aforementioned principles enunciated by this Court with regard to the limited scope of interference in an arbitral D award by a Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Act, which is all the more circumscribed in an appeal under Section 37, we may examine the rival submissions of the parties in relation to the matters dealt with by the High Court. Questions relating to proceedings and procedure E 14. It has been argued on behalf of the State that in the arbitration proceedings, it had made an application for appointment of an expert under Section 26 of the Act but the same was not decided by the Arbitral Tribunal. In our view, the High Court has dealt with this issue in its proper perspective and this baseless objection has rightly been rejected. F We find it rather strange that such an objection standing at contradiction to its own stand before the Arbitral Tribunal and against its own amended pleading has at all been projected by the State as a ground of challenge to the award in question. It appears that in the counter claim filed by Government of Goa before the Arbitral Tribunal, initially it was prayed that all transactions and invoices raised by the claimant need to be re- G examined through a technical cum financial expert so as to ascertain the correctness of the bills in terms of Section 26 of the Act but, thereafter, the Government itself amended its counter claim, as permitted under Section 23 of the Act by the Arbitral Tribunal, and dropped this prayer. It was then pleaded by the Government that it had engaged the services of H an expert and with his assistance, had reworked the amount which was RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 425 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] payable by the claimant to it. The High Court has held that after such A deletion of the prayer, it was reasonable for the Arbitral Tribunal to proceed on the basis that the application under Section 26 of the Act was either rendered infructuous or was abandoned by Government of Goa; and that it had not been able to show any prejudice on account of non-disposal of the application.