Nadkarni, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf of Respondent no.1. 4.1 Shri Basant, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellant has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case the Division Bench of the High Court has materially erred in quashing and setting aside the passed by the Collector, Cuttack D dated 24.03.2021 cancelling the lease in favour of respondent no.1 herein. 4.2 Shri Basant, learned Senior Advocate has further submitted that the High Court has materially erred in observing and holding that the initial subject solvency certificate which as such was in the name of Gurukrupa Charitable Trust, but was used by respondent no.1 in his E individual capacity in to participate in the tender was a genuine mistake and not a deliberate act and therefore a rectifiable defect. 4.3 It is submitted that it is an admitted position that the property belonged to the Gurukrupa Charitable Trust and was not owned by respondent no.1. It is submitted that therefore, the subject solvency F certificate used by respondent no.1 in his individual capacity in to participate in the tender was an exercise in fraud which rendered his bid non-est and void ab initio. 4.4 It is submitted that the High Court has not properly appreciated the fact that it was the modus operandi of respondent no.1 to attempt to G pass off the property of the Trust as his own property inasmuch as the self-same subject solvency certificate had been misused by respondent no .1 in another tender and detecting the fraud played, the Tehsildar and the Sub-Collector had disqualified him from the said tender. H DEBIDUTTA MOHANTY v. RANJAN KUMAR PATTNAIK & 79 ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.5 It is further submitted that the High Court has materially erred A in applying Rule 51(7) of the OMMC Rules, 2016. It is submitted that the said Sub-Rule shall be applicable only in a case where there is a breach of any condition of the lease deed, whereas in the instant case there has been a breach of the auction/tender call notice and the Rules governing bids. B 4.6 It is further submitted that the High Court has materially erred in holding that the competent authority under the OMMC Rules, 2016 was the Tehsildar and therefore the Collector could not have been approached in the first instance despite being aware that there were allegations against the Tehsildar of conspiring with respondent no.1. C 4.7 Shri R. Basant, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has further submitted that the High Court has materially erred in taking into consideration the subsequent conduct on the part of respondent no.1 in obtaining the fresh solvency certificate. It is submitted that what was required to be considered was the solvency certificate at D the time of bid and not the subsequent solvency certificate. 5. Present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri A.N.S. Nadkarni, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of respondent no.1. It is submitted that as rightly observed and held by the High Court the initial solvency certificate dated 07.12.2017 issued in favour of Respondent E no.1 was by mistake and instead of Gurukrupa Charitable Trust, the same was issued in favour of Respondent no.1 being the Chairman of Trust.