It is not the quantity of the witnesses but the quality of witnesses D which matters. Smt Pinky (PW-1) was the injured witness having received grievous and life-threatening injuries. We are not impressed by this argument also. 22. Non-examination of the statement under section 164 CrPC also has no relevance or bearing to the findings and conclusions arrived E at by the courts below. It was for the Investigating Officer to have got the statement under section 164 CrPC recorded. If he did not think it necessary in his wisdom, it cannot have any bearing on the testimony of PW-1 and the other material evidence led during trial. 23. Insofar as the attempt of the learned counsel for Ravi is F concerned, regarding his name not being taken in the statement of Smt Pinky under section 161 CrPC, we are of the view that the same is factually incorrect. This Court has perused the statement of Smt Pinky and finds that at two places she has taken the name of Ravi, both during the assault and otherwise also. G 24. Learned Amicus for the appellant Mukesh has tried to point out several discrepancies and inconsistencies in the evidence. We need not go into details as the same are minor and do not have any impact on the findings recorded by the courts below. 25. For all the reasons recorded above, we do not find any infirmity H in the of the High Court affirming the conviction of the appellants. AJAI ALIAS AJJU ETC. ETC. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 941 PRADESH [VIKRAM NATH, J.] Accordingly, Criminal Appeal Nos.598-600 of 2013 and Criminal Appeal A No. 337 of 2014 are liable to be dismissed and are accordingly dismissed. Insofar as the appeals filed by the State are concerned for enhancement of sentence, we find that the High Court has given sound and cogent reasons for commuting death sentence into life sentence. Accordingly, the Criminal Appeal Nos.745-748 of 2015 also stand dismissed. The B appellants are in custody and they will serve out their sentence. 26. Pending applications, if any, are disposed of. Ankit Gyan Appeals dismissed. (Assisted by : Mahendra Yadav, LCRA) C D E F G H