Section 449 Imprisonment for life, or with rigorous By Court of Session imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, and fi ne. Section 459 Imprisonment for life, or imprisonment of By Court of Session either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and fi ne. Section 460 Imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment By Court of Session of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and fi ne. Section 489A Imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment By Court of Session of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and fi ne. Section 489B Imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment By Court of Session of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and fi ne. Section 489D Imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment By Court of Session of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and fi ne. 23. Section 53, IPC would reveal that imprisonment for life is the second extreme punishment to which an offender is liable after the death penalty under the provisions of IPC. We have already noted that Cr. PC, firstly enumerates the Courts by which different offences can be tried and then defines the limits of sentencing power of each of such Courts in the of hierarchy. Hereinbefore, we have already extracted the relevant provisions under Sections 26 and 29 Cr. PC. It is profitable to refer to Section 28, Cr. PC as well in this context. It reads thus:- “28. Sentences which High Courts and Sessions Judges may pass.— (1) A High Court may pass any sentence authorised by law. (2) A Sessions Judge or Additional Sessions Judge may pass any sentence authorised by law; but any sentence of death passed by any such Judge shall be subject to confi rmation by the High Court. AMANDEEP SINGH SARAN v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 453 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] (3) An Assistant Sessions Judge may pass any sentence authorised by law except a sentence of death or of imprisonment for life or of imprisonment for a term exceeding ten years.” 24. A scanning of the facts and factors mentioned hereinbefore with reference to various provisions would reveal that barring some exceptions, it is essentially the severity of the punishment imposable and severe nature of the off ence that acts as the decisive factor in the matter of fi xing the forum in the hierarchy of Courts, for trying the diff erent off ences. A scanning of the First Schedule to Cr.PC also would reveal that barring some exceptions, in respect of the off ences where the punishment imposable is imprisonment for life or imprisonment which may extend to 10 years and fi ne, the forum for trial is invariably the “Court of Session”. The legislative intention appears to be that in respect of very serious or/and heinous off ences where extreme sentence of imprisonment for life is imposable, trial has to be conducted before a Court of Session after following the procedure under Chapter XVIII, Cr.PC.