In fact, in State of Haryana vs. G.D. Goenka Tourism Corporation Corporation Ltd. (2018) 3 SCC 585, this Court directed that pending a final decision on making a reference to a Larger Bench on the interpretation of Section 24 of the L.A. Act, 2013, the High Courts ought not to deal with any case relating to the said interpretation. G Therefore, between 21.02.2018 till the date of pronouncement of the by the Larger Bench in Indore Development Authority i.e., 06.03.2020, the High Courts were requested not to deal with cases arising under Section 24(2) of the L.A. Act, 2013, and its applicability to acquisition arising under L.A. Act, 1894, i.e. only insofar as acquisition initiated under L.A. Act, 1894. But insofar as cases which were decided H 256 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A prior to the aforesaid directions issued by this Court or the High Court or cases decided even by this Court on the strength of the dictum in Pune Municipal Corporation cannot be set at naught between the parties to those cases. The in Pune Municipal Corporation having been overruled, it would only lose its value as a precedent subsequent to the dictum of the Larger Bench in Indore Development B Authorityand therefore, cannot be cited as a precedent. 48. Hence, in my view, having regard to the scope and ambit of the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC, these review petitions are not maintainable and the and the s of this Court ought not be reviewed and the review petitions are liable to be dismissed. C 49. It is also important to bear in mind that in various High Courts across the country following the in Pune Municipal Corporation,Writ Petitions have been disposed of and the said decisions passed in the said writ petitions or intra court appeals, as the case may be, may have attained finality and binding on the parties thereto. If these D review petitions are allowed and are held to be maintainable there would be hundreds of review petitions which would be filed seeking review of the decisions passed by various High Courts in writ petitions following the in Pune Municipal Corporation. This would open a Pandora’s Box and upset the binding nature of the decisions between E the parties and be contrary to the doctrine of finality in litigation. 50. In Indore Development Authority vs. Shailendra (supra), a majority of two Hon’ble Judges in paragraph 217 while opining that, the rendered in Pune Municipal Corporationand other decisions following Pune Municipal Corporation are per incuriam observed that the “decisions rendered on the basis of Pune Municipal Corporation F are open to be reviewed in appropriate cases on the basis of this decision”. However, the Larger Bench in Indore Development Authoritydid not observe the above, either in paragraph 365 of the or any other paragraph. In fact, the reason as to why a Larger Bench of five Judges was constituted, was because a majority of 2:1 in Indore Development G Authority vs. Shailendra had taken a view that Pune Municipal Corporationwas per incuriamand also the decision in Pune Municipal Corporation was by a Two-Judge Bench.