Considering these circumstances in totality and as none of the heirs of the testator contested the grant of letters of administration, this Court held that there could be only one conclusion, i.e., that the Will was duly executed and the propounder was successful in proving it. Notably, there was no contest to the Will and that is a distinguishing factor when compared with the case on hand. 27. On the same lines, in Ved Mitra Verma vs. Dharam Deo Verma9, having found that the attesting witnesses had died, this Court held that the examination of the Sub-Registrar, who had registered the Will and who spoke of the circumstances in which the attesting witnesses as well as the testator had signed on the document, would be suffi cient to prove the Will in terms of Section 69 of the Evidence Act. 28. However, in Apoline D’ Souza vs. John D’ Souza10, this Court had noted that Section 68 of the Evidence Act provides for the mode and manner through which execution of a Will is to be proved and held that proof of attestation of a Will is a mandatory requirement. Referring to the earlier in Naresh Charan Das Gupta vs. Paresh Charan Das Gupta11, which held to the eff ect that merely because the witnesses did not state that they signed the Will in the presence of the testator, it could not be held that there 8 (2023) SCC OnLine SC 255 9 (2014) 15 SCC 578 10 (2007) 7 SCC 225 11 AIR 1955 SC 363 660 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. was no due attestation and it would depend on the circumstances elicited in evidence as to whether the attesting witnesses signed in the presence of the testator, this Court held that the mode and manner of proving due execution of the Will would indisputably depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case, and it is for the propounder of the Will to remove the suspicious circumstances. 29. In Bhagavathiammal vs. Marimuthu Ammal and others12, a learned Judge of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that the diff erence between Section 68 and Section 69 of the Evidence Act is that, in the former, one attesting witness, at least, has to be called for the purpose of proving execution and in the latter, it must be proved that the attestation of one attesting witness, at least, is in his handwriting and the signature of the person executing the document is in the handwriting of that person. It was rightly observed that Section 69 of the Evidence Act does not specify the mode of such proof and, in other words, the handwriting can be spoken to by a person who has acquaintance with the handwriting or the signature can be proved by comparison with the admitted handwriting or signature of the person executing the document. 30. Applying the above edicts to the case on hand, we may note that neither of the attesting witnesses to Ex.