14. In Jitendra Singh vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and Ors.4, this Court after considering a catena of s, reiterated the principle of law as follows: “6. ***mutation entry does not confer any right, title or interest in favour of the person and the mutation entry in the revenue record is only for the fi scal purpose.” 15. We may also profi tably refer to the decision of this Court in Sita Ram Bhau Patil vs. Ramchandra Nago Patil (Dead) by LRs. and Ors.5 wherein it was held that there exists no universal principle that whatever will appear in the record of rights will be presumed to be correct, when there exists evidence to the contrary. 16. In the present case, the Commissioner’s distinctly denying the rights of occupancy to the plaintiff ’s vendor is evidence that renders these revenue entries unworthy of acceptance. 17. An examination of the sale deed executed in favour of the plaintiff , also tilts the balance against him. The deed simply states that the plaintiff ’s vendor traces her title not to a grant in her favour by the government, but through a sale deed executed in her favour. Further, there is a categorical recital in the deed that the property is neither Inam land nor tenanted land, and that there is no legal impediment to the sale of such property. Some element of mischief being present is clear inasmuch as a relevant fact was concealed, 2 (1996) 6 SCC 223 3 (1997) 7 SCC 137 4 2021 SCC OnLine SC 802 5 (1977) 2 SCC 49 P. KISHORE KUMAR v. VITTAL K. PATKAR 809 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] i.e., the plaintiff ’s vendor had indeed applied for occupancy rights under the Act but had failed to secure them. Such an application would never have been necessary, had the property not been Inam or tenanted land, thus laying bare the defi ciency in the plaintiff ’s title. The High Court, while observing that there existed a lawfully registered sale deed in favour of the plaintiff , failed to identify this inherent defect in the title claimed by the plaintiff . 18. It is settled law that a vendor cannot transfer a title to the vendee better than he himself possesses, the principle arising from the maxim nemo dat quod non habet, i.e., “no one can confer a better title than what he himself has”. In the present case, the plaintiff ’s vendor having been denied the right of title in the land by the Commissioner’s , could not have conveyed the same to her vendee. 19. In contrast, when the sale deed dated 20th June, 1984 executed in favour of the defendant is examined, there is an unequivocal and categorical recital that the vendor purchased the land from Sri K. Srinivasa Murthy, in whose favour occupancy rights were granted vide the Commissioner’s . A comparative study of the two sale deeds leaves none in doubt that the defendant’s sale deeds, supported by the Commissioner’s , weigh heavier in the scales of justice as compared to the plaintiff ’s sale deed, which is only supported by revenue documents.