The circumstances are not of a conclusive nature and tendency. The circumstances do not exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved. 20. In the last, the learned counsel submitted that this Court may set aside the conviction for the off ence of murder and substitute the same with the off ence of abetting the commission of suicide punishable under Section 306 of the IPC. It was pointed out that the convict-husband is undergoing sentence past more than 9 years. 832 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 21. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being merit in both her appeals, those may be allowed. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE 22. Mr. Jatinder Kumar Bhatia, the learned counsel appearing for the State vehemently submitted that no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court as well as by the trial court in holding the appellants guilty of the respective offences. 23. It was sought to be vehemently argued that the deceased along with her son was residing at their village whereas the husband was doing some job in Delhi. The husband on the pretext of medical treatment of the deceased brought her from the village to Delhi and within three days of their arrival in Delhi, the incident occurred. It was argued that if the case put forward by the husband is to be accepted then it is to be believed that while something went wrong with the deceased, the husband was very much present because according to the husband he had immediately taken the deceased to the Sanjay Gandhi Hospital. On being declared dead at the hospital, he thereafter brought the dead body to the village. 24. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel appearing for the State submitted that in view of Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, ‘the Evidence Act’ or ‘the Act 1872’), it is for the convict-husband to explain as to what had actually transpired. It is the convict-husband who could be said to be in special knowledge of things that might have transpired at the relevant point of time. 25. It was argued that the presence of poison in the viscera would indicate that the same had been administered to the deceased in some manner and no one except the husband could have administered the poison. It was also argued that there was a strong motive for the husband to commit the crime. The husband has also been held guilty of causing lot of harassment to his wife and the same is evident from the two letters written by the deceased to her father and are exhibited in the evidence. BALVIR SINGH v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 833 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 26. The learned counsel laid much stress on the fact that both the appellants have maintained complete silence especially of the facts which could be said to be within their personal knowledge.