The same would be contrary to the Explanation in XLVII Rule 1 CPC. (b) Similarly, reliance was placed on Assistant Commissioner, Income Tax, Rajkot vs. Saurashtra Kutch Stock D Exchange Limited (supra). A which was pronounced earlier by a superior Court and holding the field, was not noticed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, subsequently, while deciding a matter. Hence, it was observed that there was a mistake apparent from the record as there was non-consideration of a binding decision of superior Court E by the said Tribunal. Hence, the same could be rectified under Section 254(2) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The above decision is also not applicable in the instant case for the reason that when Pune Municipal Corporation was decided there was no of Indore Development F Authority. The decision of the Larger Bench in Indore Development Authority is not prior to but subsequent to the in Pune Municipal Corporation. The and decision in Pune Municipal Corporation dated 08.02.2018 held the field till the in Indore G Development Authority which was pronounced on 06.03.2020. Therefore, the in Indore Development Authority being a subsequent decision cannot give rise to review and recall of the decision in Pune Municipal Corporation as well as other s following the aforesaid case, on the basis that in Pune Municipal H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 245 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Corporation has been overruled in the subsequent case, A namely, Indore Development Authority. (c) In Shakuntla Devi vs. Kamla (2005) 5 SCC 390, a declaratory decree was granted on the basis of law as it stood then i.e. the date when the declaratory decree was passed. But by the time the second declaratory decree was B passed between the same parties in a subsequent suit, this Court had declared the law under Section 14 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 holding that the estate of women gets enlarged in terms of the said provision. Since the law on the date of the second declaratory decree was contrary to the C earlier declaration of law made by this Court, the earlier decree in the first suit would not operate as res judicata even between the same parties when the second suit on a different cause of action between the same parties is being considered. Thus, in the above circumstances, the principle of res judicata would not apply. It is in the context of the D principle of res judicata, it was observed by this Court that if the earlier declaratory decree which is sought to be made the basis of res judicata, is delivered by a Court without jurisdiction or is contrary to the existing law at the time and the issue comes up for reconsideration, such earlier declaratory E decree cannot be held to be res judicata in a subsequent case unless, of course, protected by any special enactment. Therefore, it was held in the said case that if a subsequent suit is based on an earlier declaratory decree and such decree is contrary to the law prevailing at the time of the consideration of the second suit as to its legality or is a decree granted by F a Court which had no jurisdiction to grant such decree, principles of res judicata under Section 11 CPC will not be attracted.