The borrowers have dwelt on Clause 8.9.6 of the Master Directions on Frauds according to which the entire exercise commencing B from the detection of fraud by an individual bank upto the declaration of fraud by the JLF is to be completed within six months. Clause 8.9.6 provides thus: “8.9.6 It may be noted that the overall time allowed for the entire exercise to be completed is six months from the date when the C first member bank reported the account as RFA or Fraud on the CRILC platform.” 59. In K I Shephard v. Union of India45, this Court was called upon to decide the validity of amalgamation schemes drawn by the RBI, whereunder three private banks were amalgamated with nationalized D banks. At the time of merger, some employees of the private banks were excluded from employment as their services were not taken over by the transferee banks in view of allegations of misconduct against them. While noting the fact that the entire process of amalgamation was statutorily required to be completed within 6 months, this Court held that the said time frame provides scope for granting an opportunity of hearing E to the affected employees: 15. […] We do not think in the facts of the case there is any justification to hold that rules of natural justice have been ousted by necessary implication on account of the time frame. On the other hand we are of the view that the time limited by statute F provides scope for an opportunity to be extended to the intended excluded employees before the scheme is finalised so that a hearing commensurate to the situation is afforded before a section of the employees is thrown out of employment. 60. The decision of this Court in Swadeshi Cotton Mills (supra) G and K I Shephard (supra) demonstrates that the exigency of a situation is contextual. The Court must lean in favour of reading in the principles of natural justice when faced with a regulatory silence. Any exclusion must be confined to the narrowest possible limits. The application of the 45 (1987) 4 SCC 431 H 518 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A requirement of a prior hearing could be excluded only in situations where importing it would have the effect of paralyzing the entire process. As mentioned above, Clause 8.9.6 of the Master Directions on Frauds contemplates that the procedure for the classification of an account as fraud has to be completed within six months. The procedure adopted under the Master Directions on Frauds provides enough time to the banks B to deliberate before classifying an account as fraud. During this interval, the banks can serve a notice to the borrowers, and give them an opportunity to submit their reply and representation regarding the findings of the forensic audit report. Given the wide time frames contemplated under the Master Directions on Frauds as well as the nature of the procedure C adopted, it is reasonably practicable for banks to provide an adequate opportunity of a hearing to the borrowers before classifying their account as fraud.