Constitution of India: Seventh Schedule – Art. 245, 246 & 254 – Interplay between Entry 66 of List I and Entry 25 of List III – Held: The question of invasion into another legislative territory H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 919 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. has to be determined by substance and not by degree – Where one A Entry is made ‘subject to’ another Entry, all that it means is that out of the scope of the former Entry, a field of legislation covered by the latter Entry has been reserved to be specially dealt with by the appropriate Legislature – The field of legislation covered under Entry 25 of List III is subject to Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I – B Dual restrictions operate in the legislative competence of a State Legislature to enact any law under Entry 25 of List III – First is, if such a law is to be made by the State Legislature, it is always subject to Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I or the Union List, in respect of which only the Parliament has the power to enact a law – The second restriction is with regard to the subject of the Entry as a whole – C When any law is made under Entry 25 of List III by a State Legislature, the same is always subject to Entry 66 of List I – Modern scientific medicine or allopathic medicine is within the scope of Entry 66 of List I and not under Entry 25 of List III – In the instant case the law made by the State Legislature is hit by the first of the D aforesaid two restrictions – Hence, the State Legislature lacked the legislative competence to enact such a Law. Dismissing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. The Assam Rural Health Regulatory Authority E Act, 2004, which is enacted by the State Legislature on the strength of Entry 25 of List III, not only seeks to introduce a new course in the field of medical education, but also seeks to regulate the profession of the candidates successfully completing the said course. The Assam Act vests with the Regulatory Authority constituted thereunder, the power to prescribe the F minimum standards of the course, duration of the course in allopathic medicine the curriculum, the examination etc. Further, it authorises the State Government to grant permission for the opening of a medical institute. Prescription of minimum standards for medical education, authority to recognise or de-recognise an G institution etc., are areas over which exclusive legislative competence lies with the Parliament, under Entry 66 of List I. The State Legislatures, on the other hand, under Entry 25 of List III, possess legislative competence to legislate with respect to all other aspects of education, except the determination of H 920 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A minimum standards and co-ordination. With a view to provide a benchmark quality of medical education, it is essential that uniform standards be laid down by the Parliament, which are to be adhered to by institutions and medical colleges across the country.