Accordingly, the period of three years E debarring the petitioner be considered to be reckoned w.e.f. 13.02.2020 and would be ended accordingly after completion of three years from the said date. 8. Accordingly, the petition is partly allowed modifying the of debarment making the same effective w.e.f. 13.02.2020 till the F period of three years.” 15. At this juncture, we may also take note of the fact that as against the aforesaid dated 23.04.2021 passed in W.P. No. 12075 of 2020, the appellant had earlier approached this Court by way of SLP(C) No. 13571 of 2021 but then, sought permission to withdraw with liberty G to take recourse to other appropriate remedy in accordance with law. By the dated 24.09.2021, the said SLP(C) No. 13571 of 2021 was, accordingly, dismissed as withdrawn with liberty as prayed. Thereafter, the appellant filed a review petition in the High Court that came to be summarily rejected by the High Court with a short dated 13.12.2021 that reads as under:- H ISOLATORS AND ISOLATORS THR. ITS PROP. MRS. SANDHYA MISHRA 461 v. MPMKVVCL [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] “On hearing learned counsels, we do not find any error A apparent on the face of the record that calls for any interference. In the absence of any error on the face of the record, this review petition is dismissed.” 16. Assailing the s so passed by the High Court, learned B senior counsel for the appellant has essentially put forward two principal contentions. In the first place, it has been argued that the show-cause notice dated 26.11.2019was only about debarment but then, the respondents proceeded to pass the s debarring the appellant for 3 years as also imposing penalty. Even in regard to the question of penalty, according to the learned counsel, as per Clause 4 of the contract, the C quantum of penalty could have been from ½% to 10% for delay in delivery but the respondents have chosen to impose the maximum thereof without assigning any reason as to why the highest of such quantum was chosen. In the second place, learned counsel has contended that the debarring the appellant and the imposing penalty both were D challenged in the writ petition but the High Court chose to consider only the challenge with respect to the of the debarment and nothing was considered about the imposing penalty. 16.1. With reference to the facts of the case, learned senior counsel has submitted that the appellant is manufacturer of transformers and by E the very nature of its product, the distribution company like the respondents are the only purchasers and that way, the present one is a case of single purchase market. The appellant had been supplying transformers to the respondents since the year 1989 without any default or difficulties and in the totality of circumstances, delay in execution of the present purchase s,that had occurred because of the reasons and circumstances F explained by the appellant, debarment for a maximum period of 3 years and imposition of maximum penalty had been highly disproportionate and too harsh.