On the other hand, the appellants before this Court would argue that the respondent- workman is governed by the CCA Rules 1965, being an employee of NFC, Hyderabad. One of the terms and conditions stated in his appointment was that he would be governed under the CCA Rules, even for disciplinary proceedings. Further, it is under the CCA Rules where a large number of benefi ts are liable to be given to the employees of the Department. On the date, an employee reaches the age of superannuation, he gets his pension only under the CCA Rules 1965, apart from a large number of other benefi ts and therefore it is not open for the employee to say that as long he enjoys the benefi ts, the Rules will be applicable, but the same Rules will not be applicable in the disciplinary proceedings against him. Such an argument is not tenable under the law, the department would argue. 5. We have heard Mr. Arkaj Kumar, learned counsel for the appellants and Mr. Anand Padmanabhan R. learned counsel for the respondent workman, at length and have perused the material on record. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. K. SURI BABU 1051 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] 6. Learned counsel appearing for the Department has drawn our attention to the appointment dated 05.05.2001, which states that in matters of disciplinary proceedings the employee will be governed by the CCA Rules. The relevant provision mentioned in the appointment is as under: “3. I am to add that other terms and conditions of your service including discipline will be governed by the rules as applicable to Central Government employees of your status in NFC from time to time. Your leave entitlement will be admissible to Industrial employees in departmental undertakings under Appendix-XI of CSR Vol. II (8th Edition) (Ref. Ministry of fi nance Memo No. 7(84) E-IV(A)/B1, dt. 17.11.61 as amended vide Ministry of Finance Memo No. B(1)-E- IV(A)/70, dt. 27.03.71). Other conditions of service will be governed by the Rules and s of the Central Government in force from time to time.” Since the Rules applicable to Central Government employees are the CCA Rules 1965, the reference in the appointment to the applicable Rules, is of CCA Rules, 1965. 7. Standing s made under the Industrial Establishment (Standing s) Act, 1946 are however Rules specifi c to workmen in an industrial establishment. Industrial Employment (Standing s) Act 1946, Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and a number of other legislations of this period, are worker friendly legislations, which were enacted with a purpose i.e., to regulate the working conditions of workmen. Standing s grant a protection to a workman, inter alia, when he faces a disciplinary proceeding initiated by the employer. The employer is undoubtedly on a much powerful position than a workman and has much stronger bargaining power and consequently the statute has been made to create a balance. This position has been held by this Court in a catena of decisions, namely, Salem-Erode Electricity Distribution Co. (P) Ltd. v. Employees’ Union (1966) 2 SCR 4981, Management, Shahdara (Delhi) Saharanpur Light Railway Co. Ltd. v. S.S. Railway Workers Union (1969) 2 SCR 1312 and 1 Paragraph No.