In such circumstances, it is essential to follow the entire selection process, even in cases of reappointment. c. On the date of reappointment i.e., 24.11.2021, the respondent No. 4 had crossed the age of 60 years which is the outer age limit for being appointed to the post of Vice-Chancellor under Section 10(9) of the Kannur University Act. Therefore, the respondent No. 4 was not eligible for being reappointed as the Vice-Chancellor in 2021. d. The notifi cation dated 01.11.2021 was withdrawn only with a view to overcome the hurdle of the age limit, and thereby, bypass the prescribed procedure for appointment. e. Section 10(10) of the Kannur University Act is very specifi c and clear. The language of the provision unequivocally spells out the legislative intent that if a person is once given an appointment, it would only enable him an opportunity to be considered for fresh appointment for one more term. The express language of the provision does not grant a candidate, who is already appointed as the Vice-Chancellor, to evade the mandatory eligibility criteria and to be appointed as the Vice- Chancellor again. The distinction drawn by the High Court between the terms “appointment” and “reappointment” relying on Section 10(10) is totally perverse. f. The High Court erred in proceeding on the premise that since the respondent No. 4 was eligible for appointment on the fi rst occasion, he was also entitled for reappointment and thus the entire process for appointment need not be undertaken afresh. This appears to be the logic behind the withdrawal of Notifi cations calling for fresh applications. 398 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. g. The High Court ought to have appreciated that the constitution of the Select Committee and preparation by the panel is prerequisite for the appointment of Vice-Chancellor of University. If the contention that the UGC Regulations do not impose any age restriction for appointment as the Vice-Chancellor is accepted, then the UGC Regulations do not provide for the reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor as well. h. Section 10(10) of the Kannur University Act contemplates reappointment and not an extension of the term of the Vice- Chancellor. For this reason, the notifi cation dated 01.11.2021 was issued calling for applications from eligible candidates for the post of Vice-Chancellor. The said notifi cation stipulated that the candidate must satisfy the eligibility criteria mentioned in Clause 7.3(i) of the UGC Regulations, and should not be more than 60 years of age on the date of issuing the notifi cation. When appointment is made by virtue of Section 10(10), the law does not provide an exemption to be followed in the case of an incumbent who is holding the post of Vice-Chancellor. i. The reliance placed by the High Court on the decisions of the Rajasthan High Court and Jammu & Kashmir High Court, in its impugned is not correct as the two High Courts had failed to take into consideration the UGC Regulations which provides for the method and procedure for appointment of the Vice-Chancellor.