In Karnataka Rare Earth v. Deptt. of Mines & Geology [(2004) 2 SCC 783], this Court observed that maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit requires that the party should be placed in the same position but for the court›s which is ultimately found to be not sustainable which has resulted in one party gaining advantage which otherwise would not have earned and the other party has suff ered but for the s of the court. The successful party can demand the delivery of benefi t earned by the other party, or make restitution for what it has lost. This Court observed : (SCC pp. 790-91, paras 10-11) “10. In … the doctrine of actus curiae neminem gravabit and held that the doctrine was not confi ned in its application only to such acts of the court which were erroneous; the doctrine is applicable to all such acts as to which it can be held that the court would not have so acted had it been correctly apprised of the facts and the law. It is the principle of restitution that is attracted. When on account of an act of the party, persuading the court to pass an , which at the end is held as not sustainable, has resulted in one party gaining advantage which it would not have otherwise earned, or the other party has suff ered an impoverishment which it would not have suff ered, but for the of the court and the act of such party, then the successful party fi nally held entitled to a relief, assessable 101 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. in terms of money at the end of the litigation, is entitled to be compensated in the same manner in which the parties would have been if the interim of the court would not have been passed. The successful party can demand : (a) the delivery of benefi t earned by the opposite party under the interim of the court, or (b) to make restitution for what it has lost. 11. In the facts of this case, in spite of the [Karnataka Rare Earth v. Department of Mines & Geology, WPs No.. 4030- 4031 of 1997, dated 1-12-1998 (KAR)] of the High Court, if the appellants would not have persuaded this Court to pass the interim s, they would not have been entitled to operate the mining leases and to raise and remove and dispose of the minerals extracted. But for the interim s passed by this Court, there is no diff erence between the appellants and any person raising, without any lawful authority, any mineral from any land, attracting applicability of sub-section (5) of Section 21. As the appellants have lost from the Court, they cannot be allowed to retain the benefi t earned by them under the interim s of the Court. The High Court has rightly held the appellants liable to be placed in the same position in which they would have been if this Court would not have protected them by issuing interim s. All that the State Government is demanding from the appellants is the price of the minor minerals.