Alembic Chemical Works Co. Ltd. was decided on the above premise. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 457 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] vii. It is not necessary that in all cases, once and for all payment would result in an enduring benefi t, nor it is a fi rm rule that periodical payment would not carry with it an enduring benefi t. viii. Mere payment of an amount in instalments does not convert or change a capital payment into a revenue payment. Similarly, lump-sum payment can represent revenue expenditure if it is incurred for acquiring circulating capital though payment is made once and for all. Likewise, payment made in instalments can be for acquiring a capital asset, the price of which is paid over a period of time. Therefore, what is relevant is the nature of the original obligation and whether the subsequent payment made in instalments relates to or has a nexus with such original obligation or not. Where the subsequent payments, are towards a purpose which is identifi ably distinct from the original obligation of the assessee, the same would constitute revenue expenditure. However, where each of the successive instalments relate to the same obligation or purpose, the cumulative expenditure would be capital in nature. ix. The general principle that expenditure on the creation of a capital asset is on capital account applies only where the capital asset belongs to the assessee. An amount spent by the assessee may be deductible on revenue account even if it results in the acquisition of a capital asset by a third party, videL.H. Sugar Factory and Oil Mills Pvt. Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, U.P., (1980) 125 ITR 293. x. Another pertinent question to consider is, whether, the expenditure is incurred towards purchase of an asset, or merely of the right to use the asset for a given period of time on payment of a certain consideration for the period of intended use, vide Devidas Vithaldas and Co. Where the asset is not purchased or is not vested with the assessee, but the assessee has simply acquired a right to use the asset, the payment would be of revenue nature, videCIT vs. Modi Revlon Pvt. Ltd., 2012 SCC OnLine Del 4463 (“Modi Revlon Pvt. Ltd.”). 458 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Payment of royalty: 20. In the present case, before considering the issue as to categorisation of the variable licence fee payable as a percentage of gross revenue, it is also necessary to understand the distinction between a payment made to acquire a right, and payment of royalty in a broad sense. Stated in the most simplistic manner, acquisition of a right would mean purchase of an asset, tangible or intangible, for the enduring advantage of the purchaser. When a right is said to be acquired, it means that the ownership of the said right vests with the purchaser. By contrast, payment of royalty is to use a right or asset. The right or asset is not per se acquired by the person or entity authorised to use it but continues to vest with the owner of the right.