the quantum of compensation, and (iii) apportionment of the compensation among the ‘persons interested’. The ‘persons C interested’ would be bound by the award without regard to the fact whether they have respectively appeared before the Collector or not. The finality to the award spoken of by Section 29 is as between the ‘persons interested’ inter se and is confined to the issue as to the correctness of the D apportionment. Section 30 is not confined in its operation only to ‘persons interested’. It would, therefore, be available for being invoked by the ‘persons interested’ if they were neither present nor represented in proceedings before the Collector, nor were served with notice u/s 12(2) of the Act or when they claim on the basis of a title coming into existence E post award. The definition of ‘person interested’ speaks of ‘an interest in compensation to be made’. An interest coming into existence post award gives rise to a claim in compensation which has already been determined. Such a person can also have recourse to Section 30. In any case, the dispute for which F Section 30 can be invoked shall remain confined only (i) as to the apportionment of the amount of compensation or any part thereof, or (ii) as to the persons to whom the amount of compensation (already determined) or any part thereof is payable. The State claiming on the basis of a pre-existing right would not be a ‘person interested’, as already pointed G out hereinabove and on account of its right being pre- existing, the State, in such a case, would not be entitled to invoke either Section 18 or Section 30 seeking determination of its alleged pre-existing right. A right accrued or devolved post award may be determined in a reference u/s 30 depending on H 408 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Collector’s discretion to show indulgence, without any bar as to limitation. Alternatively, such a right may be left open by the Collector to be adjudicated upon in any independent legal proceedings. This view is just, sound and logical as a title post award could not have been canvassed upto the date of the award and should also not be left without remedy by B denying access to Section 30. Viewed from this angle, Section 18 and 30 would not overlap and would have fields to operate independent of each other. 37. The Collector acts as a representative of the State whilst holding proceedings under the Land Acquisition Act. In fact, C he conducts the proceedings on behalf of the State. The award of the Collector is not the source of the right to compensation; it is the pre- existing right which is recognized by the Collector and guided by the findings arrived at in determining the objections, if any, the Collector quantifies the amount of D compensation to be placed as an offer of the appropriate Government to the owner recognized by the State. The offeree may accept or decline the offer.