And even if, in future, any one claims right on the property, then risk thereof stands on the company and that is if due to such right or chapter if any loss or expenses occurred by you or your heirs, that is to be repaid by the company.” H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 763 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] [...] A (9) All taxes, land revenue, education cess, and other outgoings related to the said property and outstanding dues upto date has been paid and if any dues remains to be paid that is to be paid by the company. Now onwards, the responsibility for payment of all taxes, etc. related to the said property will be on the first party. B By support of this deed the purchaser can enter its name on said property in Government, Semi-Government and local records, City Survey Records and Municipal Records and for that we have to give our signature, consent, and such signed consent admitted being considered.” C (emphasis supplied) 281. To decide this issue, the question that arises before us is whether SICA is special legislation in relation to the 1910 Act and 2003 Act. SICA was enacted with a view to secure the timely detection of sick companies and speedy determination of the preventive, ameliorative, D remedial and other measures which need to be taken with respect to such companies. Section 18 mandated an operating agency such as a BIFR to prepare a scheme providing for transfer of business, properties, assets, and liabilities of the sick industrial company on terms and conditions as specified in the scheme. According to Section 18(8) of SICA, once E the scheme is sanctioned, it is binding on the sick industrial company as well as the shareholders, creditors, and guarantors of the sick industrial company. Section 32 of the SICA gave overriding effect to any rules or schemes made under the provisions of the Act: “32. Effect of the Act on other laws.—(1) The provisions of this Act and of any rules or schemes made thereunder shall F have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law except the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973), and the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976 (33 of 1976), for the time being in force or in the Memorandum or Articles of Association of an G industrial company or in any other instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act. *** (emphasis supplied) H 764 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 282. In Tata Motors Ltd v. Pharmaceutical Products of India Ltd103 this Court held that SICA is a special legislation in comparison to the Companies Act. The Court observed: “22.The provisions of a special Act will override the provisions of a general Act. The latter of it (sic Act) will B override an earlier Act. The 1956 Act is a general Act. It consolidates and restates the law relating to companies and certain other associations.