However, in paragraph 13, it is specifically observed by the referral court that “this Court cannot finally pronounce one way or the other on this aspect.” In paragraph 14 also, it F is specifically observed that the arbitrability of the dispute raised viz-a- viz the arbitration clause 27.3 of SHA-1, is an involved issue, can be addressed by the learned arbitral tribunal. Thus, the referral court has not pronounced anything finally on the existence and validity of the arbitration agreement which ought to have been done by the referral court. G 7. Now, so far as the submission made by Shri Kaul, learned Senior Advocate that all the agreements being interlinked and interconnected and reliance placed on the decision of this Court in the cases of Chloro Controls India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) and Olympus Superstructures (P) Ltd. (supra), we do not propose to go into the H MAGIC EYE DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. v. M/S. GREEN EDGE 409 INFRASTRUCTURE PVT. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] merits as the same has to be considered by the referral court. We have A not even permitted learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant to make submission on merits. 8. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the impugned common and passed by the High Court in respective Arbitration Petitions, referring the disputes to arbitration is B hereby quashed and set aside. The matter is remitted back to the High Court/referral court to decide the respective arbitration petitions afresh and in light of the observations made hereinabove and to decide the issue conclusively and finally with respect to the existence and validity of the arbitration agreement. The aforesaid exercise to be completed C within a period of three months from the date of receipt of the present . However, it is observed that we have not expressed anything on merits on the existence and validity of the arbitration agreement and on the four agreements being interconnected/interlinked. It is ultimately for the High Court/referral court to take an appropriate decision in accordance with law and on its own merits. Present appeals are accordingly allowed to D the aforesaid extent. In the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no as to costs. Ankit Gyan Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri and Aarsh Choudhary, LCRAs) E F G H