32. With respect to the decision to conduct the ‘Barium Swallow Test’, it is important to note that the clinical test was mandated in Mrs. Sunita’s case to investigate why liquid feed being administered orally was leaking through the wound and getting aspirated. This test was routine in nature and carried out even in infants to determine any irregularities with respect to their digestive tracts. Moreover, the solution used i.e., Barium Sulphate, was non-toxic in nature and therefore, hardly posed any danger to patients. Therefore, we fi nd that the NCDRC rightfully held that the aforesaid charges were not proved. These do not merit any further discussion either. 33. In sum and substance, the main contention arising in the aforesaid Civil Appeals that needs to be addressed is whether the act of conducting the ‘NI’ procedure on Mrs. Sunita on 13.05.2004 at Suretech hospital, while removing the existing ‘TT’ after the Bronchoscopy report indicated normalcy in Mrs. Sunita’s airways, amounts to negligence or not. In case the answer arrived at is in the affi rmative, it needs to be further ascertained whether the subsequent medical complications in the form of permanent respiratory tract deformity as well as voice loss suff ered by Mrs. Sunita can solely and directly be attributed to this single or specifi c negligent act. 34. Before proceeding further, let us understand what this Court has found to constitute medical negligence. In Jacob Mathew vs. State of Punjab1, the Court held: “48. (1) Negligence is the breach of a duty caused by omission to do something which a reasonable man guided by those considerations 1 (2005) 6 SCC 1 130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. which ordinarily regulate the conduct of human aff airs would do or doing something which a prudent and reasonable man would not do. The defi nition of negligence as given in Law of Torts, Ratanlal & Dhirajlal (edited by Justice G.P. Sing), referred to hereinabove, holds good. Negligence becomes actionable on account of injury resulting from the act or omission amounting to negligence attributable to the person sued. The essential components of negligence are three: ‘duty’, ‘breach’, and ‘resulting damage’. (2) Negligence in the context of medical profession necessarily calls for a treatment with a diff erence. To infer rashness or negligence on the part of a professional, in particular a doctor additional considerations apply. A case of occupational negligence is diff erent from the one of professional negligence. A simple lack of care, an error of or an accident, is not proof of negligence on the part of a medical professional. So long as a doctor follows a practice acceptable to the medical profession of that day, he cannot be held liable for negligence merely because a better alternative course or method of treatment was also available or simply because a more skilled doctor would not have chosen to follow or resort to that practice or procedure which the accused followed. When it comes to the failure of taking precautions, what has to be seen is whether those precautions were taken which the ordinary experience of men has found to be suffi cient; a failure to use special or extraordinary precautions which might have prevented the particular happening cannot be the standard for judging the alleged negligence.