All liberties may not be exercised in privacy. Yet others can be fulfi lled only within a private space. Privacy enables the individual to retain the autonomy of the body and mind. The autonomy of the individual is the ability to make decisions on vital matters of concern to life. Privacy has not been couched as an independent fundamental right. But that does not detract from the constitutional protection aff orded to it, once the true nature of privacy and its relationship with those fundamental rights which are expressly protected is understood. Privacy lies across the spectrum of protected freedoms. …The intersection between one’s mental integrity and privacy entitles the individual to freedom of thought, the freedom to believe in what is right, and the freedom of self-determination. When these guarantees intersect with gender, they create a private space which protects all those elements which are crucial to gender identity. The family, marriage, procreation and sexual orientation are all integral to the dignity of the individual… The freedoms under Article 19 can be fulfi lled where the individual is entitled to decide upon his or her preferences. ... Dignity cannot exist without privacy. Both reside within the inalienable values of life, liberty and freedom which the Constitution has recognised. Privacy is the ultimate expression of the sanctity of the individual. It is a constitutional value which straddles across the spectrum of fundamental rights and protects for the individual a zone of choice and self-determination.” (Emphasis supplied) 25.. In matters concerning women, this Court has repeatedly stated that much is left to be desired in securing constructive equality. We may refer to what Krishna Iyer J. has stated7: “The fi ght is not for woman’s status but for human worth. The claim is not to end inequality of women but to restore universal justice. The bid is not for loaves and fi shes for the forsaken gender but for cosmic harmony which never comes till woman comes”. 7 V.R.Krishna Iyer, Law and Life, Vikas Publishing House, New Delhi, 1979, p. 31. 970 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 26.. We also fi nd this Court to have recognized, in Shakti Vahini v. Union of India8, that the right to choose a partner is a fundamental right under Article 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India. In the celebrated case, Shafi n Jahan v. Asokan K.M.9 it was observed:- “84. … The choice of a partner whether within or outside marriage lies within the exclusive domain of each individual. Intimacies of marriage lie within a core zone of privacy, which is inviolable.” In S. Khushboo v. Kanniammal10, this Court observed: “46. ... While there can be no doubt that in India, marriage is an important social institution, we must also keep our minds open to the fact that there are certain individuals or groups who do not hold the same view. To be sure, there are some indigenous groups within our country wherein sexual relations outside the marital setting are accepted as a normal occurrence.