So also, the standard of care, while assessing the practice as adopted, is judged in the light of the knowledge available at the time of the incident, and not at the date of trial. Similarly, when the charge of negligence arises out of failure to use some particular equipment, the charge would fail if the equipment was not generally available at that particular time (that is, the time of the incident) at which it is suggested it should have been used. (3) A professional maybe held liable for negligence on one of the two fi ndings: either he was not possessed of the requisite skill which he professed to have possessed, or he did not exercise, with reasonable competence in the given case, the skill which he did possess. The M.A BIVIJI v. SUNITA & ORS. 131 [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] standard to be applied for judging, whether the person charged has been negligent or not, would be that of an ordinary competent person exercising ordinary skill in that profession. It is not possible for every professional to possess the highest level of expertise or skills in that branch which he practices. A highly skilled professional may be possessed of better qualities, but that cannot be made the basis or the yardstick for judging the performance of the professional proceeded against on indictment of negligence.” 35. Following Jacob Mathew, the Court in Kusum Sharma vs. Batra Hospital2 laid down the following principles that are to be considered while determining the charge of medical negligence: “I.) Negligence is the breach of a duty exercised by omission to do something which a reasonable man, guided by those considerations which ordinarily regulate the conduct of human aff airs, would do, or doing something which a prudent and reasonable man would not do. … III.) …. The Medical Professional is expected to bring a reasonable degree of skill and knowledge and must exercise a reasonable degree of care. Neither the very highest nor a very low degree of care and competence judged in the light of the particular circumstances of each case is what the law requires. IV.) A medical practitioner would be liable only where his conduct fell below that of the standards of a reasonably competent practitioner in his fi eld. V). In the realm of diagnosis and treatment there is scope for genuine diff erence of opinion and one professional doctor is clearly not negligent merely because his conclusion diff ers from that of another professional doctor. VI.) The medical professional is often called upon to adopt a procedure which involves higher element of risk, but which he honestly believes as providing greater chances of success for the patient rather than a procedure involving lesser risk but higher chances of failure. 2 (2010) 3 SCC 480 132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Just because a professional looking to the gravity of illness has taken higher element of risk to redeem the patient out of his/her suff ering which did not yield the desired result may not amount to negligence.