The question of entertaining a petition challenging an examination would not arise where a candidate has appeared and participated. He or she cannot subsequently turn around and contend that the process was unfair or that there was a lacuna therein, D merely because the result is not palatable. In Union of India v. S. Vinodh Kumar (2007) 8 SCC 100, this Court held that: “18. It is also well settled that those candidates who had taken part in the selection process knowing fully well the procedure laid down therein were not entitled to question E the same (See also Munindra Kumar v. Rajiv Govil (1991) 3 SCC 368 and Rashmi Mishra v. M.P. Public Service Commission (2006) 12 SCC 724)”. 13.1. It is therefore trite that candidates, having taken part in the selection process without any demur or protest, cannot challenge the F same after having been declared unsuccessful. The candidates cannot approbate and reprobate at the same time. In other words, simply because the result of the selection process is not palatable to a candidate, he cannot allege that the process of interview was unfair or that there was some lacuna in the process. Therefore, we find that the writ petitioners in these cases, could not have questioned before a Court of law, the G rationale behind recasting the selection criteria, as they willingly took part in the selection process even after the criteria had been so recast. Their candidature was not withdrawn in light of the amended criteria. A challenge was thrown against the same only after they had been declared unsuccessful in the selection process, at which stage, the challenge ought H 754 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A not to have been entertained in light of the principle of waiver and acquiescence. 13.2. This Court in Sadananda Halo has noted that the only exception to the rule of waiver is the existence of mala fides on the part of the Selection Board. In the present case, we are unable to find any B mala fide or arbitrariness in the selection process and therefore the said exception cannot be invoked. Cancellation of the entire selection process: Whether justified? 14. In the present case, the entire selection of the appellants has been quashed by the High Court primarily on the ground of non-availability C of individual award rolls or marksheets awarding marks individually. Whether such an irregularity would vitiate the entire selection process and set it at naught is the next aspect of the matter that requires consideration. 14.1. The decision of a three-judge Bench of this Court in Kumari D Anamica Mishra vs. UP Public Service Commission, Allahabad, AIR 1990 SC 461involved recruitment to various posts in the educational services of the State of Uttar Pradesh. There was a two-stage recruitment involving a written test and an interview therein. It was found that after the written examination, due to the improper feeding of data into the computer, some candidates who had a better performance in the written E examination were not called for interview and candidates who secured lesser marks were not only called for the interview but were finally selected.