1268 SUPR[2E0M2E3] C9O SU.CR.TR .R 1E2P6O8R :T 2S023 INSC 1[32023] 9 S.C.R. A TATA SONS PVT LTD (FORMERLY TATA SONS LTD) v. SIVA INDUSTRIES AND HOLDINGS LTD & ORS (Miscellaneous Application No 2680 of 2019) B In (Arbitration Case (Civil) No. 38 of 2017) JANUARY 05, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI AND C PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, JJ.] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996: s. 29A (as amended) – Time limit for arbitral award – Time limit of 12 months as provided under the amended s. 29A (1) for passing an arbitral award – Applicability of, to international commercial arbitrations – Held: D Timeline of twelve months for making an arbitral award is not applicable to ‘international commercial arbitrations’ – In terms of the amended provisions of s. 29A, arbitral tribunals in international commercial arbitrations are only expected to make an endeavor to complete the proceedings within twelve months from the date of completion of pleadings and are not bound to abide by the time E limit prescribed for domestic arbitrations – As regards, prospective or retrospective application of s. 29A, the 2019 Amendment Act does not contain any provision equivalent to s. 26 of Act 3 of 2016 evincing a legislative intent making the application of the amended provision prospective – Since s. 29A(1), as amended, is remedial in F nature, it should be applicable to all pending arbitral proceedings as on the effective date-30 August 2019 – Thus, in the instant case, the sole arbitrator to decide upon any further extension of time beyond the originally stipulated – Sole arbitrator may issue appropriate procedural directions for extension of time while endeavoring an expeditious conclusion of the arbitration. G Procedural law: Nature of – Prospective or retrospective application – Held: Procedural law establishes a mechanism for determining rights and liabilities of a party and a machinery for enforcing them – Generally, procedural laws are presumed to be retrospective, unless there is a clear indication that such was not H 1268 TATA SONS PVT LTD (FORMERLY TATA SONS LTD) v. SIVA INDUSTRIES 1269 AND HOLDINGS LTD the intention of the legislature, or the procedural law imposes new A obligations qua transactions already concluded or creates new rights or liabilities. Allowing the applications, the Court HELD: 1.1 After the amendment, Section 29A(1) of the B Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 stipulates that the award “in matters other than international commercial arbitration” shall be made by the arbitral tribunal within a period of twelve months from the date of the completion of the pleadings under Section 23(4). The expression “in matters other than an international commercial arbitration” makes it abundantly clear that the C timeline of twelve months which is stipulated in the substantive part of Section 29A(1), as amended, does not apply to international commercial arbitrations. This is further reaffirmed in the proviso to Section 29A(1) which stipulates that the award in the matter of an international commercial arbitration “may be made as D expeditiously as possible” and that an “endeavour may be made to dispose of the matter within a period of 12 months” from the date of the completion of pleadings.