The argument of the promotees to be kept higher in seniority on the basis of their earlier entry into the cadre was urged before the Division Bench. In the under appeal, however, the Division Bench repelled the challenge to the said seniority list, inter-alia holding:- H 216 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A “We have given our thoughtful consideration to the aforesaid arguments advanced and the facts on record and we find that the impugned final seniority list dated 25th of October, 2013 categorically places the promotes and the direct recruits vis-à- vis the year of vacancy serial wise beginning from the year 1990-1991. The placement as per the year of B vacancy and the names of such persons who were entitled to occupy the same has not been questioned on any firm factual foundation. What has been argued is that Rule 17 and Rule 22 has not been complied with as noticed above. Having considered the submissions raised we find that in the absence C of any averment indicating any factual fallacy in the year of placement mentioned in the seniority list, the contention of the counsel for the petitioner cannot be accepted. The division bench while proceeding to issue directions had observed that Rule 17 and 22 had not been shown to be D complied with when the earlier seniority list had been circulated. The bench further observed that the State Counsel had not been able to explain as to why such compliance with regard to issuance of simultaneous letters of appointment had not been made. E In the aforesaid circumstances what we find is that now the rules appear to have been strictly complied with and it is in compliance of such rules that the names of the respective promotes and direct recruits one after the other have been placed. Sri Manish Kumar tried to question the correctness of the F said placement alleging that as against the direct recruits, the space for year of vacancy has been left as blank without mentioning the year of placement. The said argument cannot be accepted, inasmuch as, the list appears to have been prepared by placing first a promote and then the direct recruit G according to the year of vacancy. This factual position could not be therefore successfully assailed by the learned counsel for the petitioner on violation of any rule. The contention therefore, in our opinion, questioning the correctness of the seniority list on the basis H SUSHIL PANDEY v. STATE OF U.P. THR. PRINCIPAL 217 SECRETARY (HOME) [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] of non- compliance of the earlier does not hold A water. We do not find any merit in the petition. The writ petition is accordingly dismissed.” (quoted verbatim from the paperbook) B 8. So far as the seniority list of 2013 is concerned, the main grievance of the appellants is that the direct recruits (who are the private respondents in this appeal) were positioned as per the rota system in the combined list without mentioning the year of vacancies and the promotees in respective vacancies of earlier years were ignored in the process C while fixing their seniority.