Lord Dyson in his C opinion observed as follows: “41. […]The PII procedure respects the common law principles to which I have referred. If documents are disclosed as a result of the process, they are available to both parties and to the court. If they are not disclosed, they are available neither to the other D parties nor to the court. Both parties are entitled to full participation in all aspects of the litigation. There is no unfairness or inequality of arms. The effect of a closed material procedure is that closed documents are only available to the party which possesses them, the other side’s special advocate and the court. I have already E referred to the limits of the special advocate system.” 147. The total removal of the information from the proceedings has two impacts. First, it may lead to the dismissal of the proceedings instituted by the claimant, rendering the issue non-justiciable. Second, it may render the defendant (in this case, the State) defenceless. The F court must also take into account these considerations while deciding if a public interest immunity claim is a less restrictive means. Thus, at the second stage, the enquiry turns into whether the information excluded on a successful PII claim can be fairly removed from the proceeding. 148. The report by the New Zealand Law Commission on National G Security Information in Proceedings provides a two-step procedure for dealing with sensitive information.112 The first consideration is whether the information should be disclosed to the party on a balance of 112 Law Commission, The Crown in Court: A review of the Court proceedings Act and National Security Information in Proceedings (December 2015, Wellington, New Zealand) Report 135 H 700 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A considerations. The second consideration is whether the information can be fairly excluded from the proceedings. The Commission recommended that the court should opt for the closed material proceedings only if the material is ‘sufficiently relevant to the proceedings that it would be in the interest of justice to use a closed procedure rather than to exclude the information and proceed without it.” That is, the court concludes B that national security considerations are so high that they trump over the relevancy of the document in proceedings but the information cannot be fairly excluded from the proceedings because it would cause one of the two injuries recognised above. The Commission recommends that it would be in the interest of justice to follow the closed proceedings to obviate C such unfairness. The report recommended that the closed material procedure was to be used in addition to the public interest immunity procedure to protect the interest of justice. The report of the Law Commission of New Zealand also recognised that though the option of a closed procedure would be available to the State, it would be difficult for the State to prove that this would be in the interests of justice because it D seeks to withhold information from the claimant and use it against them.