The National Commission was under the wrong impression that the original Complaint was filed in respect of D repudiation of the insurance claim and it proceeded on the erroneous premise that having challenged the repudiation in the Complaint, the withdrawal of the complaint unconditionally on 22.11.2010 was fatal to the appellant. The original Complaint was filed on 11.06.2009 and the respondent-Insurance Company E repudiated the claim only on 15.10.2009. The complaint was filed after theft due to non–settlement of claim by the Insurance Company. The repudiation of the claim was made during the pendency of the said complaint, purportedly due to breach of condition no. 1 and 5. The said complaint was withdrawn by the advocate of the complainant on the pretext of the case being F prolonged by the advocate of the Insurance Company, without having express instructions for withdrawal of the said complaint. However, for the fault of the advocate, the complainant cannot be made to suffer. Finally, the dismissal of the complaint was made by the National Commission under the wrong pretext that the earlier complaint had challenged the of repudiation. Thus, G the complaint cannot be thrown out on the threshold of XXIII Rule (1)(4) CPC and in the peculiar facts, it requires consideration on merits. [Paras 7, 8][1250-G; 1252-A-E] 1.3 A careful perusal of Condition No.1 shows that notice is to be given in writing to the Insurance Company immediately H 1242 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A upon occurrence of any accidental loss or damage. The later part of the clause says that in case of theft or criminal act, which may be subject of a claim under the policy, the insured shall give immediate notice to the police and cooperate with the Insurance Company in securing the conviction of the offender. [Para 9][1252- F-G] B 1.4 There was no breach of Condition No.1 in the instant case. After the incident of theft, FIR was registered the next day. The intimation was also given to the Insurance Company admittedly on 02.07.2008, after six days. The Police have also reported the vehicle as untraced as the records indicate. [Para C 10][1255-E-F] 1.5 As regards the alleged breach of Condition No.5 is concerned, it is seen from the record that the driver of the claimant left the key in the keyhole of the vehicle when he got down to search the location where he had to unload the stone dust. The D investigator recommended the repudiation of claim because, according to him, steps to safeguard the vehicle insured were not taken by the driver. [Para 11][1255-F-G] 1.6 Any violation of the condition should be in the nature of a fundamental breach so as to deny the claimant any amount. [Para E 14][1256-D] 1.7 It is noticed in the repudiation letter that the driver had, after alighting from the vehicle, gone to enquire about the location of and that after he went some distance, he heard the sound of the starting of the vehicle and it being stolen away.