2 Bank not to release original title papers and other relevant documents in favour of defendant Nos.1, 3 and/or 4; (E) This Hon’ble Court may be pleased to hold and declare that the Conveyance Deed dated 23rd January, 2015 entered F into between the defendant No. 1 and defendant No. 3 to 5 as null and void; (F) This Hon’ble Court may be pleased to direct the defendant No. 2 to take over all the current assets of the plaintiff pertaining to or in connection with the operation of A.C. Sheet and Cement G Manufacturing unit under license agreement at their book value and make payment to the plaintiff for the current assets available at the time of handing over of the possession, if required.” [8.7] Necessary pleadings in the plaint with respect to cause of action are as under: H GUJARAT COMPOSITE LIMITED v. A INFRASTRUCTURE 121 LIMITED & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 1. The cause of action has arisen when the defendant No. 1, A behind the back of the plaintiff, entered into Conveyance Deed with defendant no. 3 and defendant No. 5. 2. Even the original title deeds and other documents partially pertaining to the suit property are in the custody of defendant No. 2 Bank and by suppressing the fact that the plaintiff has absolute B right over the suit property qua possession, the defendant No. 1 has entered into Conveyance Deed with defendant No. 3 and defendant No. 5 stating that suit property is free from any encumbrance and/or mortgage. 3. That the cause of action for filing the suit has arisen because C the defendant No. 3 and defendant No. 5 made an application to mutate the entry in the revenue record in regard to the Deed of Conveyance. As the plaintiff is legitimately in possession of the suit property by virtue of license agreement, supplementary agreement, tripartite and amended tripartite agreement, it D vehemently opposed the said entry and ultimately the authority concerned rejected the application of the defendant No. 3 and defendant No. 5 for mutation of entry in regard to Conveyance Deed. Thus the mutation entry with regard to mortgage of the suit property with defendant No. 2 Bank still exists and the defendant No. 2 Bank has not removed/revoked the said mortgage. E 4. That though the plaintiff is in possession of the suit property by virtue of license agreement, supplementary agreement, tripartite agreement and amended tripartite agreement, the defendant No. 1; behind the back of the plaintiff, entered into Conveyance Deed with defendant No. 3 and defendant No. 5. F 5. The defendant No. 1 even did not part with the sale consideration with the plaintiff which it has received from defendant No. 3 and defendant No. 5 for conveying the suit property to defendant No. 3 and defendant No. 5. 6. That the cause of action for filing the suit has arisen also as G defendant No. 1 had defaulted in repayment to Punjab National Bank and hence was not in a position to get any loan whatsoever in its own capacity from any financial institution, and as it was in need of financial assistance, defendant No.