7 (2015) 2 SCC 653: [2014] 13 SCR 540 H 1080 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 26. It is well settled that even if the decision on a question of law has been reversed or modified by subsequent decision of a superior court in any other case it shall not be a ground for review of such merely because a subsequent of the Single Judge has taken contrary view. That does not confer jurisdiction upon the Tribunal to ignore the B and direction of the High Court given in the case of the appellants.” 21. This court has also ruled, in Lekh Raj v. Ranjit Singh8 that subsequent changes in law, cannot divest parties of the benefit derived by them in a litigation that attained finality, through a decree: C “21. If the rights of the parties had already been crystallised then, in our opinion, subsequent change in law would not take away such rights which had attained finality due to lis coming to an end inter se the parties prior to such change.” 22. In another , pertinent to the facts of this case, the D state invoked its revisional power to nullify the effect of s which had attained finality and were inuring in favour of private parties. It was held that such action was without authority of law in Ibrahimpatnam Taluk Vyavasaya Coolie Sangham v. K. Suresh Reddy9, where the court considered the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) E Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1950. The provision in Section 50- B(4) empowered the statutory authority to exercise suo motu revisional power at any time. The Court held that: “9. … Use of the words ‘at any time’ in sub-section (4) of Section 50-B of the Act only indicates that no specific period F of limitation is prescribed within which the suo motu power could be exercised reckoning or starting from a particular date advisedly and contextually. Exercise of suo motu power depended on facts and circumstances of each case. In cases of fraud, this power could be exercised within a reasonable time from the date of detection or discovery of fraud. While G exercising such power, several factors need to be kept in mind such as effect on the rights of the third parties over the immovable property due to passage of considerable time, 8 (2018) 12 SCC 750: [2017] 7 SCR 542 9 (2003) 7 SCC 667: [2003] Supp 2 SCR 698 H SHRAMJEEVI COOPERATIVE HOUSING SOCIETY LTD. v. 1081 DINESH JOSHI & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] change of hands by subsequent bona fide transfers, the s A attaining finality under the provisions of other Acts (such as the Land Ceiling Act). … Use of the words ‘at any time’ in sub-section (4) of Section 50-B of the Act cannot be rigidly read letter by letter. It must be read and construed contextually and reasonably. If one has to simply proceed on the basis of B the dictionary meaning of the words ‘at any time’, the suo motu power under sub-section (4) of Section 50-B of the Act could be exercised even after decades and then it would lead to anomalous position leading to uncertainty and complications seriously affecting the rights of the parties, that too, over immovable properties.