wherein, the court observed that a negative HIV test result for the accused does not necessarily mean they are not infected with HIV. It could be due to the “window period”, during which HIV tests may provide inaccurate results. 30. It was argued that respondents had, through various letters26 admitted that the appellant qualifi es as a consumer under Section 2 (l) (d) (ii) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, (hereafter “CPA 1986”) as the appellant, being a permanent employee of the IAF, availed medical services from the respondents as defi ned under the same section. The appellant placed reliance on the s of this court, including M/S. Spring Meadows Hospital & Anr. versus Harjol Ahluwalia Through K.S. Ahluwalia & Anr. 25 Decided on September 25, 1997. 26 Vide Letter No. SWAC/ 3451 / 1103 / PIO, dated 20th Feb 2017; vide Letter No. SWAC / 3451 / 1103 / PIO, dated 14.03.2017; vide Letter No. Air HQ / 23401/2O4/ 4 / 11245 /E / PS, dated 26.04.2017; vide Letter No. DCA / Pen -III / Court Case /2018, Dated 07.01.2019. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 619 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (hereafter, “Spring Meadows”)27; Kishore Lal vs. Chairman, Employee State Insurance Corporation (hereafter, “Kishore Lal”)28; Laxman Thamappa Kotgiri v G. M., Central Railway (hereafter, Laxman Thamappa Kotgiri”)29; and Savita Garg vs. The Director, National Heart Institute30, to further substantiate his submission. 31.The amici and the appellant urged the court that the facts show that there was negligence and reckless disregard of the ordinary care expected of the medical experts, when the blood transfusion took place. It was contended that the court should grant all the reliefs available in law, such as monetary compensation towards loss of income, till the date of normal superannuation, taking into account that he would have been in a position to retire as a Junior Commissioned Offi cer, at the age of at least 58 years. At the very least, his services as non-commissioned personnel would have been ordinarily extended for another seven years. The amici submitted that the present condition of the appellant is fraught as his condition has worsened and he is almost in a state of dependency as he has to rely on the assistance of a support person, cannot move about freely and is frequently fatigued. It was further submitted that the transfusion, without seeking informed consent, without ensuring observance of minimum safeguards and later, stonewalling the appellant, denying access to his medical records, and even seeking to deny their liability, by holding a CoI, - the reason for whose setting up was only to discount previous medical certifi cation- and the insinuations aimed at the appellant, caused him immense mental agony, for which suitable and deterrent compensation is warranted. It was also submitted that the attitude and behaviour of the respondents in providing treatment to the appellant, which he is entitled to in accordance with the applicable rules, as a person discharged on medical grounds, and certifi ed to a certain extent of disability, has eroded his confi dence.