Name of the witness Details of deposition PUBLIC WITNESSES/EYE WITNESSES 1. Sushil Kumar He is the eye witness to the incident and had also (PW1) received injuries during the incident. He has deposed on the following aspects: 1. That on 16.08.2008 he along with his friend namely Pappu came to Azadpur Subzi Mandi to purchase vegetables. 2. That they had purchased some vegetable from the D Block of Azadpur Subzi Mandi and were going towards the IN Gate/ Main gate and at about 3.30 AM when they were near the STD PCO on the D Block corner, they were encircled by four persons. 3. That two of the accused persons snatched Rs.14,800/- from his pocket. He has identifi ed the accused Sharwan Kumar and Pawan to be the persons who had snatched money from him. 4. That when he resisted, two of the other accused persons who were armed with Ice pricks started attacking him and Pappu. He has identifi ed the accused Vijay @ Kalia to be the person, who stabbed him and has also identifi ed accused Mukesh as the person who was armed with ice prick. 5. That the accused persons Vijay and Mukesh caused injuries with the aid of ice picks on the person of Pappu and also to him on the left side of chest and abdomen in three places and also on his right hand. MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 895 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 6. That after snatching money the accused persons ran away. 7. That he had been gheroed by the accused persons, when he entrapped in the traffi c of trucks and when he moved out of the traffi c he saw that his companion Pappu was also lying in an injured condition on the road on which he called up PCR from his mobile phone bearing number 9210415252 and requested the public to take them to hospital. 8. That they were taken to a private nursing home but the guard at the Nursing Home did not let them enter the same on the pretext of police case and in the meantime, PCR offi cials reached there and took them to BJRM Hospital. 9. He has proved having given his statement to the police in BJRM Hospital which is Ex.PW1/A. 10.That the denomination of currency note was Ten currency notes of Rs.1000/-, Nine currency notes of Rs.500/- and Three currency notes of Rs.100/- each. 11.That he had identified the accused persons on 15.09.2008 in the Rohini court Complex when the accused persons had produced in the some court. 12.That his blood stained clothes were seized at the hospital which he identifi ed in the court i.e. a white shirt with cuts on the left chest side which is Ex.P1 and a vest bearing a cut corresponding to the cut in the shirt which is Ex.P2. 13.That within a month of the occurrence he was again called at the hospital when his blood sample was taken by the doctor.