f. The Superintendent of Police of respective Districts shall be responsible to ensure production of accused persons before the respective courts on the dates fi xed and the execution of NBWs issued by the Courts. g. The SHO of the concerned police station shall be personally responsible for service of summons to the witnesses and their appearance and deposition in the court. h. Courts will use technology of video conferencing for examination of witnesses and appearance of the accused persons, to the extent possible. (iii) Cases under stay :- a. This Hon’ble Court in Asian Resurfacing of Road Agency Pvt. Ltd vs. CBI, 2018 (16) SCC 299, held as under:- “If stay is granted, it should not normally be unconditional or of indefi nite duration. Appropriate conditions may be imposed 274 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. so that the party in whose favour stay is granted is accountable if court fi nally fi nds no merit in the matter and the other side suff ers loss and injustice. To give eff ect to the legislative policy and the mandate of Article 21 for speedy justice in criminal cases, if stay is granted, matter should be taken on day-to-day basis and concluded within two-three months. Where the matter remains pending for longer period, the of stay will stand vacated on expiry of six months, unless extension is granted by a speaking showing extraordinary situation where continuing stay was to be preferred to the fi nal disposal of trial by the trial Court. This timeline is being fi xed in view of the fact that such trials are expected to be concluded normally in one to two years.” In view of the law laid down in the aforesaid case, trial courts to proceed with the trial notwithstanding any stay granted by the High Court unless fresh is passed extending the stay by recording reasons. b. In the alternative, Registrar Generals may be directed to place the matters involving MPs and MLAs before Hon’ble the Chief Justice for appropriate s for urgent listing of such cases. (iv) Witness Protection :- a. Witness protection in all such cases is essential having regard to vulnerability of the witnesses and the infl uence exercised by the legislators facing criminal trials. This Hon’ble Court in the case of Mahender Chawla vs Union of India, 2018 (16) SCC 299 has framed “Witness Protection Scheme, 2018” and made it applicable to all the States till the enactment of suitable legislation by the Parliament or State legislatures. b. Trial Courts shall consider granting of protection under the aforesaid scheme to all the witnesses, without any application by the respective witnesses. (v) Monitoring by High Courts a. Each High Court shall register a Suo Moto case with the title “In Re: Special Courts for MPs/MLAs” to monitor the progress of cases pending in the State and ensure compliance of direction of this Hon’ble Court. ASHWINI KUMAR UPADHYAY v. UNION OF INDIA 275 DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI b. The writ petition, so registered shall be heard by a Division Bench of the High Court to be constituted by the Chief Justice.