32.2 While setting aside the impugned and restoring the of the Magistrate, this Court held that the Bombay High Court was in error in holding in such case that as a matter of law, it was not open to the Presidency Magistrate to conclude that no off ence had been made out and there was no suffi cient ground for proceeding further on the complaint on the materials before him. 32.3 After discussing the scheme of sections 200, 202 and 203, Cr. PC, this is what this Court held: “10. Now, in the case before us it is not contended that the learned Presidency Magistrate failed to consider the materials which he had to consider, before passing his under Section 203 CrPC. As a matter of fact the learned Magistrate fully, fairly and impartially considered these materials. What is contended on behalf of the respondent- complainant is that as a matter of law it was not open to the learned Magistrate to accept the plea of right of self-defence at a stage when all that he had to determine was whether a process should issue or not against the appellant. We are unable to accept this contention as M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 243 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] correct. It is manifestly clear from the provisions of Section 203 that the which the Magistrate has to form must be based on the statements of the complainant and his witnesses and the result of the investigation or inquiry. The section itself makes that clear, and it is not necessary to refer to authorities in support thereof. But the which the Magistrate has to form is whether or not there is suffi cient ground for proceeding. This does not mean that the Magistrate is bound to accept the result of the inquiry or investigation or that he must accept any plea that is set up on behalf of the person complained against. The Magistrate must apply his judicial mind to the materials on which he has to form his . In arriving at his he is not fettered in any way except by judicial considerations; he is not bound to accept what the Inquiring Offi cer says, nor is he precluded from accepting a plea based on an exception, provided always there are satisfactory and reliable materials on which he can base his as to whether there is suffi cient ground for proceeding on the complaint or not. If the Magistrate has not misdirected himself as to the scope of an enquiry under Section 202 and has applied his mind judicially to the materials before him, we think that if (sic, it) would be erroneous in law to hold that a plea based on an exception can never be accepted by him in arriving at his . What bearing such a plea has on the case of the complainant and his witnesses, to what extent they are falsifi ed by the evidence of other witnesses — all these are questions which must be answered with reference to the facts of each case.