In other words, no dispute resolution process, including arbitration, could be undertaken in relation F to the subject-matter of the suit without reference to the terms of tripartite agreement and without involving the bank- respondent No. 2. This is apart from the fact that the other elements of dispute pertaining to the subsequent purchasers too cannot be resolved in any forum without reference to the tripartite agreement and its amended clause, which did G not provide for arbitration. Thus, the ancestry of the tripartite agreement, in the facts of the present case, does not lead to the result desired by the appellant. 18.1. Therefore, even on the principles enunciated in Vidya Drolia (supra), the prayer of the present appellant for reference to arbitration under Section 8 cannot be granted. H GUJARAT COMPOSITE LIMITED v. A INFRASTRUCTURE 139 LIMITED & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 19. So far as the propositions based on the memos before the A Commercial Court dated 06.12.2017, as filed by the respondent Nos. 3 to 5 (subsequent purchasers) and by the appellant are concerned, the submissions made on that basis do not take the case of the appellant any further. As noticed, in the said memos, the respondent Nos. 3 to 5 purportedly stated that if dispute concerning them was resolved by B arbitration proceedings, they were not having any objection thereto. The appellant, on the other hand, suggested that the tripartite amended agreement was with reference to the licence agreement and it was agreed that till the time of the defendant No. 1 (appellant) making payment of a sum of Rs. 5 crore to the plaintiff, the title deeds of the immovable property would remain with the bank. The appellant suggested that with C a view that the dispute between the parties be resolved by arbitration proceedings, keeping all contentions open, they would be depositing the said sum of Rs. 5 crore in the Court and that in this manner ‘the dispute with defendant No. 2 would be ended’ and then the bank, who was handed over the title deed in their custody, would deposit the same in the D Court and the Court would be pleased to place the same in sealed cover till the disputes of the other parties were resolved. 19.1. The memo submitted by the appellant was not likely to bring about the desired legal effect. This is for the simple reason that even if the appellant deposited the said sum of Rs. 5 crore in the Court, the bank E was not directly obliged to deposit the title deed in the Court as presumed by the appellant; and then, there was no reason that the Court was to be obliged to accept such a proposition and to keep the title deed in its custody till the completion of proceedings in any other forum. In other words, if at all the matter was to be referred to arbitration, there would not be any justification for the Court to retain the title deed.