In the absence of a specific direction to the effect that the recruitment be concluded in pursuance of the notification of 2017 alone, we are unable to hold that G issuance of a fresh recruitment notification would constitute contempt of court. The timeline for completion of recruitment was stipulated by the court, while the manner in which the recruitment was to be completed, was the prerogative of the appellants. We also take note of the contention of the Learned Solicitor H General that only provisional appointment s could be issued in view GURUDEEP SINGH v. REGONDA SRINIVAS & ORS. 463 [B. V. NAGARATHNA J.] of the fact that the contempt petition initiated by the respondents, was A pending. 14. Having heard the learned Solicitor General for the appellants and the submissions made by the learned counsel for the respondents in light of what we have extracted above and in the light of the dated 17.12.2021 passed by the High Court, we find that there has been no B “deliberate and willful” disobedience of the s of the High Court. In fact, the appellants herein had also tendered an unconditional apology on the premise of an alleged violation of the of the High Court dated 17.12.2021. Even if the High Court came to a conclusion that there was a deliberate and willful disobedience of the of the court, it could C have considered the said unconditional apology tendered by appellants and concluded the matter. However, we find that the High Court has, instead of considering the unconditional apology tendered by the appellants herein, sentenced them to suffer simple imprisonment and pay fine. We do not think that the said punishment imposed was correct having regard to the facts of the case and the passed by the Division D Bench of the High Court on 17.12.2021. 15. In the facts and circumstances of this case, we find it appropriate to accept the unconditional apology of the appellants herein and consequently set aside the sentence imposed on them. The Civil Appeals are allowed and disposed of in the aforesaid terms. E Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Ankit Gyan Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Aarsh Choudhary, LCRA) F G H