However, there can be no gainsaying that such discretion has to be exercised reasonably and not on whims or caprice; at the same time, no auction purchaser can claim extension as a matter of right and that C too beyond the statutorily prescribed period. Whether or not a case for extension does exist would depend upon the peculiar facts of each case and no strait-jacket formula can ever be laid down therefor. If, however, circumstances are shown to exist where a bidder is faced with such a grave disability that he has no other option but to seek extension of time on genuine grounds so as not to exceed the stipulated period of ninety D days and the prayer is rejected without due consideration of all facts and circumstances, refusal of the prayer for extension could afford a ground for a judicial review of the decision-making process on valid ground(s). One such exceptional circumstance led to the decision in Alisha Khan vs Indian Bank (Allahabad Bank)1, where this Court intervened and E granted relief because, due to COVID complications, the appellant had failed to pay the balance amount. 14. Sub-rule (5) of rule 9 does envisage forfeiture, should there be a default in payment of the balance amount of purchase price within the period mentioned in sub-rule (4). The power of forfeiture is, therefore, F statutorily conferred. It may also be noted in this connection that the express power conferred on a secured creditor by sub-rule (5) of rule 9 of the Rules to forfeit the initial deposit made by the bidder in case he commits any default in paying installments of the sale price to the secured creditor has been held by this Court in Agarwal Tracom Private Ltd vs Punjab National Bank and Ors.2 to be an action which is part of G the measures specified in section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act and, therefore, amenable to challenge on valid ground(s) in an application under section 17(1) thereof. 1 2021 SCC OnLine SC 3340 2 (2018) 1 SCC 626 H AUTHORISED OFFICER STATE BANK OF INDIA v. 1081 C. NATARAJAN & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 15. Before we take our discussion forward, it is necessary to A ascertain the true character of the term ‘forfeiture’. Black’s Law Dictionary, inter alia, explains ‘forfeiture’ as “the loss of a right, privilege, or property because of a crime, breach of obligation, or neglect of duty” or “something (esp. money or property) lost or confiscated by this process; a penalty”. It is also explained as “a B destruction or deprivation of some estate or right because of the failure to perform some obligation or condition contained in a contract”. 16. It is also found from the same dictionary that though penalty is usually referable to a crime, penalty is sometimes imposed for civil wrongs C such as a statutory penalty for a statutory violation; especially, a penalty imposing automatic liability on a wrongdoer for violation of the terms of a statute without reference to any actual damage suffered.