Since no proceedings were pending C before any Court when the specimens in question were obtained, provisions of section 73 of the IEA, 1872 could not have been invoked. In such a situation, as there existed no legal provision proscribing an investigating agency from obtaining specimens of handwriting/signature of a suspect or an accused, in view of this D Court, the investigating agency had the power to collect such material including specimen handwriting/ signature as to assist the prosecution to introduce a relevant fact or corroborate any piece of evidence on a relevant fact/fact in issue. For the reasons, the expert report (i.e. FSL report) obtained during investigation by the investigating agency, predicated on specimens of E handwriting/ signature of accused obtained during investigation, could not have been discarded merely because it was obtained during investigation and without an /permission of the Court as contemplated under section 73 of the IEA, 1872. [Para 51][752- E-G; 753-A-B] F 6. In the instant case, according to the prosecution evidence, the specimen signatures and handwritings of ‘N’ were obtained during investigation. Memorandum/documents in connection therewith including the specimens were produced, proved and marked exhibits thereby proving that they were G properly kept and dispatched to FSL along with the disputed suicide letter for obtaining expert opinion. Genuineness of those specimens have not been questioned by ‘N’. The only defence taken is that the specimens of handwriting and signature were obtained by compulsion. As this Court has already found that such objection was unsustainable therefore, once genuineness of the H SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 725 specimens was not disputed, the specimens were available for A comparison and were rightfully used for obtaining expert report. In such a scenario, the net result would be that the FSL report, which was provided by a government scientific expert specified in Section 293 of the Code, was admissible regardless of the fact that the expert was not examined as a witness. More so, when B the defence filed no application to summon the expert for cross- examination. Consequently, the finding of the High Court with regard to the FSL report being inadmissible is erroneous and is, accordingly, set aside. [Para 59][756-C-F] Whether the FSL Report on its own was sufficient to hold C that the suicide letter was written by ‘N’. 7. Though it is not impermissible to base a finding with regard to authorship of a document solely on the opinion of a handwriting expert but, as a rule of prudence, because of imperfect nature of the science of identification of handwriting and its D accepted fallibility, such opinion has to be relied with caution and may be accepted if, on its own assessment, the Court is satisfied that the internal and external evidence relating to the document in question supports the opinion of the expert and it is safe to accept his opinion. In the instant case, with regard to authorship of the suicide letter, the Trial Court though returned a finding in E favour of the prosecution by relying solely on the expert report but did not record its satisfaction having regard to its own observations with respect to the admitted and disputed writings.