The contractor approached the court on 18.01.1995, long after the period of limitation had expired. 13. Learned counsel relied on Clause 55A of the contract to urge that unless the claims were preferred within 30 days of expiry of the defect liability period, they could not be entertained. This condition required that no extra items or claims could be pressed unless they were sought within that period. In this case, the claim was not lodged within that period, as it was fi led much later. Therefore, it was contractually barred, and the courts below correctly concluded it to be the case. M/S. S.D. SHINDE TR. PARTNER v. GOVT. OF 373 MAHARASHTRA AND ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 14. Learned counsel also invited attention of this court to the observations of courts below, highlighting that the original contractor had died and all his legal heirs and representatives were not disclosed, and brought on the record, which became defective. It was lastly urged that in terms of the contract, claims for loss of profi t and for overheads were inadmissible. The award granted the claim for overheads, which is in clear error, and consequently, it was rightly set aside by the courts below. Analysis and Findings 15. Before proceeding with the analysis of the rival contentions, it would be necessary to discuss the relevant terms of the contract. Clause 54A deals with the settlement of disputes. It stipulated that wherever the contractor considered any work demanded to be outside the requirements of the contract or considers any drawings, records or rulings of the EE in any matters in connection with or arising out of the EEs decisions, the contractor had to seek written instructions or decisions. The EE had to give his written decision or instruction within 30 days. Thereupon, the contractor had to proceed to comply with the instructions. In case the EE did not decide on any issue after being requested, or the contractor was dissatisfi ed with the decision, the latter could “appeal to the upward authority who shall aff ord an opportunity to the contractor to be heard” in support of the appeal. The higher authority, i.e., in this case, the SE had to give a decision within 60 days of the receipt of the appeal. 16. The stipulation for arbitration was at clause 55A, which was to be in respect of matters arising out of the contract. Clause 58 dealt with compensation in respect of delay. One of the conditions for arbitration stipulated in clause 55A is as follows: “Neither party is entitled to bring a claim in arbitration if the arbitrator has not been appointed before the expiration of 30 days after defects liability period.” 17. The State’s argument is that the concurrent fi ndings are justifi ed, both on the ground that the claim was time-barred and also on the ground that the letter and condition for initiating arbitration, i.e., claiming amounts within 30 days after the expiry of the defects liability period and that they were also beyond the stipulated 30 days period after the expiry of the defect liability period.