The Imperial British Government took over the control of the erstwhile Kingdom of Sikkim in the year 1888. However, there were conflicts with China. C 4.2 In 1890, a Convention was signed between Great Britain and China to settle the boundaries of Sikkim and Tibet. The British control over Sikkim was recognized by China in the year 1890. Following British taking control of Sikkim, British Indian Subjects were allowed to hold Government employment in Sikkim. 4.3 In supersession of all earlier treaties, a fresh treaty was entered D into between the British Government and the King of Sikkim in the year 1861. Under this treaty, the territory of Sikkim was restored to the King of Sikkim under certain conditions. These conditions included Article 8 under which the Government of Sikkim was to abolish all restrictions on travelers and monopolies in trade between the British territories and E Sikkim. Under the said treaty, British subjects were permitted to trade, reside and travel through Sikkim. Many Indians came to reside in Sikkim over the years. Except for the fact that they could not hold lands in rural areas, the Indians and other foreigners who settled in Sikkim were treated equally with the original inhabitants of Sikkim. F 4.4 The Sikkim Income Tax Manual, 1948 was promulgated by the Ruler of Sikkim (the Chogyal) in the year 1948. Under the said Manual, all persons engaged in business were subjected to tax irrespective of their origin. The India-Sikkim Peace Treaty was entered into on 05.12.1950 and under this Treaty Sikkim was to be the protectorate of India as per Article VII of the said treaty. It appears that in to G check the influx of foreigners into Sikkim, the Ruler of Sikkim (the Chogyal) promulgated the Sikkim Subject Regulations, 1961 on 03.07.1961. Under the said Regulations: (a) the persons falling under Clause 3 of the Regulations were to be entered as a “Sikkim Subject” in the Register; and (b) Persons who were citizens of another country H were not to be registered as a “Sikkim Subject” unless he relinquishes ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 303 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] the citizenship of the other country. The term ‘Sikkim Subject’ was defined A as a person who was born in the territory of Sikkim and was resident therein and similarly situated persons, but however with a caveat that “a person shall not be a “Sikkim Subject” under this section, unless he makes a declaration that he is not a citizen of any other country at the time of inclusion of his name in the register of “Sikkim Subjects”. Because of B this caveat, an Indian citizen whose ancestors had settled down in Sikkim for generations, had to give up his citizenship of India, for the purpose of converting himself into a “Sikkim Subject”. 4.5 It appears that some of the families/persons like the members of the petitioners’ Association, even though their forefather and they C were residents of Sikkim for years together, did not surrender their citizenship of India and, therefore, their names were not registered as “Sikkim Subject” in the register maintained under the Sikkim Subjects Regulations, 1961.