Learned senior counsel for the appellants have submitted that the Division Bench of the High Court could not have interfered with the dated 17.08.2022 as passed by the learned Single Judge of the B High Court without recording a finding to the effect that the as passed was arbitrary, capricious, perverse or contrary to the settled principles of law regulating grant of injunctions. Highlighting the contours of an Appellate Court’s jurisdiction in such appeals, they have placed reliance on the decision of this Court in Wander Ltd. and Anr. v. Antox C India (P) Ltd.: 1990 Supp SCC 727 to submit that the Appellate Court could interfere with the exercise of discretion by the Court of first instance only when the discretion is shown to have been exercised arbitrarily, or capriciously or perversely or where the Court has ignored the settled principles of law regulating the grant or refusal of interlocutory injunction. D from the party [namely S/Shri O. Panneerselvam (appellant), R. Vaithilingam, J.C.D. Prabakar and P.H. Manoj Pandian] and whose expulsion is also a matter of contentions, it is provided that such expulsion shall not operate so far as the present purpose is concerned, i.e., for the purpose of decision by the General Council to choose the candidate for the forthcoming bye-election of 98-Erode (East) Assembly Constituency. In other words, the aforesaid four persons shall be entitled to put forward their votes in the E circulation process for this limited purpose of selection of the candidate of the party for the said bye-election. (4) The ultimate decision of the General Council, as regards choice of the candidate shall be conveyed to the Election Commission of India by the Presidium Chairperson, Dr. A. Tamizh Magan Hussain; and such communication of the decision of General Council shall be accepted by the Election Commission of India as being the authorization F on behalf of the party for the limited purpose of putting up its candidate in the forthcoming bye-election and the returning officer shall take necessary steps accordingly. We again make it clear that the in the main matters remains reserved and this interim arrangement shall otherwise not be of conferring any additional right in any of the parties nor of taking away any of the rights of the parties. The interim arrangement in terms of this shall remain confined to the process of bye-election of 98-Erode (East) Assembly Constituency and not beyond. G Copy of this be provided to all the parties as also to the Election Commission of India. Having regard to the overall circumstances and the nature of passed hereinabove, we do not find any necessity of impleadment as such of the Election Commission of India in these proceedings nor any other appears requisite. Therefore, both the applications (for impleadment and directions) stand disposed of. remains reserved.” H 1160 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A No such case having been made out in the appeals before the Division Bench of the High Court, interference with and reversal of the well- considered of the learned Single Judge deserves to be disapproved.