Both, the High Court as well as the Tribunal, issued notices for wilful disobedience of the s passed. In the proceedings before the High Court, on the one hand, the respondents kept seeking adjournments on the ground that steps were being taken to forward the D appellant’s name to the ACC for being processed for his appointment as Member, ITAT, till as late as on 31 st May 2019 on which date they were granted one last opportunity for making compliances and at their request, the matter was adjourned to 9th July 2019 and on the other hand, the respondents slapped the appellant with a Charge Memorandum dated 17th June 2019 and suspended him on 1st July, 2019. E 37. Having regard to the fact that the respondents did not take the disciplinary proceedings initiated against the appellant to its logical conclusion and instead issued an compulsorily retiring him, this Court does not deem it expedient to delve into the allegations levelled in the said Charge Memorandum; all the same, we have cursorily gone F through the Charge Memorandum that mentions three charges – one alleging that the appellant failed to seek permission from the department to purchase a flat in relation to the matrimonial dispute between him and his estranged wife and the second one is in respect of the allegation of bigamy levelled against him by his estranged wife. We have already G noted earlier that during the course of the matrimonial dispute, the parties had arrived at a settlement and the flat that was agreed to be given to the wife, was not purchased by the appellant but by his brother, which fact is amply borne out from the documents placed on record. The matrimonial dispute between the parties stood closed on a decree of divorce being granted on the basis of mutual consent. That the respondents H CAPTAIN PRAMOD KUMAR BAJAJ v. UNION OF INDIA 57 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] were also cognizant of the said fact, is apparent from the contents of A O.M. dated 15th July, 2015 which records inter alia that the said allegations levelled by the wife had not been established. The third charge was relating to the appellant having attended Court hearings without sanctioned leave. However, the disciplinary proceedings initiated against the appellant on 17th July, 2019 were abandoned by the respondents on B the of compulsory retirement being passed against him in less than three months reckoned therefrom, on 27th September, 2019. 38. The appellant has made allegations of institutional bias and malice against the respondents on the plea that the Chairman, CBDT who was a Member of the Review Committee, was facing three contempt C proceedings relating to the appellant’s service dispute, wherein notices had been issued by the High Court as well as the Tribunal. There is no doubt that rule of law is the very foundation of a well-governed society and the presence of bias or malafides in the system of governance would strike at the very foundation of the values of a regulated social .