the borrower, who is otherwise called as a debtor, retains his full right to redeem the property by tendering all the dues to the secured creditor at any time before the date fi xed for sale or transfer. 54. This Court in Mathew Varghese [Mathew Varghese v. M. Amritha Kumar, (2014) 5 SCC 610 : (2014) 3 SCC (Civ) 254] further held that if the tender is made by the borrower at the last moment before the sale or transfer, the secured asset should not be sold or transferred by the secured creditor. This Court held that there was no reason as to why the general principle laid down by this Court in Narandas Karsondas [Narandas Karsondas v. S.A. Kamtam, (1977) 3 SCC 247] with reference to Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act could not have application in respect of a secured interest in a secured asset created in favour of a secured creditor. It has been held that the said principles will apply on all fours in respect of a transaction as between the debtor and secured creditor under the provisions of the SARFAESI Act. xxx xxx xxx 115. Even if viewed from another angle, the claim of the appellants is not sustainable. The two-Judge Bench of this Court in Mathew Varghese [Mathew Varghese v. M. Amritha Kumar, (2014) 5 SCC 610 CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 115 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] : (2014) 3 SCC (Civ) 254], has heavily relied on the of the three-Judge Bench of this Court in Narandas Karsondas . It has been held by this Court in Narandas Karsondas [Narandas Karsondas v. S.A. Kamtam, (1977) 3 SCC 247], that the right of redemption, which is embodied in Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act, is available to the mortgagor unless it has been extinguished by the act of parties. It has been held, that only on execution of the conveyance and registration of transfer of the mortgagor’s interest by registered instrument, that the mortgagor’s right of redemption will be extinguished. xxx xxx xxx 118. It is further relevant to note that this Court in Dwarika Prasad [Dwarika Prasad v. State of U.P., (2018) 5 SCC 491] and in Shakeena [Shakeena v. Bank of India, (2021) 12 SCC 761] held that the right to redemption stands extinguished on the sale certifi cate getting registered.” (Emphasis supplied) 58. Concern Readymix (supra) was referred to and relied upon later in another decision by the Telangana High Court titled Amme Srisailam (supra), wherein the following relevant observations were made: “38. After referring to the amendments brought to the Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002, this Court took the view that amended Section 13(8) merely prohibits the secured creditor from proceeding further with the transfer of the secured assets by way of lease, assignment or sale if the dues are paid before issuance of notice for public auction. Thereafter it has been held that a restriction on the right of the mortgagee to deal with the property is not exactly the same as the equity of redemption available to the mortgagor.