LTD. v. THE 393 COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX [M. R. SHAH, J.] 7.5 At the outset, it is required to be noted that all these cases are A with respect to the belated remittance of the TDS though deducted by the assessee and therefore, Section 271C(1)(a) shall be applicable. At the cost of repetition, it is observed that it is a case of belated remittance of the TDS though deducted by the assessee and not a case of non- deduction of TDS at all. B 7.6 As per Section 271C(1)(a), if any person fails to deduct the whole or any part of the tax as required by or under the provisions of Chapter XVIIB then such a person shall be liable to pay by way of penalty a sum equal to the amount of tax which such person failed to deduct or pay as aforesaid. So far as failure to pay the whole or any part C of the tax is concerned, the same would be with respect to Section 271C(1)(b) which is not the case here. Therefore, Section 271C(1)(a) shall be applicable in case of a failure on the part of the concerned person/assessee to “deduct” the whole of any part of the tax as required by or under the provisions of Chapter XVIIB. The words used in Section 271C(1)(a) are very clear and the relevant words used are “fails to D deduct.” It does not speak about belated remittance of the TDS. As per settled position of law, the penal provisions are required to be construed strictly and literally. As per the cardinal principle of interpretation of statute and more particularly, the penal provision, the penal provisions are required to be read as they are. Nothing is to be added or nothing is E to be taken out of the penal provision. Therefore, on plain reading of Section 271C of the Act, 1961, there shall not be penalty leviable on belated remittance of the TDS after the same is deducted by the assessee. Section 271C of the Income Tax Act is quite categoric. Its scope and extent of application is discernible from the provision itself, in unambiguous terms. When the non-deduction of the whole or any part of the tax, as F required by or under the various instances/provisions of Chapter XVIIB would invite penalty under Clause 271C(1)(a); only a limited text, involving sub-section (2) of Section 115O or covered by the second proviso to Section 194B alone would constitute an instance where penalty can be imposed in terms of Section 271C(1)(b) of the Act, namely, on non- G payment. It is not for the Court to read something more into it, contrary to the intent and legislative wisdom. 7.7 At this stage, it is required to be noted that wherever the Parliament wanted to have the consequences of non-payment and/or H 394 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A belated remittance/payment of the TDS, the Parliament/Legislature has provided the same like in Section 201(1A) and Section 276B of the Act.