the remand of the accused, for taking him from one place to another in their own custody, usually for the purpose of producing him before the concerned magistrate who has jurisdiction to try/commit the case. The primary purpose of such a remand is to enable the police to shift the person in custody from the place of arrest to the place where the matter can be investigated and tried. However in various cases, the police and investigating agencies have failed to exercise necessary restraint while functioning within their legal remit. It is for the aforesaid reason that an accused apprehending arrest seeks pre-arrest bail. The Courts in India have to be vigilant about such applications being fi led particularly when a person alleged to have committed an off ence can be proceeded with by setting the criminal law in motion in a place other than the place where the off ence has actually occurred. In such circumstances the Courts must balance the interest of the accused in the context of the salutary principle of access to justice which is a facet of Article 21 of the Constitution as well as a Directive Principle of State Policy, especially 580 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Article 39(A). More importantly, it is a facet of Article 14 of the Constitution which guarantees to every person in the country, equality before the law and equal protection of the law. 35. In this case, we are concerned with what is loosely termed as ‘transit anticipatory bail’. As we have seen, the expression ‘anticipatory bail’ is not defi ned in the CrPC though it is traceable to Section 438 of CrPC This Court in Balchand Jain had defi ned anticipatory bail to mean bail in anticipation of arrest. The Constitution Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia has held that fi ling of FIR is not a condition precedent for exercising power under Section 438 of CrPC What is required for invocation of power under Section 438 is that the person seeking anticipatory bail should show reasonable belief of imminent arrest. If the expression ‘anticipatory bail’ is not a defi ned expression, then it is quite but natural that the larger expression ‘transit anticipatory bail’ would not fi nd any exposition in the CrPC. Perhaps the need and necessity for transit anticipatory bail has occasioned because the police has been conferred power under the CrPC to pursue an accused in other jurisdictions. Immediately upon aff ecting the arrest of a person outside the jurisdiction where the off ence is registered, the police is obligated to secure a transit remand. The arrested person has to be produced before the nearest magistrate. If such a magistrate fi nds that he has no jurisdiction to try the case in which the accused has been arrested, he may the accused to be forwarded to a magistrate having the jurisdiction to try the case or to commit it for trial. Thus, the police is obligated to secure a transit remand of the accused for taking him from the place where he is arrested to the place where the crime is registered, for production before the competent magistrate in terms of the requirement of Article 22.