compensation cess leviable thereon under sub-section (7) and A sub-section (9) of section 3 of the said Customs Tariff Act, has been availed, the export obligation shall be fulfilled by physical exports only.”6 *** B “That the exemption from integrated tax and the goods and services tax compensation cess leviable thereon under sub- section (7) and sub-section (9) of section 3 of the said Customs Tariff Act shall be subject to pre-import condition”7 (emphasis supplied) C At the same time, Notification No. 33 / 2015-2020 was issued, amending various provisions of the FTP, whereby this ‘pre-import condition’ was incorporated in paragraph 4.14 thereof with effect from 13.10.2017. The writ petitioners before the High Court / respondents herein claimed that they were unaware about this condition, and continued exports in anticipation of grant of AA, and consequently expected D exemption from all custom duty levies, including IGST and compensation cess. 5. The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (“DRI”) Kolkata noticed the above amendments and thereupon, initiated investigation and issued summons to various manufacturers located across the country E importing goods against AAs. The respondents were of the view that the scope of ‘pre-import condition’ was unclear, whereas the DRI officers conducting the inquiry and investigation, however, were of the view that ‘pre-import condition’ meant that goods had to be imported first, and then the final products manufactured with such imported goods were to F be exported. When it was established that goods imported against a particular AA were used in relation to manufacture of finished goods exported for fulfilment of export obligation of that particular authorisation, the ‘pre-import condition’ stood satisfied. 6. In view of this development, the exemption granted by G Notification No. 18 / 2015-Customs was inadmissible where manufacturer-exporters, who undertook manufacturing and export of goods in a continuous cycle, could not prove the above. Exemption was 6 Proviso to clause (viii), as contained in Notification No. 79 / 2017. 7 Addition of clause (xii), as contained in Notification No. 79 / 2017. H 196 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A also not admissible when goods manufactured were exported in anticipation of licence / authorisation, since they were exports made first, with duty-free import against the authorisation having been undertaken later. Consequently, the manufacturer-exporters aggrieved by this interpretation approached the High Court. B II. Arguments of the Revenue before the High Court 7. The Revenue contended that exemption from paying duty was not a matter of right, and was granted by the State keeping in mind general public interest. The criterion for determination of legality of any notification was always whether the authority acted within its jurisdiction C while issuing such notification or not, and not if the Union benefitted from the same. The Revenue contended that exporters were free to export first and import at a later stage in terms of paragraphs 4.27 and 4.28 of the HBP. Those provisions however did not offer absolute freedom to the importers to regulate their imports and exports without complying with other conditions imposed in the policy and the relevant D customs notification.