There shall be no harassment of queer couples by summoning them to the police station or visiting their places of residence solely to interrogate them about their gender identity or sexual orientation; ii. They shall not force queer persons to return to their natal families if they do not wish to return to them; iii. When a police complaint is fi led by queer persons alleging that their family is restraining their freedom of movement, they shall on verifying the genuineness of the complaint ensure that their freedom is not curtailed;\ iv. When a police complaint is fi led apprehending violence from the family for the reason that the complainant is queer or is in a queer relationship, they shall on verifying the genuineness of the complaint ensure due protection; and v. Before registering an FIR against a queer couple or one of the parties in a queer relationship (where the FIR is sought to be registered in relation to their relationship), they shall conduct a preliminary investigation in terms of Lalita Kumari v. Government of U.P287, to ensure that the complaint discloses a cognizable off ence. The police must fi rst determine if the person is an adult. If the person is an adult and is in a consensual relationship with another person of the same or diff erent gender or has left their natal home of their own volition, the police shall close the complaint after recording a statement to that eff ect. 287 (2014) 2 SCC 1 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1417 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] G* Conclusions and s of enforcement 340. In view of the discussion above, the following are our conclusions: a. This Court is vested with the authority to hear this case. Under Article 32, this Court has the power to issue directions, s, or writs for the enforcement of the rights in Part III; b. Queerness is a natural phenomenon known to India since ancient times. It is not urban or elite; c. There is no universal conception of the institution of marriage, nor is it static. Under Articles 245 and 246 of the Constitution read with Entry 5 of List III to the Seventh Schedule, it lies within the domain of Parliament and the state legislatures to enact laws recognizing and regulating queer marriage; d. Marriage has attained signifi cance as a legal institution largely because of regulation by the state. By recognizing a relationship in the form of marriage, the state grants material benefi ts exclusive to marriage; e. The State has an interest in regulating the ‘intimate zone’ to democratize personal relationships; f. The issue of whether the Constitution recognizes the right to marry did not arise before this Court in Justice KS Puttaswamy (9J) (supra), Shafi n Jahan (supra), and Shakti Vahini (supra); g. The Constitution does not expressly recognize a fundamental right to marry. An institution cannot be elevated to the realm of a fundamental right based on the content accorded to it by law.