The defence also fi led a certifi ed copy of the statement of Lalmuni Devi recorded under Section 164 CrPC by Shri Sampat Kumar, Judicial Magistrate, Chapra on 06.11.2006 in connection with the abduction case in Panapur P.S. Case No. 81 of 2006. e) Further an application was fi led by private counsel Shri Ranjan Kumar Sinha, advocate on behalf of the informant, that additional evidence may be recorded for meeting the ends of justice. He also submitted that the Investigating Offi cer of the case is not examined, although liberty was given by the High Court for 430 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. taking any additional evidence in the case. The Trial Court did not fi nd it necessary to summon the Investigating Offi cer. The Trial Court further closed the evidence of the defence and fi xed 17.10.2008 for arguments. f) On 17.10.2008, another petition was fi led by the private counsel for the informant, stating that the prosecution evidence was closed without taking proper steps for the evidence of the Investigating Offi cer, the Doctor, PW-3 Kadama Rai and seizure list witnesses and prayed for them being called for recording their statements as court witnesses. This petition was also rejected by the Trial Court on the ground that private counsel has no locus standi to fi le such a petition. It completely failed to be sensitive to the facts and circumstances of the case as was apparent from the material on record. g) The Trial Court also rejected another petition, moved on behalf of one Kishori Rai for recording his statement, on the ground that he was a stranger. Although Kishori Rai had prayed for transfer of the case as they had lost faith in the Court, the case was fi xed on 18.10.2008 for further arguments. h) On the said date, again an application was fi led by Narendra Singh and Kishori Rai through their private counsel under Section 311 CrPC for recording statement of Narendra Singh, Kishori Rai and Sanjeev Kumar Singh two of them being witnesses of Fard Bayan, and Kishori Rai had produced the cartridges found at the place of occurrence of which the seizure list was prepared in presence of Janki Rai and Chabili Rai. This application was also rejected on 18.10.2008 on the same ground that it was moved by strangers, who were not witnesses in the chargesheet and the application was not fi led by the Special Public Prosecutor. On the same date, arguments were heard and 20.10.2008 was fi xed for parties to fi le their written arguments. Thereafter the Trial Court proceeded to deliver the on 24.10.2008. HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 431 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 51. With respect to the of the acquittal dated 24.10.2008, a grievance petition was submitted by the seizure list witnesses, which was acknowledged by the then Inspecting Judge,Justice Navin Sinha, as he was then. The entire Sessions Trial Court records were called for and duly examined and studied by the Inspecting Judge.