This discretion is not to be exercised lightly but requires caution F and care as it is to be exercised only in cases when the appellate court finds, on good and justifiable grounds, that there would be a failure of justice without the additional evidence being taken on record. However, once this condition is satisfied, there is no restriction on the kind of evidence received, which may be formal or substantial. The right to fair hearing is inherent to the concept G of due process of law and ascertainment of truth. Equally, there can be failure of justice if this discretion to allow additional evidence at the appellate stage is exercised in a routine and liberal manner, without the court being satisfied that the prayer has imprints of reasonableness and genuineness to at least consider H 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A the worth, credibility and acceptability of the material sought to be brought on record. [Paras 14, 15][14-C-F] 3. Both Sections 311 and 391 of the Cr.P.C. relate to power of the court to take additional evidence; the former at the stage of trial and before the is pronounced; and the latter at B the appellate stage after by the trial court has been pronounced. It may not be totally correct to state that the same considerations would apply to both situations as there is a difference in the stages. Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. consists of two parts; the first gives power to the court to summon any witness at any stage of inquiry, trial or other proceedings, whether the C person is listed as a witness, or is in attendance though not summoned as a witness. Secondly, the trial court has the power to recall and re-examine any person already examined if his evidence appears to be essential to the just decision of the case. On the other hand, the discretion under Section 391 of the Cr.P.C. D should be read as somewhat more restricted in comparison to Section 311 of the Cr.P.C., as the appellate court is dealing with an appeal, after the trial court has come to the conclusion with regard to the guilt or otherwise of the person being prosecuted. The appellate court can examine the evidence in depth and in detail, yet it does not possess all the powers of the trial court as E it deals with cases wherein the decision has already been pronounced. [Para 16][14-G; 15-A-C] 4. The appellate court must be equally, if not more cautious, of the desire to delay the hearing of the appeal, or the attempt to lead additional evidence to explore a chance of contradictory F evidence. While the prayer for leading additional evidence should be permitted to correct a bona fide error or otherwise, and a party may be entitled to further opportunity without any fault on the part of the opposite party, the request for recall should be bona fide and is to be balanced carefully with relevant G considerations, including hardship to the witness and delay of the proceedings.