It is submitted that therefore, the High Court has committed a serious error in directing to treat the dated C 12.02.2019 as an of discharge simpliciter and further directing that she shall be entitled to all consequential benefits including the benefit of past services that she had rendered in DRDO for computing her terminal benefits. It is submitted that the impugned and passed by the High Court is contrary to the relevant Office Memorandum issued by the DOPT - FR-9(13). D 3.2 It is submitted that DOPT O.M. dated 21.07.2014 (Probation & Confirmation) stipulates that during the probation period, the Appointing Authority may revert him/her to the post held substantively by him/her immediately preceding his/her new appointment, provided he/she holds a lien thereon or in other cases may discharge or terminate him/her from E service. It is submitted that as per para 14 of the said O.M., a probationer reverted or discharged from service during or at the end of the period of probation shall not be entitled to any compensation. 3.3 It is submitted that in the present case, when the respondent was appointed as a direct recruit in NTRO, she was appointed on probation F period and that she tendered the technical resignation from DRDO, however, her lien continued with the DRDO. It is submitted that therefore, during the probation period, when her work was not found satisfactory, a conscious decision was taken by the ACC to revert her back to the parent department, i.e., DRDO where she continued to have a lien. It is submitted that therefore, repatriating the respondent to her original parent G department – DRDO, which was during the probation period when she was working with the NTRO, was absolutely in consonance with the DOPT O.M. dated 21.07.2014. 3.4 It is submitted that as such, as per FR-9(13) the word ‘lien’ means the title of a Government servant to hold on regular basis, either H NATIONAL TECHNICAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION v. 375 DIPTI DEODHARE [M. R. SHAH, J.] immediately or on the termination of a period or periods of absence, a A post, including a tenure post, to which he/she has been appointed on regular basis and on which he/she is not on probation. It is submitted that DOPT O.M. dated 17.08.2016 (Technical Resignation & Lien) stipulates that on technical resignation, seniority in the post held by the Government servant on substantive basis continues to be protected. It is submitted B that therefore, on technical resignation, the seniority of the respondent continued to be protected as Scientist-G in DRDO. 3.5 Ms. Bhati, learned ASG has taken us to the relevant paras of the DOPT O.M. dated 17.08.2016, more particularly, paras 2.6, 3.1, 3.2(b), 3.3 and 3.4.1. It is submitted that therefore a permanent C Government servant appointed in another Central Government department/office/ State Government has to resign from his/her parent department unless he/she reverts to that department within a period of 2 years or 3 years in exceptional circumstances, if not confirmed in the department where he/she has joined.