The functions of the judiciary and the police are complementary, not overlapping, and the combination of individual liberty with a due observance of law and is only to be obtained by leaving each to exercise its own function, always, of course, subject E to the right of the Courts to intervene in an appropriate case when moved under Section 491 of the Criminal Procedure Code to give directions in the nature of Habeas Corpus.” 53. In Sri Bhagwan Samardha Sreepada Vallabha Venkata Vishwanandha Maharaj v. State of A.P. and Others reported in (1999) 5 SCC 740, it was held in paras 10 and 11: F “10. Power of the police to conduct further investigation, after laying final report, is recognised under Section 173(8) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Even after the court took cognizance of any offence on the strength of the police report first submitted, it is open to the police to conduct further G investigation. This has been so stated by this Court in Ram Lal Narang v. State (Delhi Admn.) [(1979) 2 SCC 322 : 1979 SCC (Cri) 479 : AIR 1979 SC 1791] . The only rider provided by the aforesaid decision is that it would be desirable that the police should inform the court and seek formal permission to H make further investigation. STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 159 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 11. In such a situation the power of the court to direct the A police to conduct further investigation cannot have any inhibition. There is nothing in Section 173(8) to suggest that the court is obliged to hear the accused before any such direction is made. Casting of any such obligation on the court would only result in encumbering the court with the burden B of searching for all the potential accused to be afforded with the opportunity of being heard. As the law does not require it, we would not burden the Magistrate with such an obligation.” 54. In Hemant Dhasmana v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Another reported in (2001) 7 SCC 536, it was held: C “15. When the report is filed under the sub-section the Magistrate (in this case the Special Judge) has to deal with it by bestowing his judicial consideration. If the report is to the effect that the allegations in the original complaint were found true in the investigation, or that some other accused and/or D some other offences were also detected, the court has to decide whether cognizance of the offences should be taken or not on the strength of that report. We do not think that it is necessary for us to vex our mind, in this case, regarding that aspect when the report points to the offences committed by some persons. But when the report is against the allegations E contained in the complaint and concluded that no offence has been committed by any person, it is open to the court to accept the report after hearing the complainant at whose behest the investigation had commenced.