SPML withdrew the Writ Petition, as recorded in the of the Delhi High Court dated 21.09.2020. 10. After the aforesaid settlement of the disputes, followed by its implementation, SPML repudiated the Settlement Agreement and filed C the present application under Section 11(6) of the Act in the Delhi High Court on 10.10.20204. In this Arbitration Petition, SPML alleged coercion and economic duress in the execution of the Settlement Agreement. The allegation was, that the retention of the Bank Guarantees compelled SPML to accept the terms of Settlement Agreement. SPML also averred D that NTPC had failed to appoint an arbitrator in spite of repeated requests, and therefore the High Court must constitute an Arbitral Tribunal, in exercise of its jurisdiction under the Act. 11.In its reply to the Arbitration Petition, NTPC raised two-fold objections. Firstly, that SPML failed to follow the mandatory pre- E arbitration procedure of first referring the disputes to an Adjudicator as per the terms of the Dispute Resolution Clause5. Secondly, that the 4 Clause 6.2 of the General Conditions of Contract is as under: “6.2 Arbitration 6.2.1 If either the Employer or the Contractor is dissatisfied with the Adjudicator’s decision, or if the Adjudicator fails to give a decision within twenty eight (28) days F of a dispute being referred to it, then either the Employer or the Contractor may, within fifty six (56) days of such reference, give notice to the other party, with a copy for information to the Adjudicator of its intention to commence arbitration, as hereinafter provided, as to the matter in dispute, and no arbitration in respect of this matter may be commenced unless such notice is given.” 5 Dispute resolution was provided under clause 6.1 of the General Conditions of G Contract and clause 3 of Special Conditions of Contract; hereinafter ‘the Dispute Resolution Clause’; Clause 6.1 of the General Conditions of Contract is as under: “6. Settlement of Disputes 6.1 Adjudicator 6.1.1 If any dispute of any kind whatsoever shall arise between the Employer and the Contractor in connection with or arising out of the Contract, including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, any question regarding its existence, H 854 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A disputes between the parties were settled by virtue of the Settlement Agreement dated 27.05.2020. Acting under the Settlement Agreement, NTPC released the Bank Guarantees and SPML also proceeded to withdraw the Writ Petition, and therefore, there was discharge of the contract by accord and satisfaction. The allegations of coercion and economic duress were denied as false, as all events occurred during the B subsistence of proceedings before the Delhi High Court, and the parties willingly complied with the terms of the Settlement Agreement. Further, the demand of Rs. 72,01,53,899/- was an afterthought, never raised during the subsistence of the contract. Under these circumstances, NTPC submitted that the application under Section 11(6) of the Act must be C rejected. 12. High Court: The High Court examined the correspondence between the parties in detail.