It is H clear that a reference to a larger bench pertains to the issue JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 45 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] of exclusion or inclusion of the date of remand for A computation of the period prescribed under Section 167. Therefore, there is no requirement for referring this case to a larger bench. 16. A close scrutiny of the s in Sanjay Dutt (supra), Madar Sheikh (supra) and M. Ravindran (supra) would show B that there is nothing contrary to what has been decided in Bhikamchand Jain (supra). In all the above s which are relied upon by either side, this Court had categorically laid down that the indefeasible right of an accused to seek statutory bail under Section 167(2), CrPC C arises only if the charge-sheet has not been filed before the expiry of the statutory period. Reference to cognizance in Madar Sheikh (supra) is in view of the fact situation where the application was filed after the charge-sheet was submitted and cognizance had been taken by the trial court. Such reference cannot be construed as this Court introducing an D additional requirement of cognizance having to be taken within the period prescribed under proviso (a) to Section 167(2), CrPC, failing which the accused would be entitled to default bail, even after filing of the charge-sheet within the statutory period. It is not necessary to repeat that in E both Madar Sheikh (supra) and M. Ravindran (supra), this Court expressed its view that non-filing of the charge-sheet within the statutory period is the ground for availing the indefeasible right to claim bail under Section 167(2), CrPC. The conundrum relating to the custody of the accused after the expiry of 60 days has also been dealt with by this Court F in Bhikamchand Jain (supra). It was made clear that the accused remains in custody of the Magistrate till cognizance is taken by the relevant court. As the issue that arises for consideration in this case is squarely covered by the in Bhikamchand Jain (supra), the passed by the High G Court on 31.05.2019 is hereby set aside.” (Emphasis supplied) 60. Our attention was drawn by the learned counsel appearing for the accused to a very recent pronouncement of this Court, in the case of Ritu Chhabaria v. Union of India and Others, Writ Petition H 46 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A (Crl.) No. 60 of 2023 decided on 26.04.2023. This decision has been relied upon to fortify the submission that right of an accused to seek default bail cannot be defeated by filing incomplete chargesheet. Ritu Chhabaria filed a writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, seeking release of her husband on default bail. In the facts of the said case, three issues fell for the consideration of this Court: B i.Can a chargesheet or a prosecution complaint be filed in piecemeal without first completing the investigation of the case? ii.Whether the filing of such a chargesheet without completing the investigation will extinguish the right of an accused for grant C of default bail?