A Provided further that the industrial undertaking begins to manufacture or produce articles or things or to operate its cold storage plant or plants at any time during the period beginning on the 1st day of October, 1994 and ending on the 31st day of March, 2004. B XXXXXXXX” 7.1 Thus, as per Sections 28(iiid) and (iiie) any profit on the transfer of the Duty Drawback and on transfer of DEPB Schemes, etc., shall be chargeable to income tax under the head “Profits and gains of business or profession”. It appears that earlier, there used C to be a dispute regarding the receipt by way of incentives from the Government being in the nature of cash assistance, duty drawback, profits on transfer of DEPB Scheme, etc., i.e., as to whether these receipts were capital receipt or revenue receipt and would thus, be taxable. However, thereafter, and in to put an end to the dispute, the legislature by way of inserting clauses D 28 (iiia), (iiib), (iiic), (iiid) and (iiie) has made the said incentives taxable under the head of “profits and gains of business and profession”. 7.2 Section 80-IB provides for deductions in respect of profits and gains from certain industrial undertakings. Therefore, as such E for claiming deductions under Section 80-IB, it must be on the “profits and gains derived from industrial undertakings” mentioned in Section 80-IB. An identical question came to be considered by this Court and, more particularly, with respect to the profit from DEPB and Duty Drawback Schemes, in the case of Liberty India (supra). F 7.3 After taking into consideration the DEPB and Duty Drawback Schemes, ultimately, it is observed and held in the case of Liberty India (supra) that DEPB/Duty Drawback Schemes are incentives which flow from the schemes framed by the Central Government or from Section 75 of the Customs Act, 1962 and, hence, incentive G profits are not profits derived from the eligible business under Section 80-IB. It is observed that they belong to the category of ancillary profits of such undertakings. 7.4 Similar view was also expressed with respect to the Duty Drawback. Thereafter, in paragraph 43 of the above decision, it H M/S. SARAF EXPORTS v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 353 JAIPUR-III [M. R. SHAH, J.] is observed and held that duty drawback, DEPB benefits, rebates, A etc. cannot be credited against the cost of manufacture of goods debited in the profit and loss account for purposes of Sections 80- IA/80-IB as such remissions (credits) would constitute an independent source of income beyond the first degree nexus between profits and the industrial undertaking. Thus, it is observed B and held that duty drawback receipts / DEPB benefits do not form part of the net profits of eligible industrial undertakings for the purpose of Section 80-IB of the Act, 1961. The relevant discussions are in paragraphs 24, 28 to 36, 38, 39, 41, 43 and 45, which are as under:- C “24. Before analysing Section 80-IB, as a prefatory note, it needs to be mentioned that the 1961 Act broadly provides for two types of tax incentives, namely, investment-linked incentives and profit-linked incentives.