20 lakhs which shall be increased by 25% whenever DA rises by 50%. 8.3 These recommendations shall be effective from Accepted 01.01.2016. G 8.4 To the officers who have retired after 01.01.2016 and Accepted paid retirement gratuity as per pre-revised pay and the maximum limit at that time, the differential gratuity payable on account of revision of pay shall be paid subject to the revised maximum limit. 8.5 The death gratuity shall be paid as per table in p.52, Vol. Accepted H II on the basis of length in service ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 83 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] A Retirement Age of Judicial Officers No change in retirement age of 60 years recommended Accepted Financial Assistance in Case of Death 9.1 The benefit of family pension as per Rule 54(3) of CCS Accepted (Pension) Rules, as amended vide notification dated 19.09.2019 shall be extended to the family members. 9.2 The other benefits such as one time lumpsum grant, Accepted B compassionate appointment, permission to stay in official quarters etc. already in force in the States shall continue to apply, in addition to death gratuity. Assistance to Pensioners/Family Pensioners 11.1 Special attention shall be bestowed to them by rendering To be considered at due assistance for processing the medical bills of the a later stage pensioners/family pensioners who are too old, infirm or C differently abled or undergoing in-patient treatment for serious ailment 11.2 District Judge shall nominate a Nodal Officer for liasoning work, if required, in emergency in facilitating admission in the hospital and getting the medical bills of the pensioners/family pensioners cleared promptly. 11.3 Special Cell entrusted with the responsibility of the D processing the representations of the pensioners/family pensioners and to initiate action as may be considered appropriate to redress the grievance expediously, shall be created in the High Court under the supervision of an officer of the rank of Joint Registrar, in the High Court. 11.4 A Judge of the High Court shall be nominated to oversee the functioning of Special Cell and issue necessary instructions. E 11.5 The representatives of the Retired Judges Associations shall be permitted to meet the Registrar General of the High Court atleast once in a year to discuss the problems, if any. 11.6 The Registry of the High Courts to compile data of the pensioners and family pensioners. National Pension Scheme F 31.1 The National Pension System (NPS)/Defined To be considered at Contributory Pension Scheme shall not be applicable to a later stage all judicial officers. 31.2 The Defined Benefit Pension Scheme/Old Pension Scheme shall be applicable to all Judicial officers irrespective of the date of their joining the judicial service. G 31.3 For those who have judicial service after 01.01.2004, the contributions together with the returns earned thereon will be refunded to them or transferred to their GPC account. 31.4 The Government shall facilitate opening of the GPF Account of the new entrants to the judicial service after 01.01.2004 and transfer their contribution with the returns earned thereon.