Marriage as Social Institution and the Status of the Right to Marry 5. There cannot be any quarrel, in my opinion, that marriage is a social institution, and that in our country, it is conditioned by culture, religion, customs and usages. It is a sacrament in some communities, a contract in some other. State regulation in the form of codifi cation, has often refl ected the customary and religious moorings of the institution of marriage. An exercise to identify the purpose of marriage or to fi nd its ‘true’ character, is a pursuit that is as diverse and mystic as the purpose of human existence; and therefore, is not suited for judicial navigation. But that does not render the institution meaningless or abstract for those who in their own way understand and practice it. 3 (2018) 16 SCC 368 4 (2018) 7 SCC 192 151 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 6. In India, the multiverse of marriage as a social institution, is not legally regulated by a singular gravitational fi eld. Until the colonial exercise of codifi cation of regulations governing marriage and family commenced, the rules governing marriage and family, were largely customary, often rooted in religious practice. This exercise of codifi cation, not always accurate and many a times exclusionary, was the product of the colonial desire to mould and reimagine our social institutions. However, what is undeniable is that, impelled by our own social reformers, the colonial codifi cation exercise produced some reformatory legislative instruments, ushering in some much-needed changes to undo systemic inequalities. The constitutional project that we committed ourselves to in the year 1950, sought to recraft some of our social institutions and within the fi rst half decade of the adoption of the Constitution, our indigenous codifi cation and reformation of personal laws regulating marriage and family was underway. 7. Even when our own constitutional State attempted codifi cation and reform, it left room for customary practices to co-exist, sometimes providing legislative heft to such customary practices. Section 5(iv)5, section 5(v)6, section 77, and section 29(2)8 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 are illustrative in this regard. Similarly, the Special Marriage Act, 1954 in provisos to 5 “5. Conditions for a Hindu marriage. – A marriage may be solemnized between any two Hindus, if the following conditions are fulfi lled, namely: (iv) the parties are not within the degrees of prohibited relationship unless the custom or usage governing each of them permits of a marriage between the two.” 6 “5. Conditions for a Hindu marriage. – A marriage may be solemnized between any two Hindus, if the following conditions are fulfi lled, namely: (v) the parties are not sapindas of each other, unless the custom or usage governing each of them permits of a marriage between the two.” 7 “7. Ceremonies for a Hindu marriage.— (1) A Hindu marriage may be solemnized in accordance with the customary rites and ceremonies of either party thereto. (2) Where such rites and ceremonies include the Saptapadi (that is, the taking of seven steps by the bridegroom and the bride jointly before the sacred fi re), the marriage becomes complete and binding when the seventh step is taken.” 8 29.