Diffi culty in detection of poison due to vomiting, purging or elimination from the system by the kidneys or due to prolonged stay in the hospital immediately prior to the death; 5. Not sending stomach wash (gastric lavage) and vomit along with viscera for examination; BUDDHADEB SAHA & ORS. v. THE STATE OF WEST 341 BENGAL 6. Some organic poison decompose due to improper preservation or temperature control; 7. Site of sample collection on the body also play an important role; 8. In postmortem decomposition, many poisons present in the tissue undergo chemical changes which cannot be detected in routine toxicological analysis; 29. This Court in Mahabir Mandal v. State of Bihar, (1972) 1 SCC 748, looked into the observations found at page 477 of the Modi’s Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology (Seventeenth edition) and held that under some circumstances, if the whole of the poison has disappeared from the lungs by evaporation, or has been removed from the stomach and intestines by vomiting and purging, and after absorption has been detoxifi ed, conjugated and eliminated from the system by the kidneys and other channels, it is possible that there may not be traces of poison. 30. Thus, the absence of detection of poison in the viscera report alone need not be treated as a conclusive proof of the fact that the victim has not died of poison. 31. In Mahabir Mandal (supra), this Court has ob- served as under:- “Empty reference has been made by Mr.Chari to report dated December 23, 1963 of the Chemical Examiner, according to whom no poison could be detected in the viscera of Indira deceased. This circumstance would not, in our opinion, militate against the conclusion that the death of the deceased was due to poisoning. There are several poisons particularly of the synthetic hyp- notics and vegetable alkaloids groups, which do not leave any characteristic signs as can be noticed on post mortem examination.” (Emphasis supplied) 32. The above observation of this Court was based on the reference made in the Modi’s Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology. Those references were also referred to by this Court, which are as follows:- “It is quite possible that a person may die from the eff ects of a poison, and yet none may be found in the body after death, if the whole of the 342 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. poison has disappeared from the lungs by evaporation, or has been removed from the stomach and intestines by vomiting and purging, and after absorption has been detoxifi ed, conjugated and elimi- nated from the system by the kidneys and other channels. Certain vegetable poisons may not be detected in the viscera, as they have no reliable tests, while some organic poisons, especially the alkaloids and glucosides, may be oxidation during life or by putrefaction after death, be split up into other substances which have no characteristic reactions suffi cient for their identifi cation.” (Emphasis supplied) 33. As pointed out by this Court in a number of cases, where the deceased dies as a result of poisoning, it is diffi cult to successfully isolate the poison and recognise it.