In any event, such bullet though seized under a seizure memo does not appear to have been exhibited at the trial which renders the version of PW-4 unacceptable. B 42. Although, mere defects in the investigative process by itself cannot constitute ground for acquittal, it is the legal obligation of the Court to examine carefully in each case the prosecution evidence de hors the lapses committed by the Investigating Officer to find out whether the evidence brought on record is at all reliable and whether such lapses C affect the object of finding out the truth. Being conscious of the above position in law and to avoid erosion of the faith and confidence of the people in the administration of criminal justice, this Court has examined the evidence led by the prosecutionthreadbare and refrained from giving primacy to the negligence of the Investigating Officer as D well as to the omission or lapses resulting from the perfunctory investigation undertaken by him. The endeavour of this Court has been to reach the root of the matter by analysing and assessing the evidence on record and to ascertain whether the appellants were duly found to be guilty as well as to ensure that the guilty does not escape the rigours of law. The disturbing features in the process of investigation, since noticed, E have not weighed in the Court’s mind to give the benefit of doubt to the appellants but on proper evaluation of the various facts and circumstances, it has transpired that there were reasons for which PW-2 might have falsely implicated the appellants and also that PW-3 was not a wholly reliable witness. There is a fair degree of uncertainty in the prosecution F story and the courts below appear to have somewhat been influenced by the oral testimony of PW-2 and PW-3, without taking into consideration the effect of the other attending circumstances, thereby warranting interference. CONCLUSION G 43. For the reasons aforesaid, this Court is of the opinion that the charge that the appellants had murdered Narayan, cannot be said to have been proved beyond reasonable doubt; hence, they were and are entitled to the benefit of doubt. The trial court’s of conviction and of sentence contained in its decision dated 29th January, 1986 being unsustainable, stands set aside; consequently, the impugned H MUNNA LAL v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 243 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J. ] and dated 9th July, 2014 passed by the High Court, A upholding the conviction and sentence, too stands set aside. The appellants having been lodged in the correctional home since the appellate and was made shall be set free immediately, if not wanted in any other case. 44. The appeals, thus, stand allowed without any for costs. B Nidhi Jain Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Tamana, LCRA) C D E F G H