It was also argued that the impugned , to the extent it upheld the ground of damages and the learned single Judge’s dismissal of the objections, was also suscept to attack. Learned counsel urged that the Baker was made aware that the quantity contracted could not be in eff ect purchased on account of the de-canalization . MMTC, as a public sector agency of the Union Government was bound in law by the de-canalisation and also obliged to source goods at the least available price. Baker did not deny this fact when notifi ed about it. In the circumstances, the award of damages for the entire period, at least from the date of the issuance of the de-canalisation to the end of June, was unjustifi ed. The award and the s of the Court are, therefore, unsustainable in law. 13. Learned counsel also took exception to the grant of interest by the award. It was submitted that the s of this Court have consistently established that when awarding direct payment in foreign currency in the context of international contracts, the approach of the Tribunal should be H. J. BAKER AND BROS. INC. v. THE MINERALS AND METALS 293 TRADE CORP. LTD. (MMTC) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] based upon the prevailing prime lending rate or LIBOR rate. In this case, those principles were thrown to the wind by the Courts below and the Tribunal. It was submitted, therefore, that the impugned discloses an error of law. Analysis and conclusions 14. As far as the fi rst period is concerned, this court notices that the Division Bench affi rmed the fi ndings in the award, and the of the single judge that the award could not be interfered with. The single Judge relied on the of this court in Arosan Enterprises Ltd v Union of India6 which explained the scope of interference with awards, which is extremely limited. It was held that the quantum of damages and mitigation of losses are questions of fact that should not be interfered with as the court does not exercise appellate jurisdiction over the award. The impugned held that MMTC was precluded from urging this aspect, because this question of proof of damages and mitigation was not argued before the single judge. MMTC did not deny that the plea of mitigation of losses was not raised before the tribunal. Since on this aspect, the conclusions of the courts below have affi rmed the award, this court fi nds no good reason to interfere with the fi ndings. 15. As far as the second aspect, (i.e. damages payable for the breach of contract for the later period) is concerned, this court notices that although MMTC claims that the Union Government had directed canalisation on 29.02.1992, this communication was addressed to Baker on 08.04.1992. Before the tribunal in the arbitration proceeding, the MMTC made no attempt to produce a copy of the canalisation . The least expected of the MMTC was to intimate Baker that the alacrity required that at the earliest point in time, i.e.