Finally the objection of the OP to the effect that the complainant was defaulter in making the payment E cannot sustain since the complainant had opted for consideration linked plan and she had to make the payment beyond 60% on completion of the construction and thus this objection is also overruled. In these circumstances the complaint deserves to be accepted. Accordingly the s passed by the District Forum F dismissing the complaint since not sustainable are set aside. 20. Having arrived at the said conclusion, the point for consideration is as to how the Complainants are to be compensated for the monetary loss, mental and physical harassment he has suffered at the hands of OPs on account of non-delivery of the allotted G flat.” 6.2. The State Commission, thereafter, examined various connotations of the term “compensation” and observed that the Commission or the Forum was entitled to award not only value of goods or services but also to compensate a consumer for injustice suffered by him. With reference to the decision in Ghaziabad Development H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1109 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Authority v. Balbir Singh: (2004) 5 SCC 65, it was observed that this A Court had indicated the factors to be kept in view while determining adequate compensation; and in cases where possession was directed to be delivered to the complainant, the compensation for harassment would necessarily have to be less because that party was being compensated by increase in the value of the property but, in cases where only money B was to be refunded, the party would be suffering a loss inasmuch as he had deposited the money in the hope of getting a flat/plot and he was deprived of the same, as also the benefit of price escalation. The State Commission also observed that in such case (only of refund of money), the complainant would suffer substantial loss on account of payment of interest on the loans raised; depreciation in the money value; and C escalation in the cost of construction etc. The State Commission also observed that in these proceedings, necessary s regarding refund of the deposited amount could be passed, notwithstanding the proceedings in any other forum. The relevant observations of the State Commission read as under: - D “21. The provisions of the Act enable a consumer to claim and empower the Commission/Forum to redress any injustice done to a consumer. The Commission or the Forum is entitled to award not only value of goods or services but also to compensate a consumer for injustice suffered by him. The word compensation E is of very wide connotation. It may constitute actual loss or expected loss and may extend the compensation for physical, mental or even emotional suffering, insult or injury or loss. Therefore, for the purpose of determining the amount of compensation, the Commission/Forum must determine the extent of sufferance by the consumer due to action or inaction on the F part of the Opposite Party.