Even in according to the provisions of Rule 4(1) a person who is eligible G to be appointed as a District Judge (having minimum experience of seven years as per Article 233 of Constitution of India) is qualified to be appointed as President of District Commission. But in to be appointed as Member, the Section 4(2)(c) mandates a minimum experience of 15 years which is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. H THE SECRETARY MINISTRY OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS v. DR. 311 MAHINDRA BHASKAR LIMAYE [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.15 It is further submitted that the scheme envisaged in A appointment of President under Rule 3(1) for President of State Commission has a different criteria and that of Member under Rule 3(2)(b) is different and distinct. The person can be qualified to be a President if he is or has been a judge of High Court. However, in to get appointment as a Member of State Commission the Rule 3(2)(b) B mandates a minimum experience of 15 years, which is illegal and violative of Article 14, because the requirement of qualification and experience of a lawyer to get appointed as a High Court Judge is only ten years as per Article 217 of the Constitution of India. It is submitted that therefore, the High Court has rightly declared that Rule 3(2)(b) and Rule 4(2)(c) and Rule 6(9) of Rules, 2020 as ultra-virus, arbitrary and violative of the C Article 14 of the Constitution of India. It is submitted that while holding so the High Court has discussed and considered the decision of this Court in the case of Madras Bar Association (supra) : (2021) 7 SCC 369. 4.16 Making the above submissions and relying upon the above D decisions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeals. 5. Heard Shri R. Venkataramani, learned Attorney General for India, appearing on behalf of the appellant(s) and Dr. Uday Prakash Warunjikar and Dr. Tushar Mandalekar, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective respondent(s). E 6. By the impugned and the High Court has declared Rule 3(2)(b) and Rule 4(2)(c) and Rule 6(9) of the Consumer Protection (Qualification for appointment, method of recruitment, procedure of appointment, term of office, resignation and removal of President and Members of State Commission and District Commission) F Rules, 2020 as unconstitutional, arbitrary, and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Rule 3(2)(b) and Rule 4(2)(c) and Rule 6(9) of Rules, 2020 which are declared to be unconstitutional read as under: - “3. Qualifications for appointment of President and members of the State Commission.— G xxx (2) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a member unless he is of not less than forty years of age and possesses— xxx H 312 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (b) a bachelor’s degree from a recognised university and is a person of ability, integrity and standing, and has special knowledge and professional experience of not less than twenty years in consumer affairs, law, public affairs, administration, economics, commerce, industry, finance, management, engineering, technology, public health or medicine: B 4.