Section 13(1)(f) UP VAT Act restricts the amount of ITC fi guring in Table of Section 13(1) (a) UP VAT Act to the extent of tax payable on the sale value of goods or manufactured goods, in specifi c cases, i.e., costing of the manufactured taxable goods except the non-VAT goods being lower than the costing of the taxable inputs. 22. It was also argued that the High Court rightly placed reliance on the decision of this Court in the case of M. K. Agro Tech (supra). 23. In such circumstances referred to above, Mr. R.K. Raizada submitted that there being no merit in both the appeals those may be dismissed. ANALYSIS 24. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record the following questions fall for our consideration: a. Whether the assessee is entitled to claim full amount of tax paid towards the purchase of raw Rice Bran as ITC on the basis of the provisions of Section 13(1)(a) read with S. No. 2(ii) of the Table appended thereto and Section 13(3)(b) read with Explanation (iii) of Section 13 of the UP VAT Act? b. Whether the scope of the word “goods” as defi ned under Section 2(m) of the UP VAT Act as outlined in Section 13(1)(f) of the UP VAT Act should be limited to only “taxable goods”? c. Whether the decision of this Court in the case of M.K. Agro Tech (supra) has any application to the case on hand? RELEVANT PROVISIONS OF THE UP VAT ACT, 2008 25. Before we advert to the rival submissions canvassed on either side, we must look into few relevant provisions of the UP VAT Act: “2. Defi nitions xxx xxx xxx M/S MODI NATURALS LTD. v. THE COMMISSIONER OF 755 COMMERCIAL TAX UP [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (m) “goods” means every kind or class of movable property and includes all materials, commodities and articles involved in the execution of a works contract, and growing crops, grass, trees and things attached to, or fastened to anything permanently attached to the earth which, under the contract of sale, are agreed to be severed, but does not include actionable claims, stocks, shares or securities; Xxx xxx xxx (p) “input tax” in relation to a registered dealer who has purchased any goods from within the State, means the aggregate of the amounts of tax, - (i) paid or payable by such registered dealer to the registered selling dealer of such goods in respect of purchase of such goods; and (ii) paid directly to the State Government by the purchasing dealer himself in respect of purchase of such goods where such purchasing dealer is liable to pay tax under this Act on the turnover of purchase of such goods Provided that tax paid or payable in respect of transfer of right to use any goods shall not form part of the input tax Xxx xxx xxx (u) “manufacturer” in relation to any goods mentioned or described in column (2) of Schedule IV of this Act, means a dealer who, by application of any process of manufacture, after manufacture of a new commercial commodity inside the State, makes first sale of such new commercial commodity within the State, whether directly or otherwise; and includes a selling agent who makes sale of such new commodity on behalf of the person who has manufactured it; (v) “non-vat goods” means any of the goods mentioned or described in column (2) of Schedule-IV; Xxx xxx xxx 756 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.