G (2) The corridor within the buildings shall be accordance with the standard prescribed in Annexure XII-A. (3) In matter of standards other than specified in these rules, the stipulation and the specifications laid down by the Indian Standards Institutions shall apply. H 1156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (4) Structures incidental to the main activities such as water-closet, bath and pump room shall not be construed as individual blocks for the purpose of these rules. But, these structures shall not be permitted in the prescribed set back spaces. III (a) Notwithstanding anything mentioned above layouts for group B housing, Economically Weaker Section Housing, sites and services projects, slum improvement schemes may be approved, subject to such conditions as may be stipulated by the Authority.” 164. The impact of Rule 19 (b)(II)(vii) is as follows. It empowers the CMDA to enforce the maintenance of the reserved areas by the C owner to the satisfaction of the authority or to the owner to transfer the land to the authority or any local body free of cost through a deed. The authority also reserves the right to decide on entrusting the maintenance work to institutions/individual on the merits of the case. It is noteworthy that there is no challenge to Rule 19(b)(II)(vii). It would appear that when a gift is executed then the duty of maintaining can be D given to institution/individual on the merits of the case. This would mean that even the project proponent or other individual/individuals who may have an interest as in the case of Vasant Apartments Owners Association, the said Association could be asked to maintain the open area. 165. The impression we gather on reading the contents of E reservation to be made in respect of site having an extent between 3,000 to 10,000 square metres is that the reserved area is to be maintained as a park. When it comes to the site having more than 10,000 square meters, the provision that public access for area shall not be insisted upon is not to be found. This means that when it comes to the layout which in the wisdom and the policy of the Rule Maker, which as we have seen, has F been made after the process undergone under the Act, as we have noticed, and apparently, after hearing objections, if any, and with the approval of the government that, were a large chunk of land be developed for group development, as defined, and certain percentage, which in these cases is 10 percent or 1/10th of the total layout excluding roads is G to be set apart as the OSR area. The word park is not in any way inconsistent with recreational purpose. It does not require much imagination to conclude that in an urban area and with a site being in excess of 10,000 square metres (nearly two and a half acres) where group development takes place,there would be a large number of people who would occupy the said area. Group development can be substantially H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1157 V. GOPINATH & ORS.