The same position has continued hitherto. H STATE OF ORISSA v. ORISSA KHADI AND VILLAGE INDUSTRIES 1065 BOARD KARAMCHARI SANGH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 10. While questioning the impugned s and the directions issued A thereunder, learned counsel for the appellant State, after an elaborate reference to the provisions of the Act of 1955 and the Regulations of 1960 as also the exchange of communications, has submitted that the impugned s remain unsustainable in law and deserve to be set aside. 10.1. Learned counsel for the appellant has contended that no B direction contrary to Regulation 52 of the Regulations of 1960 could have been issued, particularly when the said Regulation 52 was neither a subject-matter of challenge before the High Court nor was declared invalid in any proceedings. Learned counsel has yet further submitted that the directions of the learned Single Judge, as approved by the Division C Bench, without deliberating on Regulation 52 as also the other provisions in the Regulations of 1960 including those contained in Regulations 53 to 56, remain wholly unjustified and cannot be approved. 10.2. Learned counsel would submit that the prayers based on certain communications exchanged between the Board and the State D Government could not have been countenanced at the instance of the employees, who had joined the services with the Board while being conscious of the stipulations in the Regulations and thereby, the conditions of their service. Learned counsel has submitted that even when relying on the resolutions adopted by the Board and the exchange of communications, the learned Single Judge has failed to consider that at E no point of time, the State ever acceded to the proposal of the Board; and certain suggestions made by some of the officers of the Government at different levels could not have been taken in aid to direct the appellants to amend the said Regulation 52. Learned counsel has further submitted that the Division Bench of the High Court, although consciously took F note of the stipulations of Regulation 52 and observed that the directions of the learned Single Judge were only advisory in nature but then, proceeded to make further observations, which are practically of issuing mandamus to the State Government to amend the Regulations. These directions, according to the learned counsel, enter into the arena of policy decisions and legislative functions; and the High Court has not been G justified in issuing the same. 10.3. Learned counsel has further submitted that the learned Single Judge has referred to the pension granted to the employees of the State Social Advisory Board but, has failed to notice that 50% of those expenses were borne by the Government of India. Further, the employees of the H 1066 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A University and the employees of the Board do not form a homogenous class and cannot be treated at par, especially when the Regulations of 1960 carry statutory force and Regulation 52 therein cannot be ignored. 10.4. Learned counsel for the appellant has also submitted that any reference to the provisions contained in relation to different State B Boards remain inapposite because any prescription by any other State cannot be ipso facto imposed on the appellant State.