The vacancies on which the appointments have been made could not be anticipated at the time of advertisement (February 1st, 2013), and hence these vacancies were not advertised. These two vacancies were in fact, created on 18.03.2013 i.e., after the notifi cation of vacancies on 01.02.2013. These were the “future vacancies”, which earlier could fall under the “C” category given in Malik Mazhar but were deleted in Malik Mazhar-2. These vacancies technically could only be fi lled next year and should have been notifi ed by January 15th, 2014 as per the directions in Malik Mazhar. The argument of the appellants (in connected appeals), particularly against the present appellants, that had there been a waiting list they could have been considered for appointment in that category for these vacancies, in our opinion, is a complete misunderstanding of the concept of a “waiting list”. 28. To sum up the position of law as it stands, once clear and anticipated vacancies have been advertised, appointments can only be made on these vacancies. Vacancies which could not be anticipated before the date of advertisement, or the vacancies which did not exist at the time of advertisement, are the vacancies for the future i.e., next selection process. Malik Mazhar mandates yearly selection/appointment on the post of Civil Judge (Junior Division). There is a time line fi xed, and ‘vacancies’ have to be declared on January 15th of each year. The process has to be completed by October of the same year. Once this is followed, as it ought to be, the object sought to be achieved (under the guidelines given in Malik Mazhar), of timely fi lling of judicial vacancies is achieved. 29. In the case at hand, it is clear that the appointment of the appellants (Vivek Kaisth and Akansha Dogra) was made on posts which were not advertised and in fact did not even exist at the time when the advertisement was made. The anomaly made in the selection/appointment of these two candidates is quite apparent. 30. The appointment of the appellants was challenged before the Himachal Pradesh High Court by respondent No.4 herein. Respondent No.4 (Shri Kuldeep Sharma), who was also one of the candidates, in the merit 638 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. list of candidates along with the appellants, obviously did not question the existence of these two vacancies but only that these vacancies ought to have been advertised along with the initial 8 vacancies. Initially, only three posts for general category candidates were advertised, against which nine candidates were called for the interview, as per the Rules on 1:3 ratio and he being low in the of merit was not called for the interview. His argument was that, if fi ve posts were to be advertised as it ought to have been, then fi fteen candidates would have been called for the interview which would have included him and he therefore had a fair chance of making it to the select list. According to him, the belated decision of the inclusion of two seats was not fair.