So far as the second part of Section 26 is concerned, namely, the part which reads, “… but this Act shall apply in relation to arbitral proceedings commenced on or after the date of commencement of this Act” makes it clear that the expression “in relation to” is used; and the expression “the” arbitral proceedings and “in accordance D with the provisions of Section 21 of the principal Act” is conspicuous by its absence. 38. That the expression “the arbitral proceedings” refers to proceedings before an Arbitral Tribunal is clear from the heading of Chapter V of the 1996 Act, which reads as follows: E “Conduct of arbitral proceedings” The entire chapter consists of Sections 18 to 27 dealing with the conduct of arbitral proceedings before an Arbitral Tribunal. What is also important to notice is that these proceedings alone are referred to, the expression “to” as contrasted with the F expression “in relation to” making this clear. Also, the reference to Section 21 of the 1996 Act, which appears in Chapter V, and which speaks of the arbitral proceedings commencing on the date on which a request for a dispute to be referred to arbitration is received by the respondent, would also make it G clear that it is these proceedings, and no others, that form the subject-matter of the first part of Section 26. Also, since the conduct of arbitral proceedings is largely procedural in nature, parties may “otherwise agree” and apply the Amendment Act to arbitral proceedings that have commenced before the Amendment Act came into force. [ Section 29-A of the Amend H M/S. SHREE VISHNU CONSTRUCTIONS v. THE ENGINEER IN 345 CHIEF MILITARY ENGINEERING SERVICE [M. R. SHAH, J.] (sic Amended) Act provides for time-limits within which an A arbitral award is to be made. In Hitendra Vishnu Thakur v. State of Maharashtra, (1994) 4 SCC 602 at p. 633 : 1994 SCC (Cri) 1087, this Court stated: (SCC p. 633, para 26)”26. … (iii) Every litigant has a vested right in substantive law but no such right exists in procedural law. (iv) A procedural B statute should not generally speaking be applied retrospectively where the result would be to create new disabilities or obligations or to impose new duties in respect of transactions already accomplished. (v) A statute which not only changes the procedure but also creates new rights and liabilities shall be construed to be prospective in operation, unless otherwise C provided, either expressly or by necessary implication.” It is, inter alia, because timelines for the making of an arbitral award have been laid down for the first time in Section 29-A of the Amendment (sic Amended) Act that parties were given the option to adopt such timelines which, though procedural in D nature, create new obligations in respect of a proceeding already begun under the unamended Act. This is, of course, only one example of why parties may otherwise agree and apply the new procedure laid down by the Amendment Act to arbitral proceedings that have commenced before it came into force.]