(viii) The decision in Bodhisattwa Gautam (supra), arose under special circumstances. A girl student of a college lodged a complaint against a Lecturer for alleged offences under E Sections 312, 420, 493, 496 and 498-A IPC. The Lecturer moved the High Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C. for quashing the complaint. The High Court dismissed the quash petition. When the Lecturer filed a special leave petition, this Court not only dismissed the SLP but also issued notice F suo motu on the question as to why he should not be asked to pay reasonable monthly maintenance during the pendency of the prosecution. Finally, this Court ed payment of a monthly interim compensation after holding that what was violated was the fundamental right of the women under Article 21 and that therefore a remedy can be provided G by this Court under Article 32 even against the non- state actor (namely the accused). This decision was cited with approval in Chairman, Railway Board & Ors. vs. Chandrima Das (Mrs.) & Ors.70. 69 (1994) 1 SCC 243 H 70 (2000) 2 SCC 465 672 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (ix) As rightly highlighted by the learned amicus, this Court has awarded damages against non-State actors under the environmental law regime, whenever they were found to have violated the right under Article 21. For instance this Court was concerned with a case in M.C. Mehta vs. Kamal Nath71 where a company built a club on the banks of River B Beas, partly taken on lease from the Government and partly by encroaching into forest land and virtually turning the course of the River. Invoking the “polluter pays principle” and “precautionary principle” landscaped in Vellore Citizens’ Welfare Forum vs. Union of India72 and also C applied in Indian Council for Enviro-Legal Action vs. Union of India73, this Court held the owner of the private motel to be liable to pay compensation towards the cost of restoration of the ecology of the area. Thereafter, a show cause notice was issued to the motel as to why they should not be asked to pay compensation to reverse the degraded D environment and as to why a pollution fine should not be imposed. In response, the motel contended before this Court that though in proceedings under Article 32 it was open to this Court to grant compensation to the victims whose fundamental rights were violated or who are victims of E arbitrary Executive action or victims of atrocious behavior of public authorities, the Court cannot impose any fine on those who are guilty of that action. The motel also contended that fine is a component of criminal jurisprudence and hence the imposition of fine would be violative of Articles 20 and 21. This Court, even while accepting the said argument in F so far as the component of fine is concerned, directed the issue of fresh notice to the motel to show cause why exemplary damages be not awarded, in addition to the damages already awarded.