On account of Certificate of Identification being issued to them, the petitioners are part of the local population of Sikkim and are at D par with those persons whose names are found in the old Sikkim Subjects Register. Thus, they have all along been treated as part of the local population of Sikkim but the petitioners, who are also settled in Sikkim and who have been issued Certificates of Identification are excluded from the benefit of Section 10 (26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961, and are being assessed to income tax whereas the object of the aforesaid provision E is to exempt the category of persons mentioned therein from the payment of income tax. According to these petitioners, the said provision in effect exempts 94% of the residents of Sikkim while taxing the remaining 5% of which about 1% are the people such as petitioners who are bona fide settlers in Sikkim and are entitled to be treated at par with other F categories. It is the grievance of the petitioners that they have been singled out for the purpose of imposition of income tax on the sole ground that their names are not recorded in the Register under the 1961 Regulation. According to these petitioners, they have Certificates of Identification and they are as much Sikkimese as those categories of persons mentioned in Section 10 (26AAA) of I.T. Act, 1961 who have G been given the benefit of non-payment of income tax under the said Act. 12. It is also averred that the persons who were granted Indian citizenship by way of the Sikkim Citizenship (Amendment) of 1989, were those persons whose names in point of fact were never H 328 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A included in the Sikkim Subjects Register but were given the benefit of Indian citizenship. 13. In the context of the above grievance, various representations were made by various persons for being granted exemption from payment of income tax. Taking note of these representations, the Union B Government appointed a committee. On 16th October, 2009, the Committee communicated a decision that it had come to the conclusion that there was no provision in the I.T. Act, 1961, for grant of exemptions to the individuals not included in the Register of Sikkim Subjects. The Committee therefore recommended that the said individuals should approach legal experts/Chartered Accountants to look into the lacunae C in the I.T. Act, 1961, for the possible inclusion of their names so that the Government of Sikkim could take up the issue with the Government of India. 14. According to the petitioners, on 21st September, 2010, Government of Sikkim issued a Cabinet Memorandum wherein it was D admitted that Certificate of Identification (COI) was issued in view of the still valid pre-merger laws on the subject, as it enjoyed constitutional protection under Article 371-F. The persons such as the petitioners herein by virtue of being COI holders are covered under Rule 4(4) of Sikkim Government Establishment Rules, 1974, for employment under the State E Government and its Public Sector Units (PSUs) which has provisions of employment for locals only.