The alleged recovery C of weapon axe from the petitioner also could not be a ground for conviction, more particularly when the doctor who had carried out the post-mortem of the dead body of the deceased, had not opined that the injuries found on the dead body of the deceased were possible with the said weapon. According to Mr. Khurshid, there was no animosity between the D deceased and the petitioner, and on the contrary as per the evidence of PW-1 Upendra Singh and PW-8 Ramshree, their relations were quite cordial. In absence of examination of any independent witness, runs the submission of Mr. Khurshid, the benefit of doubt deserves to be given to the petitioner, when the other three co-accused were given such benefit. Mr. Khurshid has placed heavy reliance on the decision of this Court in E the case of Padala Veera Reddy vs. State of Andhra Pradesh and others1, in case of Shahaja alias Shahajan Ismail Mohd. Shaikh vs. State of Maharashtra2, and in case of Nizam and another vs. State of Rajasthan3in support of his submissions. 4. However, the learned Advocate Mr. D.S. Parmar appearing F for the respondent-State submitted that there being concurrent findings of the guilt recorded by the courts below against the petitioner, this Court should not interfere with the same. He further submitted that the petitioner in his further statement under Section 313 had failed to explain as to when and how he departed from the company of the deceased, when G undisputedly he was with the deceased during the previous evening of his death, and therefore both the courts below had rightly held the said circumstance as a circumstance adverse to the petitioner. 1 1989 Supp (2) SCC 706 2 (2022) SCC OnLine SC 883 3 (2016) 1 SCC 550 H RAM GOPAL S/O MANSHARAM v. STATE OF MADHYA 407 PRADESH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] 5. It cannot be gainsaid that when the entire case of the prosecution A hinges on the circumstantial evidence, the entire chain of circumstances has to be completely proved, which unerringly would lead to the guilt of the accused and none else. So far as the evidence on record in the present case is concerned, it emerges that it was not disputed that on 19.12.1995 at about 5 PM, the petitioner-accused had taken the deceased B Pratap Singh from his house. Thereafter, the deceased and the petitioner were also seen together at the shop of one Shripal at village Arhela by the witness Vijay Singh (PW-4). It was also not disputed that on the next day morning the dead body of the deceased was found lying near one field at village Chachiha. Hence, the death of the deceased Pratap Singh had taken place during the night hours of 19th and 20th December,1995, C and that the petitioner was lastly seen with the deceased on the previous evening. Thus, it was the petitioner alone, who knew as to what happened after the evening of 19th December, 1995.