It is submitted that therefore, the Division Bench of the High Court has materially erred. It is submitted that therefore, the view taken by the Division Bench of D the High Court and other High Courts that the concerned employees shall be entitled to the benefit of one annual increment which they earned one day prior to their retirement is erroneous and is on mis-interpretation of the relevant statutory provisions. Making the above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal. E 4. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective employees – respondents, has heavily relied upon the decision of the Madras High Court in the case of P. Ayyamperumal (supra) and the decisions of the Gujarat High Court, the Delhi High Court, the Allahabad High Court, the Madhya Pradesh High Court and the Orissa High Court F taking the view that the concerned employees who earned the annual increment for rendering one year service prior to their retirement they cannot be denied the benefit of the annual increment which they actually earned, solely on the ground that they retired on attaining the age of superannuation on the very next day. It is submitted that therefore, the Division Bench of the High Court has not committed any error in allowing G one annual increment in favour of the respective employees which they actually earned. 4.1 Making the above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. H 338 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 5. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties. 6. The short question which is posed for the consideration of this Court is whether an employee who has earned the annual increment is entitled to the same despite the fact that he has retired on the very next B day of earning the increment? 6.1 In the present case, the relevant provision is Regulation 40(1) of the Regulations which reads as under: - “Drawals and postponements of increments C 40(1) An increment accrues from the day following that on which it is earned. An increment that has accrued shall ordinarily be drawn as a matter of course unless it is withheld. An increment may be withheld from an employee by the competent authority, if his conduct has not been good, or his work has not been D satisfactory. In ing the withholding of an increment, the withholding authority shall state the period for which it is withheld, and whether the postponement shall have the effect of postponing future increments.” 6.2 It is the case on behalf of the appellants that the word used in E Regulation 40(1) is that an increment accrues from the day following that on which it is earned and in the present case the increment accrued on the day when they retired and therefore, on that day they were not in service and therefore, not entitled to the annual increment which they might have earned one day earlier. It is also the case on behalf of the appellants that as the increment is in the form of incentive and therefore, F when the employees are not in service there is no question of granting them any annual increment which as such is in the form of incentive.