H 1122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 5. Having heard learned Senior Advocates appearing on behalf of the respective parties and after taking into consideration the reasoning given by the High Court while staying the further proceedings pursuant to the G.Os dated 26.06.2019 and 21.02.2020, we are prima facie of the opinion that some of the reasoning given by the High Court while staying the further proceedings pursuant to the aforesaid two G.Os. may not be B germane, more particularly, when the High Court has observed that the new Government cannot be permitted to overturn the decisions of the previous Government. 5.1 Learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the State is justified in submitting that the High Court has misinterpreted and/or C misconstrued the aforesaid two G.Os and treated and/or considered the same as overturning the decisions of the previous Government. If the aforesaid two G.Os are considered, it can be seen that the same cannot be said to be overturning the earlier decisions taken by the previous Government and/or to review the decisions taken by the previous D Government. The Sub-Committee and the SIT have been constituted to inquire into the allegations of acts of corruption and misfeasance of the previous Government. 5.2 However, there may be certain other aspects which are required to be considered by the High Court in the pending writ petitions, E more particularly, with respect to the terms of the reference of the Committee. The High Court has also not considered various contentions raised before us based upon the decisions of this Court on legal aspects. The fact that the first petitioner (now appellant) had made a request to the Central Government vide letter dated 23.03.2020 to refer the matter to the CBI followed by the consent given on 13.07.2020 has not been F taken into consideration. 5.3 In our view, the High Court ought not to have granted an interim stay when it was not required as the entire matter is at a premature nascent stage. The Central Government is yet to take a call on the letter and the consent given by the first petitioner (now appellant). It would G have been better, had the High Court permitted the parties to complete the pleadings, and thereafter, decided the writ petitions one way or the other by affording ample opportunity to the parties before it. 5.4 It has also been brought to our notice that the petitioners (now appellants) did file an application to implead the Union of India and the H THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH & ANR. v. VARLA 1123 RAMAIAH ETC. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Enforcement Directorate. The aforesaid application was dismissed by a A separate dated 16.09.2020 inter alia holding that the presence of the proposed respondents was not required. The aforesaid approach of the High Court, especially when the main writ petitions are yet to be disposed of, and the request made by the petitioners (now appellants) being under consideration, ought not to have been adopted.