Held (per Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, B.R. Gavai and Surya Kant, JJ. ): The exercise of power by the President after the Proclamation under Article 356 is issued is subject to judicial review – The 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. exercise of power by the President must have a reasonable nexus with the object of the Proclamation – The person challenging the exercise of power must prima facie establish that it is a mala fi de or extraneous exercise of power – Once a prima facie case is made, the onus shifts to the Union to justify the exercise of such power – The power of Parliament under Article 356(1)(b) to exercise the powers of the Legislature of the State cannot be restricted to law-making power thereby excluding non-law making power of the Legislature of the State – Such an interpretation would amount to reading in a limitation into the provision contrary to the text of the Article. [Para 514] – Held (per Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J.) (Concurring with Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI): President’s rule can be imposed after the dissolution of the State Assembly since the Presidential emergency was predicated on the failure of the constitutional machinery, which took place prior to the Governor’s rule and the dissolution of the Assembly by the Governor of Jammu & Kashmir was only a subsequent consequence – Once the Presidential proclamation has been approved by both Houses of Parliament, so as to refl ect the will of the people, the President has the power under Article 356 to make irreversible changes, including the dissolution of the State Assembly – The imposition of an emergency highlights an extraordinary situation and in the absence of the State Government and State Legislature, the power of these elected organs must lie with any other competent authority – Article 357 does not bar the President from exercising the non-legislative powers of the State Legislature, and Article 356(1)(b) allows the Union Parliament to exercise all powers of the State Legislature without distinguishing between legislative and non-legislative powers of the State Legislature – Therefore, the President is permitted to exercise both legislative and non-legislative functions of the State Legislature – However, a proclamation of emergency is bound by judicial and constitutional scrutiny to ensure the exercise of emergency powers is not unfettered and absolute. [Para 112] – Sanjiv Khanna, J. concurring with Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI. Constitution of India – Art. 370 – Scope and interpretation of – Art.370 incorporating special arrangements for governance of the State of Jammu and Kashmir, if a temporary provision – Historical context to the Article – Placement of Art.370 in Part XXI of the Constitution – Eff ect of. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 5 Held (per Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, B.R. Gavai and Surya Kant, JJ. ): It can be garnered from the historical context for the inclusion of Article 370 and the placement of Article 370 in Part XXI of the Constitution that it is a temporary provision.