Was s/he under any form of delusion to inflict D the criminal assault to fend off falsely perceived personal harm or injury? The evaluation process.-The evaluation process generally includes,broadly, three major components or sources of data: (a) an interview with the accused (b) forensic assessment instruments, E and (c) third party information including (but by no means limited to) collateral reports, witness statements, victim statements, police reports, and records of various sorts (i.e., mental health, treatment, school, medical, crime scene, etc.). Along with these sources, the role of delusions in evaluations of criminal responsibility (as the nature and quality of the accused ‘delusionality’) is often central F in determining the extent of impairment in mental state at the time of the offence, especially in contested cases that may have a bearing on limiting responsibility if not completely exonerating him from the offence charged with. The role of the expert is not to present legal conclusions or formal psychopathological diagnoses. G Rather, the role of examiner, as expert, is to import state of-the- art/science knowledge about the existence of various psychopathological conditions and their relationship to various behavioural, perceptual, cognitive and al capacities into the legal/moral decisional process.” H PRAKASH NAYI @ SEN v. STATE OF GOA 837 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] SCHIZOPHRENIA A 19. Now, we shall come to the mental illness caused by Schizophrenia. We do not wish to go into the said issue as it being one within the exclusive knowledge of the experts, except to quote the relevant text available: • Jaisingh P. Modi, a textbook on Medical B Jurisprudence and Toxicology, 26th Edn. 2018, pg. 922 “(ii) Schizophrenia. - Kraepelin (Emil Kraepelin, German psychiatrist. ), in 1896, named this disease as ‘dementia praecox’. In 1911, Eugen Bleuler (Paul Eugen Bleuler, Swiss C psychiatrist and Eugenicist.) introduced the term ‘schizophrenia’ which literally means disintegration of mind. The term dementia praecox was changed because it implied that the disease always ended in dementia, which it did not. The term praecox meant that the disease developed at the D time of puberty or adolescence, but in many cases developed outside that period. Since it was thought that the disease always ended in dementia, it meant a hopeless prognosis, which created a spirit of defeatism in the minds of people.” • Elizabeth A. Martin (2007), “Oxford Concise Medical E Dictionary (7th edition)”, pg. 642 “Schizophrenia n. a severe *mental illness characterised by a disintegration of the process of thinking, of contact with reality, and of emotional responsiveness. Positive symptoms, such as *delusions and *hallucinations F (especially of voices), are common, and any *Schneiderian first-rank symptoms are particularly indicative of the illness. Negativesymptoms include social withdrawal, impairment of ego boundaries, and loss of energy and initiative. Schizophrenia is diagnosed only if symptoms persist for at least one month. The illness can spontaneously remit, run a G course with infrequent or frequent relapses, or become chronic. The prognosis has improved with *anti-psychotic drugs and with vigorous psychological and social management and rehabilitation.