There is a great deal to be said for the opinion of Couch, B C. J., in Sabid Ali’s case (1) that when an offence is committed in prosecution of the common object, it would generally be an offence which the members of the unlawful assembly knew was likely to be committed in prosecution of the common object. That, however, does not make the converse proposition true; there may be cases which would come within the second part, but not within the first. C The distinction between the two parts of s.149, Indian Penal Code cannot be ignored or obliterated. In every case it would be an issue to be determined whether the offence committed falls within the first part of s. 149 as explained above or it was an offence such as the members of the assembly know to be likely D to be committed in prosecution of the common object and falls within the second part.” 10.3 Now so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of Roy Fernandes (supra), relied upon on behalf of the respondent – accused is concerned, on facts the said decision shall E not be applicable. In the said decision this Court had considered the second part of Section 149 IPC. This Court did not consider the first part of Section 149 IPC and the distinction between the first part and the second part of Section 149 which has been considered by this Court in the case of Mizaji and Anr. (supra). F 11. Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the accused that he ought not to have been convicted for the offence under Section 323 IPC is concerned, though the accused has not challenged the impugned and passed by the High Court challenging the offence under Section 323 IPC we have heard the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused on merits on his conviction under Section 323 G IPC. 11.1 The submission on behalf of the accused that there was a delay of 3 ½ days has been elaborately dealt with and considered by the learned trial Court in detail. A proper explanation has been given by the complainant - Surendra Singh. Immediately after the occurrence the H 364 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A injured were taken to the hospital for treatment. The condition of Bhawani Singh was serious. Complainant concentrated on his treatment. Another injured Narendra Singh was also remained busy for the treatment. Thus, when the delay has been sufficiently and properly explained, we see no reason to give benefit of doubt to the accused on the aforesaid ground that there was a delay of 3 ½ days in lodging the FIR. B 11.2 Now so far as the submission on behalf of the accused on the injuries and the contradictions in the injuries, at the outset, it is required to be noted that the deposition of the eye-witness PW1 and PW4 and the deposition of the doctor - PW7 are relevant material/deposition against the accused.