In view of such right being E extended to the OCI Cardholders by respondent No.1 in exercise of the powers under Section 7B(1) of the Citizenship Act, 1955 (“Act 1955” for short), the petitioners were also assured of appearing for the NEET- UG exam so as to compete to secure a seat to pursue the medical course. 2. Such right was available to the petitioners from a point almost F immediately after their birth, since the petitioners in these petitions were born in the year 2003 onwards. Except for the fact that they were born in a foreign country, they had lived in this country for periods ranging from 10 to 15/17 years. In that view, the entire educational career was pursued in India, including the 12th standard so as to qualify for the NEET- UG examinations and MBBS Course. In fact, in most of the cases, both G parents of the petitioners herein are Indian nationals and in any case, one of them is an Indian national. Even in cases where both the parents are OCI Cardholders, the children have lived most of their life in India since their roots remain to be in India where grandparents and family are here. H 254 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 3. When this was the position the respondent No.1 issued the notification dated 04.03.2021 in exercise of the power under Section 7B(1) of Act, 1955 whereunder the existing right of appearing for the Entrance Exams to compete with Indian Citizens for the seat was taken away and restricted the admission only as against the seats reserved for the Non-Resident Indians or for supernumerary seats. The proviso to B clause 4(ii) of the impugned notification dated 04.03.2021 in fact clarifies that the OCI cardholders shall not be eligible for admission against any seat reserved exclusively for Indian Citizens. This is done so, by providing an explanation that the OCI Cardholder is a foreign national holding passport from a foreign country and is not a citizen of India. C 4. The petitioners, therefore, contend that such notification falls foul of the Doctrine of Non -Retrogression since the right which was being bestowed from the year 2005, instead of progressing and maturing to be a better right was being curtailed and reversed. The petitioners also contend that the right guaranteed under Articles 14 and 21 of the D Constitution of India is violated since such right is available to “any person”, even if one is not a citizen of India. In the instant facts, the petitioners have no quarrel with the validity of Sections 7B(1), 7D, 8(1) and 9(1) of Act, 1955. The petitioners while accepting the sovereign power of the respondents, are only aggrieved by the manner in which the impugned notification dated 04.03.2021 is issued, by which an existing E right has been taken away. The petitioners thus contend that they are not only OCI Cardholders, but are resident OCI Cardholders and therefore they should be treated like any other Citizen of India.