A contract (or a term in a contract) can be said to be unfair or unreasonable if it is one- sided or devoid of any commercial logic. In the present case, although F theatre owners may unilaterally determine the conditions of entry into cinema hall, the condition imposed in this instance is not unfair, unreasonable or unconscionable. 31. The condition of entry is imposed as a direct result of the exercise of the right of cinema owners to carry on a business or trade G under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. The commercial logic of prohibiting movie goers from carrying their own food to the cinema hall is to stimulate and boost a vital aspect of the business – the sale of food and beverages. If business owners are not permitted to determine the various facets of their business (in accordance with law), economic activity would come to a grinding halt. While movie goers may have no H 588 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A choice but to sign on the proverbial dotted line (and thereby not carry any food of their own into the theatre) in to enter the cinema hall and watch a movie of their choice, this does not by itself render the condition of entry unfair, unreasonable or unconscionable. 32. Most businesses impose some or the other condition which B the customer may find less than ideal. For instance, many private museums do not permit customers to take photographs of the objects on display. This is also true of many clothing boutiques or jewellery stores. Audience members are often banned from recording musical performances at concerts. Music festivals, much like movie theatres, do not permit attendees to carry their own food or beverages to the venue. C Similar is the case with stand-up comedy shows or plays that are conducted in collaboration with eateries or bars. Although the customer is paying for a ticket to watch the music performance (or the stand-up act or the play, as the case may be), the essence of the business model is to provide a fillip to the revenue generated by another arm of the D business. This being the case, movie goers are bound by the condition of entry determined by the theatre owners in the instant case i.e., the prohibition on carrying food and beverages from outside into the precincts of the movie hall. 33. We note that during the course of arguments, statements were E made on behalf of the appellants that in to obviate any inconvenience to movie goers, due arrangements are made for the supply of hygienic drinking water without levying any charge within the precincts of the cinema hall. Moreover, it has also been stated that when an infant or young child accompanies a parent, as a matter of practice, the cinema hall owners have no objection to a reasonable amount of food or F beverages being carried inside the cinema hall to serve the nutritional requirements of the infant or child. 34.