Though Section 57 of the JJ Act grants CARA the power to prescribe additional criteria, the criteria must not exceed the scope of the legislative policy. Neither the general principles guiding the JJ Act nor Section 57 in particular preclude unmarried couples from adopting a child. In fact, all the other criteria ensure the child’s best interests. The Union of India has not proved that precluding unmarried couples from adopting a child (even though the same people are eligible to adopt in their individual capacity) is in the child’s best interests. Thus, CARA has exceeded its authority by prescribing an additional condition by way of Regulation 5(3), which is contrary to tenor of the JJ Act and Section 57 in particular. 301. Further, the usage of the phrase ‘stable’ in Regulation 5(3) is vague. It is unclear if the provision creates a legal fi ction that all married relationships which have lasted two years automatically qualify as a stable relationship or if there are specifi c characteristics in addition to those prescribed in Regulation 5(1) (that is, physical, mental, and emotional wellbeing) which would aid in the characterization of a married relationship as a stable one. Hence, Regulation 5(3) exceeds the scope of the JJ Act. II. Regulation 5(3) of the Adoption Regulations violates Article 14 of the Constitution 302. Regulation 5(3) of the Adoption Regulations has classifi ed couples into married and unmarried couples for the purpose of adoption. The intent of CARA to identify a stable household for adoption is discernible from Regulation 5(3). However, CARA has proceeded under the assumption that 139 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. only married couples would be able to provide a stable household for the child. Such an assumption is not backed by data. Although married couples may provide a stable environment, it is not true that all couples who are married will automatically be able to provide a stable home. Similarly, unmarried relationships cannot be characterized as fl eeting relationships which are unstable by their very nature. Marriage is not necessarily the bedrock on which families and households are built. While this is the traditional understanding of a family, we have already elucidated above that this social understanding of a family unit cannot be used to deny the right of other couples who are in domestic partnerships or live-in relationships to found a family. 303. It is now a settled position of law that classifi cation per se is not discriminatory and violative of Article 14. Article 14 only forbids class legislation and not reasonable classifi cation. A classifi cation is reasonable, when the following test is satisfi ed:259 a. The classifi cation must be based on an intelligible diff erentia which distinguishes the persons or things that are grouped, from others left out of the group; and b. The diff erentia must have a rational nexus to the object sought to be achieved by the statute. 304. The Adoption Regulations use marriage as a yardstick to classify couples.