tribunal to decide matters that are litigated before it or to take cognizance of matters presented before it in a formal way for its decision. In Offi cial Trustee, West Bengal v. Sachindra Nath Chatterjee,127 this Court held that for a court to have jurisdiction to decide a particular matter, it must not only have jurisdiction to try the suit brought but must also have the authority to pass the s sought. In NTPC v. Siemens Atkeingesllchaft,128 this Court observed that any refusal to go into the merits of a claim may be in the realm of jurisdiction. Accordingly, it was observed that the issue of limitation goes to jurisdiction because if a claim is barred by limitation, a tribunal can refuse to exercise its jurisdiction. 126. Section 35 of the Stamp Act mandates that an unstamped instrument cannot be acted upon unless it is duly stamped. The question is whether a tribunal can eff ectively exercise its jurisdiction to settle the claims between the parties until stamp duty is paid on the underlying instrument. In view of the decision of this Court in Uttarakhand Purv Sainik Kalyan Nigam Ltd (supra), the scope of an arbitral tribunal’s authority is wide enough as to comprehend all preliminary issues aff ecting its jurisdiction, including the issue of suffi ciency of stamping. 127. In case the issue of stamping is raised before an arbitral tribunal, Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act make it evident that a person having authority by “consent of parties” to receive evidence is empowered to impound and examine an instrument. A person having authority “by consent of parties” to receive evidence includes an arbitral tribunal which is constituted by consent of parties. iii. Negative competence-competence 128. The international arbitration law as well as domestic law prioritize the arbitral tribunal by permitting them to initially decide challenges to their authority instead of the courts. The policy consideration behind this approach is two-fold: fi rst, to recognize the mutual intention of the parties of choosing the arbitrator to resolve all their disputes about the substantive rights and obligations arising out of contract; and second, to prevent parties from 127 (1969) 3 SCR 128 (2007) 4 SCC 451 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1155 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] initiating parallel proceedings before courts and delaying the arbitral process. This is the positive aspect of the doctrine of competence-competence. 129. The negative aspect, in contrast, speaks to the national courts. It instructs the courts to limit their interference at the referral stage by deferring to the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal in issues pertaining to the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement. Thus, the negative aspect of the doctrine of competence-competence suggests that the courts should refrain from entertaining challenge to the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal before the arbitrators themselves have had an opportunity to do so.129 Allowing arbitral tribunals to fi rst rule on their own jurisdiction and later allowing the courts to determine if the tribunal exercised its powers properly safeguards both the power and authority of the arbitral tribunal as well as the courts.