a person affected by H 798 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A a judicial, quasi-judicial or administrative action must be afforded an opportunity of hearing before any decision is taken. 37. How deeply have Courts internalised and incorporated the principles of natural justice into the Constitution can be perceived from the seven Judge Bench decision in the case of Maneka Gandhi v. B Union of India and Another44. In this case, where a challenge was laid to the of impounding the passport of the appellant, which was silent on the reasons for such an action and the respondent–State had declined to furnish the reason therefor, it was held that life and liberty of a person cannot be restricted by any procedure that is established by law, but only by procedure that is just, fair and reasonable. Quoting the C audi alteram partem rule and equating it with “fair play in action”, Justice P.N. Bhagwati (as he then was) had authored the for the majority and had observed that: “14. ……The audi alteram partem rule is not cast in a rigid mould and judicial decisions establish that it may suffer situational D modifications. The core of it must, however, remain, namely, that the person affected must have a reasonable opportunity of being heard and the hearing must be a genuine hearing and not an empty public relations exercise. That is why Tucker, L.J., emphasised in Russel v. Duke of Norfolk45 that “whatever standard of natural E justice is adopted, one essential is that the person concerned should have a reasonable opportunity of presenting his case”. What opportunity may be regarded as reasonable would necessarily depend on the practical necessities of the situation. It may be a sophisticated full-fledged hearing or it may be a hearing which is very brief and minimal : it may be a hearing prior to the decision F or it may even be a post-decisional remedial hearing. The audi alteram partemrule is sufficiently flexible to permit modifications and variations to suit the exigencies of myriad kinds of situations which may arise……….” 38. In the captioned case, citing the of a Constitution G Bench of this Court in Rustom Cavasjee Cooper v. Union of India46, wherein it was held that fundamental rights are not a water tight compartment, the Court observed as under:- 44 (1978) 1 SCC 248 45 1949 1 ALL ER 109 H 46 (1970) 1 SCC 248 AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 799 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] “The principle of reasonableness, which legally as well as A philosophically, is an essential element of equality or non- arbitrariness pervades Article 14 like a brooding omnipresence and the procedure contemplated by Article 21 must answer the test of reasonableness in to be in conformity with Article 14” B The emphasis was on the Court‘s attempt to expand the reach and ambit of the fundamental rights guaranteed in the Constitution rather than attenuate their meaning and content by a process of judicial construction. Relying on the minority rendered by Justice Fazal Ali in the case of A.K.