The High Court framed the following question of law for decision which, according to it, was a substantial question of law: “Whether the lower appellate court had erred in law in not considering Ex P-1 to Ex P-29 and the admissions made by defendant (DW-1)?” The High Court interpreted the Commissioner’s to be in favour of the plaintiff ’s vendor, such interpretation being bolstered solely by the revenue records exhibited by the plaintiff . Though it was noted that the grant of occupancy rights in favour of the plaintiff ’s vendor under section 9A was contrary to the provisions of the Act, it was observed that the decision having attained fi nality could not be challenged after such extensive passage of time before a civil court. The plaintiff was, therefore, held to have established the better title, resulting in upholding of the decree passed by the Trial Court. CONTENTIONS OF THE PARTIES 3. Learned senior counsel for the defendant, Mr. A Diwakara, highlighted the dissatisfaction recorded by the High Court with the evidence adduced by the plaintiff , and stressed that in view of the same, the Court could not have held the plaintiff to establish a better title than the defendant, more so when the Court itself recorded the fact that the grant of occupancy rights in favour of the plaintiff ’s vendor under section 9A of the Act was contrary to its import. It was argued by him that the plaintiff ’s P. KISHORE KUMAR v. VITTAL K. PATKAR 805 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] vendor being a purchaser, could not have applied as an “occupant” under the provisions of the Act, such application being restricted only to tenants. The Commissioner’s categorically recorded that the plaintiff ’s vendor was not a tenant at the time of vesting of the land; therefore, the could not, by any stretch of imagination, be interpreted to vest occupancy rights in the plaintiff ’s vendor. 4. Per contra, Mr. S.N. Bhat, learned senior counsel for the plaintiff , argued that the plaintiff ’s vendor had made an application for occupancy rights in 15 acres of Sy No. 3, and the Commissioner, while noting that the vendor was not a tenant at the time of vesting, went on to record that occupancy registration under section 9A be done. He strenuously advanced the record of rights for the year 1983 in the name of the plaintiff ’s vendor, along with subsequent revenue entries in the name of the plaintiff , to argue that it was the plaintiff , and his vendor before him, who were being treated as the rightful owners by the revenue authorities, such authorities having rightly interpreted the Commissioner’s to mean that ownership vested in the plaintiff ’s vendor. ANALYSIS 5. This Court in Nazir Mohamed vs. J. Kamala1 has crisply analysed numerous decisions rendered by this Court on section 100 of the CPC and summarised the law as follows: “30. Where no such question of law, nor even a mixed question of law and fact was urged before the trial court or the fi rst appellate court, as in this case, a second appeal cannot be entertained.