While making a reference to Section 319 of the Code, it was submitted on behalf of the respondents that cognizance taken under Section E 319 of the Code was by the Court itself and therefore, the same having been based on “evidence”, as also, the satisfaction of the Court itself that such person needed to be tried together with the “other accused”, it seemed unreasonable that sanction postulated under Section 197 of the Code should still be required. It was F pointed out that the protection contemplated under Section 197 of the Code was not a prerequisite necessity when cognizance was based on the evaluation of “evidence” by a court itself. The learned counsel emphasised that when a court itself had determined that cognizance was required to be taken, based on evidence which had been recorded by the same court, it would be undermining G the authority of the court concerned if its judicial determination was considered subservient to the decision taken by the authorities contemplated under Section 197 of the Code. Based on the submissions noticed above, it was the vehement contention of the learned counsel for the respondents that the mandate of Section H 682 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 197 would not extend to cases where cognizance had been taken under Section 319 of the Code. (15) He further drew our attention to the decision in Devinder Singh v. State of Punjab, (2016) 12 SCC 87 “39. The principles emerging from the aforesaid decisions are B summarised hereunder: 39.1. Protection of sanction is an assurance to an honest and sincere officer to perform his duty honestly and to the best of his ability to further public duty. However, authority cannot be camouflaged to commit crime. C 39.2. Once act or omission has been found to have been committed by public servant in discharging his duty it must be given liberal and wide construction so far its official nature is concerned. Public servant is not entitled to indulge in criminal activities. To that extent Section 197 CrPC has to be construed narrowly and in a restricted D manner. 39.3. Even in facts of a case when public servant has exceeded in his duty, if there is reasonable connection it will not deprive him of protection under Section 197 CrPC. There cannot be a universal rule to determine whether there is reasonable nexus between the E act done and official duty nor is it possible to lay down such rule. 39.4. In case the assault made is intrinsically connected with or related to performance of official duties, sanction would be necessary under Section 197 CrPC, but such relation to duty should not be pretended or fanciful claim. The offence must be directly F and reasonably connected with official duty to require sanction. It is no part of official duty to commit offence. In case offence was incomplete without proving, the official act, ordinarily the provisions of Section 197 CrPC would apply. 39.5. In case sanction is necessary, it has to be decided by G competent authority and sanction has to be issued on the basis of sound objective assessment.