C 13. Learned counsel also drew the Court’s attention to the passed by the learned Sessions Judge, Gwalior dated 26.11.2018, by which anticipatory bail was granted to the appellants in which it has been noted that no documents had been appended with the case-diary with regard to any injury(ies) suffered by the complainant/Respondent D No.2, and also that she was living in Sweden. 14. Reliance was placed on Rajesh Sharma v State of Uttar Pradesh, (2018) 10 SCC 472, in which taking into consideration the misuse of Section 498-A of the IPC, the Court had issued certain directions. The submissions urged was that the same were not followed E in the present case. 15. It was submitted that a perusal of the FIR and the charge sheet along with the documents appended thereto, revealed that no evidence/material was made out on its face value and that the present criminal prosecution was an abuse of the process of law. F SUBMISSIONS BY THE RESPONDENT NO.2 16. Learned counsel for Respondent No.2, who has also filed a counter-affidavit, submitted that the allegations have been duly proved during investigation and cognizance has been taken by the learned Magistrate against all the accused, including the Appellants. Reliance G was placed on the decision by this Court in State of Haryana v Bhajan Lal, 1992 Suppl. (1) SCC 335, wherein, submitted learned counsel, it has been held that if looking at the FIR, it cannot be said that prima facie no case is made out against the applicants, and that veracity of the allegations cannot be gone into at the stage of investigation, which is to H be established by evidence to be produced before the learned trial court. PRIYANKA MISHRA & ORS. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA 1157 PRADESH & ANR. [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 17. The decision in Pawan Kumar v State of Haryana, (1998) A 3 SCC 309 was also relied upon, where at Paragraph 18 the Court noticed that on account of not satisfying the demand of goods, right from the next date of marriage, the wife was repeatedly taunted, maltreated and mentally tortured by being called ugly and thus, there cannot be greater mental torture and harassment of any bride. Similar reliance B was placed on Mahendra K C v State of Karnataka, (2022) 2 SCC 129, where it was stated that under Section 482 of the Code, the test to be applied by the High Court is as to whether the allegation(s) in the complaint as they stand, without adding or detracting thereto, prima facie establish the ingredients of the offence(s) alleged. C 18. It was canvassed that the High Court neither tests the veracity of the allegations nor proceeds as a judge conducting a trial. Likewise, reference was made to the in Central Bureau of Investigation v A Ravishankar Prasad, (2009) 6 SCC 351, where though the trial of the case was at an advanced stage, the High Court had quashed the charges. This Court reversed the decision of the High Court therein D holding the same to be an abuse of the process of court.