They are not entitled to usurp the legislative function under the disguise of interpretation. 117. While interpreting a provision, the Court only interprets the law and cannot legislate it. If a provision of law is misused and subjected to the abuse of process of law, it is for the legislature to amend, modify or repeal it, if deemed necessary. (See : Rishabh Agro Industries Ltd. v. P.N.B. Capital Services Ltd., (2000) 5 SCC 515). The legislative casus omissus should not be supplied by judicial interpretative process. The language of Section 50 of the NDPS Act is plain and unambiguous. There is no scope of reading something into it as was done in many decisions of this Court which we have referred to in our . 118. Two principles of construction — one relating to casus omissus and the other in regard to reading the statute as a whole — appear to be well settled. Under the fi rst principle a casus omissus cannot be supplied by the Court except in the case of clear necessity and when reason for it is found in the four corners of the statute itself but at the same time a casus omissus should not be readily inferred and for that purpose all the parts of a statute or section must be construed together and every clause of a section should be construed with reference to the context and other clauses thereof so that the construction to be put on a particular provision makes a consistent enactment of the whole statute. This would be more so if literal construction of a particular clause leads to manifestly absurd or anomalous results which could not have been intended by the legislature. “An intention to produce an unreasonable result”, said Danckwerts, L.J., in Artemiou v. Procopiou, (1966) 1 QB 878 : (1965) 3 All ER 539 : (1965) 3 WLR 1011 (CA)] (at All ER p.544-I), “is not to be imputed to a statute if there is some other construction available”. Where to apply words literally would “defeat the obvious intention of the legislation and produce a wholly unreasonable result”, we must “do some violence to the words” and so achieve that obvious intention and produce a rational construction. [Per Lord Reid in Luke v. IRC [1963 AC 557 : (1963) 1 All ER 655 : (1963) 2 RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 367 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] WLR 559 (HL)] where at AC p. 577 he also observed : (All ER p. 664-I) “This is not a new problem, though our standard of drafting is such that it rarely emerges.”] (See : Padma Sundara Rao (Dead) & Ors. v. State T.N. & Ors., (2002) 3 SCC 533) 119. As such, there is no direct confl ict between SK. Raju (supra) and Baljinder Singh (supra). It is pertinent to note that in SK. Raju (supra) the contraband was recovered from the bag which the accused was carrying, whereas in Baljinder Singh (supra) the contraband was recovered from the vehicle.