PW4: Yes. DR: A submission to EO: We have been told by the branch that the inspection records related to 88,87 & back are not available. Kindly direct the prosecution to make available copies of the records for the defence purpose. EO: DR to specifi cally mention the inspection registers in r/o which units you require to enable EO to examine your request. DR: Inspection cards in r/o units mentioned in the charge sheet. EO: PO may examine the request of DR and if possible records, if available may be given. Otherwise a report may be given to EO.” 21. It transpires that there was a direction to produce the inspection records relating to units mentioned in the chargesheet. The following is found in the transcript in the enquiry proceeding (dated 04.05.1993):- “PO: I was requested by DR in the previous sitting to produce two documents viz. Inspection register for the relevant period and list of machinery in r/o M/s. Bindu Enterprises. I am submitting the inspection register & also a list of machineries as requested for perusal of EO & DR. DR: We will respond after going through the said documents.” (emphasis supplied) Onus of proof 22. Having considered the above, we are constrained to conclude that the charge of the Bank, that the inspection was not carried, stood established. Then it was for the respondent to show, as undertaken by him, what his response to the allegation was. 666 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 23. It is well settled that, in a disciplinary proceeding, the question of burden of proof would depend upon the nature of the charge and the nature of the explanation put forward by the respondent. In a given case, the burden may be shifted to the respondent depending upon the explanation. [See Orissa Mining Corporation and Another vs. Ananda Chandra Prusty, (1996) 11 SCC 600, Para 6]. 24. Here the specifi c charge was with regard to a series of named units, periodical inspections were not carried out. To support the charge, witnesses were examined and on the request through his defence representative, the Enquiry Offi cer has directed the presenting offi cer to produce the inspection records. The Enquiry Offi cer specifi cally asked the defence representative to mention the inspection registers in respect of the units which are required. The defence representative specifi cally makes a request for the inspection records in respect of the units mentioned in the charge sheet. The Enquiry Offi cer directs the presenting offi cer to examine the request and records, if available, be given. Thereafter, it has come on record that the Presenting Offi cer produced the inspection register for the relevant period for perusal of the Enquiry Offi cer and the defence representative. On this, the defence representative stated that they would respond, after going through the documents. In the written submissions fi led, a grievance is raised that the records pertaining to inspection were produced at the fag end of the enquiry. We are not impressed with the submission since, it was after the production of the inspection register that the defence representative of the respondent had stated, that they will respond after going through the said documents.