For the sake of brevity, we need not repeat, as already noticed supra, the injuries and the incised wounds sustained by the deceased on different parts of the body. Most of the spot witnesses or the witness to the events prior or leading to the incident have not supported the prosecution. However, B that would not mean that the testimonies of all these witnesses would automatically stand discarded, with the natural corollary being acquittal of the accused. 7. In the exercise of the power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, this Court, normally would not interfere with the concurrent C findings of fact, except in very special circumstances or in the case of a gross error committed by the courts below. Only where the High Court ignores or overlooks “crying circumstances” and “proven facts” or “violates and misapplies well established principles of criminal jurisprudence” or refuses to give benefit of doubt to the accused persons, etc., would this Court step in to correct the legally erroneous decisions. D We are also not to interfere only for the reason that we may arrive at a different conclusion, unless, of course, there are compelling circumstances to tinker with conclusions drawn and that the accused were innocent/ guilty. Undoubtedly, there are limitations in interfering with the findings of conviction, concurrent in nature. E 8. We are not dealing with a case of circumstantial evidence. Here, the evidence is direct both in relation to the crime as also the reason thereof. 9. At this juncture, we may record the relationship between the accused and the deceased who were far off cousins. Both the parties F were holding lands adjacent to each other. Deceased (Satyappa) is the real brother of Yanakappa Panchagavi (PW-1). Accused Nos.4 and 5 are real brothers of accused No.1 and accused Nos.2 and 3 are sons of accused No.1. Accused Nos.6 to 8 are all relatives of accused Nos. 1 to 5. It has come forth in the testimony of the witnesses especially PW-1, G which, to this extent stands unrefuted that there was a dispute inter se the opposing parties with respect to the use of bullock cart road. In relation to it, six months prior to the incident a quarrel had taken place when accused No.1 had filed a complaint with respect thereto. The dispute was resolved with the intervention of the elders of the family/ village. But nonetheless, allegedly, as per the statement of the said witness, H 972 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the dispute persisted. Shasappa Reddi (PW-7) who is also a relative of the parties, though initially stated that there was no dispute between the deceased Satyappa and accused but then, in the very same breath, clarifies that, 15 days prior to the incident, dispute in relation to the land had arisen and “as per my advise accused No. 1 Ramappa has not provided passers way to Satyappa”. Even Pandappa Sidareddi (PW-8) B does depose the factum of the dispute between the parties in relation to the land.