With respect, such a direction is in the nature of creating a legal status. Further, the discussion on the absence of law, and limited extent of positive rights under Article 19 and 25 in our opinion, was in fact to insist that rather than ing liberties and enumerating every possible right or the way in which it is to be enjoyed, the content of fundamental rights are that they take up all the space, until restricted – which can be tested on the ground of its reasonableness, as per the limitations in Part III. This in 128 1995 Supp (2) SCR 733 129 W.P. (C)196/2001 130 1986 (1) SCR 251 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1509 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] no manner takes away from the previous jurisprudence of this Court where positive obligation under Article 21 has been expounded to locate several obligations upon the State. 153. This Court’s observations with respect to the learned Chief Justice’s reasoning centered around the enunciation of the bouquet of rights emanating from various provisions other than Article 21 [Article 19 and 25], and locating an obligation, has to be seen in the backdrop of the unanimous view of this Court, that the fundamental right to marry is not found within the Constitution. Therefore, it is our considered opinion that to create an overarching obligation upon the State to facilitate through policies the fuller enjoyment of rights under Article 19 and 25, is not rooted in any past decision, or jurisprudence. That queer couples have the right to exercise their choice, cohabit and live without disturbance – is incontestable. In the same vein, that they are owed protection against any threat or coercion to their life, is a positive obligation that binds the State– this is a natural corollary of their right under Article 21. 154. Consider in this context, also the nature of the relief sought, and the positive obligation fashioned. While there are innumerable s on the positive content of rights under Article 21, there are also countless s that insist upon the separation of powers, when it comes to matters of policy, and the courts not being the appropriate forum for the adjudication of the same. The polycentric nature of the issue, is compelling. 155. Next, on the charge levelled that our conclusion on the challenge to the SMA (Part V of this ) and subsequently fi nding on the disparate or discriminatory impact faced by the queer community (Part VI) being contradictory – a small comment is called for. The section discussing the provisions of the SMA and the challenge to its validity, was based entirely upon whether it violated the Constitution on the ground of impermissible classifi cation (under Article 14) – for which, the object of the Act (i.e., to facilitate marriage between inter-faith couples, wherein at the time ‘marriage’ or even a ‘couple’ only denoted heterosexual couples in light of same sex relations being criminalized), and its provisions, are relevant factors.