xxx xxx xxx 7. The error in this argument lies in thinking that the object and scope of Sections 4 to 6 are the same, which in fact they are not. Section 4 deals with a single transaction completed in several H THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S 1129 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] instruments, and Section 6 with a single transaction which might A be viewed as falling under more than one category, whereas Section 5 applies only when the instrument comprises more than one transaction, and it is immaterial for this purpose whether those transactions are of the same category or of different categories. The topics dealt with in the three sections being thus different, no B useful purpose will be served by referring to Section 4 or Section 6 for determining the scope of Section 5 or for construing its terms. It is not without significance that the legislature has used three different words in relation to the three sections, “transaction” in Section 4, “matter” in Section 5, and “description” in Section 6.” C 30. In the of this Court in Himalaya Space House Company Limited (supra), this Court was dealing with the case under the Act containing Section 27 sans the proviso added by the Andhra Pradesh Act. Paragraph 11 of the reads as under: “11. It was urged that in view of Section 27 of the Stamp Act, it D was permissible for the Revenue to look into the terms and conditions of the agreements entered into by Uttamchand with the various persons to whom he had assigned flats, offices and shops, particularly in view of the fact that the impounded document makes reference to those agreement. We are not able to accept that contention. Section 27 prescribes that “The consideration (if E any) and all other facts and circumstances affecting the chargeability of any instrument with duty, or the amount of the duty with which it is chargeable shall be fully and truly set forth therein”. It is true that in view of this provision, the parties to a document are required to set forth in the document fully and truly F the consideration (if any) and all other facts and circumstances affecting the chargeability of that document with the duty or the amount of the duty with which it is chargeable. But a failure to comply with the requirements of that section is merely punishable under Section 64 of the Stamp Act. No provision in the Stamp Act empowers the Revenue to make an independent inquiry of the G value of the property conveyed for determining the duty chargeable. Article 23 is the article that governs the charging of stamp duty on “conveyance”. That article to the extent relevant for our present purpose reads: H 1130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A “23. Conveyance as defined by Section 2(10) not being a transfer charge or exempted under Section 52. Where the amount or value of the consideration for such conveyance as set forth therein….” (emphasis supplied) 31.