In case of some statutory corporations, the enactment creating them did not provide for any share capital, though it was made a 35 Municipal Commissioner of Dum Dum Municipality & Ors. v. Indian Tourism H Development Corporation & Ors., 1995 (5) SCC 251. PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1261 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] body corporate with all the necessary and incidental powers A that go with such concept. The International Airports Authority is one such corporation created under the Act with no share capital but which has its own properties, its own fund, accounts, employees and capable of lending and borrowing and entering into contracts.” B 46. The specific mention of other class of creditors whose dues are statutory, such as dues payable to workmen or employees, “the provident fund, the pension fund, the gratuity fund” under Section 36(4), which excludes these enumerated amounts from the liquidation, especially clarifies that not all dues owed under statute are treated as C ‘government’ dues. In other words, dues payable to statutory corporations which do not fall within the description “amounts due to the central or state government” such as for instance amounts payable to corporations created by statutes which have distinct juristic entity but whose dues do not constitute government dues payable or those payable into the respective Consolidated Funds stand on a different footing. Such D corporations may be operational creditors or financial creditors or secured creditors depending on the nature of the transactions entered into by them with the corporate debtor. On the other hand, dues payable or requiring to be credited to the Treasury, such as tax, tariffs, etc. which broadly fall within the ambit of Article 265 of the Constitution are E ‘government dues’ and therefore covered by Section 53(1)(f) of the IBC. 47. PVVNL undoubtedly has government participation. However, that does not render it a government or a part of the ‘State Government’. Its functions can be replicated by other entities, both private and public. F The supply of electricity, the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity has been liberalized in terms of the 2003 Act barring certain segments. Private entities are entitled to hold licenses. In this context, it has to be emphasized that private participation as distribution licensees is fairly widespread. For these reasons, it is held that in the present case, dues or amounts payable to PVVNL do not fall within the description of G Section 53(1)(f) of the IBC. 48. PVVNL had relied upon the decision Rainbow Papers (supra). In that case, the issue involved was interpretation of Section 48 of the Gujarat Value Added Tax Act, 2003 which enacted that any amount payable towards tax or penalty by any person would constitute a ‘first H 1262 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A charge’ on the property of such dealer or person. The corporate debtor had defaulted in payment of its tax dues and recovery proceedings had been initiated. In the meanwhile, insolvency proceedings had commenced.