Both the Courts completely shut their eyes to the manner of the investigation, the Prosecutor’s role, and the high-handedness of the accused as also the conduct of the Presiding Offi cer of the Trial Court, despite observations and fi ndings having been recorded not only by the Administrative Judge but also by the Division Bench deciding Habeas Corpus petition. They continued with their classical rut of dealing with the evidence in a manner as if it was a normal trial. They failed to notice the conduct of the Public Prosecutor in not even examining the formal witnesses and also that the Public Prosecutor was acting to the advantage of the accused rather than prosecuting the accused with due diligence and honesty. The Presiding Offi cer of the Trial Court acquitting the accused as also the learned Judge of the High Court dismissing the revision, were both well-aware of the facts, legal procedures, as well as the law regarding appreciation of evidence in a criminal case. Both the courts below ignored the administrative reports as also the of the High Court in the Habeas Corpus petition. In fact they should have taken judicial notice of the same. They completely failed to take into consideration the conduct of the accused subsequent to the incident, which was extremely relevant and material in view of Section 8 of the Evidence Act. They failed to draw any adverse inference against the accused with respect to their guilt. 112. Section 311 CrPC confers wide powers on any court at any stage of any inquiry, trial or other proceeding under this Code to summon material witness or examine person present. Such person may not be a person summoned as a witness. Power to recall and re-examine is also vested. The concept is that it should be essential for the just decision of the case. The said section is reproduced hereunder: HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 465 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] “Section 311 in The Code Of Criminal Procedure, 1973 311. Power to summon material witness, or examine person present. Any Court may, at any stage of any inquiry, trial or other proceeding under this Code, summon any person as a witness, or examine any person in attendance, though not summoned as a witness, or. recall and re- examine any person already examined; and the Court shall summon and examine or recall and re- examine any such person if his evidence appears to it to be essential to the just decision of the case.” This power can be exercised not only by the Trial Court but also by the appellate Court or revisional Court. The logic behind this provision is that the endeavour of the Courts is to fi nd out the truth which would be essential for the just decision of the case. Additionally, Sections 367 and 391 CrPC confers powers on the High Court dealing with death reference and appellate Courts to take additional evidence. The said sections are reproduced hereunder: “Section 367 in The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 367.