3 (2022) 4 SCC 116. 4 (2020) 5 SCC 164. KONKAN RAILWAY CORP. LTD v. CHENAB BRIDGE PROJECT 223 UNDERTAKING [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] that the prices mentioned in the Bill of Quantities are inclusive of all costs that are liable to be incurred in the execution of the contract. 12.2 Further, they also submitted that the Arbitral Tribunal holistically interpreted Clauses 5.1.2, 7.1.1 and 7.1.2 of the contract to opine that individual tax claims would not be reimbursed by the Appellant-Corporation. The Arbitral Tribunal held that Clause 5.1.2 operates in a separate fi eld, i.e., it operates in the fi eld of taxes directly payable by the Corporation to the Contractor. They further added that the mention of toll tax and octroi in Clause 5.1.2 is only incidental, and does not render the recovery of taxes by the Contractor implicit. On the other hand, the fl uctuations in price of entries in the Bill of Quantities (or for mobilisation of construction material and machinery) was recoverable only as per the scheme of Price Variation in Clauses 7.1.1 and 7.1.2, which expressly exclude cognizance of fl uctuations in price of individual items. 13. Submissions on behalf of the Respondents: Mr Darius Khambata, Senior Advocate, along with Mr Aveak Ganguly, Mr Manu Seshadri, Ms Pallavi Anand, Mr Abhijit Lal, Ms Soumya, Advocates and Mr Mithu Jain, AOR appeared on behalf of the Contractor-Respondent. They submitted that the High Court rightly interfered with the fi ndings of the Arbitral Tribunal as it had rewritten the contract. They submitted that every canon of contractual interpretation provides for harmonious construction of seemingly contradictory clauses, and constructing contracts such that no clause is rendered otiose. 13.1 They submitted that undoubtedly, Clauses 5.1.2 and 7.1.1 operate in separate fi elds, i.e., Clause 5.1.2 of the Special Conditions of Contract is a special clause that deals with taxes and provides for reimbursement on account of increase of taxes by the Corporation. Clauses 7.1.1 and 7.1.2, on the other hand, prohibit additional and individual claims for price variation, apart from the ones already mentioned in Clause 5.1.2. By limiting Clause 5.1.2 to the taxes that can be billed by the Contractor on the Corporation, the Arbitral Tribunal impermissibly rewrote the terms of the contract. Instead of harmonising the provisions of the contract, it inserted new terms and contradictions to it. 13.2 The respondents submitted that the Division Bench of the High Court was well within its jurisdiction under Section 37 of the Act to partially set aside the Award. To substantiate their submissions, they 224 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. relied on Adani Power (Mudra) Limited v. Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission and Ors.,5 Radha Sundar Dutta v. Mohd Jahadur Rahim & Ors. (supra), Satyanarayana Construction Company v. Union of India and Ors.,6 and Delhi Development Authority v. R.S. Sharma and Company, New Delhi.7 14. Analysis: At the outset, we may state that the jurisdiction of the Court under Section 37 of the Act, as clarifi ed by this Court in MMTC Ltd. v. Vedanta Ltd., is akin to the jurisdiction of the court under Section 34 of the Act.8 Scope of interference by a court in an appeal under Section 37 of the Act, in examining an , setting aside or refusing to set aside an award, is restricted and subject to the same grounds as the challenge under Section 34 of the Act.