It has also been submitted that D in view of the admitted fact that there were strained relations between husband of the appellant and PW-1, possibility of the appellant being falsely implicated so that PW-1 could derive monetary benefit from her son, husband of the appellant, cannot be ruled out. 8.5. Learned counsel has argued in the alternative that the case E does not fall under Section 302 IPC, particularly in view of the fact that admittedly there had been strained relations between the parties and even as per the version of PW-1, on the morning of the date of incident itself, she and the appellant had entered into a quarrel as the appellant wanted to go to the place of her father, Kolakkudi. In the given circumstances, according to the learned counsel, even if the accusations F against the appellant are taken into consideration, it could not be a case beyond culpable homicide not amounting to murder. 8.6. Learned counsel has relied upon various decisions of this Court including that in the case of Shyamal Ghosh v. State of West Bengal: (2012) 7 SCC 646 as regards the witness discrepancies; G Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra: (1984) 4 SCC 116 as regards circumstantial evidence and the factors when accused would be entitled to benefit of doubt as also with regard to the testimony of interested/related witnesses; and Ramnaresh v. State of Chhattisgarh: (2012) 4 SCC 257 as regards entitlement of the accused to maintain silence in examination under Section 313 CrPC; and obligation H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 969 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] on the part of the Trial Court to put the material evidence to the accused A to extend an opportunity of explanation. 9. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent-State has submitted that the prosecution has discharged its burden of proving beyond reasonable doubt that the appellant committed the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC. B 9.1. Learned counsel has argued that minor discrepancies in the statements of witnesses have no effect on the prosecution case, and that presence of the appellant alone with the child has been corroborated by the testimony of independent witnesses. In this regard, reliance has been placed on various decisions including those in Bharwada C Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai v. State of Gujarat : (1983) 3 SCC 217; Krishna Mochi v. State of Bihar : (2002) 6 SCC 81 and Leela Ram v. State of Haryana:(1999) 9 SCC 525 to submit that minor contradictions are normal and are bound to appear in the statements of witnesses. 9.2. It has further been submitted by the learned counsel that the D appellant was the last person to be seen with the child before she died; therefore, she had special knowledge about the death of the child and was required to provide an explanation in terms of Section 106 of the Evidence Act, 18726 about the circumstances under which the death took place. In this regard, learned counsel for the respondent-State has E relied upon various decisions including those in Satpal v. State of Haryana : (2018) 6 SCC 610; and State of Rajasthan v. Kashi Ram:(2006) 12 SCC 254 to submit that if the accused does not offer an explanation under Section 106 and there is corroborative evidence establishing a chain of circumstances leading to the conclusion of guilt, the accused could be convicted on that basis.