This has not been done. In fact, this is a common practice adopted by majority of builders/developers which is basically an unfair trade practice. This has become a means to extract extra money from the allottees at the time when allottee cannot leave the project as his substantial amount is locked in the project and he 1132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. is about to take possession. There is no prevailing system when the competent authority which approves the plan issues some kind of certifi cate in respect of the extra super area at the fi nal stage. There is no harm in communicating and charging for the extra area at the fi nal stage but for the sake of transparency the opposite party must share the actual reason for increase in the super area based on the comparison of the originally approved buildings and fi nally approved buildings. Basically the idea is that the allottee must know the change in the fi nally approved lay-out and areas of common spaces and the originally approved lay-out and areas. In my view, until this is done, the opposite party is not entitled to payment of any excess area. Though the Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) 2016 has made it compulsory for the builders/developers to indicate the carpet area of the fl at, however the problem of super area is not yet fully solved and further reforms are required.” 19. The appellant had challenged the said decision of the National Commission by fi ling the appeals being Civil Appeal Nos. 3703-3704 of 2020 before this Court. However, they were dismissed vide the dated 12.01.2021. The reads as under: “1. We are not inclined to interfere with the of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission dated 26 August 2020 in Consumer Complaint Nos. 285 and 286 of 2018. 2. The appeals are accordingly dismissed. 3. Pending application, if any, stands disposed of.” 20. The review petitions, being R.P. (C) Nos. 1357-1358 of 2021, in the said civil appeals fi led by the appellant, were also dismissed by this Court on 11.01.2022 by passing the following : “1. Application for oral hearing is dismissed. 2. We have carefully gone through the review petitions and the connected papers. We fi nd no merit in the review petitions and the same are accordingly dismissed. 3. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of.” EXPERION DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. v. HIMANSHU 1133 DEWAN AND SONALI DEWAN [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 21. The dated 12.01.2021 of this Court dismissing the civil appeals and the dated 11.01.2022 dismissing the subsequent review petitions fi led in the case of Pawan Gupta (supra) are non-reasoned s that do not state what has weighed with the court while dismissing the appeals and the review petitions. However, the result is that the passed by the National Commission in the case of Pawan Gupta (supra) has attained fi nality and binds the parties to the decision. 22. Learned counsel for the parties have made elaborate submissions on the issue of whether the s passed by this Court in the case of Pawan Gupta (supra) by applying the doctrine of merger, principle of res judicata and in view of the rule of precedential value, would foreclose the submissions raised by the appellant in the present case.