The formula for working E out the costs was also described as “Proposed Monthly Variable Charge Formula” A Monthly Sample Calculation based on assumed values of landed cost of oil, and dollar rate, was appended to the proposal to show that the cost would be less than what was being paid by the Respondent. When the Respondent accepted the proposal and responded by its letter of 26th of April 2012 F which referred to the cost at the rate of Rs. 8.58 per unit, which was described as the “ revised fixed rate”, the Claimant clarified the position immediately by stating in its letter of 30th of April 2013 to the Respondent that the price mentioned in the proposal dated 21st of March 2013, was not for a fixed cost of power G supplied, and that the same shall vary depending upon the fuel price in the market and the exchange rate. They therefore requested the Respondent to confirm that the tariff was formula based and shall vary with changes in the fuel price in the market and dollar variation. Thereafter it appears that the parties were not able to resolve the differences that surfaced,, and ultimately H 428 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A the matter was placed before the Cabinet of the Government of Goa on May 22, 2013. After having considered the matter, the Cabinet took a very clear and categoric decision to purchase power from the Claimant at the rate given in the proposal of the Claimant, which would vary, based on the international price of gas and exchange rate fluctuations. The decision was communicated to B all offices concerned with a request to report compliance. On the very next day, the Respondent by its letter dated 23rd of May 2013 confirmed that the Government had decided to continue to purchase power as per the formula proposed by the Claimant in their letter dated 21st of March 2013 considering the prevailing C rates of fuel and dollar up to the expiry of the existing PPA. The same communication also directed that the power bills must be submitted with due documentation of prices of fuel and dollar. 42. These facts clearly establish that the price of power to be supplied by the Claimant was not based on fixed dollar rate or D landing cost of fuel. The proposal clearly made these charges variable, and clarified the position further when the Respondent wrongly understood it to mean a fixed rate formula. Ultimately, the Cabinet of the Government of Goa took a decision clearly in favour of the stand of the Claimant. It was faintly argued that the Cabinet decision was not binding because, pursuant to it no E was drawn up by the State Government. Relying on the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court (AIR 1963 S.C 395) in Bachhittar Singh Vs State of Punjab, it was contended that unless the Cabinet decision is followed by a formal drawn up by the State Government, it does not have any binding effect.