encouraged to do a wrongful act or commit a trespass relying A on the length of his purse and his ability to pay damages for it. To say that a small strip of building site could thus be appropriated by a trespasser would be to admit a rule of law which can be applied limitlessly. In cases of trespass, the Court B should ordinarily grant an injunction directing the defendant to remove the encroachment and restore possession of the vacant site to the plaintiff. Neither serious inconvenience to the defendant—trespasser nor the absence of serious injury to the plaintiff is a ground for depriving the latter for his C legal right to the property.” 21. True that the learned Single Judge further held that if the plaintiff is guilty of laches amounting to acquiescence or has knowingly permitted the defendant to make the construction and made him to incur heavy expenditure without protest or objection, mandatory injunction could D be declined and damages could be given. As held by the learned Single Judge we are of the considered view that in a case where the owner of the land filed suit for recovery of possession of his land from the encroacher and once he establishes his title, merely because some structures are erected by the opposite party ignoring the objection, that E too without any bona fide belief, denying the relief of recovery of possession would tantamount to allowing a trespasser/encroacher to purchase another man’s property against that man’s will. In Bodi Reddy’s decision (supra) the learned Judge held that in a suit for recovery of possession filed within the period of limitation provided under Limitation Act, the doctrine of laches or acquiescence has no place to defeat the F right of the plaintiff to obtain the relief on his establishing his title. We may hold that in such a situation in the absence of any misrepresentation by an act or omission, the mere fact after making objection the plaintiff took some reasonable time to approach the Court for recovery of possession cannot, at any stretch of imagination, be a reason to deny G him the relief him of recovery of possession of the encroached land on his establishing his title over it. 22. Considering all the aforesaid circumstances, we do not find any flaw, legal error, perversity or patent illegality in the findings on the substantial questions of law by the High Court ultimately, in favour of H 300 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A the respondent herein and in setting aside the and decree of the First Appellate Court and also in restoring the and decree of the Trial Court. 23. Resultantly the appellants are bound to fail and the appeals are accordingly dismissed. B 24. There is no as to cost. Nidhi Jain Appeals dismissed. (Assisted by : Pareekshit Bishnoi and Shashwat Jain, LCRAs) C D E F G H