198.5.3. Needless to say that the High Court shall render its decision at the earliest as such matters cannot brook any delay and it shall ascribe reasons specifically keeping in mind the principles of “best interests of the patient”. C 198.6. Revocation or inapplicability of Advance Directive 198.6.1. An individual may withdraw or alter the Advance Directive at any time when he/she has the capacity to do so and by following the same procedure as provided for recording of Advance Directive. Withdrawal or revocation of an Advance Directive must D be in writing. 198.6.2. An Advance Directive shall not be applicable to the treatment in question if there are reasonable grounds for believing that circumstances exist which the person making the directive did not anticipate at the time of the Advance Directive and which would have affected his decision had he anticipated them. E 198.6.3. If the Advance Directive is not clear and ambiguous, the Medical Boards concerned shall not give effect to the same and, in that event, the guidelines meant for patients without Advance Directive shall be made applicable. 198.6.4. Where the Hospital Medical Board takes a decision not to follow an Advance Directive while treating a person, then it F shall make an application to the Medical Board constituted by the Collector for consideration and appropriate direction on the Advance Directive. 199. It is necessary to make it clear that there will be cases where there is no Advance Directive. The said class of persons cannot G be alienated. In cases where there is no Advance Directive, the procedure and safeguards are to be same as applied to cases where Advance Directives are in existence and in addition there to, the following procedure shall be followed: 199.1. In cases where the patient is terminally ill and undergoing prolonged treatment in respect of ailment which is incurable or H COMMON CAUSE (A REGD. SOCIETY) v. UNION OF INDIA 1143 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] where there is no hope of being cured, the physician may inform A the hospital which, in turn, shall constitute a Hospital Medical Board in the manner indicated earlier. The Hospital Medical Board shall discuss with the family physician and the family members and record the minutes of the discussion in writing. During the discussion, the family members shall be apprised of the pros and cons of withdrawal or refusal of further medical treatment to the B patient and if they give consent in writing, then the Hospital Medical Board may certify the course of action to be taken. Their decision will be regarded as a preliminary opinion. 199.2. In the event the Hospital Medical Board certifies the option of withdrawal or refusal of further medical treatment, the hospital C shall immediately inform the jurisdictional Collector. The jurisdictional Collector shall then constitute a Medical Board comprising the Chief District Medical Officer as the Chairman and three experts from the fields of general medicine, cardiology, neurology, nephrology, psychiatry or oncology with experience in critical care and with overall standing in the medical profession of D at least twenty years.