The Court then held that the open ballot system which has been put in position “does not mean open to one and all” and it is only the authorised agent of the political party who is allowed to see and verify the person for whom the elector has cast a vote. The Court held that the underlying basis of the change D in the norm, to an open ballot, was necessitated to prevent cross- voting and the flouting of party discipline. [Paras 11, 12][362-E- G; 363-B-C] 2. The Constitution Bench held that in a general election, secrecy of voting is required to maintain the purity of the electoral E system. A voter is entitled to exercise the right to vote in a free and fair manner without disclosing how he has voted. However, the concept of “constituency-based representation” in a general election is distinct from “proportional representation”. In a case of “proportional representation”, voters are subject to party discipline, The Constitution Bench held that it is legitimately open F to prescribe the methodology of an open ballot for conducting elections to the Council of States. The Court has held that the amendment does not take away the right to vote, but only regulates the right so as to eliminate the evil of cross-voting by an elector who has been elected to the Assembly of a particular G State on the basis of a party nomination. [Para 13][363-E-G] Proviso to Section 33 of the 1951 Act 3. The proviso stipulates that a candidate who is not set up by a recognized political party shall not be deemed to be duly H LOK PRAHARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 359 nominated for election unless the nomination paper is subscribed A by ten proposers who are electors of the constituency. This lies purely in the realm of legislative policy. There is nothing per se discriminatory in the provision. Parliament is entitled to regulate the manner in which nomination papers should be presented and the requirements for a valid nomination. [Paras 18 and 19][365- B D-E] Kuldip Nayar v Union of India [2006] 5 Suppl. SCR 1 – relied on. Case Law Reference C [2006] 5 Suppl. SCR 1 relied on Para 11 CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition (Civil) No. 1141 of 2020. (UNDER ARTICLE 32 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA) S. N. Shukla, Petitioner-in-person D K M Nataraj, A.S.G., Ardhendumauli Kumar Prashad, A.A.G., Rajat Nair, Shailesh Madiyal, Ms. Shraddha Desmukh, Ms. Ruchi Gour Narula, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Amit Sharma, Dipesh Sinha, Ms. Pallavi Barua, Ms. Sakshi Upadhyaya, Ms. Aparna Singh, Adarsh Upadhyay, Ashish Madaan, Ms. Shreya Srivastava, Aman Pathak, Ms. Pallavi E Kumari, Ms. Ananya Sahu, Advs. for the Respondents. The of the Court was delivered by DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI 1. The jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution F has been invoked by Lok Prahari, a society registered under the Societies Registration Act 1860. The petitioner has been represented in these proceedings by Mr S N Shukla, who is the General Secretary.