(2) Where any such document is not in the possession or power of the plaintiff , he shall, wherever possible, state in whose possession or power it is. [(3) A document which ought to be produced in Court by the plaintiff when the plaint is presented, or to be entered in the list to be added or annexed to the plaint but is not produced or entered accordingly, 9 (1994) 1 SCC 1 (2-Judge Bench) MOHAMMED ABDUL WAHID v. NILOFER & ANR. 887 shall not, without the leave of the Court, be received in evidence on his behalf at the hearing of the suit.] (4) Nothing in this rule shall apply to document produced for the cross- examination of the plaintiff s witnesses, or handed over to a witness merely to refresh his memory.] VIII 1-A. Duty of defendant to produce documents upon which relief is claimed or relied upon by him.—(1) Where the defendant bases his defence upon a document or relies upon any document in his possession or power, in support of his defence or claim for set-off or counter-claim, he shall enter such document in a list, and shall produce it in Court when the written statement is presented by him and shall, at the same time, deliver the document and a copy thereof, to be fi led with the written statement. (2) Where any such document is not in the possession or power of the defendant, he shall, wherever possible, state in whose possession or power it is. [(3) A document which ought to be produced in Court by the defendant under this rule, but, is not so produced shall not, without the leave of the Court, be received in evidence on his behalf at the hearing of the suit.] (4) Nothing in this rule shall apply to documents— (a) produced for the cross-examination of the plaintiff ’s witnesses, or (b) handed over to a witness merely to refresh his memory.] XIII 1. Original documents to be produced at or before the settlement of issues.—(1) The parties or their pleader shall produce on or before the settlement of issues, all the documentary evidence in original where the copies thereof have been fi led along with plaint or written statement. (2) The Court shall receive the documents so produced: Provided that they are accompanied by an accurate list thereof prepared in such form as the High Court directs. 888 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (3) Nothing in sub-rule (1) shall apply to documents— (a) produced for the cross-examination of the witnesses of the other party; or (b) handed over to a witness merely to refresh his memory. 20. The diff erentiation between the party to a suit and a witness, as is made clear by our earlier discussion, is not something that gels with the law. As has been hitherto observed, the term witness does not exclude the party to the suit i.e., the Plaintiff or the Defendant, themselves appearing before the court to enter evidence.