194. Relying on Bommai (supra) and Nabam Rebia (supra), the petitioners argue that this Court has the power to restore the status quo 62 Nabam Rebia (supra) H 962 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A ante and rule that the Government with Mr. Thackeray as its Chief Minister is to be reinstated. However, this argument does not account for the fact that Mr. Thackeray did not face the floor test on 30 June 2022 and instead submitted his resignation. This Court cannot quash a resignation that has been submitted voluntarily. Had Mr. Thackeray refrained from resigning from the post of the Chief Minister, this Court B could have considered the grant of the remedy of reinstating the government headed by him. The of this Court dated 29 June 2022 held that the outcome of the trust vote to be conducted on 30 June 2022 “shall be subject to the final outcome” of this batch of petitions. Since the trust vote was not held, the question of it being subject to the final C outcome of these petitions does not arise. 195. The petitioners urge that the pendency of disqualification petitions before the Speaker or the Deputy Speaker ought to have resulted in the postponement of the floor test. This argument cannot be accepted. As discussed in the previous section of this judgement, the pendency of D disqualification petitions does not bar an MLA from participating in the proceedings of the House. This includes the right of an MLA to participate in the floor test. It is true that adjudication of disqualification petitions would alter the numbers in the Assembly, and ultimately bear on the outcome of a floor test. The option of initiating a no-confidence motion after the adjudication of disqualification petitions is open to the MLAs. E However, this Court cannot stay the proceedings of the House until the disqualification petitions are decided. To do so would amount to interfering with the proceedings of the House. The discretion of the Governor to direct the Chief Minister to face a floor test ought to be based on objective material. F viii. The exercise of discretion by the Governor in inviting Mr. Shinde to be the Chief Minister 196. The petitioners have challenged the exercise of discretion by the Governor in inviting Mr. Shinde to form the government on two grounds: first, Mr. Shinde’s appointment is barred by Article 164(1B) of G the Constitution; and second, the Governor has exceeded the scope of his authority by recognizing one of the two rival factions as being the “real” Shiv Sena. These submissions are addressed in turn. a. Mr. Shinde’s appointment is not barred by Article 164(1B) of the Constitution H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 963 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] 197. Article 164(1B) of the Constitution is reproduced below: A “ 164. Other provisions as to Ministers. … (1B) A member of the Legislative Assembly of a State or either House of the Legislature of a State having Legislative Council B belonging to any political party who is disqualified for being a member of that House under paragraph 2 of the Tenth Schedule shall also be disqualified to be appointed as a Minister under clause (1) for duration of the period commencing from the date of his disqualification till the date on which the term C of his office as such member would expire or where he contests any election to the Legislative Assembly of a State or either House of the Legislature of a State having Legislative Council, as the case may be, before the expiry of such period, till the date on which he is declared elected, whichever is earlier.” (emphasis supplied) D 198.