(7) Any proceeding before the Tribunal shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and the Tribunal shall be deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of section 195 and [Chapter H XXVI] of the [Code]. ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 519 [M. R. SHAH, J.] Section 6 – Period of operation and cancellation of A notification - (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), a notification issued under section 3 shall, if the declaration made therein is confirmed by the Tribunal by an made under section 4, remain in force for a period of [five years] from the date on which the notification B becomes effective. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1), the Central Government may, either on its own motion or on the application of any person aggrieved, at any time, cancel the notification issued under section 3, whether or not the declaration made therein has been confirmed by the Tribunal.” C 3. Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General has also taken us to the background to the UAPA and the enactment of Article 19(1) and 19(4) of the Constitution of India vide Constitution (Sixteenth Amendm nt) Act, 1963. It is submitted that exception to the freedom to form associations under Article 19(1) was inserted in the form of sovere D gnty and integrity of India in Article 19(4), after the National Integration ouncil appointed a Committee on National Integration and Regionalisation. The said committee was to look into the aspect of putting reasonable restrictions in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India. It is submitted that pursuant to the acceptance of the recommendati ns of the Committee, the Constitution (Sixteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 E as enacted to impose, by law, reasonable restrictions in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India. Article 19(1)(c) and 19(4) of the Constitution of India reads as follows: “19. (1)(c) to form associations or unions;” F The said is further restricted by Article 19(4) which is as follows: 19(4) Nothing in sub-clause (c) of the said clause shall affect the operation of any existing law insofar as it imposes, or prevent the State from making any law imposing, in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India or public or morality, G reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause.” Relying upon the same it is highlighted by the learned Solicitor General that the Court has not kept this aspect in view while placing heavy reliance on the foreign authorities which are H 520 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A fundamentally not applicable to the interpretative process of the provisions which have been enacted in consonance with the provisions of the Constitution of India.” 3.1 It is submitted that in to implement the provision of the 1963 Act, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Bill was introduced in the B Parliament.