It is a settled proposition of law that an authority cannot issue s/offi ce memorandum/executive instructions in contravention of the statutory rules. However, instructions can be issued only to supplement the statutory rules but not to supplant it. 35. As already discussed hereinabove, NCTE recognition dated 22nd September 2017 was issued so as to give eff ect to the directives of MHRD dated 8th September 2017 so as to provide a one-time window to the teachers who were already working and who in terms of the 2017 Amendment Act were required to acquire the minimum qualifi cations prior to 1st April 2019. The said , in any case, cannot be held to be a direction to the State of Uttarakhand to act in contravention of its 2012 Service Rules and the advertisements issued on the basis of such Service Rules. 36. We further fi nd that the fi nding of the High Court that the 18 months D.El.Ed. Diploma (ODL) course in Elementary Education conducted by NIOS is equal to 2 years Diploma is erroneous. There is no notifi cation to that eff ect issued by NCTE in supersession of its notifi cations dated 23rd JAIVEER SINGH AND OTHERS v. THE STATE OF 617 UTTARAKHAND AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] August 2010 and 29th July 2011, wherein it provided minimum 2 years Diploma as a minimum qualifi cation for appointment of teachers. At the cost of repetition, we clarify that the notifi cations dated 23rd August 2010 and 29th July 2011 of NCTE, were issued in exercise of its powers conferred under Section 23(1) of the RTE Act whereas recognition dated 22nd September 2017 was passed in pursuance of the directions issued by MHRD under Section 29 of the NCTE Act. 37. Assuming for a moment that the 18 months D.El.Ed. Diploma by NIOS through ODL mode is equivalent to the 2 years Diploma in Elementary Education recognized under the notifi cations of NCTE dated 23rd August 2010 and 29th July 2011, the next question that has to be answered is, can the State be prohibited from prescribing the minimum qualifi cations which is higher than that. A similar question arose for consideration in the case of S. Satyapal Reddy and Others v. Govt. of A.P. and Others7, wherein this Court observed thus: “7. ……The Governor has been given power under proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution, subject to any law made by the State Legislature, to make rules regulating the recruitment which includes prescription of qualifi cations for appointment to an offi ce or post under the State. Since the Transport Department under the Act is constituted by the State Government and the offi cers appointed to those posts belong to the State service, while appointing its own offi cers, the State Government as a necessary adjunct is entitled to prescribe qualifi cations for recruitment or conditions of service. But while so prescribing, the State Government may accept the qualifi cations or prescribe higher qualifi cation but in no case prescribe any qualifi cation less than the qualifi cations prescribed by the Central Government under sub-section (4) of Section 213 of the Act…….” [emphasis supplied] 38.