(1993) 25 ATC 234], M.V. Nair (Dr.) v. Union of India [(1993) A 2 SCC 429 : 1993 SCC (L&S) 512 : (1993) 24 ATC 236] and U.P. Public Service Commission v. Alpana [(1994) 2 SCC 723 : 1994 SCC (L&S) 742 : (1994) 27 ATC 101] the High Court has held (i) that the cut-off date by reference to which the eligibility requirement must be satisfied by the B candidate seeking a public employment is the date appointed by the relevant service rules and if there be no cut-off date appointed by the rules then such date as may be appointed for the purpose in the advertisement calling for applications; (ii) that if there be no such date appointed then the eligibility criteria shall be applied by reference to the last date appointed by which C the applications have to be received by the competent authority. The view taken by the High Court is supported by several decisions of this Court and is therefore well settled and hence cannot be found fault with. However, there are certain special features of this case which need to be taken care of and justice D be done by invoking the jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution vested in this Court so as to advance the cause of justice.” 29. It has been transpired and culled out from the aforementioned decision that:- E (i) the cut-off date by reference to which the eligibility requirement must be satisfied by the applicant seeking a public employment is the date notified in the relevant service rules. (ii) If there is no cut-off appointed date indicated under the rules then such date shall be as appointed for the purpose in the F advertisement calling for applications. (iii) If there is no such date appointed then the eligibility criteria shall be applied by reference to the last date notified by which the applications were to be received by the recruiting authority. 30. These principles have been settled by this Court and is no G more res integra for further discussion that when the rules are silent and no date is notified to satisfy the eligibility requirement under the advertisement, the eligibility criteria shall be applied by reference to the last date of application by which applications are to be received by the recruiting authority. H 606 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 31. Let us examine the Scheme of Rules, 2010 in other way and Part IV in particular, which provides the method of recruitment in the cadre of Civil Judge, Rule 19 postulates that the candidate has to submit a character certificate while participating for direct recruitment which may qualify him for employment in service, has to be not more than six months prior to the date of application which the candidate has to enclose B while the application form is filled for participation in the selection process and if we proceed on the principles as aforestated, the question arises that if the candidate who has participated in the selection process after furnishing the character certificate along with the application form in terms of Rule 19, if at a later stage in the process of selection involves in C any act of moral turpitude before he is actually appointed whether the appointing authority is under an obligation to give him appointment if his name is finally placed in the of merit, the answer indeed is in negative and the reason is that the character certificate enclosed by the applicant at the time of filling the application form in terms of Rule 19 is only for the purpose of satisfaction in reference to the character of the D applicant/candidate who intends to participate in the process of recruitment which may qualify him for employment in service, but if he later gets himself involved in any act of moral turpitude, although there is no restriction/embargo, but the authority is always in its competence to take into consideration the later developments and upto the date of appointment E if the candidate finally selected is found to be unsuitable for appointment which indeed he did not carry at the time when the application form was filled and that too on the last date of application, but that can always be considered as material to adjudge the suitability of the candidate for being considered for appointment and in the given situation the theory of last date of application becomes completely otiose.