[2023] 1 S.C.R. 1137 1137 COMMON CAUSE (A REGD. SOCIETY) A v. UNION OF INDIA (Miscellaneous Application No. 1699 of 2019) In B (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 215 of 2005) JANUARY 24, 2023 [K.M. JOSEPH, AJAY RASTOGI, ANIRUDDHA BOSE, HRISHIKESH ROY AND C.T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] C Constitution of India – Right of the person to die with dignity – Advanced directives – Application seeking clarification of the in Common Cause (A Registered Society) v. Union of India (2018) 5 SCC 1: [2018] 6 SCR 1 – In the said writ petition, the Court was concerned with the question as to whether even in the D absence of Advance Directives, when a person is faced with a medical condition with no hope of recovery and is continued on life support system/medicines, support system should be withdrawn – Thereafter, the Court proceeded to lay down the directives – Now, application filed seeking clarifications – The reason for approaching the Court again is the actual working of the directions, E insurmountable obstacles are being posed – Keeping in view the concerns of the parties, the directions contained in paragraphs 198 to 199 are modified/ deleted – Miscellaneous application disposed of. CRIMINAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION : Miscellaneous Application No.1699 of 2019 in Writ Petition (Civil) No.215 of 2005. F Arvind P. Datar, Sr. Adv., Dr. Dhvani Mehta, Ms. Rashmi Nandakumar, Ms. Shreya Shrivastava, Advs. for the Petitioner. K. M. Nataraj, A.S.G., Gurmeet Singh Makker, Mohd. Akhil, Adit Khorana, Shailesh Madiyal, Udai Khanna, Vinayak Sharma, Anirudh Bhat, Sanjay M Nuli, Nakul Chengappa K.K., Chitransh Sharma, Anuj G S. Udupa, Dr. R. R. Kishore, Advs. for the Respondent. The of the Court was passed by K. M. JOSEPH, J. (1) This is an application filed by Indian Society of Critical Care Medicine seeking clarification of the reported in Common Cause H 1137 1138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A (A Registered Society) v. Union of India and Another (2018) 5 SCC 1. (2)A Constitution Bench came to be constituted on the basis of a Reference made to it by a Bench of three learned Judges. In the backdrop of certain earlier decisions of this Court, in particular, this Court was engaged with the question as to whether the Court should issue suitable B directions or set in place norms to provide for what is described as Advance Directives. This Court also was concerned with the question as to whether even in the absence of Advance Directives, when a person is faced with a medical condition with no hope of recovery and is continued on life support system/medicines, life support system should be withdrawn. The Court went on to dwell on the right of a person to die with dignity. C Thereafter, this Court has proceeded to lay down the directives as follows: “198. In our considered opinion, Advance Medical Directive would serve as a fruitful means to facilitate the fructification of the sacrosanct right to life with dignity. The said directive, we think, will dispel many a doubt at the relevant time of need during the course of treatment of the patient.