The decision so made would be exposed to challenge on the ground of arbitrariness. E Rule of law does not completely eliminate discretion in the exercise of power, as it is unrealistic, but provides for control of its exercise by judicial review.” 3.2.1 Tender: a constitutional requirement? 16. This Court has consistently held that government contracts F must be awarded by a transparent process. The process of inviting tenders ensures a level playing field for competing entities. While there may be situations which warrant a departure from the precept of inviting tenders or conducting public auctions,the departure must not be unreasonable or discriminatory.9 In Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of G India10 the ‘first-cum-first serve’ policy was held to be arbitrary while alienating natural resources. However, the Court observed that though 9M/s Kasturi Lal Lakshmi Reddy v. State of Jammu and Kashmir, (1980) 4 SCC 1; Sachidanand Pandey v. State of West Bengal, (1980) 4 SCC 1; Haji T.M Hassam Rawther v. Kerala Financial Corporation (1988) 1 SCC 166 H 10 (2012) 3 SCC 1 M/S IMPCL v. KERALA AYURVEDIC CO OPERATIVE SOCIETY LTD. 489 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] auction is a ‘preferred’ method of allocation, it cannot be construed to A be aconstitutional requirement. 17. In Natural Resources Allocation, in re Special Reference No. 1 of 201211, a Presidential Reference was made in the backdrop of the decision in Centre for Public Interest Litigation (supra) where this Court had held that the method of first-cum-first serve used to allocate B 2G radio spectrum was arbitrary and illegal. The reference was on whether the ‘only permissible method for disposal of all natural resources across all sectors and in all circumstances is by the conduct of auctions’. Justice Khehar in his concurring opinion in Natural Resources Allocation (supra) held that while there is no constitutional mandate in C favour of auction under Article 14, deviation from the rule of allocation through auction must be tested on grounds of arbitrariness and fairness. In this context, it was observed as follows: “148. In our opinion, auction despite being a more preferable method of alienation/allotment of natural resources, cannot be held D to be a constitutional requirement or limitation for alienation of all natural resources and therefore, every method other than auction cannot be struck down as ultra vires the constitutional mandate. 149. Regard being had to the aforesaid precepts, we have opined that auction as a mode cannot be conferred the status of a E constitutional principle. Alienation of natural resources is a policy decision, and the means adopted for the same are thus, executive prerogatives. However, when such a policy decision is not backed by a social or welfare purpose, and precious and scarce natural resources are alienated for commercial pursuits of profit maximising private entrepreneurs, adoption of means other than F those that are competitive and maximise revenue may be arbitrary and face the wrath of Article 14 of the Constitution. Hence, rather than prescribing or proscribing a method, we believe, a judicial scrutiny of methods of disposal of natural resources should depend on the facts and circumstances of each case, in consonance with the principles which we have culled out above.