11. In to appreciate the said contention, the High Court has taken note of the decision of this Court in Kisan Shankar Kathore vs. Arun Dattatray Sawant &Ors. (2014) 14 SCC 162 wherein this Court on fi nding that there was clear non-disclosure of the bungalow belonging to the appellant’s wife in the nomination papers fi led by the appellant in that case had held the same to be a substantial lapse. Having perused the said decision we note that in the facts of the said case the husband being the candidate had a wife who was living and had owned certain properties which was to be mentioned in Form No.26 and his failure to do so had been held as a substantial lapse, by this Court. In the very decision, this Court had also taken note with regard to the non-disclosure of the electricity dues regarding which there was a dispute pending and had arrived at the conclusion that the same was not a serious lapse. This Court therefore has clarifi ed that the consideration as to whether it is a defect of substantial character would depend on the facts and circumstances of each case as to whether such a non-disclosure would amount to material lapse or not. Though the said observation was indicated as not to be treated as having general application, the position of law cannot be diff erent and it is well established that a case cannot be considered in abstract, without having reference to the facts and circumstances evolving in a case. 12. It is in that light to be noted that in the instant facts, the nomination papers for the present election were fi led on 22.03.2019. If the said date is taken as the relevant date, the legal heir certifi cate issued to the fi rst wife being on 04.05.2017 will have to be construed as being issued at an undisputed point in time. It is no doubt true that the appellant had challenged the legal heir certifi cate on 04.10.2017, which was set aside by the learned DASANGLU PUL v. LUPALUM KRI 1029 [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] Sessions Judge on 20.12.2018. From the evidence placed on record it is noted that in the petition challenging the issue of legal heir certifi cate the appellant had not set up title to the property which was owned by her late husband but had only contended that the legal heir certifi cate issued by the Judicial Magistrate, First Class was without jurisdiction. The passed by the learned Sessions Judge to set aside the same and remand the proceedings to the Court of the Deputy Commissioner through the dated 20.12.2018 will disclose that the right of the parties to the property was not decided in favour of the appellant, but having set aside the certifi cate as being without jurisdiction, had remitted the matter to the authority having jurisdiction to consider the same. 13. The proceedings were thereafter pending and ultimately a fresh legal heir certifi cate was issued by the Executive Magistrate, Lohit District on 22.03.2022.