It cannot be otherwise. As already noticed in a case of contempt of court, the contemner and the court cannot be said to be litigating parties. E 48. The Supreme Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 142 has the power to make such as is necessary for doing complete justice “between the parties in any cause or matter pending before it”. The very nature of the power must lead the Court to set limits for itself within which to exercise those powers and ordinarily it cannot disregard a statutory provision governing F a subject, except perhaps to balance the equities between the conflicting claims of the litigating parties by “ironing out the creases” in a cause or matter before it. Indeed this Court is not a court of restricted jurisdiction of only dispute-settling. It is well recognised and established that this Court has always been a law- G maker and its role travels beyond merely dispute-settling. It is a “problem-solver in the nebulous areas” but the substantive statutory provisions dealing with the subject-matter of a given case cannot be altogether ignored by this Court, while making an under Article 142. Indeed, these constitutional powers cannot, in any way, be controlled by any statutory provisions but at the same H 188 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A time these powers are not meant to be exercised when their exercise may come directly in conflict with what has been expressly provided for in a statute dealing expressly with the subject.” 12. We must, at this stage, as noticed in Union Carbide B Corporation(supra), draw a distinction between the Constitutional power exercisable by this Court under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, and the inherent power of the civil court recognised by Section 151 of the C.P.C. and the inherent power of the High Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C., which provisions empower the civil court in civil cases and the High Court in criminal cases to pass such s as may be necessary C to meet the ‘ends of justice’ or to prevent abuse of the process of court. The expression ‘ends of justice’ refers to the best interest of the public within the four corners of the law, albeit the courts are not empowered to act contrary to the procedure on the particular aspect of law provided in the C.P.C. and the Cr.P.C. Where the C.P.C. and the Cr.P.C. are D silent, the civil court or the High Court,24 respectively, can pass s in the interest of the public, for the simple reason that no legislation is capable of contemplating all possible circumstances that may arise in future litigation and consequently provide a procedure for them25. Thus, the C.P.C. and the Cr.P.C. should not be read as to limit or otherwise affect the inherent power of the civil court and the High Court, E respectively, to make such as is necessary for the ‘ends of justice’, or to prevent abuse of the process of the court.26 The Constitutional power conferred by Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India on this Court is not a replication of the inherent power vested with the civil court under the C.P.C., and the High Court under the Cr.P.C.