[Explanation 2.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the authorisation referred to in sub-section (1) shall be deemed G to have been executed,— (a) in the case of search, on the conclusion of search as recorded in the last panchnama drawn in relation to any person in whose case the warrant of authorisation has been issued; H 1156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A (b) in the case of requisition under Section 132-A, on the actual receipt of the books of account or other documents or assets by the Authorised Officer. ]” 7. In the present case, the first authorization was issued on 13.03.2001 which ultimately and finally concluded and/or culminated into Panchnama on 11.04.2001. However, in between there was one another B authorization dated 26.03.2001 with respect to one locker and the same was executed on 26.03.2001 itself and Panchnama for the same was drawn on 26.03.2001. However, Panchnama drawn with respect to authorization dated 13.03.2001 was lastly drawn on 11.04.2001. As observed and held by this Court in the case of VLS Finance Limited C (supra), the relevant date would be the date on which the Panchnama is drawn and not the date on which the authorization/s is/are are issued. It cannot be disputed that the block assessment proceedings are initiated on the basis of the entire material collected during the search/s and on the basis of the respective Panchnama/s drawn. Therefore, the date of the Panchnama last drawn can be said to be the relevant date and can D be said to be the starting point of limitation of two years for completing the block assessment proceedings. 8. If the submission on behalf of the respective assessees that the date of the last authorization is to be considered for the purpose of starting point of limitation of two years, in that case, the entire object and purpose E of Explanation 2 to Section 158BE would be frustrated. If the said submission is accepted, in that case, the question which is required to be considered is what would happen to those material collected during the search after the last Panchnama. It cannot be disputed that there may be number of searches. Thus, the view taken by the High Court that the F date of the Panchnama last drawn would be the relevant date for considering the period of limitation of two years and not the last date of authorization, we are in complete agreement with the view taken by the High Court. 9. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, all these appeals fail and the same deserve to be dismissed and are accordingly G dismissed. However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no as to costs. Ankit Gyan Appeals dismissed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Pratap Singh and Mahendra Yadav, LCRAs) H