It does not apply to him after he has retired, resigned or otherwise left the service……………….It appears to us that protection under the Section is needed as much after retirement of the public servant as before retirement. The protection aff orded by the Section would be rendered illusory if it were open to a private person harbouring a grievance to wait until the public servant ceased to hold his offi cial position, and then to lodge a complaint. The ultimate justifi cation for the protection conferred by Section 197 is the public interest in seeing that offi cial acts do not lead to needless or vexatious prosecutions. It should be left to the Government to determine from that point of view the question of expediency of prosecuting any public servant.” 40. Section 197 of the Cr PC provides that when any person who is or was a public servant, not removable from his offi ce save by or with the sanction of the Central Government or State Government is accused of any off ence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his offi cial duties, no Court shall take cognizance of such off ence, except with the previous sanction of the appropriate Government. 41. Sub-section (1) of Section 197 of the CrPC shows that sanction for prosecution is required where any person who is or was a Judge or Magistrate or a public servant not removable from his offi ce save by or with the sanction of the Government is accused of any off ence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in discharge of his offi cial duty. Article 311 of the Constitution lays down that no person, who is A. SREENIVASA REDDY v. RAKESH SHARMA AND ANR. 949 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] a member of a civil service of the Union or State or holds a civil post under the Union or State, shall be removed by an authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed. It, therefore, follows that protection of sub-section (1) of Section 197 of CrPC is available only to such public servants whose appointing authority is the Central Government or the State Government and not to every public servant. 42. The word ‘sanction’ has not been defi ned in the CrPC. The dictionary meaning of the word ‘sanction’ is as under:— “Webster's Third New Internal Dictionary: Explicit permission or recognition by one in Authority that gives validity to the act of another person or body; something that authorizes, confi rms, or countenances. The New Lexicon Webster's Dictionary: Explicit permission given by someone in Authority. The Concise Oxford Dictionary. Encouragement given to an action etc., by custom or tradition; express permission, confi rmation or ratifi cation of a law etc; authorize, countenance, or agree to (an action etc.) Stroud's Judicial Dictionary: Sanction not only means prior approval; generally it also means ratifi cation. Words and Phrases: The verb ‘sanction’ has a distinct shade of meaning from ‘authorize’ and means to assent, concur, confi rm or ratify.