It is their impact, or the eff ect, on the individual, which is the focus of the court’s inquiry. In one sense, the development of the indirect discrimination test, is a culmination, or fruition of the methods which this court adopted, in judging the discriminatory impact of any law or measure, on an individual. 111. This court in the previous sections of this , has discussed and concluded how the claim for reading a fundamental right to marry, into the Constitution, cannot be granted. However, the court cannot be oblivious of the various intersections which the existing law and regulations impact to queer couples. 112. The constitution exists, and speaks for all, not the many or some. The felt indignities of persons belonging to the LGBTQIA+ community need no proof, of the forensic kind; it does have to meet a quantifi able threshold, this court has outlined them in Navtej Johar (supra). The refusal to acknowledge choice, by society, is because it is statedly based on long tradition (dating back to the times when the constitution did not exist). In such cases, the issue is does the state’s silence come in the way of this court recognizing whether the petitioners have been denied the right to choose their partner? 113. It is important to recognize, that while the state ipso facto may have no role in the choice of two free willed individuals to marry, its characterizing marriage for various collateral and intersectional purposes, as a permanent and binding legal relationship, recognized as such between heterosexual couples only (and no others) impacts queer couples adversely. The intention of the state, in framing the regulations or laws, is to confer on benefi ts to families, or individuals, who are married. This has the result of adversely impacting to exclude queer couples. By recognizing heterosexual couples’ unions and cohabitation as marriages in various laws and regulations such as: in employment (nominations in pension, provident fund, gratuity, SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1489 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] life and personal accident insurance policies); for credit (particularly joint loans to both spouses, based on their total earning capacity); for purposes of receiving compensation in the event of fatal accidents, to name some such instances, and not providing for non-heterosexual couples such recognition, results in their exclusion. 114. The individual earned benefits (by each partner or both collectively), which would be available to family members (such as employee state insurance benefi ts, in the event of injury of the earning partner, provident fund, compensation, medical benefi ts, insurance benefi ts, in the event of death of such earning partner) are examples of what the injured or deceased partner by dint of her or his work, becomes entitled to, or the members of her family become entitled to. The denial of these benefi ts and inability of the earning partner in a queer relationship, therefore has an adverse discriminatory impact. The state may not intend the discrimination, or exclusion in the conferment of such benefi ts or social welfare measures.