In other words, it is not a case where there was any coercion or other vitiating element which drove the partners to invoke clause (3). He would refer to the of this Court in Ssangyong Engineering & Construction Company Limited v. D National Highway Authority of India (NHAI)1, Therein, he emphasised the following statement: “40. The change made in Section 28(3) by the Amendment Act really follows what is stated in paras 42.3 to 45 in Associate Builders [Associate Builders v. DDA, (2015) 3 SCC 49 : (2015) 2 E SCC (Civ) 204] , namely, that the construction of the terms of a contract is primarily for an arbitrator to decide, unless the arbitrator construes the contract in a manner that no fair-minded or reasonable person would; in short, that the arbitrator’s view is not even a possible view to take. Also, if the arbitrator wanders outside the contract and deals with matters not allotted to him, he commits F an error of jurisdiction. This ground of challenge will now fall within the new ground added under Section 34(2-A).” 15. Next, he drew our attention to the of this Court in Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd. and Another Versus Ramesh Kumar and Company and Others2. G “12. In the present case, the High Court was required to determine as to whether the District Judge had acted contrary to the provisions of Section 34 of the 1996 Act in rejecting the challenge 1 (2019) 15 SCC 131 2 2021 SCC ONLINE SC 1056 H INDIAN OIL CORP. LTD. AND ORS. v. M/S. 695 SATHYANARAYANA SERVICE STATION [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] to the arbitral award. Apart from its failure to do so, the High A Court went one step further while reversing the of the District Judge in decreeing the claim in its entirety. This exercise was clearly impermissible. The arbitrator was entitled to draw relevant findings of fact on the basis of the evidence which was adduced by the parties. This was exactly what was done in the B arbitral award. The award of the arbitrator was challenged unsuccessfully by the respondents under Section 34 of the 1996 Act. In this backdrop, there was no basis in law for the High Court to interfere with the of the District Judge and, as we have noted earlier, to even go a step further by decreeing the claim.” C 16. He also submitted that the purport of clause (3) of the agreement was to give a benefit to the party to whom the communication is sent terminating the contract. A construction of the contract by the Arbitrator is not open to interference on the score that the court finds the same incorrect. Yet this is precisely what has been done in the D impugned . He would point out that, in fact, the new dealer is the wife of a Martyr being the widow of a slain soldier. 17. Shri Shailash Madiyal, learned counsel sought to counter the appellants in the following manner: He would submit that actually, clause (3) of the agreement in question clearly contemplated that the dealership E was to remain sacrosanct for a period of 15 years.