[Paras 11, 12][352-G-H; 353-A] 2. This Court was of the view that the grievance which has been portrayed in this proceeding can be addressed at two levels. Firstly, this Court would permit the Bar Associations representing E the collective voice of the lawyers in the DRTs/DRATs to submit their representations to the Department of Financial Services if any specific difficulties are encountered in the process of e-filing. The representations should focus on concrete suggestions which have to be implemented to facilitate to e-filing. In other words, F this court clarified that by permitting an opportunity to file representations, this Court was not questioning the need for mandatory adoption of e-filing. The purpose is to ensure that any glitches that may arise are attended to effectively. Simultaneously, this Court also directed all the Chairpersons of the DRATs and the Presiding Officers of the DRTs to submit reports to the G Department of Financial Services on a monthly basis initially for a period of six months, pointing out the experience with e-filing and suggesting, if any upgradation of the facilities or the software is necessary. The National Informatics Centre, which has put into H M P HIGH COURT BAR ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA & 349 ORS place the e-filing facilities for the DRTs/DRATs, has also been A facilitating the same exercise in the judicial system. NIC is equipped with a robust team of officials. The Director General of NIC shall constitute a team to monitor the progress of e-filing in the DRTs/DRATs so that any difficulties which are encountered can be suitably addressed on a real time basis. The e-filing module B must be upgraded with periodical developments. The second aspect which needs to be borne in mind relates to the help desks which have been set up at the DRTs/DRATs. [Paras 14, 15, 16][353-D-H; 354-A] 3. This Court recommended to the Union Government that C in addition to setting up held desks, it would be appropriate if e- sewakendras are set up at all the centres of the DRTs or, as the case may be, DRATs to facilitate e-filing of cases and provide a one-step solution which encompasses all the e-services at the DRTs/DRATs. The e-sewakendras should have adequate equipment in the form of computers and scanners, together with D robust internet connectivity so as to facilitate the process of e- filing. In this context, a Standard Operating Proceduremust be prepared by the Department of Financial Services in consultation with NIC, setting out the facilities at every e-sewakendras. This would be in line with the mission of the e-Committee of the E Supreme Court of India for providing e-sewakendrasat court establishments across the country. The setting up of e- sewakendras would provide access to justice to lawyers and litigants. The Department of Financial Services would be at liberty to review the set up periodically and to take appropriate decisions in that regard. [Para 18][354-C-E] F CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition (Civil) No. 155 of 2023. (UNDER ARTICLE 32 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA) Siddharth R. Gupta, Mrs. Sunita Gupta, Ms. Sakshi Banga, G Mrigank Prabhakar, Advs.