[Paras 47, 48] Electricity Rules, 2005 – r.3 – A company set up as a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for generating electricity if an “association of persons”, in terms of the second proviso to r.3(1)(a) of the Rules and meet the proportionality requirement specifi ed therein: Held: Reasoning given in Kadodara Power agreed with – r.3(1)(b) of the Rules liberalises, gives fl exibility and an option when a generating station owned by company, incorporated as a SPV, has multiple generating units – r.3(1)(b) does not undo or override the eligibility criteria specifi ed under r.3(1)(a) read with second proviso – An association of companies or body corporates are required to comply with r.3(1)(a) read with the second proviso to r.3(1)(a) – Equally, an association of companies, body corporates, or other persons that set up a SPV which owns, maintains, and operates a CGP is required to comply with r.3(1)(a) read with the second proviso to r.3(1)(a) – A SPV in this regard may be company, but it also is also an association of persons in terms of the second proviso to r.3(1)(a) – Thus, SPVs which own, operate and maintain CGPs are an “association of persons” in terms of the second proviso to r.3(1)(a) of the Rules – Companies, body corporates and other persons, who are shareholders and captive users of a CGP set up by a SPV, are required to M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 349 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. comply with r.3(1)(a) of the Rules read with the second proviso of the Rules. [Paras 51, 64, 66] Words and Phrases – “association of persons” – Electricity Act, 2003 – Electricity Rules, 2005: Held: The connotation of the expression, “association of persons”, may vary in diff erent statutes based on the particular context in which an association of persons is used in that statute – It needs to be examined whether such association of persons is pursuing a common action to achieve a benefi t under the said statute – In the context of the Act and Rules, companies or body corporates may come together and set up another company as a SPV, with a common purpose to achieve the common benefi t of becoming captive user(s) under the Act and Rules, thereby enjoy the advantages provided to captive users such as waiver of paying cross subsidy or additional surcharge, as applicable – The term, “association of persons”, has not been specifi cally defi ned in the Act – Conversely, the expression, “association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not”, used in the defi nition of “person” under s.2(49) of the Act widens the scope of a “person” to include both juridical and non-juridical persons. [Paras 55, 56, 60] LIST OF CITATIONS AND OTHER REFERENCES Kadodara Power Pvt. Ltd. and Others v. Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission and Another 2009 SCC OnLine APTEL 119 – approved. SESA Sterilite Limited v. Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission and Others (2014) 8 SCC 444: [2014] 13 SCR 426 – distinguished.