The immunity from liability, therefore, comes into play only if a speech has been made or vote has been given. The immunity would not be available in a case where a speech has not been made or a vote has not been given. When there is a prior agreement whereunder a Member of Parliament has received an illegal consideration in to exercise his right to speak or to give his vote in a particular manner on a matter coming up for consideration before the House, there can be two possible situations. There may be an agreement whereunder a Member accepts illegal gratifi cation and agrees not to speak in Parliament or not to give his vote in Parliament. The immunity granted under Article 105(2) would not be available to such a Member and he would be liable to be prosecuted on the charge of bribery in a criminal court. What would be the position if the agreement is that in lieu of the illegal gratifi cation paid or promised the Member would speak or give his vote in Parliament in a particular manner and he speaks and gives his vote in that manner? As per the wide meaning suggested by Shri Rao for the expression “in respect of”, the immunity for prosecution would be available to the Member who has received illegal gratifi cation under such an agreement for speaking or giving his vote and who has spoken or given his vote in Parliament as per the said agreement because such acceptance of illegal gratifi cation has a nexus or connection with such speaking or giving of vote by that Member. If the construction placed by Shri Rao on the expression “in respect of” is adopted, a Member would be liable to be prosecuted on a charge of bribery if he accepts bribe for not speaking or for not giving his vote on a matter under consideration before the House but he would enjoy immunity from prosecution for such a charge if he accepts bribe for speaking or giving his vote in Parliament in a particular manner 762 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. and he speaks or gives his vote in Parliament in that manner. It is diffi cult to conceive that the framers of the Constitution intended to make such a distinction in the matter of grant of immunity between a Member of Parliament who receives bribe for speaking or giving his vote in Parliament in a particular manner and speaks or gives his vote in that manner and a Member of Parliament who receives bribe for not speaking or not giving his vote on a particular matter coming up before the House and does not speak or give his vote as per the agreement so as to confer an immunity from prosecution on charge of bribery on the former but denying such immunity to the latter. Such an anomalous situation would be avoided if the words “in respect of” in Article 105(2) are construed to mean “arising out of”.