This approach is particularly needed while deciding the issues relating to gender justice. We already have examples of exemplary eff orts in this regard. Journey from Shah Bano [Mohd. Ahmed Khan v. Shah Bano Begum, (1985) 2 SCC 556 : 1985 SCC (Cri) 245 : AIR 1985 SC 945] to Shabana Bano [Shabana Bano v. Imran Khan, (2010) 1 SCC 666 : (2010) 1 SCC (Civ) 216 : (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 873 : AIR 2010 SC 305] guaranteeing maintenance rights to Muslim women is a classical example.” (Emphasis supplied) 10. On the question of burden in a petition for divorce, burden of proof lies on the petitioner. However, the degree of probability is not one beyond reasonable doubt, but of preponderance. SMT. ROOPA SONI v. KAMALNARAYAN SONI 881 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] 11. In Dr. N.G. Dastane v. Mrs. S. Dastane, (1975) 2 SCC 326, it was held: “25. Proof beyond reasonable doubt is proof by a higher standard which generally governs criminal trials or trials involving inquiry into issues of a quasi-criminal nature. A criminal trial involves the liberty of the subject which may not be taken away on a mere preponderance of probabilities. If the probabilities are so nicely balanced that a reasonable, not a vacillating, mind cannot fi nd where the preponderance lies, a doubt arises regarding the existence of the fact to be proved and the benefi t of such reasonable doubt goes to the accused. It is wrong to import such considerations in trials of a purely civil nature. 26. Neither Section 10 of the Act which enumerates the grounds on which a petition for judicial separation may be presented nor Section 23 which governs the jurisdiction of the court to pass a decree in any proceeding under the Act requires that the petitioner must prove his case beyond a reasonable doubt. Section 23 confers on the court the power to pass a decree if it is “satisfi ed” on matters mentioned in clauses (a) to (e) of the section. Considering that proceedings under the Act are essentially of a civil nature, the word “satisfi ed” must mean “satisfi ed on a preponderance of probabilities” and not “satisfi ed beyond a reasonable doubt”. Section 23 does not alter the standard of proof in civil cases. 27. The misconception regarding the standard of proof in matrimonial cases arises perhaps from a loose description of the respondent›s conduct in such cases as constituting a “matrimonial off ence”. Acts of a spouse which are calculated to impair the integrity of a marital union have a social signifi cance. To marry or not to marry and if so whom, may well be a private aff air but the freedom to break a matrimonial tie is not. The society has a stake in the institution of marriage and therefore the erring spouse is treated not as a mere defaulter but as an off ender. But this social philosophy, though it may have a bearing on the need to have the clearest proof of an allegation before it is accepted as a ground for the dissolution of a marriage, has no bearing on the standard of proof in matrimonial cases.” 882 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.