It will further be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court in the said case: “71. ……The provisions of Section 27 of the Evidence Act are based on the view that if a fact is actually discovered in consequence of information given, some guarantee is afforded D thereby that the information was true and consequently the said information can safely be allowed to be given in evidence because if such an information is further fortified and confirmed by the discovery of articles or the instrument of crime and which leads to the belief that the information about the confession made as to E the articles of crime cannot be false…..” 33. A perusal of paragraph 71 of the said would reveal that the Court has reiterated that the two essential requirements for the application of Section 27 of the Evidence Act are that (1) the person giving information must be an accused of any offence and (2) he must F also be in police custody. The Court held that the provisions of Section 27 of the Evidence Act are based on the view that if a fact is actually discovered in consequence of information given, some guarantee is afforded thereby that the information was true and consequently the said information can safely be allowed to be given in evidence. G 34. In the facts of the said case, the Court found that there was, in fact, a confessional statement of the disclosure made by the appellant Gurbachan Singh which was confirmed by the recovery of the incriminating articles. As such, the Court believed the disclosure statement and the evidence led in that behalf. As already stated hereinabove, in the H 354 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A present case, there is no confessional statement of Boby (accused No.3/ appellant herein) recorded with regard to recovery of the dead body of the deceased. 35. In the result, the appeal is allowed. 36. The dated 18th December 2004 passed by the trial B Court, thereby convicting the appellant under Sections 395, 365, 364, 201, 380, 302 read with Section 34 of the IPC and the impugned dated 25th August 2008, passed by the High Court affirming the same are set aside. The appellant is acquitted of all the charges charged with. The bail bonds of the accused shall stand discharged. C 37. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Bibhuti Bhushan Bose Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Shevali Monga, LCRA) D E F G H