it has been held that the amount deposited pursuant to the of this A Court cannot be adjusted in pre-deposit. That in the said case, the borrower applied for OTS and the matter reached this Court and to show the bona fides of the borrower, while considering its prayer for OTS, this Court directed to deposit certain amount. That thereafter the special leave petition came to be dismissed and in an appeal challenging B the proceedings under the SARFAESI Act, the borrower wanted to adjust and/or appropriate the amount deposited pursuant to the passed by this Court and that Court negatived the same by observing that the amount deposited pursuant to the of this Court cannot be adjusted in pre-deposit. C 8.3 Making above submissions, it is prayed that the impugned and passed by the High Court be set aside and the borrower be directed to deposit 50% of the “debt due” without adjusting and/or appropriating the amount realised by selling the secured assets. 9. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original borrowers D have supported the impugned and passed by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh and have submitted that the High Court has not committed any error in dismissing the writ petitions and confirming the s passed by the DRAT by which the DRAT after adjusting/ appropriating the amount realised by sale of the secured property held that the borrowers are not required to deposit any further amount towards E pre-deposit as the amount realised is more than 50% of the ”debt due”. Consideration: 10. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the secured creditor/assignee, the respective auction purchasers and respective borrowers. F 11. The short question which is posed for the consideration of this Court is, “whether, while calculating the amount to be deposited as pre- deposit under Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act, 50% of which amount the borrower is required to deposit as pre-deposit and whether while calculating the amount of “debt due”, the amount deposited by the auction G purchaser on purchase of the secured assets is required to be adjusted and/or appropriated towards the amount of pre-deposit to be deposited by the borrower under Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act?” Another question would be, “whether the “debt due” under Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act would include the liability + interest?” H 566 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 12. While considering the aforesaid issues/questions, Section 18, & 2(ha) of the SARFAESI Act and section 2(g) of the Recovery of Debts and Bankruptcy Act, 1993, which would have a direct bearing are required to be referred to. The said provisions read as under: 18. Appeal to Appellate Tribunal.—(1) Any person aggrieved, B by any made by the Debts Recovery Tribunal [under section 17, may prefer an appeal along with such fee, as may be prescribed] to an Appellate Tribunal within thirty days from the date of receipt of the of Debts Recovery Tribunal. [Provided that different fees may be prescribed for filing an appeal C by the borrower or by the person other than the borrower:] [Provided further that no appeal shall be entertained unless the borrower has deposited with the Appellate Tribunal fifty per cent.