It was thus argued that the assignment of receivables is only security and not transfer. It is submitted that detailed written submissions were fi led before former judge of this court by the parties and after considering every contention, the dated 03.07.2020 was made by him. That by former judge of this Court, considered all the submissions by the lender, the borrower and the Escrow Bank, and after examining the principal (and the facility agreement) and all other agreements and attendant circumstances. Under that , the lender and Escrow Bank were obliged to return the amount debited i.e. ₹112,79,18,348/-. 11. Learned senior counsel argued that the lender’s claim that the facilities extended are in the nature of lease rental discounting facility (LRD) as argued by HDFC, and not covered by the injunction is not borne out from the record. He argued that the facility is nothing but a type of term loan off ered with security of rental income. The clear indicators that the Facility is secured by charge created over the property and the receivables (rent) can be gathered from the following: fi rstly, sanction letter for the term loan and the Facility specifi cally refers to this as a loan for a term of 96 months to be repaid by IL&FS from the lease rentals from commercial premises. Secondly, the terms relating to security and repayment also establish this. In fact, none of the documents contain any element or even a mention of the sale and purchase of the debt of IL&FS. The transaction is a loan transaction and not a sale of debt at all. 12. Learned counsel refers to Clauses 3 (sets out purpose of availing facility) and 4 (Establishes nature of relationship between the parties) of the MFA to argue that purpose of availing facility was merely re-fi nancing of the existing debt and clause 4 of MFA clearly establish that nature of relationship between the parties was that of lender-borrower and not that of seller and buyer. It is also pointed out that pursuant to the execution of the fi nancing documents IL&FS submitted form CHG-one4, which is confi rmed by HDFC 4 An application for registration, or modifi cation of charge. INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES LTD 1041 v. HDFC BANK LTD. & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Ltd, i.e., the lender form for registration of creation of charge to secure the Facility. Therefore, the lender in fact fi led its claim as a secured creditor of IL&FS before Grant Thornton India, the client’s management consultant. 13. It is argued that various conditions in the MFA and the Escrow Agreement indicate that the transaction is essentially a loan transaction between the lender and the borrower with the creation of a security. Counsel points out that the documents which are part of the MFA nowhere use the expression “lease rent discounting”. It is also argued that in terms of the Assignment and Administration Agreement (also executed on 25 June 2018), receivables which are relevant with respect to the security property were created in favour of the lender bank.