In the event, an investigating authority fails to file the charge-sheet within the stipulated period, the accused is entitled to be released on statutory C bail. In such a situation, the accused continues to remain in the custody of the Magistrate till such time as cognizance is taken by the court trying the offence, when the said court assumes custody of the accused for purposes of remand during the trial in terms of Section 309 CrPC. The two stages are D different, but one follows the other so as to maintain a continuity of the custody of the accused with a court.” (Emphasis supplied) 56. It is clear from the decision of this Court in Suresh Kumar Bhikamchand Jain (supra) that filing of a chargesheet is sufficient E compliance with the provisions of Section 167 of the CrPC and that an accused cannot demand release on default bail under Section 167(2) of the CrPC on the ground that cognizance has not been taken before the expiry of the statutory time period. The accused continues to be in the custody of the Magistrate till such time cognizance is taken by the court F trying the offence, which assumes custody of the accused for the purpose of remand after cognizance is taken. 57. The aforesaid decision of this Court makes the position of law very clear that once the chargesheet has been filed within the stipulated time, the question of grant of statutory/default bail does not arise. Whether G cognizance has been taken or not taken is not relevant for the purpose of compliance of Section 167 of the CrPC. The mere filing of the chargesheet is sufficient. 58. The decision of Suresh Kumar Bhikamchand Jain (supra) has been referred to and relied upon by this Court in the case of Serious H 42 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Fraud Investigation Office (supra). In the said decision, the very same point fell for the consideration of the Court, whether the accused is entitled for statutory/default bail under Section 167(2) of the CrPC on the ground that cognizance had not been taken before the expiry of 60 days or 90 days from the date of remand? B 59. However, one another issue that fell for the consideration of this Court, in Serious Fraud Investigation Office (supra) was whether Suresh Kumar Bhikamchand Jain (supra) had taken a different view than in the case of Sanjay Dutt (supra), Mohamed Iqbal Madar Sheikh and others v. State of Maharashtrareported in (1996) 1 SCC 722 and M. Ravindran v. Intelligence Officer, Directorate of Revenue C Intelligence reported in (2021) 2 SCC 485. This Court explained in details as to why nothing contrary to Sanjay Dutt (supra), Iqbal Madar (supra) and M. Ravindran (supra) had been decided in Suresh Kumar Bhikamchand Jain (supra). We quote the relevant observations: “12. The point that requires to be considered is whether this D Court has taken a different view in Sanjay Dutt (supra), Madar Sheikh (supra) and M. Ravindran (supra).