A of investigation by the SFIO. The 2nd kind of report is an ‘Investigation Report” which can be issued only after completion of the investigation by the SFIO. Only the Investigation Report’ can be considered by the Central Government under Section 212(14) for the purposes of commencement of prosecution. On the other hand, an action before the NCLT under Section 212(14A) B can be brought on based on either the Investigation Report or even the Interim Report; ix) It is further clear that the Central Government, under Section 212(14) is required to apply its mind, seek legal opinion (if required) and only thereafter decide whether or not a sanction is to C be issued, i.e., if in its opinion prosecution is to be initiated based on the “Investigation Report’. Further, only such ‘Investigation Report’, which is considered by the Central Government for the initiation of prosecution under Section 212(14), is to be the police officer’s report under Section 173, CrPC; D x) It is submitted that in the present case, SFIO’s 2nd Interim Report is an “Interim report” and was not issued upon “completion of the investigation”. As such, the 2 Interim Report is not an “investigation report” under Section 212(12) of the Act and could not have been considered by the Central Government under Section E 212(14) for the purposes of issuing the Sanction ; xi) The present case is not a case of invalidity/irregularity of sanction but a case of no sanction at all, since the pre-requisite to the sanction, i.e., a final investigation report, is absent; xii) As is evident from above, where an investigation report itself F states that the investigation is incomplete or that further evidence is yet to be collected, then such an investigation report does not meet the obligatory requirements of law and cannot be considered a final investigation report under Section 173(2) of the CrPC. Reliance is placed on the following decisions in the cases of P.M.C Mercantile Private Ltd. v. The State 2014(3) MWN (Cr.) 454 G (Para 11 and 19); Pravin Chandra Modi v. The State of Andhra Pradesh, Crl. App. No. 49, 1964; Hari Chand & Ram Pal v. State Crl. Misc. (M) 99 & 111 of 1977 ( Para 14). Accordingly, given the language of paras 1.5 and 4.126.1 of the 2nd Interim SFIO Report, that report could never be treated as an H investigation report under Section 212(12); UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 1001 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] xiii) Even while examining the 2nd Interim Report, the MCA was A of the view that the 2nd Interim Report was not a complete investigation report with respect to IFIN. Accordingly, the Ministry had directed the SFIO to carry out further investigation on aspects which were already covered in the 2nd Interim Report; xiv) Further, the Ministry and the SFIO, despite being afforded B ample opportunity, did not place on record any affidavit or argument to explain Para V of the Sanction or that the investigation was complete and that the 2nd Interim Report was not treated by the Ministry as an interim report.