There is nothing ‘secretive’ about this information to attract the ground of confidentiality. Additionally, it cannot be argued that the purpose of national security will be served by non-disclosure merely by alleging that MBL is involved with JEI-H which is an organisation with alleged terrorist links. While we have held above that it would be impractical D and unwise for the courts to define the phrase national security, we also hold that national security claims cannot be made out of thin air. There must be material backing such an inference. The material on the file and the inference drawn from such material have no nexus. The non-disclosure of this information would not be in the interest of any facet of public E interest, much less national security. On a perusal of the material, no reasonable person would arrive at the conclusion that the non-disclosure of the relevant material would be in the interest of national security and confidentiality. G.2 (b) Suitability F 100. We proceed to apply the subsequent prongs of the proportionality standard, even assuming that the action taken is in the interest of confidentiality and national security. The second prong of the proportionality analysis requires the State to assess whether the means used are rationally connected to the purpose. At this stage, the court is required to assess whether the means, if realised, would increase the G likelihood of protecting the interests of national security and confidentiality. It is not necessary that the means chosen should be the only means capable of realising the purpose of the state action. This stage of the analysis does not prescribe an efficiency standard. It is sufficient if the means used constitute one of the many methods by which the purpose H 670 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A can be realised, even if it only partially gives effect to the purpose.74 The Canadian Supreme Court in the case of Oakes (supra) emphasised that the means adopted must not be “arbitrary, unfair, or based on irrational connection”. The requirements under this prong will not be fulfilled if the State uses constitutionally impermissible means. Though it is not necessary that the means opted should be the ‘best possible means’, the B means must still pass the muster of the constitution. 101. The Ministry of Home Affairs disclosed the relevant material solely to the court in a sealed cover. By this method of disclosure, information that is claimed to be confidential and in the interests of national security is sought to be protected by not disclosing it to the public and the C claimant. The means that are used may not necessarily be the best possible means to protect the interest involved because the sealed cover procedure permits partial disclosure as opposed to complete non-disclosure. However, it still shares a rational connection to the purpose that is sought to be achieved. D 102. On the other hand, the non-disclosure of even a summary of reasons for denying security clearance does not share a rational connection with the purpose identified.