For ease of analysis, the relevant provisions of the 1317 Fasli Act are reproduced below:– “54. Procedure for acquiring unoccupied land: (1) When any person is desirous of taking unoccupied land he shall before occupying the land submit a petition to the Tahsildar and obtain his permission in writing. YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 621 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] (2) On such petition being submitted, the Tahsildar may, in accordance with the rules made by the Government in this behalf from time to time, give permission in writing for occupation. 58. Occupancy right is heritable and transferable: An occupancy right to land shall be deemed to be heritable and transferable. 58-A. Sanction of Collector for transfer of occupied land compulsory in certain cases: (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding section the Government may by Offi cial Gazette notify in respect of any village or tract of the area to which this Act extends that the right of occupation of any land under section 54 given after the date of the notifi cation shall not be transferable without obtaining the previous sanction of the Collector. (2) The Government may also at its discretion from time to time notify by Offi cial Gazette, that any part or person or class of persons of such village or tract of the area to which this Act extends to which the provisions of sub-section (1) have been made applicable shall be exempt from the said provisions.” Similarly, we may also refer to the relevant rules regarding ‘Special Laoni’ as mentioned in the Laoni Rules of 1950 which are as follows:– “ Special Laoni 15. No lands in the special area notifi ed under Section 58-Aof A.P. (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, shall be assigned except in accordance the the following rules:- (a) The object of the special laoni is to make land available in certain areas to such landless persons of agricultural and backward classes as may be notifi ed from time to time, and who have not suffi cient means to purchase land either at the ordinary laoni auctions or otherwise. The selection of the most deserving applicant should be made by Tahsildar after due publicity in the village or at the place fi xed for the allotment proceedings. 622 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. (b) Special laoni, proceedings may ordinarily take place twice a year in the months of April and September, and may also take place at other times when the Tahsildar is visiting the locality. 16. In making selection for special laoni preference shall be given to persons who reside in the village, but do not possess any patta or shikmi rights in any land in the village or elsewhere or who have insuffi cient land but possess bullocks and agricultural implements. Persons who are already cultivating lands are “asamis” or “bataidars” shall be given preference over other labourers. x-x-x-x 19. The allottee of the land shall prepare the land for cultivation within three years of being placed in possession and commerce cultivation of the land thereafter.