19. Learned counsel submitted that in S Mahaboob Basha v State of Karnataka, (2014) 10 SCC 244, where at Paragraph 8 it had been held that in a case concerning cruelty meted out to the wife, to bring home the guilt of the accused, it was not essential to examine the E independent witnesses, as such ill-treatment and cruelty are committed in closed doors, where hardly any witness can be expected, much less an independent witness. 20. Turning to Rupali Devi v State of Uttar Pradesh, (2019) 5 SCC 384 [a 3-Judge Bench decision, where one of us, Sanjay Kishan F Kaul, J. also constituted the coram], reliance was placed on Paragraph 16, where this Court was pleased to hold: “16. We, therefore, hold that the courts at the place where the wife takes shelter after leaving or driven away from the matrimonial home on ac- count of acts of cruelty committed G by the husband or his relatives, would, dependent on the factual situation, also have jurisdiction to entertain a complaint alleging commission of offences under Section 498- A of the Penal Code.” ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: H 1158 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 21. Having considered the matter in detail, this Court finds that the FIR in question, as far as the Appellants are concerned, is an abuse of the process of the court. From a plain but careful reading of the material brought on record, including the statements of Respondent No.2 under Sections 161 and 164 of the Code and also of other witnesses, the allegations insofar as they relate to the Appellants seem far-fetched and B do not inspire confidence. The facts in totality evince that Respondent No.2 resided for less than three weeks in the matrimonial home from the date the marriage was solemnised, then lived with her husband at Hyderabad for quite some time and, finally moved to London and then Sweden. Subsequently, Respondent No.2 upon returning to India, filed C the criminal case in question. We think the same is a retaliatory tactic, inasmuch as the Appellants herein are concerned. 22. At this juncture, it would be relevant to note that once in Sweden, where the Respondent No.2 was living with her husband, a divorce petition had been filed, there was no occasion per se, for Respondent No.2 after D coming from Sweden to visit the matrimonial home, much less reside there. 23. Moreover, the husband of Respondent No.2 having e- mailed a complaint, 3 days prior to the wife lodging her complaint, to the Superintendent of Police, Gwalior, with regard to threat having been E received from Respondent No.2 to implicate the husband and his family members, is clearly indicative that the charges, at least, as against the instant appellants are an afterthought. While the principles in the precedents cited by the Respondent No.2 hold the field, what is relevant is to see whether they come to her aid in the present factual scenario. The answer is in the negative.