v. Yeshaswinee Merchant [(2003) 6 SCC 277, p. 311, para 72 : 2003 SCC (L&S) 840] , taking a somewhat different view can, perhaps, be F explained by the fact that in the said case the impugned directions contained in the government letter (not expressed in the name of the President) was in exercise of the statutory power under Section 34 of the Air Corporations Act, 1953. In the present case, the impugned guidelines G have not been issued under any existing statute.” (emphasis supplied) In the present case, the notification dated 2 August 2019 was issued in exercise of the statutory powers under the Administrative Tribunals Act. H 39 (2014) 10 SCC 673 ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 799 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 110. For the reasons discussed in this segment, the notification A dated 2 August 2019 is valid despite not being expressed in the name of the President of India. viii. The abolition of the OAT is not violative of the funda- mental right of access to justice B 111. The appellants have urged that the abolition of the OAT has made the court system less accessible to litigants and that it is therefore violative of the fundamental right of access to justice. They have relied on the decision in Anita Kushwaha v. Pushap Sudan40, where a Con- stitution Bench of this Court discussed the components of access to justice: C “33. Four main facets that, in our opinion, constitute the essence of access to justice are: (i) the State must provide an effective adjudicatory mechanism; (ii) the mechanism so provided must be reasonably accessible in D terms of distance; (iii) the process of adjudication must be speedy; and (iv) the litigant’s access to the adjudicatory process must be affordable.” E The appellants contend that the abolition of the OAT breaches the second and fourth facets of the right of access to justice. They argue that the OAT has two regular benches and two circuit benches but the Orissa High Court has one seat in Cuttack, thereby making the adjudicatory mechanism less accessible in terms of distance. They urge that the distance also makes the adjudicatory process less affordable F because of the cost of travelling to Cuttack from different parts of the state. 112. The fundamental right of access to justice is no doubt a crucial and indispensable right under the Constitution of India. However, it cannot be interpreted to mean that every village, town, or city must house every G forum of adjudication created by statute or the Constitution. It is an undeniable fact that some courts and forums will be located in some towns and cities and not others. Some or the other litigants will be required to travel some distance to access a particular forum or court. 40 (2016) 8 SCC 509 H 800 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 113. To reiterate the ruling in Anita Kushwaha (supra), adjudicatory mechanisms must be reasonably accessible in terms of distance.