11 Naresh Kumar. It is submitted that, in any case, the prosecution has suppressed the information received from accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar. It is further submitted that it is improbable G that accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar, after receiving such grievous injuries, could have taken part in the assault against the deceased and PWs 2, 9 and 13. 11. Shri Sodhi, on the contrary, submits that all the three eye witnesses have clearly implicated all the appellants. It is submitted that PWs 2 and 9 have specifically implicated the present appellants. It is H NAND LAL AND OTHERS v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 283 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] submitted that all the three witnesses are rustic villagers. Therefore, A merely because there are some discrepancies in their evidence cannot be a ground to reject their testimonies. He further submits that merely because the witnesses are interested witnesses cannot be a ground to discard their testimonies, if their evidence is found to be trustworthy, reliable and cogent. Shri Sodhi submits that, in any case, the witnesses B are injured witnesses and as such, their presence at the spot cannot be disputed. It is further submitted that merely because there is some delay in lodging the FIR, it cannot be a ground to discard the prosecution case, which has been proved beyond reasonable doubt. 12. Shri Sodhi, relying on various s of this Court, submits C that for a conviction under Section 302 of the IPC with the aid of Section 149 of the IPC, what is relevant is whether the accused was a member of unlawful assembly, and not whether he actually took active part in the crime or not. He further submits that mere non-explanation of injuries on the person of the accused would not be fatal to the prosecution case. D 13. With the assistance of learned counsel for the parties, we have examined the material placed on record. 14. From the medical evidence, it cannot be disputed that the death of deceased Kartikram is homicidal. The injuries on PWs 2 and 9 are also not seriously disputed by the appellants. E 15. From the evidence of prosecution witnesses, it can be seen that the incident has taken place in two parts. The first part is with regard to the assault on Atmaram (PW-1) by accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar, whereas the second part is with regard to the assault by the accused persons on the deceased and PWs 2, 9 and 13. Atmaram (PW- 1), in his evidence, states that on 3rd November 2006, when he was at F his house, accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar came to his home and started abusing him. PW-1 stated that accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar was under the influence of liquor. Accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar told PW-1 that he had gone to his house to make a complaint and he had extorted an amount of Rs.5,000/- from him after plying him with alcohol. Thereafter, G accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar started assaulting PW-1 with the lathi in his hand.