38. In the aforesaid context, we may refer to and rely upon a decision of this Court in the case of State of Bihar and Another v. Teachers’ Association of Govt. Engineering College and Others, reported in (2000) 10 SCC 527 wherein, the respondents were teachers of three engineering colleges owned by the State of Bihar. They were recruited through the Bihar Public Service Commission. Their service conditions were governed by the Bihar Service Code. Under the relevant provisions of the Bihar Service Code, the age of superannuation up to 1989, was 58 years. However, with eff ect from 01.10.1989 it was raised to 60 years. They claimed that their age of retirement should be the same as the age of retirement of Bihar Engineering College which was a college of the Patna University. Its teachers were recruited through the University Service Commission. Their service conditions were governed under the Patna University Act. At the relevant time, the age of retirement for university teachers was 62 years. However, with eff ect from 15.08.1992 the age of retirement was reduced to 60 years. CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 767 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] The respondent’s claim was upheld by the High Court. Allowing the State’s appeal, this Court held: “5. The respondents contend that their age of retirement should be the same as the age of retirement of university teachers employed in Bihar Engineering College, Patna. But the terms and conditions of service of teachers in the three engineering colleges of the State are diff erent from the terms and conditions of service of the university teachers employed in Bihar Engineering College at Patna. The authority responsible for recruitment is also diff erent. The method of recruitment is diff erent and service conditions are prescribed under diff erent rules and regulations and/or under a separate Act. We fail to see how in respect of the teachers who are government servants, governed by the Bihar Service Code, the age of superannuation should be diff erent from the age of superannuation for all other government servants governed by the Bihar Service Code. The High Court ought not to have equated the service conditions in the three State colleges with the service conditions in a University college. Application of Article 14, in these circumstances, is misconceived, when there are valid criteria for diff erentiating between the service conditions in the two sets of colleges. In the premises the impugned of the High Court insofar as it directs that the age of superannuation of teachers working in the three engineering colleges other than Bihar College of Engineering, Patna should be brought on par with the age of superannuation of those working in Bihar College of Engineering at Patna, is set aside. The further direction to pay arrears or give benefi ts fl owing from the extended age of superannuation is also set aside. The appeals are allowed accordingly.” 39. The only idea with which we have referred to and relied upon the aforesaid decision is to convey that the case on hand is not one of discrimination.