The process and powers of the court may be utilised to ensure that such F material is made available to it to form a just sentencing decision bearing on the probability of reform. 80. In Mofil Khan,a three judge bench of this Court was also dealing with a review petition which was re-opened in view of the decision in Mohd. Arif v Registrar, Supreme Court of India. While commuting G the death sentence to life imprisonment, the Court reiterated the importance of looking at the possibility of reformation and rehabilitation. Notably, it pointed out that it was the Court’s duty to look into possible mitigating circumstances even if the accused was silent. The Court held that: H 1062 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 9. It would be profitable to refer to a of this Court in Mohd. Mannan v. State of Bihar in which it was held that before imposing the extreme penalty of death sentence, the Court should satisfy itself that death sentence is imperative, as otherwise the convict would be a threat to the society, and that there is no possibility of reform or rehabilitation of the convict, after giving B the convict an effective, meaningful, real opportunity of hearing on the question of sentence, by producing material. The hearing of sentence should be effective and even if the accused remains silent, the Court would be obliged and duty-bound to elicit relevant factors. C 10. It is well-settled law that the possibility of reformation and rehabilitation of the convict is an important factor which has to be taken into account as a mitigating circumstance before sentencing him to death. There is a bounden duty cast on the Courts to elicit information of all the relevant D factors and consider those regarding the possibility of reformation, even if the accused remains silent. A scrutiny of the s of the trial court, the High Court and this Court would indicate that the sentence of death is imposed by taking into account the brutality of the crime. There is no reference to E the possibility of reformation of the Petitioners, nor has the State procured any evidence to prove that there is no such possibility with respect to the Petitioners. We have examined the socio- economic background of the Petitioners, the absence of any criminal antecedents, affidavits filed by their family and community members with whom they continue to share emotional ties and F the certificate issued by the Jail Superintendent on their conduct during their long incarceration of 14 years. Considering all of the above, it cannot be said that there is no possibility of reformation of the Petitioners, foreclosing the alternative option of a lesser sentence and making the imposition of death sentence imperative. G (emphasis supplied) 81. The duty of the court to enquire into mitigating circumstances as well as to foreclose the possibility of reformation and rehabilitation before imposing the death penalty has been highlighted in multiple s of this Court. Despite this, in the present case, no such enquiry H SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1063 POLICE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] was conducted and the grievous nature of the crime was the only factor A that was considered while awarding the death penalty.