three months. The total fi ne of Rs.25,000/-, if recovered, shall be given to the family of the deceased Pappu as compensation under Section 357 Cr.P.C. Further the convict is sentenced to Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of Five years and fi ne of Rs. 2,000/- for the off ence under Section 392 read with Section 394 Indian Penal Code. In default of payment of fi ne the convict shall further undergo Simple Imprisonment for a period of one week.” 12. The appellant convict being aggrieved by the of conviction and on sentence passed by the Trial Court went in appeal before the High Court of Delhi. The High Court upon re-appreciation of the entire evidence on record, dismissed the appeal and thereby affi rmed the of conviction and on sentence passed by the Trial Court. 13. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellant is here before this Court with the present appeal. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 14. Mr. Jayesh Gaurav, the learned counsel appearing for the appellant convict vehemently submitted that the Courts below committed a serious error in holding that the prosecution was successful in establishing its case against the appellant convict beyond reasonable doubt. He submitted that the conviction of the appellant convict is essentially based on the evidence of the PW 1 – Sushil Kumar. According to the learned counsel, there is no other evidence on record to connect the appellant convict with the alleged crime. 15. The learned counsel laid much stress on the fact that the case of the prosecution is one of robbery and murder. The time of the alleged incident is early in the morning at 3.30. He argued that although the incident occurred at a vegetable market, yet there were no suffi cient lights in that area to enable the assailants to easily identify or to put it in other words, the PW 1 as an injured eye witness must not have had the occasion to even have a bare glimpse of the appellant. 16. It was argued that the investigating offi cer had arranged a TIP but the appellant convict had declined to participate in the same as he had already been shown to the witnesses in the police station. He further submitted that the PW 4, namely, Pradeep Kumar also claims to be an eye witness to the MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 903 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] incident. However, both the Trial Court and the High Court disbelieved his oral evidence as his presence at the place of occurrence was found to be doubtful. Therefore, according to the learned counsel, the entire case hinges on the evidence of a solitary eye witness i.e. PW 1 Sushil Kumar. He argued that PW 1 Sushil Kumar identifi ed the appellant convict herein and other three co-accused for the fi rst time before the Trial Court. This identifi cation for the fi rst time before the Trial Court could not have been relied upon being a weak piece of evidence to hold the appellant convict guilty of the off ences charged with.