A like the Director of Enforcement, the Director of CBI and the Director General of Police should be for a fixed period of two years in to insulate such an officer from extraneous pressures and enable him to work independently and freely. It is submitted that the very provision which permits the authority to grant extension is contradictory to the requirement of insulation. An incumbent if he performs as per the wishes B of the authority, he would get an extension. Per contra, if the incumbent in the office does not perform as per the wishes of the authority, he would be denied an extension. It is submitted that as such, the very independence of such an officer would be taken away. It is, therefore, submitted that the insulation provided to the said offices from extraneous C pressures is taken away. The learned counsel, therefore, submits that both the Amendments need to be quashed and set aside. So also, the extension granted to the respondent No.2 needs to be set aside. 22. Mr. Sharangowda, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner in Writ Petition (Civil) no. 274 of 2022 submits that the vigilance D clearance is also required at the stage of extension. He submits that in the present case no such vigilance clearance has been done and as such, the extension granted is not permissible in law. 23. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original petitioner in Writ Petition (Civil) No.1374 of 2020 submits that M.A. No.1756 of 2022 filed by the Union of India for modification of the and E passed by this Court dated 8th September 2021 is not permissible in law. He submits that by way of present M.A. for modification, the applicants are, in effect, seeking review of the of this court. 24. Relying on the of the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Beghar Foundation through its Secretary and F another v. Justice K.S. Puttaswamy (Retired) and others7, he submits that the Change in Law cannot be a ground for review. 25. Mr. K.V. Viswanathan, learned Amicus, submitted that this Court in the case of Vineet Narain (supra)has approved the recommendations of the Independent Review Committee. He submits G that the said Independent Review Committee was tasked, inter alia, to examine the structure and working of the CBI and the ED and suggest the changes needed to ensure against extraneous pressures, arbitrary withdrawals or transfers of personnel etc. He submits that insofar as 7 (2021) 3 SCC 1 H DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 543 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] the ED is concerned, the Director of Enforcement was to be selected A from a panel of persons who were having a minimum tenure of 2 years. 26. The learned Amicus submits that the amendment to the CVC Act, the DSPE Act, and the FR are totally contrary to the spirit of the long line of s delivered by this Court. It is submitted that this Court has held that the tenure of the Director of CBI as well as the B Director of Enforcement should be a fixed one so that the person holding such an office can act independently, impartially and without any extraneous pressures.