OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 219 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] and thereby the lands in question shall not be used for the public purpose A for which they are acquired. It is contended that as observed and held by this Court in the case of Board of Control for Cricket in India v. Netaji Cricket Club (2005) 4 SCC 741, a mistake on the part of the Court may also call for a review of the . It is submitted that in the aforesaid decision it is further observed and held by this Court that the B words “sufficient reason” in 47 Rule 1 CPC are wide enough to include a misconception of fact or law by a court or even an advocate. It is further observed that an application for review may be necessitated by way of invoking the doctrine actus curiae neminem gravabit. 4.8 Making the above submissions and relying upon the aforesaid C decisions, it is prayed to allow the present applications and review/recall the earlier s passed in the respective Civil Appeals dismissing/ disposing off the same, relying upon the decision in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra), which has been subsequently overruled by a Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority (supra) and thereafter to decide and dispose D of the same in light of the subsequent decision rendered by the Constitution Bench in the case of Indore Development Authority (supra). It is submitted that no prejudice shall be caused to the respective respondents if the matters are heard afresh on merits and the respective respondents/ landowners will be heard on merits on all points. E 5. All these review applications are opposed by Shri Shyam Divan, Sri V. Giri, Shri Neeraj Kumar Jain, Shri Vivek Chib, learned Senior Advocates and other counsel appearing for the respective respondents. 5.1 It is vehemently submitted on behalf of the respective respondents that the applicants have admittedly filed the instant review F applications seeking review of the s passed by this Court based on a subsequent decision. It is submitted that change in law in view of the subsequent decision of the Court cannot be a ground for review. It is submitted that even if the of the Constitution Bench in the case of Indore Development Authority v. Manohar Lal (supra) has G overruled the decision in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra), the settled position inter parties may not be affected. 5.2 It is further submitted that even otherwise the in Indore Development Authority (supra) may be construed to be prospective in its operation and cannot reopen claims/cases which have already attained finality. H 220 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 5.3 It is submitted that the law operational at the time when the Delhi High Court delivered the in the present matter (Civil Appeal No. 8529/2016) was that laid down in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra).