ii. The National Family Health Survey-5 data10 for the period B between 2019 to 2021 measured the proportion of men and women (15-49 years of age) who have ever used the internet. The survey reveals that only one in three women in India (33.3%) have ever used the internet, compared to more than half of men (51.2%). The gender divide in rural C India is more pronounced, with men (43.4%) being about twice as likely as women (24.6%) to have used the internet. iii. The GSMA Mobile Gender Gap Report 202211 found that from 2020 to 2021, the mobile internet gender gap has widened to 41% in South Asia. In India, men’s mobile D internet use increased from 45% to 51% while women’s mobile internet use remained flat at 30%. The representations by the Bar Associations on specific difficulties faced in the process of e-filing, and the reports prepared by the Chairpersons of the DRATs and the Presiding Officers of the DRTs E should be cognizant of digital exclusion on the basis of gender, while submitting their respective representations/ reports. The help desks can consider providing a dedicated portal to address the grievances of female litigants. However, we are not inclined to accept the submission that there should be a general exception to female practitioners and litigants. F There is no reason to postulate that there is a gender divide in one’s inherent ability to use technology. 21. For the above reasons, we have issued directions for attending to the genuine grievances of the members of the Bar in regard to the availability of facilities that would ensure that in the adoption of e-filing, G no segment of the citizens is unable to access justice. Properly implemented, the above suggestions will meet the purpose. 10 National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) 2019-2021, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India (March 2022) 11 Matthew Shanahan, The Mobile Gender Gap Report 2022, GSMA (June 2022) H 356 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 22. The exercise which has been directed to be carried out in the above terms should be completed within a period of three months from the date of this . This would not preclude the Department of Financial Services from making such further arrangements as are found necessary to deal with an emergent situation in any of the DRTs/DRATs in various parts of the country. In a country as diverse like India, a one-size-fits B approach cannot be adopted in all circumstances and situational modifications can be suitably adopted according to exigencies. 23. The petition shall stand disposed of in the above terms. 24. Pending application, if any, stands disposed of. C Ankit Gyan Petition disposed of. (Assisted by : Aarsh Choudhary, LCRA) D E F G H