According to the CBI, it has already sent its comments to the Home Secretary on 05.04.2022 in response to the DO letter dated 29.03.2022 issued by respondent no.1. H 276 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A The response filed by respondent no.1 states as under: “18. After taking inputs from the concerned stakeholders and keeping in view the appeal filed by CBI [Criminal Appeal No.2277/ 2011] and appeal filed by Jagtar Singh Hawara [Criminal Appeal No.1013/2013] which are pending for consideration. The case B was examined in the Ministry of Home Affairs and the proposal was submitted to His Excellency President of India for his consideration on 20th April 2022 recommending the following: a. that the decision on the mercy petitions filed on behalf of convict Balwant singh Rajoana under Article 72 of the Constitution may C be considered after the verdict of Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in the above mentioned two appeals.” Two basic submissions advanced by the learned counsel for respondent no.1 are as under: I. Since the appeal of the co-accused is presently pending consideration by this Court, the mercy petition preferred on behalf of the petitioner would logically be ripe for consideration only after D the disposal of the appeal. In response, it is submitted by the counsel for the petitioner that the dated 04.12.2020 passed by this Court was quite clear and the respondents were obliged to consider the mercy petition despite the pendency of the appeal preferred on behalf of the co- E accused. II. It was submitted that the petitioner himself did not prefer any mercy petition, though certain organizations had preferred mercy petitions on his behalf. F In response, it is submitted on behalf of the petitioner that said mercy petition has always engaged the attention of the concerned authorities and the communications addressed by the authorities to the petitioner indicate that such mercy petition is under consideration. G Without getting into the issue whether the petitioner himself had preferred the mercy petition, considering the communications on record as well as the fact that the petitioner has preferred the instant writ petition, in our view, there would be no embargo in considering the matter in the light of the directions issued by this Court in its dated 04.12.2020. Furthermore, as the H BALWANT SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 277 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] had made it quite clear, the matter could be and had to be considered A despite the pendency of the appeal preferred by the co-accused. In the circumstances, we direct as under: a. In terms of the direction issued by this Court in its dated 04.12.2020, the matter be considered by the concerned authorities B without being influenced by the fact that the appeal preferred on behalf of the co-accused is still pending consideration before this Court. b. Let the decision be taken as early as possible and preferably within two months from today. C List the matter for further consideration on 22.07.2022.” 12. It is was next submitted that under the above directions, proceedings were taken up for consideration ignoring the aspect of pending appeals.