772 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 7P OS.RCT.RS. 772 [2023] 7 S.C.R. A AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS (Civil Appeal No. 2482 of 2014) B MAY 12, 2023 [A. S. BOPANNA AND HIMA KOHLI, JJ.] Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 – r. 11(IX), r. 14(2) – Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1964 – r. 3C – Allegation of sexual harassment at work place C – Defying the principles of natural justice – Appellant was appointed by the respondent no.2-Goa University – Appellant was accused of sexual harassment by several girl students – Appellant was served with notice to explain charges levelled against him – Inquiry proceedings took place thereafter, in the month of May 2009, when D 12 hearings, most of them back to back, were conducted by the Committee – Appellant was unable to appear due to health reasons, however, he had sought extension of time, which was denied – Proceedings proceeded ex-parte and submitted its report establishing sexual harassment by the appellant – Committee recommended his termination from service – The Executive Council (EC) accepted E the report submitted by the Committee and the appellant was placed under suspension with immediate effect – EC proposed to conduct an inquiry against him under Rule 14 of CCS (CCA) Rules – However, appellant was informed that in the light of an passed by the Supreme Court in Medha Kotwal’s case, the report of the Complaints F Committee for Prevention of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace shall be deemed to be an Inquiry Report under the CCS (CCA) Rules which shall be binding on the disciplinary authority for initiating disciplinary action against the government servant – Disciplinary Authority dismissed the appellant from service – Appellant filed writ petition before the High Court, which was G dismissed – On appeal, held: It is an admitted position that the inquiry proceedings were aborted at the initial stage itself and it was the Report of the Committee submitted earlier, that was acted upon by the EC – The Committee itself was unclear as to the scope of its inquiry, the appellant cannot be blamed for harbouring an H impression that the remit of the Committee was confined to fact 772 AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 773 finding alone and it was not discharging the functions of a A disciplinary committee, as contemplated under the service Rules – It is also noteworthy that the time span prescribed under the CCS (CCA) Rules for concluding an inquiry is ordinarily within a period of six months from the date of receipt of the of appointment – In the instant case, the entire process was wrapped up in flat 39 B days – This shows the tearing hurry in which the Committee was to submit its Report – The undue haste demonstrated by the Committee for bringing the inquiry to a closure, cannot justify curtailment of the right of the appellant to a fair hearing – When the legitimacy of the decision taken is dependent on the fairness of the process and the process adopted itself became questionable, then the decision C arrived at cannot withstand judicial scrutiny and is wide open to interference – The discretion vested in the Committee for conducting the inquiry has been exercised improperly, defying the principles of natural justice – As a consequence thereof, the impugned upholding the decision taken by the EC of terminating the services D of the appellant, duly endorsed by the Appellate Authority cannot be sustained.