He also invited our attention to the fact that the second petitioner has died and there is no one to represent the first petitioner which is an unregistered organization. D 13. He submitted that the decision in the case of Sardar Syedna1 was noted by the Constitution Bench in the case of (Sabarimala Temple 5JJ) 6. He relied upon the decision of the Bench of seven Judges of this Court in the case of Commissioner, Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras v. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt9. E He submitted that the issue of the interpretation of Article 26 has been concluded. He lastly submitted that this case should not be tagged with the review pending before the bench of Hon’ble nine Judges and at the highest, it may be kept pending till the disposal of the said case. 14. Shri Dariaus J. Khambata, the learned senior counsel while F supplementing the submissions made by Shri Fali S. Nariman stated that the in the case of Sardar Syedna1 has stood the test of time and there has been no contrary view taken by any Bench. Therefore, no further s are warranted in this petition. RELEVANT PROVISIONS G 15. Before we deal with the submissions, a brief reference to the Ex-communication Act is necessary. Sections 2 and 3 thereof, are material, which read thus: 8 2020 (3) SCC 52 91954 SCR 1005 H 304 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A “2. In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, – (a) “community” means a group the members of which are connected together by reason of the fact that by birth, conversion or the performance of any religious rite they belong to the same B religion or religious creed and includes a caste or sub-caste; (b) “ex-communication” means the expulsion of a person from any community of which he is a member depriving him of rights and privileges which are legally enforceable by a suit of civil nature by him or on his behalf as such member. C Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause a right legally enforceable by a suit of civil nature shall include the right to office or property or to worship in any religious place or a right of burial or cremation, notwithstanding the fact that the determination of D such rights depends entirely on the decision of the question as to any religious rites or ceremonies or rule or usage of a community. 3. Notwithstanding anything contained in any law, custom or usage for the time being in force, to the contrary, no ex-communication of a member of any community shall be valid and shall be of any E effect.” The Ex-communication Act has been repealed by the Social Boycott Act. At this stage, it is not necessary for us to go into the question of the effect of the Social Boycott Act on the practice of ex-communication or “Baraat” prevailing in the Dawoodi Bohra F community. THE FINDINGS RECORDED IN SARDAR SYEDNA 16.