It is also the case on behalf of the appellant that so far as the decision in the case of Aravali Power Company Private Limited (supra), which was considered by this Court in the case of Parmar Constructions Company (supra) is concerned, B in the said decision also, there is no reference to the decision in the case of BCCI (supra). It is also the case on behalf of the appellant that though in the case of S.P. Singla Constrictions Private Limited (supra), there is a reference to the decision in the case of BCCI (supra), but in the said decision paragraphs 38 and 39 are not referred to and/or considered and except reproduction of para 37, there is no further C discussion in the case of BCCI (supra). Therefore, it is the specific case on behalf of the appellant that as the decisions in the cases of Parmar Constructions Company (supra) and Pardeep Vinod Construction Company (supra) are per incuriam, we must hold that in the present case Amendment Act, 2015 shall be applicable and therefore D the High Court has committed a very serious error in opining on accord and satisfaction which is not permissible as per the Amendment Act, 2015, i.e., Section 11(6A). 9. Submission on behalf of the appellant, as above, seems to be attractive but has no substance. This Court is required to consider whether E the decision in the cases of Parmar Constructions Company (supra) and Pardeep Vinod Construction Company (supra) can be said to be perincuriam as the decision of this Court in the case of BCCI (supra) has not been considered by this Court in the said decisions. However, on a fair reading of the decisions in the case of BCCI (supra) and the observations made in paragraphs 37 to 39 and on a fair reading of F decisions in the cases of Parmar Constructions Company (supra) and Pardeep Vinod Construction Company (supra), we are of the opinion that this Court in the case of BCCI (supra) has held that the Arbitration Amendment Act, 2015 is prospective in nature insofar as the proceedings under sections 34 & 36 are concerned. It is required to be G noted that in the case of BCCI (supra), application under section 11(6) was not the subject matter and there was no issue before the Court that even in a case where the notice invoking the arbitration is issued prior to the Amendment Act, 2015, but the application under section 11(6) is filed post Amendment Act, 2015, what will be the position and whether the old Act will be applicable or the amended Act. On the other hand, H 352 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A the decisions in the case of Parmar Constructions Company (supra) is directly on the point, namely, the application under section 11(6) of the Act. In the case of Parmar Constructions Company (supra), it is specifically observed and held that in a case where notice invoking arbitration is issued prior to Amendment Act, 2015 and the application under section 11(6) is filed post amendment, as per section 21 of the B principal Act, the date of issuance of the notice invoking arbitration shall be considered as commencement of the arbitration proceedings and therefore as per section 26 of the Amendment Act, 2015, the Amended Act, 2015 shall not be applicable and the parties shall be governed by the pre-amendment Act, 2015.