Moreover, it was submitted that out of the six co-accused released on bail, five are out on default bail, and only one accused had se- cured regular bail. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 8. Having examined the rival contentions, the Court does not C consider it necessary to go into the legal as- pect pertaining to the applicability of the GCTOC Act in praesenti, as the current Appeal has been filed only for the purpose of seeking bail during the pendency of the trial. 9. Had there been no other case against the Appellant and no D material, at least prima facie, to indicate his regular participation in any crime, the Court could have considered his prayer, but keeping in view his al- leged role, we are not inclined to exercise discretion in his favour, for now. When we speak of discretion, we have in mind “judicial discretion” as explained in Gudikanti Narasimhulu v Public E Prosecutor, (1978) 1 SCC 240: “3. What, then, is “judicial discretion” in this bail context? In the elegant words of Ben- jamin Cardozo [ The Nature of the Judicial Process — Yale University Press (1921)]: “The Judge, even when he is free, is still not wholly free. He F is not to innovate at pleasure. He is not a knight-errant roaming at will in pursuit of his own ideal of beauty or of good- ness. He is to draw his inspiration from conse- crated principles. He is not to yield to spas- modic sentiment, to vague and unregulated benevolence. He is to exercise a discretion in- formed by tradition, methodized by analogy, disciplined G by system, and subordinated to “the primordial necessity of in the social life”. Wide enough in all conscience is the field of discretion that remains.” Even so it is useful to notice the tart terms of Lord Camden that [ 1 Bovu, Law Dict., Rawles’ III Revision p. 885 — quoted H 244 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A in Judi- cial Discretion — National College of the State Judiciary, Rano, Nevada p. 14] “the discretion of a Judge is the law of tyrants: it is always unknown, it is different in different men; it is casual, and depends upon constitution, tem- per and passion. In the best, it is oftentimes caprice; in the worst, it is every vice, folly and passion to which human B nature is liable. “ 4. Some jurists have regarded the term “judi- cial discretion” as a misnomer. Nevertheless, the vesting of discretion is the unspoken but inescapable, silent command of our judicial system, and those who exercise it will remember that discretion, C when applied to a Court of Justice, means sound discretion guided by law. It must be governed by rule, not by humour; it must not be arbitrary, vague and fanciful, but legal and regular. An appeal to a Judge’s discretion is an appeal to his judicial D conscience. The discretion must be exercised, not in opposition to, but in ac- cordance with, established principles of law.