He was not a member of the police force, but he was a part of CISF and was posted on internal security duty at the police station. His version is also important to be noted which reads thus: B “I was present at PS I.P. Estate at about 6 p.m. I saw that one constable posted there at PS I.P. Estate and was sitting on chair at Control Room in front of Duty Officer and he was making call from the telephone kept in control room and I was waiting to make a call from the said phone for giving my O.K report. I kept on waiting in the gallery on the door of the control room and in C the meantime the duty officer asked the said constable not to leave the busy so long, as it was an official phone. He did not pay any heed to the request of the said duty officer. The duty officer requested the Santri to ask the said constable to leave the phone for other person. The Santri also went D there and requested the said constable for leaving the said phone but he did not pay any heed to his request also. The Santri caught him by his right arm as he was holding the receiver of the phone by his left hand and he casually pushed the Santri. The Santri again requested him to leave the phone and in response the said constable making the call E caught the SAF of the Santri and while making fun with each other, pushed him and at that time accidental fire took place from the said SAF and five rounds from the said SAF hit the person making the phone call. WSI Shashi Bala was also present there and she had also requested the constable F making the phone not to touch the SAF as it was dangerous, prior to the incident. The Santri at that time was the accused present in the Court whose name was known as Arvind (present in the Court today, correctly identified by the witness). A public person was also present there but I do not know his name. I did not know the name of the constable who G was making the call after the bullet hit him at his chest and he was badly injured in the incident and after hearing the noise of the bullet all the staff of the PS gathered there. The SAF was kept on the table after the incident and I was not aware as to how many rounds were there in the magazine of the same and the same H ARVIND KUMAR v. STATE OF NCT, DELHI 719 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] were not taking out in my present. No conversation took place A between the accused and WSI Shashi Bala in my presence.” (emphasis added) We may note here that even this witness was not declared as hostile. B 12.Thus, the version of PW-12 and PW-25 who were claiming to be the eyewitnesses completely supports the defence of the appellant of accidental firing and in any case, they have not deposed that the appellant intentionally fired bullets at the deceased.