160111 of 2023 in WP (C) 678 of 2023 11 “Transaction of Business Rules” 464 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. prior reference to the Central Government in the Ministry of Home Aff airs or to the appropriate Ministry with a copy to the Ministry of Home Aff airs in respect of the following matters:- (a) Proposals aff ecting the relations of the Central Government with any State Government, the Supreme Court of India or any other High Court; (b) Proposals for the appointment of Chief Secretary and Commissioner of Police, Secretary (Home) and Secretary (Lands); (c) important cases which aff ect or are likely to aff ect the peace and tranquility of the National Capital Territory; and (d) cases which aff ect or are likely to aff ect the interests of any minority community, Scheduled Castes or the backward classes.” (emphasis supplied) 8. Section 41 which deals with matters on which the Lieutenant Governor shall act in his sole discretion has been amended to include, in clause (iii) of sub-section (1), the discharge of functions under Part IV-A of the Act. Part IV-A has been introduced by way of an amendment. Section 45A(d) defi nes the Chief Secretary to mean “the Chief Secretary of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi appointed by the Central Government”. Clause (i) of Section 45A defi nes “Group A offi cers” in the following terms : “(i) “Group ‘A’ offi cers” means the offi cers serving in the aff airs of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi— (a) belonging to All India Services, except the offi cers of the Indian Police Service; (b) who are classifi ed as Group ‘A’ offi cers, under rule 4 of the Central Civil Services (Classifi cation, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965, but shall not include the offi cers who are serving in connection with any subject matter, whether fully or in part connected with Entries 1, 2 and 18 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, and Entries 64, 65 and 66 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 465 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI] insofar as they relate to Entries 1, 2 and 18 or any other subject matter which is connected therewith or incidental thereto: (emphasis supplied) 9. Among other amendments, Section 45E provides for the constitution of the National Capital Civil Service Authority. In terms of sub-Section (2) of Section 45E, the Authority shall consist of the Chief Minister of NCTD, the Chief Secretary of GNCTD, and the Principal Home Secretary of GNCTD. Section 45H defi nes the powers and functions of the authority. Sub-section (1) of Section 45H provides as follows: “45-H.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the Authority shall have the responsibility to recommend the transfers and postings of all Group ‘A’ offi cers and offi cers of DANICS serving in the aff airs of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi but not offi cers serving in connection with any subject matter, either fully or in part, connected with Entries 1, 2 and 18 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution; and Entries 64, 65 and 66 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution insofar as they relate to Entries 1, 2 and 18 or any other subject matter which is connected therewith or incidental thereto, to the Lieutenant Governor: Provided that Authority may, if it deems appropriate, by way of a recommendation, delegate the responsibility to any other authority of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi.” (emphasis supplied) 10.