158. We may gainfully refer to an article by Jonathan Glancey dated 11th December 2015 titled “Is this the perfect city?”, published by the BBC, which reads thus: G “Of all the world’s ideal cities, Chandigarh has done remarkably well, offering striking monumental architecture, a grid of self-contained neighbourhoods, more trees than perhaps any Indian city and a way of life that juggles tradition with modernity. While history tells us ideal cities are mostly best left on paper, Chandigarh H – perhaps one of the least likely appears to have succeeded against RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 673 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] the grain.” A 159. As could be seen from the said article, Chandigarh has done remarkably well, offering striking monumental architecture, a grid of self-contained neighbourhoods, more trees than perhaps any Indian city and a way of life that juggles tradition with modernity. 160. At the cost of repetition, it must be noted that the CMP-2031 B itself, at more than one place, states that Chandigarh has been planned as a green city with abundance of open space and to ensure that every dwelling has its adequate share of the three elements of Sun, Space and Verdure. The fragmentation/apartmentalization of single dwelling units in Phase-I of Chandigarh, in our view, will injure the ‘Lungs’ of the city as conceptualized by Le Corbusier. In this regard, the observations of C this Court in the case of Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai and Others v. Kohinoor CTNL Infrastructure Company Private Limited and Another20, are highly instructive. In the said case, this Court held as follows, regarding the implications of overcrowding of cities: D “13. ……When the cities are overcrowded, the roads are narrow and the traffic is increasing, the situation will be extremely hazardous for the children and senior citizens. There will be no greens in the buildings and the people will always crave for fresh and pure air. The buildings without greens will add to the ever increasing temperature of the overcrowded cities and urban areas. E To put it differently, all constructions without adequate green and recreational areas will have serious impact on the environment and human life…….” 161. The High Court ought to have been alive to the unique status of Chandigarh and considered the matter from that perspective. F 162. One other aspect that needs to be taken into consideration is that on account of certain acts and omissions of the Chandigarh Administration, in certain areas, there has been a chaotic situation. As already pointed out herein, on one hand, the 2001 Rules have been repealed in the year 2007 and the 2007 Rules have been enacted. In view of Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules, there is a specific bar on fragmentation G of sites or buildings. It is the specific stand of the Chandigarh Administration that construction of apartments is not permissible. On the other hand, the 2017 Rules are enacted in such a way that there is scope for the construction of apartments.