That was challenged by the complainant by fi ling a petition in the High Court under section 482, Cr. PC. The High Court was of the opinion that the Sessions Court misinterpreted the publication. It was also of the view that when the Magistrate had found prima facie case against the accused and thought it fi t to issue process, it was not proper for the Sessions Court to set aside that by exercising revisional power. This Court restored the of the Sessions Court holding as follows: “4. As we have stated earlier, the news item was published on 4-2- 1984. The complaint in that behalf was fi led by the complainant on 2-2-1987. The news item merely disclosed what happened during the debate which took place in the Assembly on 13-12-1983. It stated 16 (1998) 4 SCC 112 M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 239 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] that when a question regarding misappropriation of government funds meant for Majalgaon and Jaikwadi was put to the Minister concerned, he had replied that a preliminary enquiry was made by the Government and it disclosed that some misappropriation had taken place. When questioned further about the names of persons involved, he had stated the names of fi ve persons, including that of the complainant. The said proceedings came to be published by the accused in its Daily on 4-2- 1984. Because the name of the complainant was mentioned as one of the persons involved and likely to be suspended he fi led a complaint before the learned CJM alleging that as a result of publication of the said report he had been defamed. 5. It is quite apparent that what the accused had published in its newspaper was an accurate and true report of the proceedings of the Assembly. Involvement of the respondent was disclosed by the preliminary enquiry made by the Government. If the accused bona fi de believing the version of the Minister to be true published the report in good faith it cannot be said that they intended to harm the reputation of the complainant. It was a report in respect of public conduct of public servants who were entrusted with public funds intended to be used for public good. Thus the facts and circumstances of the case disclose that the news items were published for public good. All these aspects have been overlooked by the High Court.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) It is clear from the above reasoning that this Court went on to reverse the of the High Court and restore that of the Sessions Court on the grounds that the accused published the report in good faith and bona fi de believing the version of the Minister to be true, that it cannot be said that they intended to harm the reputation of the complainant, and that the news item was published for public good. Therefore, relief was given to the accused having regard to the facts obtaining therein and without there being any discussion on the point that we are seized of.