50100 28338 9868 of petitioner No. 1 B shall inoperative (sic) after quashing the FIR in WPCR No. 88 of 2020, therefore, no further direction is required to be passed.” 15. Since, the High Court has quashed the FIR and we are called upon to examine the legality and propriety of the impugned , we propose to refer to the material portions of the FIR after noting the C rival contentions. 16. Mr. Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing in support of the appeals preferred by the State, contended that the High Court committed gross error of law in quashing the FIR by transgressing the legal bounds for quashing a first information report. Placing reliance on the decision D of this Court in CBI & Ors. Vs. Tapan Kumar Singh1, he contended that a first information report is not an encyclopedia which must disclose all facts and details relating to the offence reported; what is of significance is that the information given must disclose the commission of a cognizable offence and the information so lodged must provide the basis for the E police to suspect the commission of a cognizable offence. At the stage of registration of a first information report, the police officer on the basis of the information given has to suspect the commission of a cognizable offence and not that he must be convinced or satisfied that a cognizable offence has been committed. If he has reasons to suspect on the basis of the information received that a cognizable offence may have been F committed, he is bound to record the information and investigate, without it being necessary for him to satisfy himself about the truthfulness of the information. 17. According to Mr. Sibal, when a first information report could be lodged on the basis of suspicion, the High Court in the present case G erred in law in quashing the FIR on the ground that it was based on “probabilities”. Criticizing the impugned as wanting in appreciation of the aforesaid basic principle, he urged that the High Court overstepped its limits. 1 (2003) 6 SCC 175 H 144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 18. Mr. Sibal also contended that in the present case, AS challenged the FIR a few days after the same was registered on 25th February, 2020 and obtained an from the High Court to the effect that no coercive steps be taken against him. Armed with such an , AS did not join the investigation despite a notice having been issued. There was no staying the investigation. Even if the investigation had proceeded, B there was no imminent fear of arrest. If indeed, AS and YS do have papers and documents to satisfactorily account for the pecuniary resources and property and that they do not possess assets disproportionate to their known sources of income, such papers and documents could have been produced before the Investigating Officer C thereby enabling him to hold that there is no substance in the complaint lodged by US, and then to file an appropriate closure report before the concerned court to be considered in accordance with Law.