[2023] 11 S.C.R. 39 : 2023 INSC 674 CASE DETAILS WAZIR KHAN v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND (Criminal Appeal Nos. 1922-1923 of 2017) AUGUST 02, 2023 [J. B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration : In a case hinging on circumstantial evidence, where the appellant was put to trial u/ss. 302 and 201 IPC for murdering his wife, and he did not dispute his presence at the place of incident and, further, the explanation off ered by him as regards injuries received by his wife was found to be false, whether the High Court was justifi ed in reversing the acquittal passed by the trial court. Penal Code, 1860 – ss. 302 and 201 – Reversal of acquittal by High Court – Propriety: Held : When attention of the appellant was drawn to the incriminating circumstances that inculpated him in the crime, he failed to off er appropriate explanation or gave a false answer – The same can be counted as providing a missing link for completing a chain of circumstances – Where an accused is alleged to have committed the murder of his wife and the prosecution succeeds in leading evidence to show, like in the present case, that shortly before the commission of the crime they were seen together or the off ence took place in the dwelling home where the husband also normally resided, it has been consistently held that if the accused does not dispute his presence at home at the relevant time and does not off er any explanation how the wife received injuries or off ers an explanation which is found to be false, it is a strong circumstance which indicates that he is responsible for commission of the crime – If an off ence takes place inside four walls of a house and in such circumstances where the assailants have all the opportunity to plan and commit the off ence at the time and in the circumstances of their choice, it will be extremely diffi cult for the prosecution to lead evidence to establish the 39 40 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. guilt of the accused, if the strict principle of circumstantial evidence, is insisted upon by the Courts – On facts, appellant guilty – Reversal of his acquittal by High Court, upheld. [Paras 24, 25 and 29] Circumstantial evidence – Incriminating circumstance put to accused and the accused offering no explanation or offering a false explanation – Additional link in chain of circumstances: Held : In a case based on circumstantial evidence where no eye witness is available, principle followed is that when an incriminating circumstance is put to the accused and the said accused either off ers no explanation or off ers an explanation which is found to be untrue, then the same becomes an additional link in the chain of circumstances to make it complete. [Para 23] Evidence – Duty on the prosecution to lead evidence – Nature of: Held : The law does not enjoin a duty on the prosecution to lead evidence of such character, which is almost impossible to be led, or at any rate, extremely diffi cult to be led – The duty on the prosecution is to lead such evidence, which it is capable of leading, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case.