4.16 It is further submitted by Shri Diwan, learned Senior Counsel that the aim and object of the limitation period and statutory grace period C / condonable period provided in the Arbitration Act is to ensure that parties who sleep over their rights and come to the court belatedly are not allowed to upset the apple cart. It is submitted that in the present instance, the appellant has been nothing but diligent and approached the learned trial Court on the very day of reopening. It is submitted that Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 has been enacted to address D precisely this kind of a situation and merely because the benefit of Section 4 of the Limitation Act, 1963 is unavailable in a case, should not ipso facto exclude the application of the General Clauses Act, 1897. 4.17 It is submitted that the appellant is an agriculturists’ society, and despite having suffered losses due to non-fulfillment of their obligations E by the respondent, the appellant’s case has never been heard on merits. It is submitted that therefore non-suiting the appellant in the present instance and denying the benefit of Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (with the elementary rule of justice captured in it) will cause a grave miscarriage of justice. F Making above submissions, it is prayed to set aside the passed by the learned trial Court as well as the High Court and to condone the delay caused in preferring application under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act and to direct the learned trial Court to hear the application under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act on merits by giving the appellant an opportunity to put forth its case on merits. G 5. Present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri Dhruv Mehta, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent. 5.1 It is submitted that in the present case the appellant admittedly received the award on 24.08.2016. As per Section 34 of the Arbitration H Act, “the prescribed period” of 3 months to challenge the award expired BHIMASHANKAR SAHAKARI SAKKARE KARKHANE NIYAMITA v. 371 WALCHANDNAGAR INDUSTRIES LTD. (WIL) [M. R. SHAH, J.] on 24.11.2016 and further period of 30 days under the proviso to Section A 34(3) of the Arbitration Act expired on 24.12.2016. That, the learned trial Court was on winter vacation between 19.12.2016 to 01.01.2017. The appellant preferred its Section 34 of the Arbitration Act before the learned trial Court on 02.01.2017 i.e. on the day of reopening, accompanied by an application seeking condonation of delay. It is B submitted that the learned trial Court after considering both, the maintainability and merits of the appellant’s application for condonation, has found that the application was not maintainable and also that no sufficient cause had been shown by the appellant. It is submitted that the High Court has upheld the of trial Court that the petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act was not maintainable for being beyond C the “prescribed period” under Section 34(3) of the Arbitration Act.