The recruitment rules, procedure and the service conditions of these employees are governed by the Bye-Laws and Memorandum of Association of the Council. 24. With a view to appreciate the rival contentions raised by the litigating parties before us, we must look into the Clauses 25(b), 34, 35 and 47 of the Bye-Laws in the Memorandum of Association of the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences: “Appointments 25. (a)... (b) Recruitments, appointments and promotions to all posts shall be made according to the recruitment rules laid down by the Governing Body or designated competent authority for the posts. Selection shall be made through the Selection Committees/Departmental Promotion Committees duly constituted with the approval of the respective appointing authority. 762 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Superannuation 34. The rules governing the retirement of employees of the Government of India as amended from time to time or as desired by the Governing Body shall apply to the employees of the Central Council. Provided that an employee can be retained in service after the prescribed age of superannuation if he continues to be physically fi t and effi cient and it is in the interest of the Central Council to retain him in service. 35. The Fundamental and Supplementary Rules and General Financial Rules of Government of India as amended from time to time shall apply mutatis mutandis to employees of the Central Council. Other Conditions of Service 47. In respect of matters not provided for in these regulations the rules as applicable to Central Government servants regarding the general conditions of service, pay, allowances T.A. and daily allowances, foreign service terms, deputation in India and abroad, etc. and s and decisions issued in this regard by the Central Government from time to time shall apply mutatis mutandis to the employees of the Central Council.” (Emphasis Supplied) 25. A plain reading of the aforesaid clauses of the Bye-Laws would indicate that the employees are recruited through a selection committee of the Council. It further indicates that the Fundamental Rules, 1922 will have no direct application in cases where the governing body fi nalises the rules of superannuation. In terms of Clause 34 of the Bye-Laws, the governing body had decided the age of superannuation to be 60 years on 01.12.1998. The said decision was ratifi ed on 27.01.2000, in the 14th meeting of the governing body of the Council. 26. In our view, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants is right in his submission that the decision of the governing body dated 27.12.2000 applied on 30.04.2018 i.e., the date of superannuation of the respondent No. 1. It is not in dispute that the respondent No. 1 was working as a researcher and the service conditions of a Research Assistant are altogether diff erent compared to the AYUSH Doctor. It is also not in dispute that the CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 763 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] method of recruitment of the respondent No. 1 is diff erent compared to that with the AYUSH doctors.