The second argument, therefore, also fails.” (Emphasis supplied) 35. In the case of Abhay Shridhar Ambulkar v. S.V. Bhave, the Commissioner of Police, reported in AIR 1991 SC 397, this Court was dealing with a matter relating to the preventive detention under the National Security Act (65 of 1980). The principal argument before the Court was that there was no valid conferment of power on the Commissioner to make the detention . It was also argued that the Government had issued the without applying its mind and by simply reproducing the words of sub- section (3) of Section 3. The satisfaction of the Government for conferring the power on the Commissioner for the purpose in question was purported to have been reached on the circumstances prevailing on the date of the or likely to prevail during the three months period in question. It was also argued that the Government was not certain which of the alternative circumstances was relevant for reaching the subjective satisfaction and it was submitted that it had acted in a mechanical manner without application of mind. In that context, the observations of this Court are worth taking note of:- “The power to make an of detention primarily rests with the Central Government or the State Government. The State Government, however, being satisfi ed with certain circumstances may that the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police may also make an of detention in respect of matters relating to the security of the State or Public or maintenance of supplies and services essential to the community against any person within their respective areas. The State Government canmake such an which shall not in the fi rst 562 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. instance exceed three months but it may extend such period from time to time making fresh for a further period against not exceeding three months at one time. It may be noted that the conferment of this power on the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police is not to the exclusion of but in addition to the powers of the Government to exercise its own power. 7. The first paragraph of the dated 6th January 1990 states that Government was satisfi ed that having regard to the circumstances prevailing or likely to prevail in Greater Bombay Police Commissionerate it is necessary that during the period commencing on 30th January 1990 to 29th April1990 that the Commissioner should also exercise the powers conferred under subsection (2) of Section 3 of the Act. This is indeed no more than a reproduction of the terms of subsection (3) of Section 3. But sub- section (3) refers to two independent circumstances namely : (i) the prevailing circumstances, (ii) the circumstances that are likely to prevail. The former evidently means circumstances in praesenti that is prevalent on the date of the and the latter means the anticipated circumstances in future. If the Government wants that the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police should also exercise the powers for the current period, it has to satisfy itself with the prevailing circumstances.