It is further held that in the present case, the object and the purpose of issuance of an Ordinance and thereafter, the enactment of the 2017 Act by the Parliamentwas, in my view, to give a semblance of legality to the exercise of power by issuance of the Notification on 8th November, H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 209 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 2016. In fact, Section 3 of the Ordinance as well as Section A 3 of the Act makes this explicit. The same is extracted as under for immediate reference: “3. On and from the appointed day, notwithstanding anything contained in the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 or any other law for the time being in B force, the specified bank notes which have ceased to be legal tender, in view of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance, number S.O. 3407(E), dated the 8th November, 2016, issued under sub-section (2) of section 26 of the Reserve C Bank of India Act, 1934, shall cease to be liabilities of the Reserve Bank under section 34 and shall cease to have the guarantee of the Central Government under sub-section (1) of section 26 of the said Act.” D (Emphasis by me) The said Section has an inherent contradiction inasmuch as the Section has a non-obstante clause vis-à-vis the Act or any other law for the time being in force but at the same time, the said provision refers to Sections 26 as well as Section 34 of the Act. E A non-obstante clause such as “notwithstanding anything contained in the Act or in any law for the time being in force”, is sometimes appended to a section, with a view to give the enacting part of that section in case of conflict, an overriding effect over the provision or Act mentioned in the non obstante clause. The following are the judicial dicta on the point which bring out the use of a non-obstante F clause: a) In T.R.Thandur vs. Union of India (1996) 3 SCC 690, this Court observed that a non-obstante clause may be used as a legislative device to modify the ambit of the provision or law mentioned in the non-obstante clause or G to override it in specified circumstances. That while interpreting a non-obstante clause, the Court is required to find out the extent to which the legislature intended to give it an overriding effect. H 210 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A b) In Central Bank of India vs. State of Kerala (2009) 4 SCC 94, this Court held that while interpreting a non- obstante clause the court is required to find out the extent to which the legislature intended to give it an overriding effect. c) Further, this Court in A.G. Varadarajulu and Anr. vs. State B of Tamil Nadu (1998) 4 SCC 231, observed that it is well-settled that while dealing with a non-obstante clause under which the legislature wants to give overriding effect to a section, the court must try to find out the extent to which the legislature had intended to give one provision C overriding effect over another provision.