The third sub-head deals with contravention of Section 28(3) of the A&C Act which states that the arbitral tribunal shall decide all cases in accordance with the terms of the contract and shall take into account the usage of the trade applicable to the transaction. This last sub-head should be understood with a caveat that the arbitrator has the right to construe and interpret the terms of the contract in a reasonable manner. Such interpretation should not be a ground to set aside the award, as the construction of the terms of the contract is fi nally for the arbitrator to decide. The award can be only set aside under this sub-head if the arbitrator construes the award in a way that no fair-minded or reasonable person would do. 476 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 44. As observed previously, we need not examine the amendment made to the A&C Act vide Act No. 3 of 2016 with retrospective eff ect from 23.10.2015 and the s that deal with the amended Section 34 of the A&C Act. Pertinently, the amendment to Section 34 of the A&C Act was eff ected, pursuant to the observations of the Supplementary Report to Report No. 246 on Amendments to Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 by the Law Commission of India, titled ‘Public Policy – Developments post-Report No. 246’ published in February 2015. This Supplementary Report observed that the power to review an arbitral award on merits under Section 34 of the A&C Act, as elucidated in the case of Western Geco, subsequently followed in Associate Builders, is contrary to the object of the A&C Act and international practice on minimization of judicial intervention. A reference can also be conveniently made to MMTC Ltd. v. Vedanta Ltd.,39 and Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. v. National Highways Authority of India40, which examine the scope of intervention of courts under Section 34 of the A&C Act as amended by Act No. 3 of 2016. MMTC Ltd. and Ssangyong Engg., and other s which deal with the amended Section 34 of the A&C Act that are not applicable in the present case. 45. We have extensively analysed the award, its patent fl aws and illegalities which emanate from it, like the manifest lack of reasoning in arriving at the conclusions and the calculation of amounts awarded, which, in fact, amount to double or part-double payments, besides being contradictory etc. In view of our aforesaid reasoning, the award has been rightly held to be unsustainable and set aside by the division bench of the High Court exercising power and jurisdiction under Section 37 read with Section 34 of the A & C Act. 46. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the appeal is dismissed without any as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal dismissed. Nidhi Jain 39 (2019) 4 SCC 163 (for short, MMTC Ltd.). 40 (2019) 15 SCC 131(for short, Ssangyong Engg).