Reliance is placed on Sections 74 and 76 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. It is submitted that even under Section 4(2) of the Right to Information Act, 2005 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘RTI Act’) a duty is cast upon the public officer/public authority to provide as much information suo moto to the public at regular H 734 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A intervals through various means of communications and to provide as much information as mentioned in Section 4(1)(b) of the RTI Act. Making the above submissions, it is prayed to grant the relief as sought in the present petition. 3. We have heard Shri Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel B appearing on behalf of the petitioner at length. 4. At the outset, it is required to be noted that by way of present writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, the petitioner by way of Public Interest Litigation has prayed for an appropriate direction/ directing all the States in the country to enable free public C access to chargesheets and final reports filed as per Section 173 of the Cr.P.C. on their websites. 4.1 For the aforesaid heavy reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Youth Bar Association of India (supra). On going through the decision of this Court in the case of Youth Bar D Association of India (supra), the reliance placed upon the same by the counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner for the relief sought in the present petition is thoroughly misconceived and misplaced. In the aforesaid decision this Court directed that the copies of the FIRs should be published within 24 hours of their registrations on the police websites or on the websites of the State Government. From the entire it E appears that this Court directed the copies of the FIRs to be published within 24 hours on the police websites or on the websites of the State Government. Looking to the interest of the accused and so that the innocent accused are not harassed and they are able to get the relief from the competent court and they are not taken by surprise. Therefore, F the directions issued by this Court are in favour of the accused, which cannot be stretch to the public at large so far as the chargesheets are concerned. 4.2 Even the relief which is sought in the present writ petition directing that all the challans/chargesheets filed under Section 173 Cr.P.C. G shall be put on public domain/websites of the State Governments shall be contrary to the Scheme of the Criminal Procedure Code. As per Section 207 Cr.P.C. a duty is cast upon the Investigating Officer to supply to the accused the copy of the police report and other documents including the First Information Report recorded under Section 154 Cr.P.C. and the statements recorded under sub-Section (3) of Section 161 Cr.P.C. H SAURAV DAS v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 735 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.3 As per sub-Section 173(4) Cr.P.C.