Speaking through one of us (D.Y. Chandrachud, J), the Court held as follows: “33. The answer to the two issues set out in Section C of the —(i) when will the clock for calculating the limitation 6 2023 SCC OnLine SC 976 SANJAY PANDURANG KALATE v. VISTRA ITCL (INDIA) 319 LIMITED [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] period run for proceedings under IBC; and (ii) is the annexation of a certifi ed copy mandatory for an appeal to NCLAT against an passed under IBC — must be based on a harmonious interpretation of the applicable legal regime, given that IBC is a Code in itself and has overriding eff ect. Sections 61(1) and (2) IBC consciously omit the requirement of limitation being computed from when the “ is made available to the aggrieved party”, in contradistinction to Section 421(3) of the Companies Act. Owing to the special nature of IBC, the aggrieved party is expected to exercise due diligence and apply for a certifi ed copy upon pronouncement of the it seeks to assail, in consonance with the requirements of Rule 22(2) of the NCLAT Rules. Section 12(2) of the Limitation Act allows for an exclusion of the time requisite for obtaining a copy of the decree or appealed against. It is not open to a person aggrieved by an under IBC to await the receipt of a free certifi ed copy under Section 420(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 50 of the NCLT Rules and prevent limitation from running. Accepting such a construction will upset the timely framework of IBC. The litigant has to fi le its appeal within thirty days, which can be extended up to a period of fi fteen days, and no more, upon showing suffi cient cause. A sleight of interpretation of procedural rules cannot be used to defeat the substantive objective of a legislation that has an impact on the economic health of a nation. 35. The appellant was present before NCLT on 31-12-2019 when interim relief was denied and the miscellaneous application was dismissed. The appellant has demonstrated no eff ort on his part to secure a certifi ed copy of the said and has relied on the date of the uploading of the (12-3-2020) on the website. The period of limitation for fi ling an appeal under Section 61(1) against the of NCLT dated 31-12-2019, expired on 30-1-2020 in view of the thirty-day period prescribed under Section 61(2). Any scope for a condonation of delay expired on 14-2-2020, in view of the outer limit of fi fteen days prescribed under the proviso to Section 61(2). The lockdown from 23-3-2020 on account of the Covid-19 Pandemic and the suo motu of this Court has had no impact on the rights of the appellant to institute an appeal in this proceeding and NCLAT has 320 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. correctly dismissed the appeal on limitation. Accordingly, the present appeal under Section 62 IBC stands dismissed.” 15. Subsequently, in Sanket Agarwal (supra), this Court clarifi ed the law laid down in V Nagarajan and held that (i) the limitation stops running on the e-fi ling of an appeal before the NCLAT and not on presentation of a physical copy; (ii) the date on which the is pronounced is to be excluded from the calculation of limitation, and (iii) the time taken by the NCLT to provide the appellant with the certifi ed copy would be excluded from the calculation of limitation, provided the appellant applies within the prescribed period of limitation under Section 61(2) of the IBC.