If it is so, it would create havoc in view of the diff erence in their power of punishment as is evident from sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 29, Cr.PC., which read thus:- Section 29 – “(1) The Court of a Chief Judicial Magistrate may pass any sentence authorised by law except a sentence of death or of imprisonment for life or of imprisonment for a term exceeding seven years. (2) The Court of a Magistrate of the fi rst class may pass a sentence of imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years, or of fi ne not exceeding [ten thousand rupees] or of both.” 18. Certainly, any such unconscionable or undesirable situation as mentioned above, is avertable by a timely, judicious exercise of discretion of the powers under the relevant provision under Cr.PC, for committal of AMANDEEP SINGH SARAN v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 447 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] such cases to the Court of competent jurisdiction. But then, we are of the considered view that disuse of such powers judiciously at the appropriate time will render the penal provision under Section 409, IPC otiose to certain extent inasmuch as it would create a situation where the off ender would be liable only for a maximum punishment of rigorous imprisonment only of 7 years irrespective of the magnitude and seriousness though, statutorily the punishment imposable for the conviction thereunder is imprisonment for life or imprisonment of either description for a period which may extend to 10 years, going by Section 409, IPC. It is relevant to note that in the Cr.PC, there is no provision to empower a Court of a Chief Judicial Magistrate or Court of a Magistrate of the fi rst class to pass any sentence not authorized under Section 29 (1) or 29 (2), Cr.PC, as the case may be. We may hasten to add that Section 31, Cr. PC deals with sentence in cases on conviction of several off ences at one trial and needless to say that this provision would not cloth power on a Magistrate to bypass the provision under Section 29(1) or 29(2), Cr.PC in respect of imposing sentence in any given off ence upon conviction of the off ender and, therefore, it is diff erent from Section 34 of the old Code, 1898. Pithily stated, the sole solution to avert a situation to raise the contention of conduct of a trial before a Court lacking jurisdictional competence in any given situation, is conduct of the trial for an off ence under Section 409, IPC before a Court of Session. Since no minimum sentence is prescribed no prejudice would be caused to the accused concerned or to the prosecution by the conduct of a trial before a Court of Session as it would be open to the Court of Session to impose lesser or higher sentence than 7 years imprisonment, of either description, in case of conviction taking into account all relevant aspects. We will dilate the matter further. 19. It is to be noted that the division of cases into summons and warrant cases itself is based on the punishment which can be awarded to an off ender.