72. It is true that every undertaking given by a party to a litigation may not be an undertaking to the court; there is a diff erence between an BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1111 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] undertaking given to the other party and an undertaking given to the court. The breach of an undertaking given to the other party may not constitute the contempt of court. However, whether a particular undertaking is an undertaking to the court or to the opposite party must depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case and the language used. In the case on hand, it is not the case of the appellants that they had negotiated a settlement with the other side outside the court and reported the same to the High Court and the High Court proceeded to pass the incorporating the undertaking given by the learned counsel upon instructions from the clients. Even if the parties, had negotiated a settlement outside the court and reported the same to the court and the court would have passed an , in terms of such understanding, there would be no scope to warrant that the undertaking was not given to the court. 73. An undertaking or an assurance given by a lawyer based upon which the court decides upon a particular course of action would defi nitely fall within the confi nes of “undertaking” as stipulated under Section 2(b) of the Act 1971 and the breach of which would constitute “civil contempt”. As held in M. v. Home (supra) relied upon by this Court in Rama Narang (supra) that if a party or solicitor or counsel on his behalf, so as to convey to the court a fi rm conviction that an undertaking is being given, that party will be bound and it will be no answer that he did not think that he was giving it or that he was misunderstood. The breach of an undertaking given to a court by a person in a pending proceeding on the faith of which the court sanctions a particular course of action is misconduct amounting to contempt. 74. In our view, the High Court was justifi ed in saying while holding the appellants guilty of civil contempt that but for the undertaking, the respondents in the Special Civil Application No. 16266 of 2013 who were the appellants in the LPA (Stamp) No.1196 of 2015 (respondents before this Court) would not have withdrawn the appeal as not pressed. 75. The High Court is right in saying that it is this undertaking given to the court on 14.10.2015 that persuaded the respondents herein to withdraw the said appeal and it is such solemn assurance given to the court which per forced them to withdraw the appeal by recording the statement made by the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the contemnors. 1112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 76. Thus, the wilful breach of an assurance in the form of an undertaking given by a counsel /advocate on behalf of his client to the court would amount to “civil contempt” as defi ned under Section 2(b) of the Act 1971.