[Para 9][881-B-D] 1.3. ing a remand is an available option. However, having regard to the lapse of time (almost a life term of fourteen H 874 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A years) since the s impugned in the writ petition were made, it would not be in the best interests of justice to remit the matter to the High Court. Since prior to reserving on this appeal, the parties were heard on the merits of the jurisdictional issue that the appellant had raised before the High Court, it is time to rule on the jurisdiction of the Revisional Authority. [Para B 13][882-F] 1.4. Suo motu power of revision could be exercised by the Revisional Authority for the purposes of satisfying himself as to the legality or propriety of any made in any proceeding which is prejudicial to the interests of the State. The first proviso, C however, imposed a restriction on exercise of such suo motu power, if an issue had been settled, inter alia, by an appellate authority. Thus, the sine qua non for exercise of power under section 34 is the satisfaction of the Revisional Authority that an has been made by a taxing authority in any proceeding prejudicial to the D interests of the State, the legality or propriety of which appears to him to be prima facie vulnerable. Nevertheless, such power cannot be exercised if the issue involved is pending before or has been settled by an appellate authority. It cannot be disputed that the tribunal is comprehended within the meaning of ‘appellate authority’ as defined in section 2(b) of the VAT Act. [Para 27][888- E D-F] 1.5. While deciding the present appeal, the Court is primarily concerned with the issue of assumption of jurisdiction by the Revisional Authority on the face of the unchallenged of the tribunal dated 21st November, 2001, and not with the merits F of the decision either given by the tribunal or by the Revisional Authority. What stares at the face of the respondents is that the said decision of the tribunal, quoted in the of the Assessing Authority, has attained finality. Once the issue stands finally concluded, the decision binds the State, a fortiori, the Revisional G Authority. The decision of the tribunal may not be acceptable to the Revisional Authority, but that cannot furnish any ground to such authority to perceive that it is either not bound by the same or that it need not be followed. The first proviso, in such a case, gets activated and would operate as a bar to the exercise of powers by the Revisional Authority. [Para 33][889-F-H; 890-A] H M/S GODREJ SARA LEE LTD. v. THE EXCISE AND TAXATION 875 OFFICER-CUM-ASSESSING AUTHORITY 1.6. The Revisional Authority might have been justified in A exercising suo motu power to revise the of the Assessing Authority had the decision of the Tribunal been set aside or its operation stayed by a competent Court. So long it is not disputed that the tribunal’s decision, having regard to the framework of classification of products/tax liability then existing, continues to B remain operative and such framework too continues to remain operative when the impugned revisional s were made, the Revisional Authority was left with no other choice but to follow the decision of the tribunal without any reservation.