On 25.01.2021, the appellant-resolution applicant submitted the revised resolution plan incorporating the changes. He also submitted bank guarantee as noticed hereinbefore. However, the resolution professional did not place the revised plan in CoC meeting but directly presented it to the Adjudicating Authority for approval. This E process has not been approved by the Appellate Tribunal, while observing that based on the resolution in the ninth meeting of CoC, the resolution plan was sent back for further revision and the revised plan was never presented to CoC for approval. Two major submissions in this regard by the appellant-resolution applicant are: first, that the plan had already been approved by the CoC and it was only the requirement of allocating F eligible amount to the dissenting financial creditors and hence, there was no need to seek further approval of the CoC; and secondly, that in the tenth meeting, the CoC had granted the deemed post facto approval to the revised plan and not objected to any of its portions even in the later affidavits. The resolution professional would also contend that the G resolution applicant was only required to provide for redistribution to ensure that dissenting financial creditors were given their share. It has also been submitted that in the modified resolution plan the allocation for the unsecured dissenting financial creditors was revised from Rs. 29 crore to Rs. 49.13 crore. H 906 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 48.1. On the submissions as made, at the first blush it might appear as if revision of the plan after ninth CoC meeting had been a matter of formality and consequential to the approval already given by the CoC. However, on a close look at the scheme of IBC, this irregularity of not placing the revised plan after ninth meeting before the CoC and directly placing it before Adjudicating Authority cannot be ignored as a mere B technicality. As noticed hereinabove, each and every aspect relating to the resolution plan, and more particularly its financial layout, has to be considered by the CoC before it could be said to have arrived at a considered decision. The fact that there had been a change in financial layout in the resolution plan in question is not a matter of dispute. When C CoC applied itself and arrived at a decision in its commercial wisdom with approval by the requisite majority, it was equally the requirement that the resolution applicant would revise the plan. In terms of the minutes of the ninth CoC meeting, it is difficult to assume that the CoC had even in anticipation given an approval to the plan which was to be revised. As to what decision CoC would have taken after examination of the revised D plan, pursuant to its decision in the ninth meeting, cannot be a matter of guess or assumption that it was bound to be approved. As to which aspect would have arisen for consideration of CoC after revision of the plan is again a matter of uncertainty but it cannot be said that the conditional approval in the ninth CoC meeting was to be treated as fait E accompli.