A decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void shall entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause.” (emphasis supplied) 103. Rule 23 of the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, 2021 also provides that “an arbitration clause that forms part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract.” In contrast to the New York Convention, the Model Law expressly recognizes the separability presumption. 104. According to the UNCITRAL Working Group, the separability presumption is incorporated under Article 16(1) to complement the principle of competence-competence. The separability presumption further ensures that the invalidity of the underlying contract does not aff ect the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal to decide on the nullity of the contract or any other issues submitted to its jurisdiction by the parties “unless it fi nds that the defect which causes the nullity of the contract aff ects also the arbitration clause itself.”105 The last sentence of Article 16(1) (extracted above) states the general principle of contractual validity of arbitration clauses.106 It connotes that the invalidity of the underlying contract will not necessarily entail the invalidity of an arbitration agreement contained in the contract. Accordingly, the arbitral tribunal’s jurisdiction will be aff ected only when the defect causing invalidity is directed at the arbitration agreement.107 105 Analytical Commentary on Draft Text of a Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, A/CN.9/264 (25 March 1985) 38. 106 Gary Born (n 62) 403 107 Digest of Case Law on the Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (2012) 76. 114 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. h. India 105. The Arbitration Act also incorporates the separability presumption in Section 16(1) along the lines of the Model Law. Section 16(1) reads as follows: “16. Competence of arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction – (1) The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including ruling on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement, and for that purpose, - (a) an arbitration agreement which forms part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract; and (b) a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause.” 106. The separability presumption, as incorporated under Article 16(1) of the Model Law, as well as Section 16 of the Arbitration Act, is qualifi ed by the expression “for that purpose.” A plain reading may suggest that Section 16 has incorporated the separability presumption only for the particular purpose of allocation of competence over jurisdictional disputes. However, the Digest of Case Laws on UNCITRAL Model Law states that “the language used in the second sentence does not prevent the application of the separability presumption when a jurisdictional question is raised before a court.”108 Gary Born suggests that the better view is that the separability presumption contained in Article 16(1) states a general rule of contractual validity “which is applicable for all purposes.”109 The judicial view that emerges from the Indian courts also seems to suggest that an arbitration agreement is treated as distinct and separate from the underlying contract as a general rule of substantive validity.