7), PW 2 Firoz Babumiyan Shaikh (Exh. 9) and PW 3 Nasir Khan (Exh. 10). The oral evidence of all the three eyewitnesses is consistent and there is no good reason for us to disbelieve the ocular version as narrated by the three eyewitnesses. The Trial Court as well as the High Court looked into the oral evidence of all the three G eyewitnesses referred to above closely and have recorded a concurrent finding that they are reliable witnesses. 29. The High Court in its impugned observed in paras 9 and 10 resply as under: H BALU SUDAM KHALDE & ANR. v. THE STATE OF 869 MAHARASHTRA [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “9. First, it is argued on behalf of the Appellants the learned A Counsel that the substantive evidence of P.W. Nos. 1 and 2, alleged eyewitnesses cannot be taken as trustworthy, in as much as they are interested and related witnesses to the deceased Abbas Baig. Secondly, it is argued that there was no immediate disclosure of the names of the accused persons B when the injured Abbas was brought to Lohiyanagar Police Chowki and when said Abbas and both the injured P.W. Nos. 1 and 2 were sent to Sasoon Hospital for medical treatment no history of assault was given. Thirdly, it is argued that P.W. 1, complainant had improved on his story by mentioning that Abbas had sustained injuries on his head and it was not so C mentioned by him while giving his complaint. Fourthly, it is argued that the main vital injury was in the normal course of events, sufficient to cause the death of Abbas is injury No.9 as per the Post Mortem report was attributed to only accused No.3 i.e. Appellant No.2 as it was made by use of a sword D and as such it was not the injury inflicted by Appellant No.1 accused. By canvassing such last argument, it emphasized on behalf of the Appellant that the death of Abbas was caused due to the injury at serial no. 9 in the Post Mortem report and as such the Appellant accused No.1 could not be held responsible for the death of Abbas, further argued. E 10. While dealing with such arguments, on behalf of the Appellants as mentioned above, we have carefully gone through the substantive evidence of P.W.1 and 2 and also of the incidental witness, corroborating the major part of the events i.e. P.W.No.3 and it must be said that immediately after reaching F Lohianagar Police Chowki a complaint was lodged by P.W.1 and by that time said Abbas was also brought to the Police Chowki and was subsequently referred to Sasoon Hospital for treatment, however, declared, dead on admission. It is also in the substantive evidence of P.W.1 that he and P.W.2 attended G the Sasoon Hospital along with police yadi for getting treatment, it is a factual position that there is no medical certificate brought on record by the prosecution regarding injury sustained by P.W. Nos. 1 and 2 and as such factual position prompted the Sessions Court to hold that there was no charge established for the offence punishable under H 870 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R.