The learned Judge observed that the scales of justice and equity necessitate immediate relief and not a suspended declaration of invalidity. 195. The Court observed that Section 30(1) of the South African Marriage Act was underinclusive because it excluded same-sex unions by silence and omission. Such omission was as eff ective in law and practice as if 172 “South African Marriage Act” SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1343 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] eff ected by express language. The Court held that it would be discriminatory if same-sex couples were not given the benefi ts (both tangible and intangible) which were available to heterosexual couples through marriage. The State justifi ed the exclusion of same-sex couples from the institution of marriage because of the social nature of marriage and strong religious beliefs. The Court rejected this argument on the ground that the reasons which were used to justify the exclusion were grounded in prejudice and that it was not a valid justifi cation for the violation of fundamental rights. 196. On the question of relief, the Court made the following observations: a. Parliament had expressly and impliedly recognised same-sex partnerships. The Domestic Violence Act 116 of 1998 defi ned a domestic partnership as a relationship between a complainant and a respondent who are of the same or opposite sex and who live/lived together in a relationship in the nature of marriage. The Estate Duty Act 45 of 1955 stipulated that the spouse in relation to a deceased person includes a person who at the time of death of the deceased person was a partner of such person in a same-sex or heterosexual union; b. Section 172(1)(b) of the Constitution granted the Court the power to issue such including suspending the declaration of invalidity for any period and on any conditions, to allow the competent authority to correct the defect; c. There was extensive consultation with the public on the issue of same-sex marriage. The South African Law Reform Commission’s memorandum on domestic partnership harmonised family law principles with the Bill of Rights which was preceded by extensive public consultation; and d. The Court instead of reading in must grant the remedy of suspended declaration because reading in would be a temporary remedial measure which would be far less likely to achieve equality. Legislative action was well-suited for this purpose. 197. Though facially the case mounted by the petitioners before us is similar to the case mounted by the petitioners in Fourie (supra), the legal 134 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. and the constitutional regime in South Africa and India varies. First, it must be noticed that unlike the SMA, there was only one provision in the South African Marriage Act (that is, Section 30(1)) which made a reference to heterosexual relationships. However, as indicated above, various provisions of the SMA (Sections 4, 27(1A), 31, 36, and 37) confi ne marriage to a union between heterosexual persons. Second, various enactments in South Africa already recognised same-sex unions unlike the Indian legal landscape where no law even remotely recognises the union between a same-sex couple.