[2023] 13 S.C.R. 172 : 2023 INSC 881 CASE DETAILS COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI OVERSEAS THROUGH ITS PROPRIETOR SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA & ANR. (Civil Appeal Nos. 4735-4736 of 2009) OCTOBER 06, 2023 [B. V. NAGARATHNA AND UJJAL BHUYAN, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the tribunal was justifi ed in holding that enhancement of value of the imported goods and the penalties imposed by the Commissioner of Customs on the noticee-respondents could not be sustained and consequently in setting aside the same. Customs Act, 1962 – 14 – Customs Valuation (Determination of Price of Imported Goods) Rules, 1988 – r. 4, 8, 5, 6 and 7 – Transaction value of imported goods – Determination of – Allegations of under- invoicing of price and thereby evasion of customs duty by the respondents – Initiation of proceedings on the basis of the price declared by the foreign supplier in the fi rst set of export declarations fi led before the Hong Kong customs authority – Discrepancies noticed in the price mentioned in the export declarations and the price of the goods as per the import invoices – Filing of second set of export declarations albeit imposition of penalty for mis-declaration of price at the initial stage, which stood paid by the foreign supplier – Department after rejecting the price declared as per the import invoices, invoked r. 8 straightaway instead of going through rr. 5, 6 and 7 thereof sequentially – Correctness: Held: If transaction value of imported goods cannot be determined, the value shall be determined by proceeding sequentially through rr. 5 to 8 – Where the value of imported goods cannot be determined under the provisions of any of the rr 5 to 7A, the value shall be determined using reasonable means as provided in r. 8-the residual method – Furthermore, transaction value can be rejected if the invoice price is not found to be correct 172 COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 173 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA but it is for the department to prove that the invoice price is incorrect – On facts, both the department as well as the adjudicating authority were not justifi ed in rejecting the import invoice price of the goods as not correct and enhancing the price by straightaway invoking r. 8 when there was no evidence before them to do so – Thus, the tribunal was justifi ed in setting aside the passed by the adjudicating authority – No error or infi rmity in the impugned of passed by the tribunal. [Paras 34.1, 37, 40.2, 41,42] Customs Act, 1962 – Initiation of proceeding alleging under- invoicing of price of goods imported from foreign country and thereby evading customs duty by the noticee – Reliance upon the unattested photocopies of the fi rst set of export declarations fi led by the foreign supplier before the customs authority showing great discrepancy in the price mentioned in the export declarations and the price of the goods as per the import invoices – Justifi cation: Held: Export declarations relied upon by the Department and earlier by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence were unattested photocopies – Since those documents were used as a piece of evidence against the noticee, it was necessary that those documents were required to have been proved – Unattested photocopies of the relied upon documents without anyone proving or owning up the veracity of the same would not have any evidentiary value – Very substratum of these documents was subsequently removed when the foreign supplier fi led a second set of export declarations before the Hong Kong customs authority showing lower price matching the price of the goods declared in the import invoices – Foreign supplier had paid the penalty for mis declaration of price at the initial stage – There can be no justifi able reason for the department to harp upon the price of the goods as per the initial export declarations by placing reliance on the unattested photocopies of the fi rst set of export declarations to prove under- invoicing for the purpose of evading customs duty – Tribunal rightly held that the value shown in the fi rst set of export declarations could not form any reliable basis for enhancement of the value.