The Union Constitution Committee deleted all the suggestions for the exercise of discretionary powers by the President and also the proposal for a Council of State. The committee however took a definite step in the direction of a centralized authority in the matter of elections: according to its D recommendations, all powers of supervision, direction and control in respect of the federal as well as provincial elections would be vested in a Commission to be appointed by the President. The Union Powers Committee expanded this proposal by the inclusion in the Federal Legislative List of the subject “All Federal elections: and Election Commission to superintend, direct and control all E Federal and Provincial elections”. The provisions suggested in the model Provincial Constitution came up for discussion in the Constituent Assembly on July 18, 1947. The Constitutional Adviser in his Draft Constitution of October, 1947 provided that the superintendence, direction and control of F all elections to the Federal parliament and Provincial Legislatures (including the appointment of Election Tribunals for the decision of doubts and disputes in connection with elections to Parliament and to Provincial Legislatures) and of all elections to the offices of President, Vice-President, Governor and President. The G Drafting Committee altered this scheme and in its draft the power of appointing an Election Commission for supervising elections to the office of Governor and to the State Legislature was vested in the Governor. The Drafting Committee expressed the definite opinion that the Election Commission for provincial elections should be appointed by the Governor. This view underwent a radical H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 41 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] change subsequently and on June 15, 1947, when the article came A up for discussion in the Constituent Assembly, Ambedkar introduced a new article which made comprehensive provision for a Central Election Commission to be in charge of all Central and State elections.” J. THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY DEBATES B 16. Draft Article 289 went on to blossom into Article 324 of the Constitution. Regarding the Draft Article 289 it is apposite that we notice the following developments and discussions. On 15th June, 1949, the following discussions are noticed. Amendment No.99 was moved by Dr. B.R. Ambedkar to the original Article 289. The original Article 289 C read as follows: “289. The superintendence, directions and control of elections to be vested in an Election Commission. (1) The superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of the electoral rolls for, and the conduct of, all elections to D Parliament and to the Legislature of every State and of elections to the offices of President and Vice-President held under this Constitution, including the appointment of election tribunals for the decision of doubts and disputes arising out of or in connection with elections to Parliament and to the Legislatures of States shall E be vested in a Commission (referred to in his Constitution as the Election Commission) to be appointed by the President. (2) The Election Commission shall consist of the Chief Election Commissioner and such number of other Election Commissioners, if any, as the President may, from time to time appoint, and when F any other Election Commissioner is so appointed, the Chief Election Commissioner shall act as the Chairman of the Commission.