In fact, this Court found that the effect of the reservation was that the donor ceased to be the legal owner of the land in dispute. C He held the land for the benefit of society or the public in general. The donor became essentially a trustee preventing alienation of his right. The court however drew a distinction between the owner being transformed into the trustee and being prevented from transferring his rights and the local body being vested with the rights of the owner. As D far as the impugned provisions in these cases are concerned, the DCR not only obliges setting apart a certain percentage (10 percent) for the communal and recreational purposes in respect of very large projects but also a transfer, is to be made of the property so set apart by the owner. We will delve upon the impact of this decision at a later point of time in a different context. At the same time, we must also bear in mind, E the of this Court in Yogendra Pal and others (supra). In Yogendra Pal and others, we have already noticed the facts.What was involved there was the violation of Section 192(1)(c) of the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911. The provision provided that the Municipal Committee may prepare a building scheme, which may, inter alia, provide that the F amount of land in unbuilt area shall be transferred to the committee for public purposes including use as public streets by owners of land either on payment of compensation or otherwise, provided that the total amount so transferred shall not exceed thirty-five per cent, and the amount transferred without payment shall not exceed twenty-five per cent, of any one owner’s land within such unbuilt area. What appealed to this G Court as the basis for transgression of Article 14 has been adverted to by us and which is contained in paragraphs-14 and 15 of the said . It must be remembered that the principal plank of attack against the provision in question was that it fell foul of Article 19(1)(f) read with Article 31 of the Constitution as the Articles stood then. The H transfer effected in the said case, it may be noticed was prior to ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1145 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 20.06.1979 on which date the Forty-FourthAmendment came into being. A Therefore, the case was that it amounted to acquisition of property.This Court found merit in the contention that what was involved was actually acquisition and the transfer was not merely for a limited purpose. It was found that there was no provision in the Act to suggest that despite employment of the land for public purpose, the ownership and possession B or occupation continued with the landowner.The landowner was compelled to enjoy rights only as a member of the public. The Court also rejected the case of the transfer being only for a limited purpose. A perusal of Section 192(1)(c) reveals that the said provision is not comparable with the provision impugned in the cases before us.