This fact, coupled with the duty upon the investigating authorities not only to protect the citizens of F the country, but also ensure fair and proper investigations into crimes affecting the society, as in the present case, casts upon such authorities, in the considered view of this Court, not only legal, but also a moral duty to take all possible steps within the letter of the law to bring the doers of such acts to the book. G 77. In the instant case, the reasons why the investigation officers were changed time and again from PW 6 to PW 12 and then to PW 13, is surprising and unexplained. As we have already pointed out, no reason stands given for having decided that there was no need to comply with the provisions of Section 53A, Cr.P.C. ; there is unexplained delay in sending the samples collected for analysis; a premises already searched H PRAKASH NISHAD @ KEWAT ZINAK NISHAD v. STATE OF 181 MAHARASHTRA [SANJAY KAROL, J.] was searched again, the reason for which is not borne from record; lock A panchnama is not prepared; no samples of blood and semen of the appellant can be said to have been drawn by any medical or para medical staff; allegedly an additional sample is taken from the appellant more than a month after the arrest; alleged disclosure statement of the appellant was never read over and explained to the appellant in his vernacular B language; the appellant was not residing alone at the place alleged to be his residence; and what was the basis of appellant being a suspect at the first instance, remains a mystery; persons who may have shed light on essential aspects- Ganesh Bheema and Munna Saroj went unexamined etc., such multitudinous lapses have compromised the quest to punish the doer of such a barbaric act in absolute peril. C 78. The charges mentioned above, although serious and grievous in nature, cannot be said to have been met against the present appellant. The factum of the commission of the crime against the six-year-old innocent child is not in dispute and cannot be deprecated enough even in the most severe terms. However, as the above discussion has laid out D clearly, the circumstances forming the chain of commission of this crime cannot and do not point conclusively to the appellant in a manner that he may be punished for the same much less, with the sentence of being put to death. 79. In view of the above the charges levied on the appellant stand E not proved. 80. This court, recently, in Maghavendra Pratap Singh @Pankaj Singh v. State of Chattisgarh10 had emphasised the role and responsibilities of the investigating authorities by referring to various s of this Court. Such principles, which are essential to successful F investigations, were not adhered to. Needless to state, such responsibilities would be all the more heightened in cases of crimes involving severe punishments such as imprisonment for life or the sentence of death.