Its execution has to be proved by admissible evidence that is by the ‘evidence of those persons who can vouchsafe for the truth of the facts in issue’………...” 87. In this view of the matter, the marking of a piece of evidence as ‘exhibit’ at the stage of evidence in a Trial proceeding is only for the purpose of identifi cation of evidence adduced in the trial and for the convenience of the Court and other stakeholders in to get a clear picture of what is being produced as evidence in a Trial proceeding. 88. As we are dealing with this case as an “exceptionally painful episode of our Criminal Justice System”, we have already taken judicial notice of the judgement passed by the High Court in the Habeas Corpus petition for drawing an adverse inference against the subsequent conduct of the accused of the trial in question, it’s Public Prosecutor, Police Administration and the Presiding Offi cer of the Trial Court as provided under Section 8 of the Evidence Act. 89. In the present case, considering the failure of State machinery and failure of the Trial Court to ensure a fair trial from the perspective of the victim side, the aspect of non-marking of the FIR and Bayan Tahriri as an exhibit, non-production of the formal witnesses, i.e., the Constable Clerk and Investigating Offi cer to prove the lodging of FIR/Bayan Tahriri and the fl imsy rejection of application fi led by Kishori Rai seeking his examination as a witness along with the examination of Nagendra Singh and Sanjeev Kumar Singh (who had signed said written statement/Bayan Tahriri as attesting persons) as witnesses in the Trial proceeding do not vitiate the genuineness of the FIR and Bayan Tahriri, and we refuse to give any discount to the accused persons for non-exhibition thereof. 13 (2003) 8 SCC 745 452 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 90. The above view fi nds support from the judgement of this Court in the case of Ram Bihari Yadav vs State of Bihar & Ors14, relevant extract whereof is quoted herein below: “Para 13. Before parting with this case, we consider it appropriate to observe that though the prosecution has to prove the case against the accused in the manner stated by it and that any act or omission on the part of the prosecution giving rise to any reasonable doubt would go in favour of the accused, yet in a case like the present one where the record shows that investigating offi cers created a mess by bringing on record Exh. 5/4 and GD Entry 517 and have exhibited remiss and/or deliberately omitted to do what they ought to have done to bail out the appellant who was a member of the police force or for any extraneous reason, the interest of justice demands that such acts or omissions of the offi cers of the prosecution should not be taken in favour of the accused, for that would amount to giving premium for the wrongs of the prosecution designedly committed to favour the appellant.