Notably, under the second proviso to section 140(5) on the final being passed by the Tribunal that the auditor/firm has, directly or indirectly, acted in a fraudulent E manner or abetted or colluded in any fraud by, or in relation to, the company or its directors or officers, he/it shall not be eligible to be appointed as an auditor of any company for a period of five years. The word “any” used in the second proviso to section 140(5) is significant. On the final being passed by the F Tribunal, such an auditor not only shall be removed or changed as an auditor of a company, but such an auditor/firm shall also be ineligible to be appointed as an auditor of any other company for a period of five years. [Para 6.1][1007-E-H; 1008-A-B] 5. On true interpretation and scheme of Section 140(5) of G the Act, 2013, once the enquiry/proceedings is/are initiated under first part of section 140(5) of the Act, either suo motu by the Tribunal or on an application made to it by the Central Government or by any person concerned, it must come to its logical end and irrespective of the fact whether during such H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 955 AND SELLS LLP enquiry/proceedings the auditor has resigned or not, there must A be a final to be passed by the Tribunal on whether such an auditor has, in fact, directly or indirectly, acted in a fraudulent manner or not. Direction to the company to change its auditor as provided in the first part of section 140(5) is only a consequence to the finding recorded by the Tribunal that the auditor has, directly B or indirectly, acted in a fraudulent manner. This is the first consequence of the final under section 140(5) (first part). On passing the final by the Tribunal that the auditor of a company has, directly or indirectly, acted in a fraudulent manner, the second consequence as mentioned in the second proviso to section 140(5) shall be attracted. Therefore, for any consequence C as provided under the second proviso to section 140(5), there shall be a final by the Tribunal on enquiry as per first part of section 140(5). Therefore, on true interpretation, even on resignation by an auditor of a company even during the enquiry/ proceedings under section 140(5) or even prior to that, there D shall not be any termination of the proceedings under section 140(5) as observed and held by the High Court. In a given case, an auditor, who in fact has, directly or indirectly, acted in a fraudulent manner, to avoid any further consequence under the second proviso to section 140(5), resigns to avoid any consequence under the second proviso to section 140(5), it cannot E be permitted. [Para 7][1008-C-G] 6.1. No so far as the submission that even if section 140(5) would not have been there, in that case also, no auditor can get away with fraud, abetment of fraud or professional misconduct etc.