(b) the following circumstances, among other circumstances, if it occurs or is present in relation to or connected with any act or behaviour of sexual harassment may amount to sexual harassment:- (i) implied or explicit promise of preferential treatment in employment; or (ii) implied or explicit threat of detrimental treatment in employment; or (iii) implied or explicit threat about her present or future employment status; or (iv) interference with her work or creating an intimidating or off ensive or hostile work environment for her; or (v) humiliating treatment likely to aff ect her health or safety. (c) “workplace” includes:- (i) any department, organisation, undertaking, establishment, enterprise, institution, offi ce, branch or unit which is established, owned, controlled or wholly or substantially fi nanced by funds provided directly or indirectly by the Central Government; (ii) hospitals or nursing homes; (iii) any sports institute, stadium, sports complex or competition or games venue, whether residential or not used for training, sports or other activities relating thereto; 524 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (iv) any place visited by the employee arising out of or during the course of employment including transportation provided by the employer for undertaking such journey; (v) a dwelling place or a house. xxx xxx xxx 14. Procedure for imposing major penalties.- (1) No imposing any of the penalties specifi ed in clauses (v) to (ix) of Rule 11 shall be made except after an inquiry held, as far as may be, in the manner provided in this rule and rule 15, or in the manner provided by the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850 (37 of 1850), where such inquiry is held under that Act. (2) Whenever the disciplinary authority is of the opinion that there are grounds for inquiring into the truth of any imputation of misconduct or misbehaviour against a Government servant, it may itself inquire into, or appoint under this rule or under the provisions of the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850, as the case may be, an authority to inquire into the truth thereof. Provided that where there is a complaint of sexual harassment within the meaning of rule 3C of the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1964, the Complaints Committee established in each Ministry or Department or Offi ce for inquiring into such complaints, shall be deemed to be the inquiring authority appointed by the disciplinary authority for the purpose of these rules and the Complaints Committee shall hold, if separate procedure has not been prescribed for the Complaints Committee for holding the inquiry into the complaints of sexual harassment, the inquiry as far as practicable in accordance with the procedure laid down in these rules.” (Emphasis supplied) 39. In addition to the aforesaid amendments in the CCS Rules, the Standing No. 1 of 2006 (Grievances Redressal Mechanism: To Redress Grievances of Women/Sexual Harassment at Work Place) was also issued by the Directorate General, SSB, New Delhi delineating the entire framework and procedure of the grievances redressal mechanism UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 525 [J.