Section 185 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956, which is relied upon by the contesting respondents, reads as under: - D “185. Liability of buildings, lands, etc., for taxes. - All sums due from any person in respect of taxes on any land or building shall, subject to prior payment of any land revenue in respect of it due to the government, be a first charge upon the said land or building and upon any movable property found within E or upon such land or building and belonging to the said person. Provided that no arrears of any such tax shall be recoverable from any occupier who is not the owner, if such arrears are for a period during which the occupier was not in occupation.” 16. One of the principal points arising for determination in this F matter is the impact and effect of sale of assets of the company in liquidation to the respondent No. 3, particularly when the property was sold on “as is where is whatever there is” basis. Learned counsel for the appellant has referred to and relied upon a few decisions of this Court in support of his contention that looking to the terms and conditions G of sale, the purchaser would be deemed to have full knowledge of defects, encumbrances and statutory dues and would remain liable towards such dues, particularly when the sale in the present case had been by the appellant OL under the s of the Court. Per contra, learned counsel for the contesting respondents have referred to a couple of decisions to assert that no charge would be enforceable against the property at the H 1106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A hands of transferee for consideration without notice of charges and, for the municipal taxes not creating an encumbrance or charge as such on the property in question. We may closely examine the cited decisions to take note of the ratio decidendi and principles available therein. 17. The sheet anchor of the submissions on behalf of the appellant B OL is the decision of this Court in the case of United Bank of India (supra) that has been cited for the proposition that in the sale of property and assets of company in liquidation, the Official Liquidator does not hold any guarantee or warranty in respect thereof; and the intending purchaser has to satisfy himself in all respects, particularly as regards encumbrances. Therein this Court, inter alia, observed as under: - C “14. When the Official Liquidator sells the property and assets of a company in liquidation under the s of the Court he cannot and does not hold out any guarantee or warranty in respect thereof. This is because he must proceed upon the basis of what the records of the company in liquidation show. It is for the intending purchaser D to satisfy himself in all respects as to the title, encumbrances and so forth of the immovable property that he proposes to purchase.