G 172. Based on these materials, the Governor (in the letter dated 28 June 2022) concluded that Mr. Thackeray had lost the confidence of the House: “… a majority of the Shiv Sena MLAs have given a clear indication H on behalf of the Shiv Sena Legislature Party that they intend to SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 955 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] exit from the Maha Vikas Aghadi Government and that you have A been made aware of the same and that you are trying to win over your MLAs and cadre by means which are not democratic. I am therefore confident that you and your Government has lost the trust of the House and the Government is in minority.” The Governor then called upon Mr. Thackeray to prove his majority B on the floor of the House on 30 June 2022. 173. The Governor constitutes an integral part of a State Legislature. The executive power of the State is vested in the Governor. Article 163 requires the Governor to exercise their legislative and executive power on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. Article C 163(2) empowers the Governor to exercise their discretionary powers when required by or under the Constitution. Article 174(1) provides that the Governor shall from time to time summon the House to meet at such time and place as they think fit. Article 175(1) empowers the Governor to address the House. Article 175(2) permits the Governor to send D messages to the House whether with respect to a pending Bill or otherwise. a. The power of the Governor to call for a floor test 174. In S R Bommai (supra) the Janata Party formed the government in Karnataka under the leadership of S R Bommai in August E 1988. Soon after, the Janata Party and Lok Dal (B) merged into a new party called Janata Dal. In April 1989, seventeen Janata Dal legislators wrote to the Governor withdrawing their support to the government. On 19 April 1989, the Governor sent a report to the President stating that the Chief Minister had lost the majority in the Assembly and recommended invocation of the President’s rule under Article 356(1) of the Constitution. F On 20 April 1989, the Chief Minister offered to prove majority on the floor of the House. However, on the same day the Governor sent another report to the President reiterating that the Chief Minister had lost the confidence of the majority of the House and recommended action under Article 356(1). Accordingly, on 21 April 1989, the President issued a G proclamation, dismissed the State Government, and dissolved the Assembly. 175. This Court held that the Governor cannot decide whether the Council of Ministers has lost the confidence of the House and this has to be determined on the floor of the House. This Court approvingly H 956 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A referred to the Report of the five-member Committee of Governors which recommended that when a Governor is satisfied “by whatever process or means” that the Government no longer enjoys the support of the majority, they should ask the Chief Minister to prove their majority on the floor of the Assembly.