25. Learned senior counsel Sri S. Nagamuthu strenuously C contended that a person summoned in exercise of power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. must be given an opportunity of being heard before being added as an accused to the trial to be tried along with the other accused and that such person must have an opportunity of filing an application seeking discharge. The same are clearly not envisaged in view of the in Hardeep Singh and hence the said contentions are rejected. D Moreover, there is no finality attached to Section 319 Cr.P.C. It only indicates commencement of trial qua the added accused.The rationale is that a person need not be heard before being added on arrayed as an accused. Reference to and reliance placed upon opportunity of hearing to a complainant in the form of protest petition when a closure E report is filed in wholly misplaced because there is finality in a closure report; therefore the complainant is given an opportunity. 26. In Sukhpal Singh Khair, a Constitution Bench of this Court of which one of us was a member (Nagarathna, J. ), adumbrated on the meaning of the expression “conclusion of trial” in the context of Section F 319 read with other allied Sections of the Cr.P.C. and after referring to several decisions of this Court including Hardeep Singh (supra) answered the question referred to as under: “39. (I) Whether the trial court has the power under Section 319CrPC for summoning additional accused when the trial with G respect to other co-accused has ended and the of conviction rendered on the same date before pronouncing the summoning ? The power under Section 319CrPC is to be invoked and exercised before the pronouncement of the of sentence H 1214 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A where there is a of conviction of the accused. In the case of acquittal, the power should be exercised before the of acquittal is pronounced. Hence, the summoning has to precede the conclusion of trial by imposition of sentence in the case of conviction. If the is passed on the same day, it will have to be examined on the facts and circumstances B of each case and if such summoning is passed either after the of acquittal or imposing sentence in the case of conviction, the same will not be sustainable. 40. (II) Whether the trial court has the power under Section 319 CrPC for summoning additional accused when the trial in C respect of certain other absconding accused (whose presence is subsequently secured) is ongoing/pending, having been bifurcated from the main trial? The trial court has the power to summon additional accused when the trial is proceeded in respect of the absconding accused D after securing his presence, subject to the evidence recorded in the split-up (bifurcated) trial pointing to the involvement of the accused sought to be summoned. But the evidence recorded in the main concluded trial cannot be the basis of the summoning if such power has not been exercised in the E main trial till its conclusion.