ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] these imported goods free of charge or at a reduced cost for use in connection with the production and sale for export of these imported goods. 33.3. Rule 2(1)(f) defi nes “transaction value” to mean the value determined in accordance with Rule 4 of the Customs Valuation Rules. 33.4. Rule 2(2) mentions the instances where persons shall be deemed to be “related”. In the context of the facts of the present case, what may be of relevance is Rule 2(2)(viii) which says that persons shall be deemed to be “related” only if they are members of the same family. Therefore, the question is whether co-brothers can be construed to be members of the same family? However, this aspect may not require much deliberation in view of our discussions in respect of the other issues. 34. Rule 3 of the Customs Valuation Rules reads as under: 3. Determination of the method of valuation––For the purpose of these rules, - (i) the value of imported goods shall be the transaction value; (ii) if the value cannot be determined under the provisions of clause (i) above, the value shall be determined by proceeding sequentially through Rules 5 to 8 of these rules. 34.1. Thus, as per Rule 3, the valuation of imported goods shall be the transaction value. However, if that value cannot be determined, the value shall be determined by proceeding sequentially through Rules 5 to 8 of the Customs Valuation Rules. 35. This brings us to transaction value dealt with in Rule 4 which is as under: 4. Transaction value. —(1) The transaction value of imported goods shall be the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold for export to India, adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Rule 9 of these rules. (2) The transaction value of imported goods under sub-rule (1) above shall be accepted: Provided that – 202 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (a) there are no restrictions as to the disposition or use of the goods by the buyer other than restrictions which– (i) are imposed or required by law or by the public authorities in India; or (ii) limit the geographical area in which the goods may be resold; or (iii) do not substantially aff ect the value of the goods; (b) the sale or price is not subject to same condition or consideration for which a value cannot be determined in respect of the goods being valued; (c) no part of the proceeds of any subsequent resale, disposal or use of the goods by the buyer will accrue directly or indirectly to the seller, unless an appropriate adjustment can be made in accordance with the provisions of Rule 9 of these rules; and (d) the buyer and seller are not related, or where the buyer and seller are related, that transaction value is acceptable for customs purposes under the provisions of sub-rule (3) below. (3)(a) Where the buyer and seller are related, the transaction value shall be accepted provided that the examination of the circumstances of the sale of the imported goods indicate that the relationship did not infl uence the price.