Therefore, the second option would A be opted. The second option is to treat the appellant no. 1 as a secured creditor in terms of Section 52 read with Section 53 of the Code. In other words, the option is given to the successful resolution applicant-DVI to treat the appellant no.1 as a secured creditor, who would be entitled to retain the security interest in B the pledged shares, and in terms thereof, would be entitled to retain the security proceeds on the sale of the said pledged shares under Section 52 of the Code read with Rule 21 A of the Liquidation Process Regulations. The second recourse available, would be almost equivalent in monetary terms for the appellant no. 1, who is treated it as a secured creditor and is held entitled to all rights C and obligations as applicable to a secured creditor under Section 52 and 53 of the Code. This would be a fair and just solution to the legal conundrum and issue highlighted. [Para 9][828-F-H; 829-A-C] 1.10 It is clarified that the directions given would not be a D ground for the successful resolution applicant-DVI to withdraw the resolution plan which has already been approved by the NCLAT and this Court. The reason is simple. Any resolution plan must meet with the requirements/provisions of the Code and any provisions of law for the time being in force. What is E directed and the option given by, ensures that the resolution plan meets the mandate of the Code and does not violate the rights given to the secured creditor, who cannot be treated as worse off/inferior in its claim and rights, viz, an operational creditor or a dissenting financial creditor. [Para 9.1][828-D-E] F 1.11 The submission raised by the respondent No. 1, resolution professional for the Corporate Debtor and the respondent no. 2-CoC of the Corporate Debtor that the plea of the appellant no.1 to be treated as a financial creditor of the Corporate Debtor should be dismissed on the grounds of delay, laches and acquiescence is accepted. The submission is that the G appellant no. 1 had not objected to the resolution plan submitted by the erstwhile resolution applicant-LHG and, as a sequitur, its non-classification as a financial creditor in the CoC of the Corporate Debtor. Though this argument had appealed and had weighed with the NCLAT, is untenable since the resolution plan H 812 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A submitted by erstwhile resolution applicant LHG did not in any way affect the rights or interests of the appellant No. 1 as a secured creditor in respect of the pledged shares. appellant no. 1 has elaborately explained that LHG etc. were in negotiations with them so as to redeem the pledge and acquire the shares. [Para 10][829-F-H;] B 1.12 The impugned of the NCLAT affirming the view taken by the NCLT is partly modified in terms of the directions holding that appellant no.1 would be treated as a secured creditor, who would be entitled to all rights and obligations as applicable to a secured creditor in terms of Sections 52 and 53 of C the Code, and in accordance with the pledge agreement dated 05.07.2016.