38. In the aforesaid context, we may look into the provisions of C 17 Rules 2 and 3 respectively of the CPC which are as follows:- “ 17 Rules 2 and 3: 2. Procedure if parties fail to appear on day fixed.—Where, on any day to which the hearing of the suit is adjourned, the parties or any of them fail to appear, the Court may proceed to dispose of D the suit in one of the modes directed in that behalf by IX or make such other as it thinks fit. Explanation.—Where the evidence or a substantial portion of the evidence of any party has already been recorded and such party fails to appear on any day to which the hearing of the suit is E adjourned, the Court may, in its discretion, proceed with the case as if such party were present. 3. Court may proceed notwithstanding either party fails to produce evidence, etc.— Where any party to a suit to whom time has been granted fails to produce his evidence, or to cause F the attendance of his witnesses, or to perform any other act necessary to the further progress of the suit, for which time has been allowed, the Court may, notwithstanding such default,— (a) if the parties are present, proceed to decide the suit forthwith; or G (b) if the parties are, or any of them is, absent, proceed under rule 2.” 39. 17 Rule 2 of the CPC provides that where, on any day to which the hearing of the suit is adjourned, the parties or any of them H 656 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A fail to appear, the Court may proceed to dispose of the suit in one of the modes directed in that behalf by IX or make such other as it thinks fit. 40. The Explanation appended to 17 Rule 2 of the CPC provides that where the evidence or a substantial portion of the evidence B of any party has already been recorded and such party fails to appear on any day to which the hearing of the suit is adjourned, the Court may, in its discretion, proceed with the case as if such party was present. 41. 17 Rule 3 of the CPC, however, provides that where any party to a suit to whom time has been granted fails to produce his C evidence, or to cause the attendance of his witnesses, or to perform any other act necessary to the further progress of the suit, for which time has been allowed, the Court may, notwithstanding such default, (a) if the parties are present, proceed to decide the suit forthwith, or (b) if the parties are, or any of them is, absent, proceed under Rule 2. 42. The scope of 17 Rule 2 and 17 Rule 3 of the D CPC came up for consideration before this Court in the case of B. Janakiramaiah Chetty v. A.K. Parthasarthi & Ors., (2003) 5 SCC 641, wherein Justice Arijit Pasayat speaking for the Bench held in paras 7 to 10 as under:- “7.