[DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (a) an amount equal to the sum claimed from him, or A (b) the electricity charges due from him for each month calculated on the basis of average charge for electricity paid by him during the preceding six months, whichever is less, pending disposal of any dispute between him and the licensee. B (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, no sum due from any consumer, under this section shall be recoverable after the period of two years from the date when such sum became first due unless such sum has been shown continuously as recoverable as arrear of charges for electricity supplied and the licensee shall not cut off C the supply of the electricity.” (emphasis supplied) 118. Section 56 falls under Part VI which is titled “Distribution of Electricity”. Section 56 provides for disconnection of electrical supply in case there is a default in payment of electricity charges. D 119. The power to disconnect is a drastic step which can be resorted to only when there is a neglect on the part of the consumer to pay the electricity charges or dues owed to the licensee or a generating company, as the case may be. Section 56(1) provides that where any person neglects to pay any charge for electricity or any sum other than E a charge for electricity due from him to a licensee or a generating company, the licensee or generating company may after giving a written notice of fifteen days, disconnect the supply of electricity, until such charges, including the expenses incurred are paid. The power to disconnect electricity is conditioned on the fulfilment of the conditions F stipulated. The cutting off or disconnection is without prejudice to the rights of the distribution licensee to recover such charge or other sums by other permissible modes of recovery. The proviso to Section 56(1) carves out an exception by providing that electricity supply will not be cut off if the consumer, “under protest”, either deposits the amount claimed or deposits the average charges paid during the preceding six months. G 120. The statutory right of the licensee or the generating company to disconnect the supply of electricity is subject to the period of limitation of two years provided by Section 56(2). Section 56(2) provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, no sum due from any consumer “under this section” shall be H 704 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A recoverable after a period of two years from the date when such sum became first due unless such sum has been shown continuously as recoverable as arrears of charges for electricity supplied and the licensee shall not cut off the supply of electricity. The limitation of two years is limited to recovery of sums under Section 56. This is evident by the use of the expression, “under this section”. B 121. The first issue pertains to the simultaneous exercise of statutory and civil remedies by the licensing authority to recover electricity arrears.