6. The Trial Court dismissed the said application observing that the extraordinary power vested under section 319 Cr.P.C ought to be exercised only if the evidence adduced on record strongly indicates the possible involvement of the person(s) aimed to be prosecuted. The Trial H 522 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Court further opined that it did not appear from the deposition of Respondent No. 1 or from other material on record that the persons sought to be summoned had committed any offence for which they could be tried together with accused Aamir and Akhlima. 7. The aggrieved Respondent No. 1, approached the High Court B under Section 482, Cr.P.C. and vide impugned dated 27.01.2020 his petition was allowed and the appellants were summoned to face trial. The High Court observed that the FIR as well as the testimony of Respondent No. 1 during the trial revealed that the insinuations against the Appellants were exactly the same as those attributed to the accused already facing trial. Hence, in the absence of any distinguishable features, C the Appellants were also liable to be tried along with Aamir and Akhlima. The High Court further viewed that there existed sufficient grounds for summoning the Appellants as additional accused. 8. Discontented with their summoning by the High Court, the Appellants are before us. D B. CONTENTIONS 9. Mr. S.K. Verma, learned counsel for the Appellants, vehemently contended that the High Court has committed a grave error of law in not appreciating that the powers under Section 319 Cr.P.C. are to be exercised sparingly only if the evidence vividly points out the possible E involvement of the person(s) proposed to be prosecuted. There is not an iota of evidence against the appellants to glean a conclusion of their involvement. Further, the fact that the Appellants were found innocent during the course of two-fold investigation has not been adequately considered by the High Court. There is no evidence to suggest even F remotely that the Appellants were cruel to the deceased shortly before her death. The allegations are general and vague in nature without attributing any specific role to the Appellants. 10. On the other hand, Mr. Deepkaran Dalal, learned Counsel for the Ist Respondent, strongly defended the approach of the High Court G and submitted that, given the allegations made in the FIR and the deposition of Respondent No.1, the High Court was justified in summoning the Appellants, who were actively involved in harassing the deceased for not bringing enough dowry and which eventually led to the unfortunate death of Rukseena just within 7 months of her marriage. H JUHRU & ORS. v. KARIM & ANR. 523 [SURYA KANT, J.] C. ANALYSIS A 11. There is no gainsaid that the alleged offence is grave and heinous in nature. The long arms of law must find out whether any person is guilty of abetting or taking away the precious life of a young girl who soon after her marriage met with such a tragic end.