Presumption of fact is a rule in law of evi-dence that a fact otherwise doubtful may be inferred from certain other proved facts. When inferring the existence of a fact from other set of proved facts, the court exercises a process of reasoning and reaches a logical conclusion as the most probable position. The above principle has gained legislative recognition in India when Section 114 is incorporated in the Evidence Act. It 46 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. empowers the court to presume the existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have happened. In that process the court shall have regard to the common course of natural events, human conduct etc. in relation to the facts of the case. 34. When it is proved to the satisfaction of the court that Mahesh was abducted by the accused and they took him out of that area, the accused alone knew what happened to him until he was with them. If he was found murdered within a short time after the abduction the permitted reasoning process would enable the court to draw the presumption that the accused have murdered him. Such inference can be disrupted if the accused would tell the court what else happened to Mahesh at least until he was in their custody.” 22. Applying the aforesaid principles, this Court while maintaining the conviction under Section 364 read with Section 34 of the IPC, reversed the of acquittal under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the IPC, and convicted the accused under the said provision and sentenced them to imprisonment for life. 23. In a case based on circumstantial evidence where no eye witness is available, there is another principle of law which must be kept in mind. The principle is that when an incriminating circumstance is put to the accused and the said accused either off ers no explanation or off ers an explanation which is found to be untrue, then the same becomes an additional link in the chain of circumstances to make it complete. This view has been taken in a catena of decisions of this Court, namely, Nika Ram v. State of Himachal Pradesh, AIR 1972 SC 2077, Ganesh Lal v. State of Rajasthan, (2002) 1 SCC 73, and State of U.P. v. Dr. Ravindra Prakash Mittal, AIR 1992 SC 2045. 24. When the attention of the convict appellant – Wazir Khan was drawn to the incriminating circumstances that inculpated him in the crime, he failed to off er appropriate explanation or gave a false answer. The same can be counted as providing a missing link for completing a chain of circumstances. 25. Where an accused is alleged to have committed the murder of his wife and the prosecution succeeds in leading evidence to show, like in the present case, that shortly before the commission of the crime they were seen WAZIR KHAN v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 47 together or the off ence took place in the dwelling home where the husband also normally resided, it has been consistently held that if the accused does not dispute his presence at home at the relevant time and does not off er any explanation how the wife received injuries or off ers an explanation which is found to be false, it is a strong circumstance which indicates that he is responsible for commission of the crime.