It is submitted that the present case involves a situation where the compensatory mechanism under the PPA for compensation for Change in Law has failed. It does not meet the objective of restoring an affected party to the same economic E condition as if the change in law had not occurred. Therefore, this is a fit case for this Hon’ble Commission to exercise its powers under Section 79 and devise a mechanism to uphold the objective and purpose of Article 13 – to provide economic restitution.” “129. It is further submitted that PPA envisages a scenario where F this Hon’ble Commission can interfere with the issues relating to the claim made by a party for any change and/or determination of the tariff or any matter relating to the tariff or claims made by any party which partly or wholly related to any change in the tariff or determination of any such claim which can result in change in the tariff. In this context, Articles 13 and 17 are noteworthy. While G Article 13 of the PPA envisages tariff adjustment in the event of “Change in Law”, Article 17 of the PPA provides for dispute resolution, by the Hon’ble Commission in case of claim made by any party for any change in or determination of tariff or any matter related to tariff or claims made by any party, which partly or wholly H 20 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A relate to any change in the tariff or determination of any of such claims could result in change in tariff.” “142.The Petitioner therefore most humbly and respectfully prays that this Hon’ble Commission be pleased to adjudicate upon the present Petition to:- B (a) Declare that the items set out in Paragraph 5 above as Change in Law during Construction Period and/or changes which has led to an increase in the Capital Cost of the Project; (b) Restitute the Petitioner to the same economic condition as if the said Changes in Law had not occurred and devise a mechanism C by which the Petitioner is compensated for the aggregate financial impact and increase in capital cost of account of the Changes in Law, the details of which are set out in Paragraph 113 above; and (c) Pass any such other and further reliefs as this Hon’ble Commission deems just and proper in the nature and circumstances D of the present case.” (13) After exchange of pleadings, the Commission passed the dated 04.02.2015. Since we are in these appeals to be detained only by two aspects, we notice the following findings: “30. The petitioner has submitted that as per Clause 1.4(V) of E RFP for Sasan UMPP, the Procurers through the Authorized Representative had to provide water intake study report. WAPCOS (a premier Government of India agency) was appointed to conduct the water intake study. WAPCOS, as the expert agency identified the water intake pump house location and the pipeline route from F the intake pump house to the power plant in its Report.