22. The submission which has been urged on behalf of the applicant is that as a result of the amendment of Section 29A by Act 33 of 2019, B the period of 12 months prescribed for making an award from the date of the completion of the pleadings has ceased to apply to an international commercial arbitration. Hence, it has been urged that the amendment being of a procedural nature, the amended provision would apply to the arbitral proceedings in the present case following the appointment of Justice S N Variava on 17 January 2018 and pursuant to the arbitrator C entering upon reference on 14 February 2018. Alternatively, the applicant has urged that in the event that this Court were to hold that the amended provisions of Section 29A are inapplicable to the present arbitration, a further extension of time may be granted to the sole arbitrator to complete the arbitral proceedings. D 23. The first respondent has not entered appearance in these proceedings. The second respondent, who is contesting the proceedings as a guarantor, has urged that the amendment of Section 29A by Act 33 of 2019 would not lead to the conclusion that an international commercial arbitration lies outside the purview of the provision. The second respondent E has submitted that reading the provisions of Section 29A in the manner in which the applicant seeks to read them would result in a situation where there would be no timeline under the statute for an international commercial arbitration. Where an international commercial arbitration is governed by the Rules of an arbitral institution, such rules would structure the conduct of the arbitration. The second respondent has F submitted that it was not the intention of the legislature that in a case which is not governed by an arbitral institution, the court would have no control over the time taken in the course of the arbitral proceedings leaving the matter entirely within the discretion of the arbitral forum in a situation such as the present, where the arbitral proceeding is governed G by Indian Law and has a seat within the country. 24. The provisions of Section 29A, as originally introduced into the statute, mandated that all awards shall be made within a period of twelve months from the date on which the arbitral tribunal enters upon the reference. The explanation clarified when the arbitral tribunal would be deemed to have entered upon the reference, namely, the date on H TATA SONS PVT LTD (FORMERLY TATA SONS LTD) v. SIVA INDUSTRIES 1279 AND HOLDINGS LTD [DR. DHANAJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] which the arbitrator has received written notice of the appointment. The A mandatory nature of the provisions of Section 29A(1) and their application to all arbitrations conducted under the Act, domestic or international commercial, was evident from the use of the word “shall”. In terms of Section 29A(4), in case the arbitral award was not rendered within the twelve or eighteen month period as the case may be, the mandate of the B arbitrator(s) would stand terminated, unless on an application made by any of the parties, the court extended time on sufficient cause being shown.