Thus, according to Jhonson1, Section 2(q)(i) gives a blanket exemption to any land situated in an urban area where the entire area is covered by land on which it is not permissible to raise a building. Such land will not be deemed to be ‘vacant land’ because the same cannot be used for building purposes and thus falls beyond the purview of the Act. As per Jhonson1 the `blanket exemption’ connotes an `entire area’ of an urban agglomeration where no construction is permissible at all. In essence, Jhonson1 while explicitly dealing with a situation falling under Section 2(q)(ii) also deemed it necessary to interpret each and every sub-clause of Section 2(q) of the Ceiling Act. It was surely not an obiter-dicta. 20. In Meera Gupta (Smt.) vs. State of West Bengal and Others2, a three-Judge Bench of this Court noticed that Smt. Probhavati Poddar (Proforma Respondent) was owner of two properties, one comprising 414.56 sq.m. of land of which 321 sq.m. was covered by a building and the other comprising 339.65 sq.m. vacant plot. She entered into an Agreement to Sell with Smt. Meera Gupta—the Appellant. A notice was served by the Competent Authority on the proposed vendor and vendee under Section 6(1) of the Ceiling Act directing the vendor to fi le the statement in Form No. 1 as she was holding ‘vacant land’ within the Calcutta Urban Area in excess of the ceiling limit of 500 sq.m. Eventually, a draft statement was prepared depicting 254.21 sq.m. of ‘vacant land’, against which objections raised by Smt. Poddar were rejected and the same was notifi ed as ‘excess vacant 2 (1992) 2 SCC 494 M/S. KEWAL COURT PVT. LTD. AND ANR. v. THE STATE 735 OF WEST BENGAL AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] land’ in the hands of Smt. Poddar. There also, this Court considered the expression ‘vacant land’ as defi ned under sub-clauses (i) to (iii) of Section 2(q) of the Ceiling Act and laid down as follows: “11. To begin with “vacant land” as per the defi nition given in clause (q) of Section 2 means land as such, not being land mainly used for the purpose of agriculture, but situated in an urban agglomeration. “Vacant land”, however, does not include, as per the defi nition, land of three categories. The fi rst category is land on which construction of a building is not permissible under the building regulations in force in the area in which such land is situated. But this is a category with which we are not concerned in the instant case. Johnson case3 is of this category. The second category is of land occupied by any building in an area, where there are building regulations, which has been constructed upon, or is under construction on the appointed day, with the approval of the appropriate authority, and the land appurtenant to such building. This means that if the building stood constructed on the land prior to January 28, 1976, the land occupied under the building is not vacant land.