(5) Any person holding offi ce immediately before the commencement of this Constitution as Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the Constituent Assembly when functioning as the Dominion Legislature under the Government of India Act, 1935, shall on such commencement be the Speaker or, as the case may be, the Deputy Speaker of the provisional Parliament functioning under clause (1).” 227 Repealed Art. 380 read as : 380. Provision as to President – (i) Such person as the Constituent Assembly of the Dominion of India shall have elected in that behalf shall be the President of India until a President has been elected in accordance with the provisions contained in Chapter I IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 179 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 289. Article 381, empowered the President to appoint Members of the Council of Ministers and until then all persons who were holding offi ce as Ministers for the Dominion of India before the commencement of the Constitution were to continue to hold that offi ce228. 290. Article 382 contained provisions for provisional legislatures for the States in Part A in terms of which the legislatures which were functioning immediately before the Constitution in the provinces were to exercise their powers and functions until the duly constituted legislature was summoned to meet for the fi rst session under the provisions of the Constitution229. of Part V and has entered upon his offi ce. (2) In the event of the occurrence of any vacancy in the offi ce of the President so elected by the Constituent Assembly of the Dominion of India by reason of his death, resignation, or removal or otherwise, it shall be fi lled by a person elected in that behalf by the provisional Parliament functioning under Article 379, and until a person is so elected, the Chief Justice of India shall act as President.” 228 Repealed Art. 381 read as : 381. Council of Ministers of the President – Such persons as the President may appoint in that behalf shall become members of the Council of Ministers of the President under this Constitution, and, until appointments are so made, all persons holding offi ce as Ministers for the Dominion of India immediately before the commencement of this Constitution shall on such commencement become, and shall continue to hold offi ce as, members of the Council of Ministers of the President under this Constitution. 229 “38 Repeal Art. 382 read as: 382. Provisions as to provisional Legislatures for States in Part A of the First Schedule. – (1) Until the House or Houses of the Legislature of each State specifi ed in Part A of the First Schedule has or have been duly constituted and summoned to meet for the fi rst session under the provisions of this Constitution, the House or Houses of the Legislature of the corresponding Province functioning immediately before the commencem4ent of this Constitution shall exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred by the provisions of this Constitution on the House or Houses of the Legislature of such State.