There is no reference to the claim of Rs.72,01,53,899/- in the body or the Prayer of the Writ Petition. Conspicuously, the Writ Petition B is confined to seeking a direction to return the Bank Guarantees. 36. Pending disposal of the Writ Petition, the High Court, by an interim dated 08.07.2019,directed NPTC not to invoke the Bank Guarantees. The interim was subject to SPML keeping the Bank Guarantees alive. The relevant portions of the are: C “… 2. Issue notice. The learned counsel appearing for the respondent accepts notice. 3. Admittedly, the contract pursuant to which the bank D guarantees in question had been furnished has been completed and there is no dispute that the petitioner’s performance of the contract was satisfactory. The petitioner also claims that it has received the entire consideration for the same. The petitioner’s claims that the release of the bank guarantees is being withheld contrary to the terms of the E contract between the parties, in to pressurize the petitioner in respect of certain disputes in relation to other contracts, which are pending adjudication before the Arbitral Tribunal. … F 6. In the meanwhile, the respondents are restrained from invoking the bank guarantees, subject to the petitioner keeping the same alive.” 37. On 23.07.2019, SPML sent a Notice to NTPC, intimating its G intention to invoke Arbitration under the Dispute Resolution Clause. 38. During the pendency of the Writ Petition, the parties engaged themselves in multiple discussions about their claims and counter-claims. All that culminated in the Settlement Agreement dated 27.05.2020. The Terms of the Settlement Agreement are as follows: H 866 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A “NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual promises contained herein, the parties agree as follows: 1. That the Agency undertakes to withdraw WP No. 7213/ 2019 filed in the Hon’ble High Court upon execution of the present agreement immediately upon receipt of original Bank B Guarantees stated herein below lying with NTPC as mentioned herein below at Para 4. 2. That the Agency has agreed not to initiate any further proceedings in relation with the present contract agreement and work executed by the Agency, of any nature whatsoever. C Further, the Agency has undertaken not to raise any claim of any nature whatsoever against the NTPC Ltd. in relation with the present contract agreement and work executed by the Agency, be it Arbitration proceedings, civil suit, writ petition, or any other proceedings before any judicial or quasi-judicial D forum. 3. That the Agency has confirmed it has received entire payments arising out of the present contract and the same stands closed, and no further sum/money is payable to the Agency in any manner whatsoever by NTPC Ltd. under the E subject contract. … 5. That NTPC Ltd. has further agreed not to raise any contempt proceedings against the Agency for not keeping alive F the BGs as directed by the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi in pending Writ Petition.” 39. In compliance with the Settlement Agreement, NTPC released the Bank Guarantees on 30.06.2020, which were the subject matter of the pending Writ Petition.