A constitutional document is even less suited to this task, for the philosophy and the D ideologies underlying it must of necessity be expressed in broad and general terms and the process of amending a Constitution is too cumbersome and time- consuming to meet the immediate needs. This task must, therefore, of necessity fall upon the courts because the courts can by the process of judicial interpretation adapt the law to suit E the needs of the society.” (emphasis added) In view of what is held above, the role of the Constitutional Courts to interpret the Constitution considering the changing needs of the society F assumes importance. 23. The Constitution Bench in the case of Navtej Singh Johar5 emphasized that the principle of transforming Constitutionalism also places upon the judicial arm a duty to ensure that a sense of transformation is ushered consistently in the society by interpreting and enforcing the G Constitutional as well as other provisions of law. Constitutional law has developed a great deal during the last few decades. The interpretation of various provisions of the Constitution made by this Court decades back has undergone a drastic change. For example, the narrow interpretation given to Article 21 in the ‘A.K. Gopalan’ era is no longer H 310 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A valid. The concept of freedom has undergone changes. In the 21st Century, society looks completely different from what it looked in the last century. We see a change in the socio-cultural ethos of society. Thus, the interpretation of law must keep pace with changing needs of society. MORALITY IN THE CONTEXT OF ARTICLES 25 B AND 26 24. The freedom of conscience guaranteed under clause (1) of Article 25 is subject to public , morality and health. All four clauses (a), (b,), (c) and (d) of Article 26 are also made specifically subject to public , morality and health. Thus, the right of the religious C denomination to manage its own affairs in matters of religion is always subject to morality. As far as the concept of morality contemplated by Articles 25 and 26 is concerned, much water has flown after the decision in the case of Sardar Syedna1. Moreover, in the case of Sardar Syedna1, the argument that Article 26(b) is subject to morality, was not at all considered as it was not canvassed and pressed at the time of D hearing. In the case of Navtej Singh Johar 5, this Court held that when this Court deals with the issue of morality, it must be guided by the concept of Constitutional morality and not by societal morality. Moreover, notion of morality evolves with time and is not static. The question whether Constitutional morality can be equated with equality, fraternity and E non-discrimination needs consideration. 25. The concept of morality as contemplated by Articles 25 and 26 was considered in greater detail by another Constitution Bench in the case of Sabrimala Temple 5JJ 6. There were four separate opinions rendered by the Constitution Bench.