Particulars, on the other hand, are details in support of material facts pleaded by the party. They amplify, refine and embellish material facts by giving finishing touch to the basic contours of a picture already drawn so as to make it full, more G clear and more informative. Particulars ensure conduct of fair trial and would not take the opposite party by surprise.” 26. In Anil Vasudev Salgaonkar vs. Naresh Kushali Shigaonkar11, this Court has discussed number of earlier decisions on 10 2004 (7) SCC 181 H 11 2009 (9) SCC 310 KANIMOZHI KARUNANIDHI v. A. SANTHANA KUMAR 817 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] the issue as to when the Election petition could be dismissed summarily A if it does not furnish the cause of action in exercise of powers under the Code of Civil Procedure read with Section 83 of the R.P. Act. “50. The position is well settled that an election petition can be summarily dismissed if it does not furnish the cause of action in exercise of the power under the Code of Civil Procedure. B Appropriate s in exercise of powers under the Code can be passed if the mandatory requirements enjoined by Section 83 of the Act to incorporate the material facts in the election petition are not complied with. 51. This Court in Samant N. Balkrishna case [(1969) 3 SCC C 238] has expressed itself in no uncertain terms that the omission of a single material fact would lead to an incomplete cause of action and that an election petition without the material facts relating to a corrupt practice is not an election petition at all. In Udhav Singh v. Madhav Rao Scindia [(1977) 1 SCC 511] the law has been enunciated that all the primary facts which must be proved D by a party to establish a cause of action or his defence are material facts. In the context of a charge of corrupt practice it would mean that the basic facts which constitute the ingredients of the particular corrupt practice alleged by the petitioner must be specified in to succeed on the charge. Whether in an election petition a E particular fact is material or not and as such required to be pleaded is dependent on the nature of the charge levelled and the circumstances of the case. All the facts which are essential to clothe the petition with complete cause of action must be pleaded and failure to plead even a single material fact would amount to disobedience of the mandate of Section 83(1)(a). An election F petition therefore can be and must be dismissed if it suffers from any such vice. The first ground of challenge must therefore fail. 52. In V. Narayanaswamy v. C.P. Thirunavukkarasu [(2000) 2 SCC 294] this Court reiterated the legal position that an election petition is liable to be dismissed if it lacks in material facts. In L.R. G Shivaramagowda v. T.M. Chandrashekar [(1999) 1 SCC 666] this Court again considered the importance of pleadings in an election petition alleging corrupt practice falling within the scope of Section 123 of the Act and observed as under: (SCC p. 677, para 11) H 818 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R.