A Resolution dated 18.12.2009, it would have been done only after a shareholder refused to take shares offered. A shareholder could not apply for excess shares anticipating that the other shareholders would not take up the shares offered. 44. Now, in law, let us first proceed on the basis that the offer B was made with the Authorised Capital being such that the acceptance of the offer would keep the capital within the Authorised Capital. 45. A rolled-up offer would involve the following consequences: A shareholder was free to not apply at all. A shareholder could C apply for less than at the ratio of 1:1. He could apply for shares as per the ratio of 1:1. Now, he could under the application form, apply for shares in excess. There was no limit. The legal limit to be crossed in law, is not in dispute. The law contemplates that shares must be subscribed to the extent of 90 per cent of the issued shares. There is no dispute that it was subscribed to the extent of 90%. By permitting all shareholders D ‘equally’ to apply for shares as indicated hereinbefore, including for shares in excess of the ratio of 1:1, we are not shown any law which stood breached. If all shareholders applied in excess of the entitlement, then, necessarily the Board would have been obliged to distribute the shares on a fair and equal basis, in fact. This contingency did not arise, E as the respondents did not apply at all. If some from the respondents Group had applied, then, again the allotment would have been tested with reference to the standard of fairness and equal treatment. This contingency also did not arise. The shareholding became slanted in favour of the appellants Group only because they applied for more shares, while the respondents Group refused to participate. In the facts of the case, F the application for more shares by the appellants Group and allotment of the shares to themon the basis of the availability of the shares by reason of the choice exercised by the respondents not to participate in the exercise, cannot be treated as defective, illegal or an act of oppression. 46. There is no case, that there was any impediment for the G respondents to apply, once it is found that they were informed and aware of their right to apply. In certain situations, a single act could found a case of oppression. This is not a case where allotment of additional shares was made to anyone other than the existing shareholders. This is a case where the H HASMUKHLAL MADHAVLAL PATEL v. AMBIKA FOOD 273 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] terms were applied equally to all the existing shareholders. The change A in shareholding, in that the appellants shareholding grew from 30.80% to 63.58% is the result of the respondents refusal to apply despite being given the opportunity. TWO QUESTIONS SURVIVE B 47. One of the complaints of the respondentsis that the purported reason for the increase in the authorized capital and the allotment of the shares also was to infuse fresh funds.