H 550 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (3) Nothing in this section shall apply to any treaty, agreement or convention entered into between the Government of India and the Government of any other country or to any negotiations therefor carried on by any person authorised in this behalf by the Government of India. B 38. Offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation.—(1) A person, who associates himself, or professes to be associated, with a terrorist organisation with intention to further its activities, commits an offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation: C Provided that this sub-section shall not apply where the person charged is able to prove— (a) that the organisation was not declared as a terrorist organisation at the time when he became a member or began to profess to be a member; and D (b) that he has not taken part in the activities of the organisation at any time during its inclusion in the [First Schedule] as a terrorist organisation. (2) A person, who commits the offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation under sub-section (1), shall E be punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, or with fine, or with both. 39. Offence relating to support given to a terrorist organisation.—(1) A person commits the offence relating to support given for a terrorist organisation,— F (a) who, with intention to further the activity of a terrorist organisation,— (i) invites support for the terrorist organisation, and (ii) the support is not or is not restricted to provide money or other property within the meaning of Section 40; or G (b) who, with intention to further the activity of a terrorist organisation, arranges, manages or assists in arranging or managing a meeting which, he knows, is— (i) to support the terrorist organisation, or (ii) to further the activity of the terrorist organisation, or H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 551 [M. R. SHAH, J.] (iii) to be addressed by a person who associates or professes to A be associated with the terrorist organisation; or (c) who, with intention to further the activity of a terrorist organisation, addresses a meeting for the purpose of encouraging support for the terrorist organisation or to further its activity. B (2) A person, who commits the offence relating to support given to a terrorist organisation under sub-section (1) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, or with fine, or with both.” Thus, the rights guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) (Right to freedom C of speech and expression) and under Article 19(1)(c) (Right to form association or unions) are not absolute rights, but are subject to reasonable restrictions as per Article 19(2) and 19(4) of the Constitution of India. Article 19 (2) (3) & (4) have been amended vide the Constitution (Sixteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 and the words “sovereignty and D integrity of India” have been inserted. Therefore, as per Article 19(2)(3) & (4) nothing in clause (a), (b) and (c) of clause 1 of Article 19 shall affect the operation of any existing law or prevent the State from making any law in so far as such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercises of the right conferred by the said sub-clauses in the interests of sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of State……As E per Article 19(4) nothing in sub-clause (c) (Right to form Associations or Unions) shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the State from making any law imposing, in the interests of sovereignty and integrity of India or public or morality, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by F the said sub clause.