P/7), whether the jadi-buti would contain Organophosphorous Quinolphos, however he did not say anything further whether any such report was received from CIMS, Bilaspur or not. The PW-18 Dr. A.K. Shukla had stated in his evidence that an inquiry was made by the concerned SHO on one insecticide- Quinolphos, manufactured by Hikal limited, G.I.D.C. Bharuch, Gujarat, marketed by S. India Limited Mumbai, whether such insecticides were found in the jadi-buti or not, but he opined that he did not know whether such poison would be contained in the herbs or not. He also stated that he did not know whether mixing of such herbs in any solution would result into Quinolphos. 26. Having regard to such scanty evidence, it is diffi cult to hold that the prosecution had proved the four important propositions laid down by this Court in case of allegation of murder by poisoning namely (1) the accused had a clear motive to administer poison to the deceased; (2) the deceased died of poison said to have been administered; (3) the accused had the poison in his possession and that (4) the accused had an opportunity to administer the poison to the deceased. It is also pertinent to note that the Chemical examination report (Ex. P/14) though was an incriminating piece of evidence, was not brought to the notice of the appellant during the course of his examination under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. All these circumstances put together, have made the case of prosecution very vulnerable. 27. It cannot be gainsaid that this Court should be slow in reappreciating the evidence and in upsetting the fi ndings recorded by the two courts below, particularly while exercising the jurisdiction under Article 136, however such exercise of jurisdiction is not prohibited, when the Court fi nds that such fi ndings are affl icted with ex-facie infi rmities. HARIPRASAD @ KISHAN SAHU v. STATE OF 229 CHHATTISGARH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] 28. In that view of the matter, the fi ndings recorded by the Trial Court as confi rmed by the High Court against the appellant-accused for his conviction under Section 302 IPC deserve to be set aside and the appellant deserves to be set free. The of Conviction and of Sentence passed by the Trial Court, as confi rmed by the High Court are set aside. The appellant is acquitted from the charges levelled against him. Since the appellant is on bail, his bail bonds shall stand cancelled forthwith. 29. The Appeal stands allowed accordingly. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Divya Pandey