This indicates the importance of a correct evaluation and reckoning of the CRs since it forms the basis of promotion which is being considered by Special No 3 SB. The policy document of 31 October 2013 stipulates that the cut off CRs in respect of offi cers of batch will be promulgated by the MS Branch before the conduct of the Selection Board. 20. In the counter affidavit which has been filed by the Army authorities, it has been specifi ed that for the purpose of the work of Special No 3 SB, an offi cer is granted three looks, namely, the fi rst look, the fi rst review and the second review. Consequently, it has been stated that if all the CRs up to date were to be considered in the fi rst look itself, the purpose of having a second look and a fi nal review would be rendered otiose. We are in agreement with this logic. However, this would have perhaps justifi ed the authorities to exclude the last CR which could have been considered at the fi nal look and the CR prior to that, which could be considered at the stage of the fi rst review. However, as the chart which we have annexed earlier indicates, a cut off was applied arbitrarily in the present case ostensibly to equate the women offi cers with their male counterparts. The arbitrariness of the cutoff is evident from the fact that the CRs for several years were kept out of reckoning altogether. A stray sentence in the of this Court in Nitisha cannot be torn out of context. 21. We are constrained to observe that the attitude has been to fi nd some way to defeat the just entitlement of the women offi cers. Such an approach does disservice to the need to provide justice to the women offi cers who have fought a long and hard battle before this Court to receive their just entitlement under the law. Even after the in Nitisha, the NITISHA AND OTHERS v. UNION OF INDIA 523 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] women offi cers have been compelled to move this Court repeatedly for the realization of their rights. 22. An alternate ground has been sought to be raised on behalf of the Army authorities to the eff ect that adequate vacancies were not available for accommodating the offi cers. In this regard, it is common ground that in an earlier dated 21 November 2022, the Court recorded the statement of the Army authorities that as many as 150 vacancies were to be made available pursuant to the of this Court in Nitisha. Admittedly, as the counter indicates 108 vacancies have been fi lled up. The ground of the unavailability of vacancies would therefore not be available at this stage. We are, therefore, clearly of the view that the manner in which the applicants have been denied empanelment for the post of Colonel on a selection basis is arbitrary. Besides being violative of the fundamental principles of fairness embodied in Article 14 of the Constitution, the whole approach has been contrary to both the of this Court in Nitisha as well as the applicable policy framework laid down by the Army authorities.