However, the Privy Council concluded that the exception to Section 26 added by Section 27 should not be held to nullify the substance of the provision and it would be fallacious to treat the ‘fact discovered’ as equivalent to the object produced; the ‘fact discovered’ embraces the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this, and the information given must relate distinctly to this fact. By way of example, it was elucidated that information supplied by a person in custody that “I will produce a knife concealed in the roof of my house” does not lead to the discovery of a knife; as knives were discovered many years ago, but if it leads to the discovery of the fact that a knife is concealed in the house of the informant to his knowledge and if the knife is proved to have been used in the commission of the off ence, the fact discovered is very relevant. Noting this principle, this Court observed that Section 27 of the Evidence Act requires that the ‘fact discovered’ embraces the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the ‘accused’ as to this and the information given must relate distinctly to the said fact. 10 Criminal Appeal No. 1439 of 2009, decided on 12.01.2023. 11 AIR 1947 Privy Council 67 18 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 27. In the case on hand, though Rajesh Yadav was taken to the police station, be it on 29.03.2013 or even earlier, he could not be said to be in ‘police custody’ till he was arrested at 18:30 hours on 29.03.2013, as he did not fi gure as an ‘accused’ in the FIR and was not ‘accused of any off ence’ till his arrest. Therefore, it was his arrest which resulted in actual ‘police custody’, and the confession made by him, before such arrest and prior to his being ‘accused of any off ence’, would be directly hit by Section 26 of the Evidence Act and there is no possibility of applying the exception under Section 27 to any information given by him in the course of such confession, even if it may have led to the discovery of any fact. In consequence, the purported discovery of the dead body, the murder weapon and the other material objects, even if it was at the behest of Rajesh Yadav, cannot be proved against him, as he was not ‘accused of any off ence’ and was not in ‘police custody’ at the point of time he allegedly made a confession. So too would be the case with Raja Yadav and Om Prakash Yadav, as they also were not named as the ‘accused’ in the FIR and were not ‘accused of any off ence’ till they were arrested and taken into ‘police custody’, well after the recording of their confessions and the alleged seizures based thereon. Needless to state, this lapse on the part of the police is fatal to the prosecution’s case, as it essentially turned upon the ‘recoveries’ made at the behest of the appellants, purportedly under Section 27 of the Evidence Act.