It is thus contended that the principles of natural justice have been grossly violated by the respondents and the appellant has E been deprived of a reasonable opportunity of a fair trial, before passing the of dismissal from service thereby causing him serious prejudice. 21. Citing the decision of this Court in Union of India and Another v. Tulsiram Patel28, learned Senior counsel argued that none of the three clauses to the second proviso to Article 311(2) of the Constitution F of India that mandates that no person employed by the Union or the State shall be dismissed or removed from the service except after an inquiry, could have been resorted to by the respondents for having elected not to conduct a proper inquiry before proceeding to dismiss the appellant. It was vehemently contended that contrary to the procedure prescribed under the CCS (CCA) Rules, no proper inquiry was conducted by the G respondents and no charges were framed by the first Committee till the date it had submitted its Report29 and that the Articles of Charge that 26 dated 10th May, 2010 27 Vide Letter dated 5th May, 2009 28 (1985) 3 SCC 398 H 29 Vide letter dated 5th June, 2009 AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 791 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] were framed by the respondents vide Memorandum dated 8th September, A 2009, were subsequently dropped and the inquiry ed was abandoned in favour of the Report submitted by the first Committee which was only a fact finding report that could not have been relied on as a final inquiry, particularly when it entailed serious consequences. Learned Senior counsel cited a decision of a learned Single Judge of the Delhi High B Court in Sandeep Khurana v. Delhi Transco Ltd. And Others30 and of a Single Judge of the Karnataka High Court in Professor Giridhar Madras v. Indian Institute of Science represented by Chairman and Others31to urge that the Report of the Committee could not be equated with the report of an Inquiry officer, as contemplated in the procedure prescribed in Rule 14 of the CCS (CCA) Rules. This non-adherence to C the procedure prescribed has caused grave injustice to the appellant, it being a serious infraction of the principles of natural justice. Allegations of bias were also levelled by the appellant against some members of the first Committee. 22. Learned counsel further argued that none of the three clauses D appended to the second proviso of Article 311(2) of the Constitution of India have been pressed against the appellant to justify the impracticability of holding a proper inquiry and that failure on the part of the Committee to follow the procedure as prescribed in the CCS (CCA) Rules itself vitiates the entire proceedings. In fact, it is the case of the appellant that E at no stage was he informed by the Committee that the proceeding being conducted by it were disciplinary proceedings and therefore, the report submitted by the said Committee could not have been treated by the respondents as an Inquiry Report under CCS (CCA) Rules.