For instance, the right to freedom of speech and expression is not violated by a law which requires that B the name of the printer and publisher and the place of printing and publication should be printed legibly on every book or paper. 11. Thus, there is a marked distinction in the language of law, its possible interpretation and application under the Indian and the US laws. It is significant to note that the freedom of speech is C the bulwark of a democratic Government. This freedom is essential for proper functioning of the democratic process. The freedom of speech and expression is regarded as the first condition of liberty. It occupies a preferred position in the hierarchy of liberties, giving succour and protection to all other liberties. It has been truly said that it is the mother of all other liberties. Freedom of speech plays D a crucial role in the formation of public opinion on social, political and economic matters. It has been described as a “basic human right”, “a natural right” and the like. With the development of law in India, the right to freedom of speech and expression has taken within its ambit the right to receive information as well as the right E of press.” 12.6 In the case of Joseph Kuruvilla Vellukunnel vs. Reserve Bank of India, 1962 Supp (3) SCR 632, it is observed in para 75 that the aid of American concepts, laws and precedents in the interpretation of our laws is not always without its dangers and they have therefore to F be relied upon with some caution if not, with hesitation because of the difference in the nature of those laws and of the institutions to which they apply. 12.7 In the case of State of Bihar vs. Union of India, (1970) 1 SCC 67, it is observed and held in para 13 as under: G “Our attention was drawn to some provisions of the American Constitution and of the Constitution Act of Australia and several decisions bearing on the interpretation of provision which are somewhat similar to Art. 131. But as the similarity is only limited, we do not propose to examine either the provisions referred to or the decisions to which our attention was drawn. In H 542 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A interpreting our Constitution we must not be guided by decisions which do not bear upon provisions identical with those in our Constitution.” 12.8 In the case of Ashok Kumar Thakur vs. Union of India, (2008) 6 SCC 1, it is observed in para 165 as under: B “165. At the outset, it must be stated that the decisions of the United States Supreme Court were not applied in the Indian context as it was felt that the structure of the provisions under the two Constitutions and the social conditions as well as other factors are widely different in both the countries. Reference may be made C to Bhikaji Narain Dhakras & Ors. Vs.