20. The amici further argued that the respondents failed to provide any material evidence, such as the ELISA/HIV test and blood compatibility report of the blood unit that was transfused to the appellant in 2002, to demonstrate that they followed their own exhibited ‘Transfusion Medicine Technical Manual and Standard Operating Procedures’ that is to say that before any blood transfusion took place, it was compulsory to conduct an ELISA test of the blood unit to determine whether it was HIV infected or not, ensuring that it is safe for transfusion to HIV negative person. The appellant placed reliance on cases like Smt. Savita Garg vs. The Director, 11 Letter no. 4180/Adm./RTI/2019, dated 3.7.2019. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 615 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] National Heart Institute (hereafter, “Savita Garg”)12; V. Kishan Rao v Nikhil Super Speciality Hospital & Another13; Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences v Prasanth S. Dhananka & Ors. (hereafter, “Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences”)14, related to medical negligence, to support his contention that in cases of medical negligence, the burden of proof lies with the respondents and not with the appellant. 21. The amici and the appellant submitted that the respondents failed to secure a written informed consent bearing his signature both before the Commission as well as this court. As a consequence, the HIV negative report dated 5.3.2014 cannot be accepted. It was also contended that the report presented by the respondents is fraudulent and baseless since it was produced by them after a signifi cant delay of more than seven years, which is contrary to Section 1.3.1 – “Maintenance of Medical Records” of the IMC Professional Conduct Regulations.15 Additionally, the report lacks important details such as part-I, Lab Reference number, the name of the specifi c pathologist, and is mentioned as referred by “self”. To further counter the accusation that the appellant had concealed the HIV negative report dated 05.03.2014, he argued that the medical sheet and related documents were in the possession of the respondents. He was never given access to it, or a copy of it; hence, he could not have produced the same. 22. Reference was made to Chapter 16 of “The Guidelines for HIV Testing, March 2007”, published by the National AIDS Control Organisation, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, to highlight the importance of informed consent for HIV testing. The guideline states that any physician conducting an invasive procedure on a patient must obtain informed consent; in other words, the patient must be provided with adequate information about the necessity of blood transfusion, available alternatives, and the potential risks associated with both transfusion and non-transfusion options so as to make an informed decision. 12 [2004] SUPP. 5 S.C.R. 359. 13 [2010] 5 S.C.R. 1. 14 [2009] 6 S.C.C. 1. 15 Section 1.3.1 Maintenance of medical records: 1.3.1 Every physician shall maintain the medical records pertaining to his/ her indoor patients for a period of 3 years from the date of commencement of the treatment in a standard proforma laid down by the Medical Council of India [..] 616 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.