14. A few basic aspects are not of much controversy in this case, D essentially based on circumstantial evidence. The husband of the appellant was mostly living abroad and the appellant was mostly living with her parents at Kolakkudi. As per the version of the witnesses PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3, who supported the prosecution case as also as per the version of PW-6 Jamal Mohammed, father of the appellant, who did not support E the prosecution case and was declared hostile, this much remains indisputable that on 18.06.2007, the appellant came with her father and with her daughter to Perambalur from Kolakkudi. The victim child, daughter of the appellant, met with her homicidal death on 21.06.2007. 15. The major disputable part of the matter is that as per the F testimony of PW-6 Jamal Mohammed, on 20.06.2007, he left the victim child with PW-1 Basheera and went back to Kolakkudi with his daughter, that is, the appellant. According to the prosecution case, the appellant remained very much in Perambalur with the victim child and in the morning of 21.06.2007, she strangled the child when her mother-in-law (PW-1) was out of the house. According to PW-6 Jamal Mohammed, the appellant G was not in Perambalur at the relevant point of time; and she came to Perambalur with him on 21.06.2007 in the late afternoon after receiving information about demise of the child and thereafter, she was arrested. Some of the other prosecution witnesses were also given the same suggestions in the cross-examination. These aspects lead to the plea of H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 981 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] alibias has been referred to and relied upon by the learned counsel for A the appellant. 15.1. The Trial Court and the High Court have examined the evidence on record and have rejected this plea of alibi with reference to the significant features of the case that there is no corroborative evidence on record, to the assertion made by PW-6 Jamal Mohammed, that on B 20.06.2007, he took his daughter back to his village Kolakkudi. The accused-appellant did not adduce any evidence to prove that she was not present in Perambalur, at the time and place of incident. Apart from the fact that PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3 consistently maintained their versions that the appellant was available at the time and place of incident, two C independent witnesses, PW-4 Sharfunisha, landlord of PW-1 and PW-5 Thiru-Jothi, neighbour of PW-1 testified that they saw the appellant sitting with or near the body of the deceased child immediately after, and at the place of, the incident. Although there appears to be no reason to discard the testimonies of PW-2 and PW-3 but even if for the sake of argument their testimonies are left aside for being directly related witnesses who D might not be favourably disposed towards the appellant, there appears no reason to disbelieve and discard the testimonies of PW-4 and PW-5. Nothing even remotely has been shown as to why PW-4 and PW-5 would be interested in testifying about the presence of appellant around the time, and at the place of incident.