A exhibitswere presented.The Trial Court recorded the appellants’- accused’s statements under Section 313 of the Cr. PC. 6. Appellants maintained that they were falsely implicated and had been kept in illegal confinement after being apprehended. They also argued that they were produced before the Court after their pictures B had been widely publicised through local media and confronted with prosecution witnesses. Further, it was submitted that they were tortured before being presented before the court on 18.03.2000. They also stated that they were forced to sign statements prepared by Investigating Officer on 20.03.2000. C 7. The Trial Court considered the aforementioned statements and the other evidence on record and held that appellants formed an unlawful assembly and in pursuance of a common object, kidnapped PW-21 to compel his father to pay a ransom amount of Rs.15 Lakhs. The Trial Court also concluded that theappellants sought to take advantage of PW-21’s confinement and the threat to cause death to him for compelling D PW-20 to pay the ransom. The Trial Court found no reason to disbelieve the statement of the PW-21. Thus, appellants were held guilty for the commission of offences punishable under Sections 148 and 364A read with Section 149 of the E IPC.Appellants prayed for leniency in the sentence on the ground that they had old parents and there was no one else to look after them.The Trial Court concluded the trial and rendered its verdict on 29.05.2003.The Trial Court sentenced the accused-appellants to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three years under Section 148 of the IPC, rigorous F imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs.2000/- each under Section 364A read with Section 149 of the IPC.The Trial Court further clarified that the period of under-trial detention would be set off and both sentences shall run concurrently. 8. Appellants appealed against the of conviction and sentence G before the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The High Court considered the question as to whether there existed reliable evidence to identify and connect the appellants with the offence of kidnapping for ransom under Section 364A of the IPC.The High Court termed PW-21’s statement to be crucial, and placing reliance on the same, held that all ingredients of Section 364A of the IPC had been satisfied. H RAVI DHINGRA v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 171 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] The High Court rejected the plea that there was material A discrepancy in the prosecution’s case and held that there was no reason to cast any doubt on the veracity of the versions of prosecution witnesses. Regarding PW-21, the High Court remarked that he was “a child witness, but he faced long and searching cross-examination” and there is no contradiction in his version. It rejected the contention as to B the contradictions in PW-20’s stance by declaring that “Discrepancy in investigation cannot by itself a ground to reject the testimony of a reliable witness.”Further, the High Court concluded that by virtue of the testimony of PW-20 and PW-21 itself, the “connection of the accused with the crime stands established beyond reasonable doubt.” C 9.