If F it was a suit containing a prayer for declaration of title, the court-fee was liable to be paid on the whole value of the property and not on the share sought to be partitioned. 120. Therefore, we are of the view that the preliminary decree dated 28.06.1963 could not have determined the claim to title made G by the legal heirs seeking partition, as against third parties. Any finding rendered in the preliminary decree, that the properties were Mathruka properties liable to be partitioned, was only incidental to the claim of the legal heirs and such a finding will not be determinative of their title to property as against third parties. H 342 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 121. In fact, we have already noted that as many as 50 issues were framed for trial in the suit. But all these 50 issues were found in the and preliminary decree to revolve only around 10 broad points, both of fact and of law. Those 10 points read as follows: “The questions at issue arising in the suit revolve round the B following ten broad pointes both of fact and of law. I. Whether Nawab Khurshid Jah left any property of the description covered by para 2 of the Farman Ex. P 30 dated 5th Shahabad, 1347 (corresponding to 17-1-1929) and Or.3 clause 9; and what is its extent. C II. Whether that property is liable to be divided amongst the surviving legal heirs in the line of his succession? III. Whether the claim for such division is within time? IV. Who are various heirs? D V. What are the respective rights of those heirs, including the rights of the Amir Paigah who has been in possession of these properties? VI. Is defendant No.1 liable for rendition of accounts and mesne profits, as claimed? E VII. Whether any of the defendants have cause damage or destruction to the Matruka property as alleged by the parties, if so, what is their extent? VIII. Whether they or any of them made any alienation; to what extent, and how the equities in case of transferees F on record be adjusted? IX. Whether the suit is bad for misjoinder of parties or causes of action. X. Whether the court-fee paid is correct.” G 122. None of the above 10 points relate to the assertion of the claim of third parties (except the Government) to title to the properties. 123. Therefore, the manner in which the and preliminary decree dated 28.06.1963 were sought to be used, abused and misused by parties to the proceedings as well as non-parties H who jumped into the fray by purchasing portions of the preliminary M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 343 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] decree and seeking to execute them through Court, defeating the A rights of third parties, is what has prompted the Division Bench of the High Court to hold that the preliminary decree is vitiated by fraud.