G 17. In our view, the matter before us is in a limited compass. Our remit is to fine-tune the guidelines laid by this Court in the 2017 . The constitution of a Permanent Committee, reliance on certain objective criteria for assessment, and final decision through voting are the central aspects of the 2017 . Our remit does not extend to reviewing H 440 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A the same, but only to modifying the criteria through our experiences gained over a period of time. 18. We agree that the elaborate procedure carried out by the Permanent Committee would serve no purpose if the ultimate decision is taken by secret ballot. It has been found that even the applicants B who were beyond the cut-off were at times put through a secret ballot. This has resulted in both the exclusion of people from the list prepared by the Permanent Committee and expansion of the list by further inclusion. 19. The aforesaid aspect has to be considered in the conspectus C of the concept of ‘Senior Designation’. This designation has always been held to be an honour conferred. While it is alleged that voting by secret ballot may not always subserve the interests of transparency, in practice judges may be reluctant to put forth their views openly. This is especially the case where the comments of a judge can have a deleterious D effect on the advocate’s practice. 20. Thus, we find merit in the contention that voting by secret ballot should not be the rule but clearly an exception. In case it has to be resorted to, the reasons for the same should be recorded. Cut-off Marks: E 21. A grievance was raised that while the cut-off marks may have already been decided, the same are neither published in advance nor communicated to those applying for senior designation, thereby leading to speculation at the Bar. It was thus prayed that the cut-off marks be released in advance. F However, in the course of the oral submissions, a consensus emerged between the parties, and in our view rightly so, that it would be difficult to prescribe cut-off marks in advance. As designation is really an honour to be conferred, there can only be a limited number of successful applicants in one go. A decision on the number of successful G applicants must be left to the Permanent Committee, depending on the total number of applicants, the marks obtained by them, and the number of people that can be invited for the personal interview. 22. We now turn our attention to the modifications suggested in the categories enumerated under paragraph 73.7 of the 2017 . H MS. INDIRA JAISING v. SUPREME COURT OF INDIA, 441 THROUGH SECRETARY GENERAL [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] The Points Assigned for Publications: A 23. This aspect was debated with fairly divergent views. As per Ms. Indira Jaising, a designated Senior Advocate is not just someone who appears in Court. They are also expected to contribute intellectually, and to the development of the law.