7. As stated earlier, after having not succeeded in the fi rst application seeking discharge under Section 227 of CrPC, in which the petitioner had raised the issue of sanction by contending that the sanction was accorded by the Government under Section 19(1) of the said Act without any application of mind, the respondent-accused had fi led the second application again seeking his discharge under Section 227 of CrPC by raising the issue of sanction by contending, inter alia, that the sanction was passed mechanically by the Government and that the Investigating Offi cer had suppressed the material produced by the respondent off ering satisfactory explanations to the assets acquired by him. Admittedly, the second application was not pressed for by the respondent by submitting the Memo on 02.12.2014, wherein it was stated that the Court may proceed to frame charge against him. Thus, by submitting the said Memo, the respondent- accused had specifi cally not pressed for his contention with regard to the validity of sanction or error in granting the sanction by the Government, and he specifi cally requested the Court to proceed further with the framing of charge. Considering the said memo, the trial court framed the charge, and the prosecution examined as many as 17 witnesses in support of its case. At that stage, the respondent submitted the third application which was in the nature of interlocutory application again seeking the discharge under Section 227 of CrPC on the ground that there was an error in the sanction , the Government being not competent to grant the sanction under Section 19(1) of the said Act. The said application having been dismissed by the trial court, the High Court could not and should not have entertained the petition under Section 482 of CrPC, which was in the nature of revision application, and reversed the fi ndings recorded by 26 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the trial court, in view of sub-section (3) read with sub-section (4) of Section 19 of the said Act. 8. For the ready reference, the relevant part of sub-section (1), (3) and (4) of Section 19 are reproduced herein below: “19. Previous sanction necessary for prosecution. — (1) No court shall take cognizance of an off ence punishable under sections 7, 11, 13 and 15 alleged to have been committed by a public servant, except with the previous sanction save as otherwise provided in the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013 (1 of 2014)— (a) in the case of a person who is employed, or as the case may be, was at the time of commission of the alleged off ence employed in connection with the aff airs of the Union and is not removable from his offi ce save by or with the sanction of the Central Government, of that Government; (b) in the case of a person who is employed, or as the case may be, was at the time of commission of the alleged off ence employed in connection with the aff airs of a State and is not removable from his offi ce save by or with the sanction of the State Government, of that Government; (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his offi ce.