Vs. A. Ramadas and Anr. ; (2011) 1 SCC 429 as well as the recent decision of this Court in the case of U.N. Krishnamurthy Vs. A.M. Krishnamurthy; 2022 SCC OnLine SC 840 in support of his prayer to dismiss the present appeals. H 238 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 5. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length. 6. At the outset, it is required to be noted that the learned Trial Court, on appreciation of evidence on record, specifically recorded findings on readiness and willingness on the part of the plaintiff to perform B his part of the agreement. The findings recorded on readiness and willingness on the part of the plaintiff were on appreciation of the entire evidence on record. In the legal notice which was issued on 20.11.2007, the plaintiff asked the defendant to receive the balance amount and execute the sale deed. In reply to the legal notice, the defendant denied the execution of agreement to sell itself. That thereafter, the plaintiff C filed the suit for specific performance in which it was specifically averred that he was ready and willing to perform the agreement dated 13.03.2007. In his deposition, the plaintiff specifically stated that he was ready and willing to perform his obligations under the agreement. He further stated that he approached the defendant in the month of June, 2007 and again D in July, 2007 with the balance sale consideration. There is no cross- examination in this regard. The plaintiff also examined two witnesses, PW-2 and PW-3, who were attestors to agreement to sell dated 13.03.2007, who specifically stated that in July, 2007, the plaintiff approached the defendants and asked them to accept the balance sale consideration in cash, to that also there is no cross-examination. The E receipt of Rs. 3 lakhs by way of earnest money, has been held to be proved by both the courts below. Within a period of one month from passing of the decree, the plaintiff deposited the balance sale consideration i.e., Rs. 9,74,000/- before the learned Trial Court. Considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, it is observed that the F High Court has materially erred in reversing the decree by reversing the findings of the Trial Court on readiness and willingness of the appellant. 6.1 From the impugned and passed by the High Court, it appears that the reasoning given by the High Court is that the plaintiff has not proved that he had the cash and/or amount and/or G sufficient funds/means to pay the balance sale consideration, as no passbook and/or bank accounts was produced. In the case of Ramrati Kuer (supra) which has been specifically considered by this Court in the case of Indira Kaur (supra), it was observed and held as under: - “Fourthly, it is urged that the respondents did not produce any accounts even though their case was that accounts were H BASAVARAJ v. PADMAVATHI & ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.]