As clarified by this Court in SK Ahmed, Malleshi was merely concerned with ransom and its ratio would be of no assistance to cases where the fulfilment of other ingredients of crime under Section 364A is G brought into question. 17. In the facts of the present case, we therefore agree with the submission of the learned counsel for the appellants, Sri Gaurav Agrawal, that the conviction of the appellants is unsustainable under Section 364A of the IPC. H RAVI DHINGRA v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 181 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 18. This Court has wide power to alter the charge under Section A 216 of the Cr.PC whilst not causing prejudice to the accused, as reiterated in Jasvinder Saini vs. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) (2013) 7 SCC 256, para 11;Central Bureau of Investigationvs. Karimullah Osan Khan (2014) 11 SCC 538, paragraph Nos. 17 and 18. The following observations of thisCourt inDr.Nallapareddy Sridhar Reddy vs. State B of Andhra Pradesh (2020) 12 SCC 467, paragraph No. 21are also instructive: “21. From the above line of precedents, it is clear that Section 216 provides the court an exclusive and wide-ranging power to change or alter any charge. The use of the words “at C any time before is pronounced” in sub-section (1) empowers the court to exercise its powers of altering or adding charges even after the completion of evidence, arguments and reserving of the . The alteration or addition of a charge may be done if in the opinion of the court there was an omission in the framing of charge or if upon prima facie examination of the D material brought on record, it leads the court to form a presumptive opinion as to the existence of the factual ingredients constituting the alleged offence. The test to be adopted by the court while deciding upon an addition or alteration of a charge is that the material brought on record needs to have a direct link or nexus E with the ingredients of the alleged offence. Addition of a charge merely commences the trial for the additional charges, whereupon, based on the evidence, it is to be determined whether the accused may be convicted for the additional charges. The court must exercise its powers under Section 216 judiciously and ensure that no prejudice is caused to the accused and that he is allowed to F have a fair trial. The only constraint on the court’s power is the prejudice likely to be caused to the accused by the addition or alteration of charges. Sub-section (4) accordingly prescribes the approach to be adopted by the courts where prejudice may be caused.” G Therefore, we allow the appeals in part and set aside the conviction under Section 364A of the IPC. The s of the learned Trial Court and the High Court are modified to the above extent. The appellants arenow convicted for the offence under Section 363 of the IPC; i.e., kidnapping and sentenced to H 182 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R.