It is pertinent to note that the Second Appeal, which displayed all the LRs of the plaintiff as appellants, was preferred by one Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar, who was the Power of Attorney holder under a power of attorney executed by the original plaintiff on 4th January 2001, prior to his death. Another Power of Attorney dated 20th November H YOGESH NAVINCHANDRA RAVANI v. NANJIBHAI 283 SAGRAMBHAI CHAUDHARY & ORS. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 2012, had also been executed in his favour by the appellant-Lalitbhai A Jesangbhai Parmar. Thus, Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar was the power of attorney holder only for the appellant- Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar, and not for the other LRs of the original plaintiff on whose behalf the aforesaid Second Appeal had been preferred. Crucially, the other LRs of the original plaintiff had not signed any Vakalatnama to prefer the B aforesaid Second Appeal. 5.5 The registry of the High Court, recognizing the aforementioned discrepancy, raised office objections as to whether the Vakalatnama had been signed by all the appellants or not. C 5.6 In spite of repeated opportunities, these objections were not removed, and the aforesaid Second Appeal came to be dismissed on 27th November 2015, for non-removal of office objections. Thereafter, an application being Miscellaneous Civil Application No. 894 of 2016 for restoration of the Second Appeal was filed wherein it was stated that the Power of Attorney holder, i.e. Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar had D informed the registry of the High Court about his inability to obtain authority letter from all the LRs of the deceased original plaintiff, thereby requesting their transposition as defendants. 5.7 The High Court, vide dated 9th March 2016, allowed the said application and restored the Second Appeal to its original E status. 5.8 Subsequently, the Second Appeal came to be admitted by the High Court, vide its dated 21st April 2016, and the parties were directed to maintain status quo. The crux of the dispute begins F hereinafter. 5.9 The appellant-Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar, on coming to know about the filing of the aforesaid Second Appeal by his Power of Attorney holder-Vithalbhai, cancelled the Power of Attorney, vide Public Notice dated 20th June 2017, since the aforesaid Second Appeal had been G preferred without his knowledge or instruction. Pursuant to the cancellation of the Power of Attorney, appellant-Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar engaged appellant-Yogesh Navinchandra Ravani, an advocate, to file a pursis for withdrawal of the Second Appeal and allied civil applications. H 284 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 5.10 The High Court, vide dated 11th September 2017, took on record the aforesaid pursis and permitted withdrawal of the Second Appeal. 5.11 However, even after cancellation of the Power of Attorney executed in favour of Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar, he filed Misc. Civil B Application No. 1 of 2018 before the High Court for review of its dated 11th September 2017 and consequent restoration of the Second Appeal, as well as Misc. Civil Application No. 2 of 2018 seeking condonation of delay. 5.12 The High Court, vide impugned and dated C 14th February 2020, allowed the aforesaid applications, thereby restoring the Second Appeal to its original number and status.