62.Section 23 of the Land Acquisition Act states out the grounds for granting compensation in cases of acquisition of land under the Act. One such reason for the grant of compensation is rehabilitation, and it is H this need for granting compensation for rehabilitation under the Act that RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 469 PRADESH [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] is echoed by the impugned notification. A bare reading of both the A executive actions in consonance with the Act would show that the need for giving compensation for rehabilitation is valid in law and is backed by the parent statute. The mischief then, is only limited to the arbitrary classification made by such actions. In such a case, we are of the opinion that since the mischief lies only within the classification, it can be severed, B and the remaining part of the executive actions that sets out to grant compensation for the purpose of rehabilitation remains valid in law. 63. Once the classification is removed, and the executive actions are read in consonance with the parent act, we would see that since the Act, and now even the executive actions do not discriminate in terms of C compensation, the ex-gratia payment and the increased base amount, as enunciated by the executive actions, must be given to all landowners in the subject area. 64. At this stage, we would like to state that while the objective of the said classification might have been noble, however, such classification D only on the basis of conjectures and surmises cannot be sustained. If a claim is being made to differentiate between class of persons, such claim must be backed by empirical data. While this Court is not a fact-finding Court and is a Court of law, however, the law must also not be understood in isolation, but in the context in which it exists, as the law does not exist E like an object within the statutes, but lives and evolves with the people it governs. 65. Further, in cases of administrative action, even if the classification has a rational nexus to the objective of the notification, the classification must also be legitimized by the parent statute. If the parent F statute does not allow for a classification, then, even if the classification vis-à-vis the notification is able to pass the tests of Article 14, it would still be liable to struck down if the parent statute does not allow for the same. 66. The establishment of Greater Noida, as discussed above, G was done for a noble purpose, i.e., to accommodate in the city all those who came travelling from every corner of the country in search of a better life. While doing so however, as can be seen in the present case, some residents whose land was subject to acquisition in the pursuit of the said aim, were faced with discrimination. In such circumstance, it H 470 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A becomes the duty of this Court to dispense justice, and rectify the harm caused to those at the receiving end of the discrimination.