The relevant portion12 of the of the trial court reads: B “298-In my humble opinion circumstances make statements more than the witnesses. It is notable that PW-43 Chanchal Mishra Investigation Officer in her statement has told that after conducting the inspection of the place of incident Site Inspection of the place of incident Ex.P-13, Memo of Site Inspection and Site Map of C place of incident and Ex.P-14 circumstances of the site prepared on the identification of the Victim. She says that she conducted the videography and photography of the place of incident. After the videogrpahy of the place of incident the witness said transcription C.D. Article-16 was prepared. PW-30 Papparam D said that C.D. of videography of the circumstances told by the above victim was prepared in his presence. He said that he played the above C.D. on Laptop and typed the circumstances as told by the victim on computer. He proved the sealed C.D. its Memo of Transcription by exhibiting the same in evidence as Ex.P—69 and Ex.P-70 respectively. Witness PW-30 Ramdev has also E confirmed the statements of above witnesses. In this regard the defence while giving emphasis on Ex.D-103 and ExD-104 has argued that SHO of P.S. Soorsagar Sh. Madan Benival and his police staff had reached at the spot. After doing the videography of the spot they showed it to the victim on the next day. Hence, F the victim clearly stated the circumstances inside Kutiya. In my humble opinion there is no abstract in these pleas. This is correct that it appears form Ex.D-103 and Ex.D-104 that Staff of P.S. Soorsagar and SHO Madan Beniwal had gone at the spot but he would have done the videography of the place of incident or perused the place of incident, such does not appear from both G above documents. 299- We have carefully perused the Ex.P-69 Memo of Transcription, part of which is Ex.P-70 print out. 12 We may note that there appears to be misnumbering in the paragraphs of the trial H court dated 25.04.2018. STATE OF RAJASTHAN v. ASHARAM @ ASHUMAL 11 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 300- According to the above memo on dated 22.8.2013 at the A time of site inspection videogrpahy regarding the room, bathroom of Kutiya at the place of incident was conducted from the witness and after typing the details of the circumstances of the place of incident as told by the Victim, in computer the print out was taken and the detailed document of transcription has been included in B the case file. We perused the Ex.P-70 Transcription (Print out of transcription). 301- This is clear that the Investigation Officer while taking precautions has asked from the Victim her details by taking her at Hariom Farm House without taking her inside the Kutiya and has C done its videography. Transcription of the above videogrpahy of the details without going inside is Ex.P-70. In the above transcription Ex.P-70 we matched the facts told by the victim about taking inside Kutiya from the Ex.P-13 and Ex.P-14 and photographs Ex.P-16 to Ex.P32.