680 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 4P OS.RCT.RS. 680 [2023] 4 S.C.R. A APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA (Civil Appeal No.1308 of 2023) B FEBRUARY 20, 2023 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN AND B.V. NAGARATHNA, JJ.] Evidence Act, 1872 – s.112 – Birth during marriage, conclusive proof of legitimacy – DNA test of minor child – Circumstances under which may be directed – Principles enumerated. C Constitution of India – Right to privacy – DNA testing of children – Held: Children have the right not to have their legitimacy questioned frivolously before a Court of Law – This is an essential attribute of the right to privacy. D Evidence Act, 1872 – s.112 – Presumption u/s.112 – Absence of plea of “non-access” to dislodge such presumption – Effect of – Respondent-husband filed petition for divorce on the ground of adultery against appellant-wife – Sought direction to subject the son to DNA testing – Granted – Correctness of – Held: Once a marriage is held to be valid, there is a strong presumption as to the E children born from that wedlock as being legitimate – This presumption can be rebutted only by strong, clear and conclusive evidence to the contrary – The conclusive presumption of paternity of a child born during the subsistence of a valid marriage is that the child is that of the husband and it cannot be rebutted by a mere F DNA test report – What is necessary to rebut is the proof of non- access at the time when the child could have been begotten, that is, at the time of its conception – However, in the present case, no plea was raised by the husband as to non-access in to dislodge the presumption u/s.112 – Therefore, no prima facie case made out by the respondent to justify a direction to conduct a DNA test on the G son – Also, the respondent specifically claimed that he is in possession of call recordings/transcripts, and the daily diary of the appellant pointing to her infidelity therefore, this is not a case where a DNA test would be the only possible way to ascertain the truth regarding the appellant’s adultery – Impugned of the High H Court and the of the Family Court set aside – 680 APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 681 [Per V. Ramasubramanian, J. (Concurring)] – The question as to the A permission of DNA test is to be analysed through the prism of the child and not through the prism of the parents – The child cannot be used as a pawn to show that the mother of the child was living in adultery – It is always open to the respondent-husband to prove the adulterous conduct of the wife by other evidence but, the child’s B right to identity should not be allowed to be sacrificed. Evidence Act, 1872 – ss.112, 114 illustration (h) – Whether an adverse presumption can be drawn under illustration (h) to s.114, as to the wife’s adulterous conduct if she refuses to comply with a direction for the child to undergo a DNA test – Respondent-husband C claimed that he found out the alleged adulterous conduct of the appellant-wife 3 years after the birth of the second son, filed petition for divorce on the ground of adultery – Sought direction to subject the second son to DNA testing, granted – Challenged by appellant – Relying on Dipanwita Roy case, respondent contended that he is not questioning the legitimacy of the child, but alleging adultery D against the appellant and therefore, on her refusal to subject the child to DNA test, a presumption u/s.114(h) can be drawn against her – Held: The presumption under the section is discretionary and not mandatory – Further, the facts in Dipanwita Roy were so compelling, so as to justify a direction to conduct a DNA test as the husband therein had taken a specific plea of non-access, unlike in E the present case – In the instant case, there is no dispute about the paternity of the son as admittedly he was born during the continuous cohabitation of the parties and thus during the subsistence of a valid marriage– On facts, no adverse inference can be drawn as against the appellant u/s.114 on her refusal to subject her son to a F DNA test – Allegation of adultery has to be proved by the respondent de hors the issue of paternity of the son – [Per V. Ramasubramanian, J.