It has also been contended that there had been a fundamental defect in the trial when the Trial Court omitted to examine the capacity of the appellant in terms of Section 329 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, E 19733 while ignoring the material evidence on record to the effect that the appellant was not a person of sound mental disposition, for he was admitted toa rehabilitation centre for de-addiction and was discharged against the advice of the centre. The facts regarding treatment of the appellant for mental illness post-conviction have also been referred to in F this regard. On the other hand, it has been contended on behalf of the respondent-State that when the deceased were lastly seen in the company of the appellant, the burden was heavy upon him to explain the cause of their unnatural death, which he had failed to discharge; rather he gave false information about accidental drowning of the children. It has also been submitted that the plea of unsoundness of mind, as taken before G this Court, remains untenable for the same having not been raised in trialor even in appeal before the High Court. It is submitted that even if the appellant had been admitted to and treated in the psychiatry ward after conviction, it would not take his case of such unsoundness of mind 2 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the Evidence Act’. H 3 ‘CrPC’, for short. PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 811 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] at the time of commission of the crime that he could be absolved or A exonerated. Relevant factual and background aspects 4. With reference to the outline as above and looking to the questions arising for determination in this appeal, the relevant factual B and background aspects could be noticed, in brief, as follows: 4.1. The prosecution case, based on circumstantial evidence, had been that the appellant took his two sons Jitesh and Sunny, aged about 9 years and 6 years respectively, to Haiderpur Canal at Haiderpur Water Plant, Paschim Vihar, Delhi under the pretext of having fun and after C reaching the said place and getting opportunity, he strangulated them one by one and threw the dead bodies into the canal. The prosecution case further had been that the appellant attempted to project as if the children accidentally fell into the canal and in that effort, he jumped into the canal and, after swimming for some distance, came out and then, went to the nearby office of Water Treatment Plant to inform the staff D present there about his sons having accidentally fallen into the canal; and thereafter, he also went to a nearby Petrol Pump and narrated the same story to one of the employees and made a call at 100 number to the police. According to the prosecution, after reaching of the police,the appellant narrated the same version. E 4.2. However, after recovery of the dead bodies and their post- mortem examination, it was revealed that the children did not die because of drowning but the cause of death had been asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation.