The compensation G awarded under other heads was not disturbed. 4. It is the aforesaid which has been impugned by the appellant before this Court. 5. Learned Counsel for the appellant has raised a limited argument H that the of the High Courtreducing the loss of earning capacity to SARNAM SINGH v. SHRIRAM GENERAL INSURANCE CO. 1185 LTD. & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 80% is erroneous as the appellant had suffered amputation of his right A lower limb. He was working as gunman. As a result of the accident on account of his inability to discharge duty as gunman his services were terminated w.e.f. 31.05.2015. Hence, in the case of the appellant the functional disability could not be taken as 80%. It should be taken as 100%. B 6. On the other hand, Learned Counsel for the respondent Insurance company submitted that there was error in calculation of the compensation by the Tribunal keeping in view the disability certificate produced by the appellant. The same has been corrected by the High Court. The appellant had not preferred appeal seeking enhancement of C compensation. There is no error in the passed by the High Court. The appeal, therefore,deserves to be dismissed. 7. Heard Learned Counsel for the parties and perused the paper book. 8. The issue required to be considered in the present appeal falls D in a very narrow campus. It is with the reference to the functional disability of the appellant for the purpose of assessment of compensation. The fact remains that he suffered injuries in a road accident on account of which his right lower limb was amputated. This resulted in permanent disability.There is a certificate produced by the appellant from Madan E Mohan Malviya Hospital, (Government of NCT Delhi) showing his permanent physical disability at 85% with further note that the condition is not likely to improve and no further reassessment is recommended. The certificate was issued by a board of doctors on 28.03.2014. As per the photograph of the appellant appearing in the disability certificate, his right leg has been amputated above the knee. The income of the appellant, F his age and other factors are not in dispute. 9. As to how compensation, in case where permanent disability of an injured affects his functional disability, is to be assessed has been considered by this Court, repeatedly. Reference can be made to the of this Court in Mohan Soni vs. Ram Avtar Tomar And G Others1. In the aforesaid case the injured was working as a cart puller. Asa result of the accident, his left leg was amputated. His permanent disability was assessed at 60%. The Tribunal assessed the compensation taking the loss of earning at 50% on the theory that he can still do some 1(2012) 2 SCC 267 H 1186 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A other work while sitting. The High Court did not disturb the finding regarding loss of income on account of disability. This Court found that the Tribunal was in error in taking the loss of earning at 50% as the injured was 55 years of age and it may be difficult for him to find a job at that stage.