As far as the first question of law is concerned, the High Court has simply stated that the effective date of consideration of the application for compassionate appointment would be the date on which the respondent’s father died. The High Court has stated that the 1998 Scheme was in force as on the date when the respondent’s father died and, therefore, the said Scheme would be F applicable. However, we find that while answering the questions of law, the High Court has erred on both counts. 18. In this regard, we would like to consider the issue regarding the consideration of the financial position of the respondent vis-a-vis the eligibility to be considered for appointment on compassionate grounds. G The relevant clause of the Scheme reads as under: “b) Dependent of an employee dying in harness can be considered for compassionate appointment provided the family is without means of livelihood and the condition of the family is penurious. H 984 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A c) Calculation formula for income: Following formula would be followed for arriving at the financial position or income of the family: The total of the following amounts received as Terminal Benefits will form the available resources: B i. Balance of provident fund. ii. Gratuity. iii. Additional Retirement Benefits. iv. Investments made from loan from others. C From the above, following outstanding financial liabilities to be deducted: i. Housing loan ii. Vehicle loan D iii. Other loans from bank iv. Loan from others After arriving at the net amount remaining with the family, interest @11% be applied to arrive at monthly income of the E family by further taking into consideration: i. Net salary of dependent family members viz., spouse/ son/ daughter/ dependent unmarried brother/dependent unmarried sister. ii. Pension (monthly) F iii. Income from savings and other investments. After arriving at the monthly income as above, if the same is less than 60% of the total emoluments (which the deceased was drawing at the time of death) less Tax @ 15% (if the income is more than Rs.10,000/- p.m.) the case for G compassionate appointment can be considered.” 19. While applying the said formula to the case at hand, it is noted from the details submitted with regard to the deceased employee and his dependents that the income of the widow of the deceased was Rs.6,845/- per month (basic pay of Rs.4140/- per month) as she was H BANK OF BARODA & ORS v. BALJIT SINGH 985 employed in the Health Department of the State Government, and her A family pension was Rs.3,478/- per month. Thus, the gross total income of the family per month comes to Rs.10,323/- and the net income is Rs.7,618/- per month. The said figure has been taken into consideration while applying the formula referred to above and after applying the said formula to the case of the respondent, we find that the monthly income B so arrived at is not less than 60% of the total emoluments and thus, the case of the respondent cannot be considered on compassionate basis on that score.