However, it is neither feasible nor desirable to lay down an absolute rule, which could be applied mechanically to examine a caste claim. Nevertheless, we feel that the following broad parameters could F be kept in view while dealing with a caste claim: (i) While dealing with documentary evidence, greater reliance may be placed on pre-Independence documents because they furnish a higher degree of probative value to the declaration of status of a caste, as compared to post- G Independence documents. In case the applicant is the first generation ever to attend school, the availability of any documentary evidence becomes difficult, but that ipso facto does not call for the rejection of his claim. In fact, the mere fact that he is the first generation ever to attend school, H 1130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A some benefit of doubt in favour of the applicant may be given. Needless to add that in the event of a doubt on the credibility of a document, its veracity has to be tested on the basis of oral evidence, for which an opportunity has to be afforded to the applicant; B (ii) While applying the affinity test, which focuses on the ethnological connections with the Scheduled Tribe, a cautious approach has to be adopted. A few decades ago, when the tribes were somewhat immune to the cultural development happening around them, the affinity test could serve as a determinative factor. C However, with the migrations, modernisation and contact with other communities, these communities tend to develop and adopt new traits which may not essentially match with the traditional characteristics of the tribe. Hence, the affinity test may not be D regarded as a litmus test for establishing the link of the applicant with a Scheduled Tribe. Nevertheless, the claim by an applicant that he is a part of a Scheduled Tribe and is entitled to the benefit extended to that tribe, cannot per se be disregarded on the ground that his present traits do not match his tribe’s peculiar E anthropological and ethnological traits, deity, rituals, customs, mode of marriage, death ceremonies, method of burial of dead bodies, etc. Thus, the affinity test may be used to corroborate the documentary evidence and should not be the sole criteria to reject F a claim.” (emphasis added) We have recorded similar reasons earlier for coming to the conclusion that affinity test will not always be mandatory and/or conclusive. G 31. Paragraph 19 of the decision in the case of Anand4 reiterates the position that Vigilance Cell enquiry can be ed only when the Scrutiny Committee is not satisfied with the materials produced by the applicant. On this aspect, we may make useful reference to a decision of this Court in the case of District Collector, Satara6. This decision is H penned down by one of us (Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J.) which makes an in- MAH. ADIWASI THAKUR JAMAT SWARAKSHAN SAMITI v. 1131 THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] depth analysis of the ST Rules and in particular, Rule 12.