The waiver application can be filed one week after the first motion F giving reasons for the prayer for waiver. If the above conditions are satisfied, the waiver of the waiting period for the second motion will be in the discretion of the court concerned.” The time gap is meant to enable the parties to cogitate, analyse and take a deliberated decision. The object of the cooling off period is G not to stretch the already disintegrated marriage, or to prolong the agony and misery of the parties when there are no chances of the marriage working out. Therefore, once every effort has been made to salvage the marriage and there remains no possibility of reunion and cohabitation, the court is not powerless in enabling the parties to avail a better option, which is to grant divorce. The waiver is not to be given on mere asking, H SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 195 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] but on the court being satisfied beyond doubt that the marriage has A shattered beyond repair. The in Amardeep Singh (supra) refers to several questions that the court would ask before passing an one way or the other. However, this proceeds on the interpretation of Section 13-B(2) of the Hindu Marriage Act, and does not examine whether this Court can take on record a settlement B agreement and grant divorce by mutual consent under Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act in exercise of the power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India. 18. We must acknowledge that this Court has very often entertained applications/prayers for divorce by mutual consent under C Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act, and passed a decree of divorce without relegating or asking the parties to move a joint motion before the trial court. In such cases, other pending proceedings between the parties, civil and criminal, are appropriately dealt with in terms of the settlement, and are decreed, quashed or closed accordingly. This situation arises when proceedings are pending in this Court against an interim or a final D passed in a judicial proceeding, or on a transfer petition being filed before this Court. The parties may mutually agree to dissolve the marriage, albeit on many occasions they enter into settlements, often through mediation or on being prompted by the Court. In matrimonial matters, settlement, and not litigation, is the preferable mode of dispute resolution.33 E 19.Exercise of jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India by this Court in such cases is clearly permissible to do ‘complete justice’ to a ‘cause or matter’. We should accept that this Court can pass an or decree which a family court, trial court or High Court can pass. As per Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, a decree F passed or an made by this Court is executable throughout the territory of India.34 Power of this Court under Articles 136 and 142(1) of the Constitution of India will certainly embrace and enswathe this power to do ‘complete justice’, even when the main case/proceeding is pending before the family court, the trial court or another judicial forum.