The D usage of the term ‘or’ indicates that all establishments mentioned in the paragraph are equally eligible to supply medicines as much as IMPCL; and (b) While paragraph 4(vi)(b) does not stipulate that the procurement must be through a tender process, it E does not mean that the process of tender cannot be read into the provision. If paragraph 4(vi)(b) is interpreted to allow procurement from any of the establishments mentioned without a tendering process, the same interpretation would also be F applicable to paragraph 4(vi)(c). Also, this would mean that even for procurement from private entities, there is no requirement of conducting a tender process. (ii) The State of UP cannot arbitrarily prefer one of the eligible entities for the procurement of medicines. All the G establishments mentioned in paragraph 4(vi)(b) are recognised to be on an equal footing. Therefore, procurement must be by a fair process in which all the eligible establishments are granted an opportunity to secure the procurement ; H M/S IMPCL v. KERALA AYURVEDIC CO OPERATIVE SOCIETY LTD. 485 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (iii) It is an established principle that state largesse must be A distributed by public auction save in exceptional situations having regard to the nature of thetrade or where no reasonable substitute exists. There are no exceptional circumstances in the instant case that warrant the procurement of medicines only from IMPCL;and B (iv) The price of medicines procured from IMPCL is vetted by the Department od Expenditure, Ministry of Financefor the limited purpose of undertaking an audit. It is the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority that approves the prices of medicines. The Ministry of Finance does not have the C power or the expertise to determine the prices of Ayurvedic medicines. 3.0 Analysis 10. Paragraph 4(vi)(b) of the Operational Guidelines prescribes that at least 50 percent of the grant-in-aid shall be used to procure D medicines from (i) IMPCL, or (ii) PSUs and pharmacies under the State Governments and cooperatives. The provision further indicatesthat to ensure the quality of AYUSH drugs and medicines, the medicines must be manufactured in their manufacturing units which comply with Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP). Paragraph 4(vi)(c) states that the E remaining grant-in-aid may be used for procuring medicines from other Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) compliant units having valid manufacturing licenses. The appellant had granted the contract for the purchase of Ayurvedic medicines to IMPCL under paragraph 4(vi)(b) of the Operational Guidelines through nomination, thereby eliminating the other units mentioned in the paragraph. This action of the appellant F is challenged as arbitrary and violative of Article 14. Before interpreting paragraph 4(vi)(b) to determine if the action of the appellant is permissible under the law, the law relating to the extent of judicial review of government contracts must be discussed. 3.1 State Largesse: conflation of power and duty G 11. The welfare State plays a crucial role in aiding the realisation of the socio-economic rightswhich are recognised by the Constitution. Social welfare benefitsprovided by the State under the rubric of its constitutional obligations are commonly understood in the language of ‘largesse’, a term used to describe a generous donation.Terming all actions H 486 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R.