A Speaker recognising the appointment of Mr. Ajay Choudhari as the Leader of the Shiv Sena Legislature Party; e. Direct the Union of India and the Director General of B Police, Maharashtra to provide security to the family of Mr. Eknath Shinde and all his supporters within the Shiv Sena Legislature Party. WP(C) 468 of 2022 a. Direct the Deputy Speaker to not take any action in the C petitions for disqualification of the petitioners in this petition under Paragraph 2(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule until the resolution for the removal of the Deputy Speaker is decided; D b. In the interim, to stay the effect and operation of the notice dated 25 June 2022 issued to the Petitioners by the Deputy Speaker; c. Direct the DGP, Maharashtra to ensure that there shall be E no hindrance to any of the MLAs taking recourse to their rights and liberties as citizens and arrange for security to be provided to all the MLAs and their families. F WP(C) 479 of 2022 a. Quash the communication dated 3 July 2022 issued by the Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. WP(C) 470 of 2022 a. Set aside the communication dated 28 June 2022 sent by the Governor to Mr. Uddhav Thackeray as well as to the G Secretary, Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. C. The reference 31. The Writ Petitions described in the previous segment of this were listed before a three-Judge Bench of this Court on 4 H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 881 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] August 2022, when Mr. Kapil Sibal and Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, A learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners and Mr. Harish Salve, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents advanced arguments on whether the issues raised in these petitions required reference to a five-judge Bench of this Court. 32. By its dated 23 August 2022, this Court accepted the B submission that this batch of Writ Petitions ought to be referred to a five-Judge Bench under Article 145(3) of the Constitution as substantial questions of law remained to be decided.It accordingly referred the matter. The following questions were framed for consideration: a. Whether a notice for removal of a Speaker restricts them C from continuing with disqualification proceedings under Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, as held by this Court in Nabam Rebia & Bamang Felix v. Deputy Speaker, Arunachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly;9 b. Whether a petition under Article 226 or Article 32 lies, inviting a decision on a disqualification petition by the High D Courts or the Supreme Court, as the case may be; c. Can a court hold that a member is “deemed” to be disqualified, by virtue of his/her actions, absent a decision by the Speaker; d. What is the status of proceedings in the House during the E pendency of disqualification petitions against the members; e. If the decision of a Speaker that a member has incurred disqualification under the Tenth Schedule relates back to the date of the action complained of, then what is the status of proceedings that took place during the pendency of a F disqualification petition; f. What is the impact of the removal of Paragraph 3 of the Tenth Schedule; g. What is the scope of the power of the Speaker to determine the Whip and the leader of the house legislature party?