ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] courts. In view of the aforesaid position in law, if there is A necessity for further investigation, the same can certainly be done as prescribed by law. The mere fact that there may be further delay in concluding the trial should not stand in the way of further investigation if that would help the court in arriving at the truth and do real and substantial as well as B effective justice. ” 57. In Ram Lal Narang v. State (Delhi Administration) reported in (1979) 2 SCC 322, this Court held thus: “21. As observed by us earlier, there was no provision in the CrPC, 1898 which, expressly or by necessary implication, C barred the right of the police to further investigate after cognizance of the case had been taken by the Magistrate. Neither Section 173 nor Section 190 lead us to hold that the power of the police to further investigate was exhausted by the Magistrate taking cognizance of the offence. Practice, convenience and preponderance of authority, permitted D repeated investigations on discovery of fresh facts. In our view, notwithstanding that a Magistrate had taken cognizance of the offence upon a police report submitted under Section 173 of the 1898 Code, the right of the police to further investigate was not exhausted and the police could exercise E such right as often as necessary when fresh information came to light. Where the police desired to make a further investigation, the police could express their regard and respect for the court by seeking its formal permission to make further investigation.” F 58. In State of Andhra Pradesh v. A.S. Peter reported in (2008) 2 SCC 383, this Court held thus: “9. Indisputably, the law does not mandate taking of prior permission from the Magistrate for further investigation. Carrying out of a further investigation even after filing of G the charge-sheet is a statutory right of the police. A distinction also exists between further investigation and reinvestigation. Whereas reinvestigation without prior permission is necessarily forbidden, further investigation is not.” 59. In Nirmal Singh Kahlon v. State of Punjab and Others H reported in (2009) 1 SCC 441, this Court held as follows: 162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “68. An of further investigation in terms of Section 173(8) of the Code by the State in exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 36 thereof stands on a different footing. The power of the investigating officer to make further investigation in exercise of its statutory jurisdiction under Section 173(8) of the Code and at the instance of the State B having regard to Section 36 thereof read with Section 3 of the Police Act, 1861 should be considered in different contexts. Section 173(8) of the Code is an enabling provision. Only when cognizance of an offence is taken, the learned Magistrate may have some say. But, the restriction imposed C by judicial legislation is merely for the purpose of upholding the independence and impartiality of the judiciary.