6. Learned counsel for the petitioner-Bank further draws the attention of this Court to the Circular dated 16th September, 2010 fi led by the respondent-employee with counter affi davit (Annexure A) whereunder another opportunity was extended to those employees who had not opted for pension earlier, to enable them to do so in terms of the said circular. It is stated that despite the said option having been available to the respondent- employee in terms of the captioned circular, he had failed to exercise the same and therefore, is barred from raising the issue of exercising his option for pension as belatedly as in the year 2019. 7. We are inclined to accept the submission made by learned counsel for the petitioner–Bank for the simple reason that even if the relationship of the employer-employee had ceased on the dismissal of the respondent-employee on 3rd March, 1997, once the dismissal passed by the Disciplinary Authority and upheld by the Appellate Authority vide dated 6th April, 1997, was set aside by the High Court by virtue of the dated 23rd June, 2005, the umbilical cord between the petitioner-Bank and the respondent-employee stood restored and there was ample opportunity for the respondent-employee to have exercised the option in terms of the Circular dated 16th April, 2010, which he failed to do. Having missed the bus, the respondent-employee could not have claimed any benefi t of pension that too after entering into a Joint Memo of Settlement with the petitioner-Bank. 8. We are, therefore, of the opinion that no such option could have been permitted to be exercised by the respondent-employee at such a belated stage, in the year 2019. SYNDICATE BANK v. N. R. BHAT 479 9. At this stage, learned counsel for the respondent-employee submits that while issuing notice in the present petition on 30th June, 2020, it was made clear by this Court that directions of the Division Bench in para 6 shall not be implemented. However, the Joint Memo dated 17th June, 2019 fi led in the High Court was permitted to be implemented. It is stated that in the teeth of the said , the petitioner-Bank did not release the amounts payable to the respondent-employee in terms of the Memo of settlement and that the said amounts were fi nally released as recently as on 30th September, 2023. He, therefore, states that that the respondent-employee ought to be compensated for illegal withholding of the settlement dues payable to him in terms of the Joint Memo dated 17th June, 2019. 10. We fi nd substance in the aforesaid submission made by learned counsel for the respondent-employee. It was made clear to the petitioner- Bank on the very fi rst date that the Joint Memo ought to be implemented. For reasons best known to the petitioner-Bank, the same has not been implemented. The petitioner-Bank is, therefore, directed to restitute the respondent-employee by paying him interest which in our opinion, should be more than the ordinary rate of interest on an FDR that the petitioner-Bank off ers to the public at large.