If in the light of that representation the Board D finds that there is no sufficient cause for detention the Government has to revoke the of detention and set at liberty the detenu. Thus, whereas the Government considers the representation to ascertain whether the is in conformity with its power under the relevant law, the Board considers such representation from the point of view of E arriving at its opinion whether there is sufficient cause for detention. The obligation of the appropriate Government to afford to the detenu the opportunity to make a representation and to consider that representation is distinct from the Government’s obligation to constitute a Board and to F communicate the representation amongst other materials to the Board to enable it to form its opinion and to obtain such opinion. This conclusion is strengthened by the other provisions of the Act. In conformity with clauses (4) and (5) of Article 22, Section G 7 of the Act enjoins upon the detaining authority to furnish to the detenu grounds of detention within five days from the date of his detention and to afford to the detenu the earliest opportunity to make his representation to the appropriate Government. Sections 8 and 9 enjoin upon the appropriate Government to constitute an Advisory Board and to place H 806 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A within 30 days from the date of the detention the grounds for detention, the detenu’s representation and also the report of the officer where the of detention is made by an officer and not by the Government. The obligation under Section 7 is quite distinct from that under Sections 8 and 9. If the representation was for the consideration not by the B Government but by the Board only as contended, there was no necessity to provide that it should be addressed to the Government and not directly to the Board. The Government could not have been intended to be only a transmitting authority nor could it have been contemplated that it should C sit tight on that representation and remit it to the Board after it is constituted. The peremptory language in clause (5) of Article 22 and Section 7 of the Act would not have been necessary if the Board and not the Government had to consider the representation. Section 13 also furnishes an answer to the argument of the counsel for the State. Under D that section the State Government and the Central Government are empowered to revoke or modify an of detention. That power is evidently provided for to enable the Government to take appropriate action where on a representation made to it, it finds that the in question should be modified or E even revoked. Obviously, the intention of Parliament could not have been that the appropriate Government should pass an under Section 13 without considering the representation which has under Section 7 been addressed to it. For the reasons aforesaid we are in agreement with the F decision in Abdul Karim case [Abdul Karim v. State of W.B., (1969) 1 SCC 433] .