The newly created Union Territories were to be administered by the President acting through an Administrator in terms of Article 239 of the Constitution. 34. However, it is important to note that the Fazl Ali Commission was alive to the special needs of Delhi and the importance of accounting G for local needs and wishes of the residents of NCTD. It noted that: “593. […] Having taken all these factors into account, we are definitely of the view that municipal autonomy in the form of a 9 "1956 Constitution Amendment” H 526 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A corporation, which will provide greater local autonomy than is the case in some of the important federal capitals, is the right and in fact the only solution of the problem of Delhi State.” 35. Soon thereafter, in 1962, Article 239A was inserted in the Constitution by the Constitution (Fourteenth Amendment) Act 1956. This B envisaged the creation of local legislatures or a Council of Ministers or both for certain Union Territories. Thus, a significant change was introduced in the governance structure for Union Territories. Article 239A created a separate category of Union Territories since all Union Territories were no longer envisaged to be administered only by the President. The introduction of Article 239A was followed by the Government of Union C Territories Act 1963. Currently, the Union Territory of Puducherry is administered in terms of the governance structure envisaged by this enactment. 36. By the Constitution (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act 199110, Article 239AA was inserted in the Constitution. It introduced a unique D structure of governance for NCTD vis-à-vis the Union Territories. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of provides as follows: “1. … After such detailed inquiry and examination, it recommended that Delhi should continue to be a Union Territory and provided with a Legislative Assembly and a Council of Ministers responsible E to such Assembly with appropriate powers to deal with matters of concern to the common man. The Committee also recommended that with a view to ensure stability and permanence, the arrangements should be incorporated in the Constitution to give the National Capital a special status among the Union Territories.” F (emphasis supplied) 37. The 1991 Constitution Amendment brought a fresh dimension to the governance of Union Territories. By virtue of the provisions of Article 239AA, NCTD became the only Union Territory with a special status of having a constitutionally mandated legislature and Council of G Ministers. This was a departure from the earlier model of governance for Union territories. Article 239AA, in contrast, constitutionally mandates a legislature and prescribes the scope of legislative and executive power for NCTD. H 10 "1991 Constitution Amendment” GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 527 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 38. Article 239AA creates a wide variation in structures of A governance of NCTD as compared to other Union Territories, with differences even as regards the manner in which legislative powers have been bestowed upon them. For instance, Article 239A provides that Parliament “may” create a legislature for Puducherry.