However, at the relevant time the investigating officer filed the charge-sheet only against the two accused persons and the remaining three persons were arrayed as accused subsequently pursuant to the passed by the learned Magistrate allowing the application under Section 319 Cr.P.C. It is submitted that therefore when all the five persons came to be tried may E be separately there was an involvement of five persons who form the unlawful assembly and therefore Section 149 IPC would be attracted. 4.3 Heavy reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Bharwad Mepa Dana & Anr. Vs. State of Bombay 1960 (2) SCR 172 as well as Mizaji and Anr. Vs. The State of U.P. (1959) F Supp. (1) SCR940. 5. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State has supported the appellant. 6. Shri Abhishek Gupta, learned counsel appearing on behalf of accused no.2 relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Roy G Fernandes vs. State of Goa and others, (2012) 3 SCC 221,has vehemently submitted that as such on facts no case is made out to convict the accused with the aid of Section 149 IPC. 6.1 It is submitted that merely because the accused might have been present at the time of commission of the offence and in fact might H 360 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A have participated in commission of the offence but has not played a vital role unless it is proved that the other accused knew that in prosecution of the common object any one of them is likely to commit the murder of the deceased, Section 149 IPC shall not 6.2 Now so far as the conviction of the accused for the offence B under Section 323 IPC, it is vehemently submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused that though the respondent no.2 has not preferred the appeal challenging the conviction under Section 323 IPC, still in an appeal preferred by the State against the acquittal, the accused can submit that he could not have been convicted for other offence. Reliance is placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of C State of Rajasthan vs. Ramanand (2017) 5 SCC 695. 6.3 In support of his submission that even the respondent - accused could not have been convicted even for the offence under Section 323 IPC, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – accused has made the following submissions: D (i) That there was a delay of 3 ½ days in lodging the FIR; (ii) That the injury on the neck has not been established and proved; (iii) That there are material contradictions on the injuries caused E by the accused persons. He has taken us to the deposition of doctor examined as PW7 and the injury report. 7. Making above submissions it is prayed to acquit the accused even for the offence under Section 323 IPC. F 8. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length.