The panchnama, annexed in the case diary, provides details of the trap laid by the ACB and lists all the activities of the ACB team on that day, thereby dispelling any doubts of mala fides on the part of the investigating agencies. 29. We have also gone through the statement of Mr. Vivek Johri, G Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax who has stated that Respondent No. 1 handed over his mobile phone to him before leaving the office, which Mr. Johri later threw away. 30. The manner in which Respondent No. 1 forcefully evaded his arrest with the help of his colleagues and got the evidence destroyed, is H CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SANTOSH 495 KARNANI & ANR. [SURYA KANT, J.] a strong circumstance to indicate his complicity at this stage though a A clear picture would emerge only on completion of investigation. 31. The nature and gravity of the alleged offence should have been kept in mind by the High Court. Corruption poses a serious threat to our society and must be dealt with iron hands. It not only leads to abysmal loss to the public exchequer but also tramples good governance. B The common man stands deprived of the benefits percolating under social welfare schemes and is the worst hit. It is aptly said, “Corruption is a tree whose branches are of an unmeasurable length; they spread everywhere; and the dew that drops from thence, Hath infected some chairs and stools of authority.” Hence, the need to be extra conscious. C 32. From the material placed on record, it seems that prima facie, the allegations against Respondent No. 1 cannot be brushed aside lightly at this stage. There appears to be a well-organised syndicate comprising officers and officials of the Income Tax Department, businessmen and Hawala traders, who are in tandem. Such a nexus needs to be unearthed D through an unimpaired and unobstructed investigation. 33. The contention that prior approval of investigation, as mandated under Section 17A of Prevention of Corruption Act, has not been obtained and thus, the proceedings initiated against Respondent No. 1 stand vitiated, has no legal or factual basis. Section 17A merely contemplates that police E officers shall not conduct any enquiry, inquiry or investigation into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant where the alleged offence is relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken in discharge of official functions or duties, without the previous approval of the competent authority. The first proviso to the section states that such approval is not necessary in cases involving arrest of F the person on the spot on the charges of accepting undue advantage. 34. As may be seen, the first proviso to Section 17A refers to cases wherein a public servant is charged with acceptance of an undue advantage or attempt thereof. A prior approval or sanction to investigate such an officer in a trap case is likely to defeat the very purpose of trap G and the investigation, which is not the underlying intention of the legislature.