In other words, B the first proviso would thus be rendered redundant if the intention behind Section 140(5) of the Act is to induce an auditor into resigning. d) The ineligibility to act as an auditor for any company for a period of 5 years cannot be read down to mean “for a period “up C to five years”. This is so since: i. apprehension or misuse of the provision in future cannot be ground to test the constitutional validity of the provision. [See Madras Bar Association v. Union of India 2021 SCC Online SC 463 (para 101-102)] D ii. fraud vitiates everything and the punishment mandates in the statute cannot be varied by examining the length and breadth of the fraud. iii. the ineligibility to act under Section 140(5) of the Act is only for acting as an auditor of any company. It does not stop the E auditor concerned from practising as a chartered accountant generally. The individual or firm concerned can take up any other activity pertaining to accounts of the company (which is otherwise barred for an auditor by virtue of Section 144) such as account and book keeping service, actuarial service etc or otherwise. In fact, in the present case, the auditing firms involved F have a very significant part of their business outside the audit function. The prohibition of 5 years does not affect their practise as a chartered accountant or any other area of service; and iv. the fixed prohibition period of 5 years activates only in the event of finding of a fraud by the Hon’ble NCLT in terms of G the statutory scheme and public policy. The principle of proportionality cannot be raised to a level where the extent of the fraud is required to be examined. The very deterrent effect of the provision would get diluted and more importantly, it would H 978 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A amount to perpetuating the fraud in connection with other companies. v. As regards the extent of application of the ineligibility prescribed under the second proviso to Section 140(5) of the Act to the firm and individuals, it is submitted that a close reading B of the provisions of the Act reflects that the legislature considered every aspect relating to the consequence of Section 140(5) of the Act. An examination of the second proviso to Section 140(5) of the act shows that the Hon’ble NCLT is required to give specific findings with regard to fraud and whether the auditor is a firm or an individual. There cannot be C any presumption that mere finding of fraud in connection with an individual will automatically result in the determination of fraud by the firm. This is also provided under Section 147 of the Act which is as follows: (5) Where, in case of audit of a company being D conducted by an audit firm, it is proved that the partner or partners of the audit firm has or have acted in a fraudulent manner or abetted or colluded in any fraud by, or in relation to or by, the company or its directors or officers, the liability, whether civil or criminal as E provided in this Act or in any other law for the time being in force, for such act shall be of the partner or partners concerned of the audit firm and of the firm jointly and severally.