AFJAL ALI SHA @ ABJAL SHAUKAT SHA v. STATE OF WEST 1109 BENGAL & ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] (v) existence of some material from which it can be A inferred that some persons are so hostile that they are interfering or are likely to interfere either directly or indirectly with the course of justice.” 30. In R. Balakrishna Pillai v. State of Kerala15, this Court noted the crucial separation of powers between the judiciary and the B executive and held that “Judges are not influenced in any manner either by the propaganda or adverse publicity. Cases are decided on the basis of the evidence available on record and the law applicable.” 31. The convenience of parties and witnesses as well as the C language spoken by them are also relevant factors when deciding a transfer petition, as has been noted by this Court in a catena of s.16 32. In some of the recent decisions including in Neelam Pandey v. Rahul Shukla17, this Court has viewed that transfer of a criminal D case from one state to another implicitly reflects upon credibility of not only the State Judiciary but also of the prosecution agency. 33. Adverting to the facts of the case in hand in light of the principles enunciated by this Court from time to time, it is true that the State of West Bengal has taken a complete u-turn with a view to help the main E accused, namely, Respondent No. 2 and it went to the extent of resorting to its powers under Section 321 of CrPC to withdraw the prosecution itself. A plain reading of Section 321, CrPC leaves no room to doubt that it is the Public Prosecutor in-charge of the case who has to apply his mind independently and impartially to form a view for withdrawal from the prosecution with the consent of the court. The procedure followed in F the case in hand was completely alien to the scheme of Section 321, CrPC as the decision to withdraw prosecution was taken at the level of the State Government and the Public Prosecutor was merely asked to act upon the said Government notification. The Link Judge also showed tearinghurry in accepting the application of the Public Prosecutor and G 15 R. Balakrishna Pillai v. State of Kerala (2000) 7 SCC 129. 16 Abdul Nazar Madani v. State of TN (2000) 6 SCC 204; Sri Jayendra Saraswathy Swamigal (II) v. State of T.N. (2005) 8 SCC 771; Harita Sunil Parab v. State (NCT of Delhi) (2018) 6 SCC 358. 17 Neelam Pandey v. Rahul Shukla [Transfer Petition (Criminal) No. 298 of 2020, 22 February 2023]. H 1110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A permitting withdrawal from prosecution even before the date when the case was listed for prosecution evidence. 34. However, none of these patent illegalities were allowed to sustain as a result of the pro-active exercise of appellate/revisional/writ jurisdiction by the High Court. Not only was the State Government’s B notification set aside, the passed by the Link Judge permitting such withdrawal was also annulled by the High Court.