487 (Bom.) YAMAL MANOJBHAI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 925 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] 25. While deciding on the said issue, it was held by the High Court A of Bombay that if an accused is caught within the customs area, the bar on Section 127 of the Customs Act on goods mentioned under Section 123 of the same Act is redundant, and the accused is entitled to the remedy of settlement. 26. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, per B contra, relied on the judgement of Additional Commission of Customs vs Ashok Kumar5. In this case, while the settlement application of the petitioner was deemed to be maintainable, however, in paragraph 10 of the said , a passing reference was made by the court stating that the goods found on the person of the petitioner, since they did not C find mention under Section 123 of the Customs Act, were not barred by Section 127 of the same Act. The relevant paragraph of the abovementioned is being reproduced herein:- “It is not in dispute that the present case is not covered by any of the provisos to Section 127B(1) of the Act. In other words, it does not fall under any of the excluded categories D of cases. It may be noted at this stage that the decision in Additional Commissioner of Customs v. Shri Ram Niwas Verma (supra), was a case where imported goods were covered under the third Proviso to Section 127B(1) and, therefore, the said decision is distinguishable on facts.” E 27. To clear this cloud of ambiguity, and to settle the conflict between these two sets of High Court s, we must first analyze Section 123 and Section 127 B of the Customs Act. For the sake of convenience, the relevant Sections are being reproduced herein:- “123. Burden of proof in certain cases. F (1) Where any goods to which this section applies are seized under this Act in the reasonable belief that they are smuggled goods, the burden of proving that they are not smuggled goods shall be— G (a) in a case where such seizure is made from the possession of any person,— (i) on the person from whose possession the goods were seized; and 5 2016 (336) E.L.T 224 (Del) H 926 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (ii) if any person, other than the person from whose possession the goods were seized, claims to be the owner thereof, also on such other person; (b) in any other case, on the person, if any, who claims to be the owner of the goods so seized.] B (2) This section shall apply to gold 2[and manufactures thereof] watches, and any other class of goods which the Central Government may by notification in the Official Gazette, specify. 127B Application for settlement of cases. C (1) Any importer, exporter or any other person (hereinafter referred to as the applicant in this Chapter) may, in respect of a case, relating to him make an application, before adjudication to the Settlement Commission to have the case settled, in such form and in such manner as may be specified D by rules, and containing a full and true disclosure of his duty liability which has not been disclosed before the proper officer, the manner in which such liability has been incurred, the additional amount of customs duty accepted to be payable by him and such other particulars as may be specified by rules E including the particulars of such dutiable goods in respect of which he admits short levy on account of misclassification, under-valuation or inapplicability of exemption notification 254 [or otherwise] and such application shall be disposed of in the manner hereinafter provided: Provided that no such application shall be made unless,— F (a) the applicant has filed a bill of entry, or a shipping bill, in respect of import or export of such goods, as the case may be, and in relation to such bill of entry or shipping bill, a show cause notice has been issued to him by the proper officer; G (b) the additional amount of duty accepted by the applicant in his application exceeds three lakh rupees; and (c) the applicant has paid the additional amount of customs duty accepted by him along with interest due under section 28AB: H YAMAL MANOJBHAI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS.