It could not have been entertained and allowed.” H SHYAM KUMAR GUPTA & ORS. v. SHUBHAM JAIN 881 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Accordingly, considering the law laid down by the Apex Court in A the case of Kedar Nath(supra) and the specific finding given by the court below of the provisions of Section 17 of the Act, 1887 not having been complied with rather having been violated by the petitioners, this Court does not find any illegality or infirmity in the s impugned. Accordingly, the petition is dismissed.” B 9. Being aggrieved by the so passed by the High Court, the appellants have approached this Court. While considering the petition leading to this appeal at the initial stage yesterday, i.e., on 01.02.2023 and after taking note of all the facts and circumstances of the case, when this Court queried learned counsel for the appellants regarding the C amount towards rent/mesne profits until now due, it was submitted that appellants were ready and willing toimmediately deposit the amount so due and, at request, the matterwas adjourned for a day. 10. It has been pointed out that today, a sum of Rs.1,90,000/- (Rupees One Lakh Ninety Thousand) has been deposited by the D appellants in the Trial Court, in compliance of this Court’s dated 01.02.2023, which is said to be the amount further payable under the decree in question, being that of rent/mesne profits @ Rs. 2,000/- per month, from the month of June, 2015 to the month of April, 2023. A photostat of the tender presented to the Trial Court, with endorsement E of deposit in the bank today, has also been placed before us. 11. Taking note of the steps so taken by the appellants and in the totality of circumstances, while granting leave, we have heard learned counsel for the parties finally at this stage itself. 12. Learned counsel for the appellants has essentially submitted F that the Trial Court and the High Court have taken too rigid a view of the matter and have failed to consider that the amount directly due under the decree in question, being a sum of Rs. 8,000/- towards arrears of rent and another sum of Rs. 3,212/- towards costs had indeed been deposited by the defendant; and in the given circumstances, the application G for setting aside ex parte decree could not have been dismissed only for want of deposit of the amount towards further use and occupation of the suit shop. It has also been submitted that it had not been a case of wilful avoidance of the requirements of Section 17 of the Act of 1887 and in any case, the appellants, having now deposited the amount towards rent/ H 882 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A mesne profits until the month of April, 2023, deserve an opportunity to contest the suit on merits. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent has duly supported the s impugned and has contended that for want of specific compliance of the requirements of Section 17 of the Act of 1887 at the time of filing of the application for setting aside ex part decree, the view as taken by the Trial Court, duly affirmed by the High B Court, cannot said to be unjustified.