5 380. Theft in dwelling house, etc.—Whoever commits theft in any building, tent or vessel, which building, tent or vessel is used as a human dwelling, or used for the custody of property, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fi ne. 6 144. Power to issue in urgent cases of nuisance or apprehended danger.—(1) In cases where, in the opinion of a District Magistrate, a Sub-Divisional Magistrate or any other Executive Magistrate specially empowered by the State Government in this behalf, there is suffi cient ground for proceeding under this section and immediate prevention or speedy remedy is desirable, such Magistrate may, by a written stating the material facts of the case and served in the manner provided by Section 134, direct any person to abstain from a certain act or to take certain with respect to certain property in his possession or under his management, if such Magistrate 107 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. City Magistrate (First), Lucknow, registered as Suit No.01 of 2012 against the appellants which, by dated 09.08.2012, was rejected as not maintainable. It was further submitted that A2 moved the High Court in Rent Control Case No.125 of 2012 and vide dated 14.12.2012, the High Court directed the said Rent Control Case proceeding to remain in abeyance. 7. Learned counsel submitted that the Trial Court, upon the Charge Sheet submitted by the police in the FIR, took cognizance on 07.08.2011, against which the appellants moved the High Court under Section 4827, considers that such direction is likely to prevent, or tends to prevent, obstruction, annoyance or injury to any person lawfully employed, or danger to human life, health or safety, or a disturbance of the public tranquillity, or a riot, or an aff ray. (2) An under this section may, in cases of emergency or in cases where the circumstances do not admit of the serving in due time of a notice upon the person against whom the is directed, be passed ex parte. (3) An under this section may be directed to a particular individual, or to per- sons residing in a particular place or area, or to the public generally when frequenting or visiting a particular place or area. (4) No under this section shall remain in force for more than two months from the making thereof: Provided that, if the State Government considers it necessary so to do for preventing danger to human life, health or safety or for preventing a riot or any aff ray, it may, by notifi cation, direct that an made by a Magistrate under this section shall remain in force for such further period not exceeding six months from the date on which the made by the Magistrate would have, but for such , expired, as it may specify in the said notifi cation. (5) Any Magistrate may, either on his own motion or on the application of any person aggrieved, rescind or alter any made under this section, by himself or any Magistrate subordinate to him or by his predecessor-in-offi ce.