was engaged in his official duty that the alleged offence was A said to have been committed. While preferring the test laid down in the first category of cases, the Federal Court rejected the test given in the third category of cases by providing the illustration of a medical officer committing rape on one of his patients or committing theft of a jewel from the patient’s person. B 38. In Matajog Dobey vs. H.C. Bhari4 a ConstitutionBench of this Court was concerned with the interpretation to be given to the words, “any offence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty” in Section 197 of the Code. After referring to the decision in Dr. Hori Ram Singh, the C Constitution Bench summed up the result of the discussion, in paragraph 19 by holding: “There must be a reasonable connection between the act and the discharge of official duty; the act must bear such relation to the duty that the accused could lay a reasonable, but not a pretended or fanciful claim, that he did it in the course of the performance of his duty.” D 39. In State of Orissa through Kumar Raghvendra Singh vs. Ganesh Chandra Jew5, a two Member Bench of this Court explained that the protection under Section 197 has certain limits and that it is available only when the alleged act is reasonably connected with the discharge of his official duty and is not merely a cloak for doing the E objectionable act. The Court also explained that if in doing his official duty, he acted in excess of his duty, but there is a reasonable connection between the act and the performance of the official duty, the excess will not be a sufficient ground to deprive the public servant of the protection. F 40. The above decision in State of Orissa (supra) was followed (incidentally by the very same author) in K. Kalimuthu vs. State by DSP6 and Rakesh Kumar Mishra vs. State of Bihar7. 41. In Devinder Singh vs. State of Punjab through CBI8, this Court took note of almost all the decisions on the point and summarized G the principles emerging therefrom, in paragraph 39 as follows: 4 (1955) 2 SCR 925 5 (2004) 8 SCC 40: 6 (2005) 4 SCC 512 7 (2006) 1 SCC 557 8 (2016) 12 SCC 87 H 40 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A “39. The principles emerging from the aforesaid decisions are summarised hereunder: 39.1. Protection of sanction is an assurance to an honest and sincere officer to perform his duty honestly and to the best of his ability to further public duty. However, authority B cannot be camouflaged to commit crime. 39.2.Once act or omission has been found to have been committed by public servant in discharging his duty it must be given liberal and wide construction so far its official nature is concerned. Public servant is not entitled to indulge C in criminal activities.