The ex-communication will have many civic consequences which will, prima G facie, affect his fundamental right to live with dignity and the right to lead a meaningful life guaranteed by Article 21. Therefore, the question is whether the said right of the community to ex-communicate its members can be balanced with the other fundamental rights under Part III of the Constitution and in particular, Article 21. H CENTRAL BOARD OF DAWOODI BOHRA COMMUNITY 315 v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] CONCLUSIONS A 32. To conclude, prima facie, we find that the exercise of balancing the rights under Article 26(b) with other rights under Part III and in particular Article 21 was not undertaken by the Constitution Bench in the case of Sardar Syedna1. This question is substantially in issue before B the Bench of nine Judges in Sabrimala Temple Review -9JJ. Moreover, the question whether the protection can be given by Article 26(b) to the practice of ex-communication is to be tested on the touchstone of the concept of Constitutional morality as the said right is subject to morality. This is an important and emergent issue. These are the two main grounds C on which the said decision may need reconsideration by a larger Bench. 33. Sabrimala Temple–5JJ 6decision was subjected to a review. This Court dealt with the review (Sabrimala Temple Review – 5JJ.7). The majority opinion contains questions formulated for referring it to a larger Bench. Question Nos. 5.1 to 5.3 are relevant which reads thus: D “5.1. (i) Regarding the interplay between the freedom of religion under Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution and other provisions in Part III, particularly Article 14. 5.2. (ii) What is the sweep of expression “public , morality E and health” occurring in Article 25(1) of the Constitution. 5.3. (iii) The expression “morality” or “constitutional morality” has not been defined in the Constitution. Is it overarching morality in reference to Preamble or limited to religious beliefs or faith. There F is need to delineate the contours of that expression, lest it becomes subjective.” Accordingly, the review petition was listed before a nine-Judge Bench. By the dated 10th February 2020, the Bench of nine-Judges (Sabrimala Temple Review –9 JJ.8) framed seven questions of law, G out of which questions 3 and 4 are relevant for our purposes read thus: “3. Whether the rights of a religious denomination under Article 26 of the Constitution of India are subject to other provisions of Part III of the Constitution of India apart from public , morality and health? H 316 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 4.What is the scope and extent of the word ‘morality’ under Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution of India and whether it is meant to include Constitutional morality?” 34. In view of the discussion made above, questions 3 and 4 formulated by the nine-Judge Bench also arise for consideration in the B present writ petition. The decision which will be rendered by the nine-Judge Bench will have a direct impact on the questions which arise for determination in this writ petition.