That it is the fundamental right of the patient to H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 937 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] receive quality medical assistance; meeting the standards A as prescribed by the Indian Medical Council or by the Parliament but such quality treatment cannot be provided by those who do not have the requisite qualification as per the standards set by the Parliament. x. That one of the restrictions under Section 24 of the Assam B Act, being that the practitioners who graduate in the diploma course would only be allowed to work in rural areas of the State of Assam, was not only unworkable but also in violation of Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution as equal quality of treatment should be secured for every citizen of this State. C That the Assam Act discriminates between patients living in rural areas and those living in urban areas, implying that the persons who live in urban areas are entitled to standard treatment and those who live in rural areas are entitled to sub-standard treatment. D xi. That the argument of the appellants that doctors with MBBS qualification do not wish to practice in rural areas is completely incorrect and is without any basis. That the appellants have not brought anything on record to prove the same. There are more than 2244 MBBS doctors working in the rural areas of Assam; even if there is a shortfall of E doctors in the rural areas and the Assam Act aims to remedy the shortfall, the solution lies in increasing their coverage via permissible means and not otherwise. xii. That the State of Assam has consciously and rightly chosen not to challenge the passed by the High Court F that struck down the Assam Act and only private individuals are appellants before this court. That the State of Assam has enacted a subsequent legislation and has tried to accommodate the ousted diploma holders in different capacities. Merely because the appellants before this court are aggrieved by their arrangement in a different capacity G under the new legislation, it cannot equip them to sustain the present challenge. 7. Learned Senior Counsel Sri K.M. Natraj appearing for Union of India has also been heard which shall be adverted to later. H 938 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Submissions on behalf of Respondent No. 7 (Medical Council of India): 8. Learned Senior Counsel Sri Vikas Singh appearing on behalf of Respondent No. 7, Medical Council of India, submitted as under: i. Respondent No. 7 submitted that after the impugned B dated 30.10.2014 was passed by the High Court, the State of Assam notified the ‘2015 Act’, on 29.05.2015. By virtue of Section 3(2) of the said Act, the Diploma Holders who have completed or are still undergoing the Diploma course in Medicine and Rural Health in the State C of Assam under the scheme of Assam Act, have been recognised as “Community Health Professionals” and such Community Health Professionals have been engaged as para-medical professionals assisting the Medical Officers in the State of Assam.