4833 is evident from an application filed by the predecessor- in-interest of the respondents before the Tehsildar-cum-Assistant Collector on 2.8.1993 seeking correction of Khasra Girdawari, wherein it was claimed that the applicants were the owners in possession of the shops since 1950 and the same was part of Khasra No. 4833. The D Assistant Collector, Second Grade, Karnal, vide dated 17.2.1994 directed for correction of Khasra Girdawari holding that the applicants therein/predecessor-in-interest of the respondents were in possession of part of Khasra No. 4833. 20. Aggrieved against the and decree of the trial court E dated 28.2.1991, the predecessor-in-interest of the respondents filed appeal. The same was allowed by the learned ADJ vide and decree dated 16.1.1997. In para 14 of the , while referring to Suit No. 292 of 1962, the opinion expressed by the First Appellate Court was that the appellants were co-owners of Khasra No. 4833. However, F relying upon the report of the Local Commissioner dated 2.12.1978, it was opined that the suit property being different and the present appellants not being the owners thereof, they are not entitled to any relief. 21. The appellants challenged the and decree of the lower appellate court by filing RSA No. 2306/1997 before the High Court G of Punjab and Haryana. Even in the passed by the High Court dismissing the appeal, it has been specifically recorded that undisputedly, the appellants are the owners of Khasra No. 4833. Still referring to the report of the Local Commissioner dated 2.12.1978, the appellants were held not to be entitled to any relief. Even the Review Application filed against the aforesaid was dismissed. H MURTI SHRI DURGA BHAWANI (HETUWALI) TRUST v. SH. 373 DIWAN CHAND (DEAD) THROUGH LRS [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 22. It is evident from the facts, which have come on record in the A present litigation, that the appellants have been admitted to be owner of the property being Khasra No. 4833. This finding has even been recorded in the impugned passed by the High Court dismissing the Second Appeal. There is no challenge to the aforesaid finding recorded by the High Court by the respondents. In fact, they could not as there was B admission of the respondents to that effect before the Trial Court as well. 23. The only issue on which the appellants have been non-suited is that the respondents are not in possession of any part of Khasra No. 4833 as the property in their possession is different. However, on that C issue as well, the findings recorded by the lower Appellate Court as well as the High Court are perverse if considered in the light of two material documents which are in the form of admission of respondents themselves regarding the identity of the property in their possession. First being the statement of the counsel for the respondents made before the Trial court as has been noticed in para no. 17 above and second is the application D filed by the respondents before the Tehsildar-cum-Assistant Collector for correction of Khasra Girdawari specifically admitting that they are in possession of part of Khasra No.