(ii) The Committee shall afford adequate opportunity to the F appellant to defend himself. (iii) The appellant shall not seek any adjournment of the proceedings. (iv) A Report shall be submitted by the Committee to the Disciplinary Authority for appropriate s. G (v) Having regard to the long passage of time, the respondents are directed to complete the entire process within three months from the first date of hearing fixed by the Committee. (vi) The procedure to be followed by the Committee and the Disciplinary Authority shall be guided by the principles of natural H justice. AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 823 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] (vii) The Rules applied will be as were applicable at the relevant A point of time. (viii) The decision taken by the Committee and the Disciplinary Authority shall be purely on merits and in accordance with law. (ix) The appellant will not be entitled to claim immediate reinstatement or back wages till the inquiry is completed and a B decision is taken by the Disciplinary Authority. N. EPILOGUE 74. Just as we celebrate a decade of the PoSH Act being legislated, it is time to look back and take stock of the manner in which the mandate of the Act has been given effect to. The working of the Act is centred C on the constitution of the Internal Complaints Committees(ICCs) by every employer at the workplace and constitution of Local Committees(LCs) and the Internal Committees(ICs) by the appropriate Government, as contemplated in Chapters II and III, respectively of the PoSH Act. An improperly constituted ICC/LC/IC, would be an impediment in conducting D an inquiry into a complaint of sexual harassment at the workplace, as envisaged under the Statute and the Rules. It will be equally counterproductive to have an ill prepared Committee conduct a half- baked inquiry that can lead to serious consequences, namely, imposition of major penalties on the delinquent employee, to the point of termination of service. E 75. It is disquieting to note that there are serious lapses in the enforcement of the Act even after such a long passage of time. This glaring lacuna has been recently brought to the fore by a National daily newspaper that has conducted and published a survey of 30 national sports federations in the country and reported that 16 out of them have F not constituted an ICC till date. Where the ICC have been found to be in place, they do not have the stipulated number of members or lack the mandatory external member. This is indeed a sorry state of affairs and reflects poorly on all the State functionaries, public authorities, private undertakings, organizations and institutions that are duty bound to implement the PoSH Act in letter and spirit. Being a victim of such a G deplorable act not only dents the self-esteem of a woman, it also takes a toll on her emotional, mental and physical health. It is often seen that when women face sexual harassment at the workplace, they are reluctant to report such misconduct.