Additionally, Rs. 50,000/- was directed to be paid as cost towards Mrs. Sunita’s legal expenses. 128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 29. Dr. Madhusudan Shendre elucidated that after doing a thorough evaluation of Mrs. Sunita’s condition found that all parameters were normal for decannulating the ‘TT’. However, due to the injuries suff ered from the road accident, a wide incision was done during the emergency ‘TT’ procedure conducted at Gondia hospital. Thereby, the desired decannulation result was not attained. Though, there was an expectation for the patient to return to normal breathing without support, a stridor was found once the ‘TT’ was removed. A reasonably plausible cause of the stridor would either be injuries suff ered in the road accident or the emergency ‘TT’ procedure conducted at Gondia Hospital. Such injuries ultimately lead to subglotticstenosis. Dr. Madhusudan Shendre had multiple options to choose from to treat the stridor, including, i) Long-term Tracheostomy, ii) placement of airway stent. Amongst various stenting options, Dr. Madhusudan Shendre went with the ‘NI’ procedure. The ‘NI’ procedure was also chosen to use it as a temporary stent to provide support to the weakened trachea walls, to help in healing of the tracheal injuries, while also aiding breathing at the same time. It is contended that choosing one form of treatment amongst other available options doesn’t amount to negligence. Furthermore, even ‘TT’ procedures have their own risks, such as failure to heal, collapsed windpipe, risk of developing stenosis. The resultant medical complications and the injuries suff ered have no causal link with the ‘NI’ procedure. The complainant was treated in multiple hospitals and was even at home for a month. The tracheoplasty surgery was performed after almost a year. The complications could have arisen due to various factors. It is impossible to establish any direct link with the ‘NI’ procedure. DISCUSSION/REASONING 30. We have considered the submissions of the complainant as well as the doctors. We have also carefully perused the materials on record. The NCDRC held that the charges alleging negligence with respect to Mrs. Sunita’s complaints about blurred vision, negligence leading to thrombocytopenia i.e., platelet levels falling signifi cantly to dangerously low levels, and negligence with respect to the ‘Barium Swallow Test’ causing breathlessness in Mrs. Sunita, are not proved. 31. Two diff erent ophthalmologists at Suretech hospital attended to Mrs. Sunita and found a normal retina. As per the expert medical committee’s M.A BIVIJI v. SUNITA & ORS. 129 [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] report, even the CT scan/Orbit and MRI Scan revealed a normal retina. Additionally, although decisive care intervention ordinarily begins when platelet levels drop below 20,000, an interference was done when the platelet levels fell below 26,000 in the case of Mrs. Sunita. Intravenous immunoglobulin was also planned 5 days in advance. Further, a bone-marrow examination was conducted to additionally investigate the underlying cause(s). Gradually, with the aforementioned treatment, the platelet levels began to increase rapidly as well. In fact, the expert committee observed that the hospital appropriately managed Mrs. Sunita’s septicemia and thrombocytopenia.