The candidate has secured minimum 75% marks in the Class XII (or equivalent) examination of respective stream and Board.” 4. Seventeen (17) seats were earmarked for the sports category (under the 2% quota). The university received a total of 34 applications -of which 28 applicants fulfi lled the eligibility criterion -of securing 75% marks and above. The remaining six applications included that of the appellant who did not secure the basic 75% marks. Further, 16 out of the total 17 seats in the Sports Category have already been allocated to eligible candidates and only 1 seat has fallen vacant as on date in Materials and Metallurgical Engineering branch for which the counselling is scheduled to be held on 10.08.2023. It is acknowledged that the applicable Sports Policy for the UT had been published earlier. 5. The brochure listed out several categories, to indicate how the candidates were to be classifi ed for the purposes of admission. This did not include the sports quota candidates. As a matter of fact, the Union Territory of Chandigarh followed JoSAA for purposes of admission; however, the sports quota category was kept out of the JoSAA programme. Likewise the quota set apart for three other categories i.e. Kashmiri Migrants, Sons/ Daughters/Spouses of Military/Para Military Personnel and children and grand children of freedom fi ghters were treated and dealt with separately. 236 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 6. After publication of the brochure on 24.06.2023, the respondent issued an advertisement calling upon eligible candidates to apply. The appellant represented to the authorities complaining that the eligibility condition was unrealistically high, on 27.06.2023. Upon receiving no response, he fi led a Writ Petition, which was rejected by the impugned . 7. It is contended by Mr. P.S. Patwalia, learned Senior Counsel that the threshold minimum eligible condition of having acquired 75% marks, defeats the objective of providing a sports quota because it assumes that sports persons -like other general candidates would also have the degree of academic excellence which is required of all candidates. It was submitted that those participating in sports have to be treated diff erently and the 2% quota was specifi cally carved out for this purpose. In this context, it is pointed out that as far as sports quota candidates are concerned, the brochure itself makes a distinction so far as candidates who are eligible to apply for vertical reservations; Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (SC/ST) have to possess 65% marks to be considered eligible. It was submitted that in the past too, the UT had not imposed high criterion for candidates to be admitted in the sports quota for qualifying in the examination. 8. Learned counsel also pointed out that in the past, sports quota guidelines had prescribed what specifi ed sports would be graded for the purpose of determining inter se rankings and furthermore, the types of events, and the conditions guiding the eligibility and assessment criterion (such as for instance, the minimum number of participants in the concerned sports, the level of participation, i.e.