1 for being recognized as the wife of the deceased in view of the long period of cohabitation between them, which circumstance would attract the presumption of the marriage between the parties being legal, as contemplated under Section 114 of the Evidence Act, 187218. Section 114 permits the Court to presume the existence of certain facts which it thinks are likely to have happened in relation to the facts of a particular case. It was contended that the said presumption of a legitimate marriage between the deceased and the appellant No. 1 become stronger in the instant case as during his lifetime, the deceased had approached the respondents with an application seeking endorsement of the name of the appellant No. 1 in his Service Book. 5. It was further submitted on behalf of the appellants that even if the status of the appellant No. 1 could not be treated as that of a legally wedded wife of the deceased till the date a decree of divorce was granted, dissolving his marriage with Anusuya, after the said date i.e. from 16th November, 1990, till the date of demise of the deceased19, admittedly, he and 14 Regular Appeal No. 70 of 2008 15 Regular Second Appeal No. 6079 of 2010 16 Vide dated 16th October, 2014 17 For short “HMA” 18 For short ‘Evidence Act’ 19 on 12th January, 2001 SMT. SHIRAMABAI v. CAPTAIN, RECORD OFFICER SENA 135 CORPS ABHILEKH, GAYA, BIHAR STATE [HIMA KOHLI, J.] the appellant No. 1 were cohabiting, thereby entitling the appellants to claim the pensionary benefi ts of the deceased. It was also pointed out that at no stage did the fi rst wife, namely, Anusuya lay any claim to the pensionary benefi ts of the deceased and therefore, the respondents ought not to have turned down the legitimate claim of the appellants, more so, when the appellant no. 1 had spent a large part of her life living with the deceased as man and woman and any shadow cast on their relationship stood dispelled once the decree of divorce was passed in November, 1990, dissolving the marriage of the deceased and Anusuya. To substantiate this submission learned counsel has cited decisions in Indra Sarma v. V.K.V. Sarma20, Dhannulal And Others v. Ganeshram And Another21 and Kattukandi Edathil Krishnan and Another v. Kattukandi Edathil Valsan and Others22 passed by this Court. 6. On the other hand, Mr. K M Nataraj, learned Additional Solicitor General23 appearing for the respondents has supported the impugned and submitted that the marriage between deceased the appellant No. 1 and the deceased is a void marriage under Section 11 of the HMA, as the said marriage was contracted during the subsistence of the marriage between Subedar Bhave and Anusuya. He submitted that the said void marriage cannot be given a legal sanctity on the basis of the subsequent dissolution of the marriage and cohabitation of the deceased and the appellant No. 1. 7. Learned ASG also referred to Regulation 219 of the Pension Regulation for the Army, 1961 which lays down the conditions of eligibility for grant of family pension and submitted that Regulation 219(iii) makes it clear that a widow who has not been married is entitled to pensionary benefi ts and the appellant No.