Moreover, there is an obligation to inform the transferor, transferee or the person who gave intimation of transfer, the reason for refusing the registration or transmission by operation of law (S. 111 of the Companies Act, 1956). 17. Mr. Aniruddha Joshi, learned counsel for the Respondent Nos. 4 and 6 to 8 would argue that in light of the consistent view taken by this Court and most High Courts on the question of nominee not becoming a full owner of the estate of which he has been nominated by the deceased owner of the property, the nominee by virtue of S. 109A & S. 109B of the Companies Act, 1956 cannot impact the rights of the legal heirs/legatees obtained through application of the succession law. 17.1 The learned counsel accepts the position that the languages used in the enactments interpreted by the court are not alike. Some enactments possess a non-obstante clause while some do not. Few use the term ‘vest’ while others do not. However, since none of the Acts defi ne the terms ‘nominee’ and ‘nomination’, it is contended by Mr. Joshi that those terms are to be considered as ordinarily understood by persons making the nomination, for their moveable or immovable properties. SHAKTI YEZDANI & ANR. v. JAYANAND JAYANT 709 SALGAONKAR & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] 17.2 Mr. Joshi therefore argues that the term ‘vest’ must be understood in a limited sense and would not necessarily confer ownership. Addressing the implication of the non-obstante clause in the Companies Act, the counsel submits that the same is intended to off er a discharge to the company and to facilitate the company in their dealings after the death of the shareholder/ securities holder. More specifi cally, it is to protect the company from being dragged into a succession litigation. Therefore, the term ‘vest’ must be interpreted in a limited sense to the eff ect that the nominee would deal with the company but not in the capacity as a title holder but more in the nature of a trustee holding the estate for the lawful successor(s) and would be accountable to the successor(s) of the estate. In the same context, the term ‘vest’ as used in the Indian Succession Act, 1925 would be understood to mean that neither the administrator nor the executor would become the owner of the property. Such vesting is therefore limited to the specifi c purpose of distribution of the estate amongst the lawful successor(s). 17.3 The counsel submits that the Companies Act, 1956 and/or the Companies Act, 2013 is referable to Entry 43 and/or Entry 44 of List I, Schedule VII of the Constitution which provide for incorporation, regulation and winding up of companies. Therefore, the legislation deals with the limited aspects of birth of a legal entity/company, its management/the aff airs of the company and its death/winding up of the company. It was argued that the widest interpretation of the same would still not attract or cover succession or estate planning of an individual, even if the said person were to be a member of a company.