Dankuni Steel Ltd. A sale deed C came to be executed by the Official Liquidator in favour of the first respondent dated 5th August, 2004. In the sale deed in the preambular portion we may notice the following statements: “D. WHEREAS the Official Liquidator has put the properties of the Company for sale in terms of s of the Hon’ble High D Court and whereas the Hon’ble High Court of Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad by an dated 04-02-2004 made in C.A.No.736/ 2003 in R.C.C.No. 10/2001 (copy enclosed) was pleased to confirm the sale of the assets pf the Company such as land, building, plant and machinery and other assets in favour of Messrs SMC Marketing Pvt. Ltd., having its office at Room No.617, 6th floor, E P 41, Princep Street, Kolkatta - 700 072, represented by its authorized representative Sri Amar Chand. Choudhary for a total sale consideration of Rs.8.35 crores. E. WHEREAS the Hon’ble High Court of Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad passed by an dated 15-06-2004 made in C.A.No. F 1202/2004 was pleased to direct the Official Liquidator to execute necessary conveyance deeds for the land sold in auction in favour of the vendee here in who is the nominee of the said highest bidder Messrs SMC Marketing Pvt. Ltd. A copy of which is enclosed herewith.” G 3. Clause H of the preamble, reads as follows:- “H. WHEREAS the Vendee has paid the full consideration to the vendor within the time stipulated by the Hon’ble High Court of Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad and as per the terms and conditions of the sale, properties have been sold by the Vendor to the Vendee H THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S 1107 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] on ‘as is where is whatever there is basis’. Vendor hereby admits A and acknowledges that he has received the full consideration from the Vendee and there is no balance payable by him. Further the Vendor has already given possession of the Schedule property to the Yendee under due acknowledgement.The Vendor hereby conveys, transfers and assigns all the rights, title interest together B with all the liberties, advantages, held and enjoyed by Messrs Midwest Iron & Steel Co. Ltd., to theVendee, who shall hereinafter enjoy the same with full and absolute rights without any disputeor objection from any source as owner. AND WHEREAS the total sale consideration is Rs.8.35 crores C for the entire assets of the company comprising of land, building, Civil works, plant & machinery and current assets, etc” An amount of Rs.1,01,05,000/- is taken as the value of the land, building and civil works basing on the offer received by the official liquidator when the assets were put for sale individually and the D purchaser has agreed to pay the stamp duty / registration fees / transfer feesas per the-value derived by the sub registrar. WHEREAS the land to an extent of Acres 46.7167 cents situated in Dusi Village as per detailsgiven below is now registered in favour of the VENDEE through this document, hereinafterreferred to as E the ‘SCHEDULED PROPERTY’ for brevity, which is fully described in theschedule of property and clearly delineated in red colour in the plan annexedhereto.