(7) Where the police officer investigating the case finds it convenient so to do, he may furnish to the accused copies of all or any of the documents referred to in sub-section (5). F (8) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to preclude further investigation in respect of an offence after a report under sub-section (2) has been forwarded to the Magistrate and, where upon such investigation, the officer in charge of the police station obtains further evidence, oral or documentary, G he shall forward to the Magistrate a further report or reports regarding such evidence in the form prescribed; and the provisions of sub-sections (2) to (6) shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to such report or reports as they apply in relation to a report forwarded under sub-section (2).” H (Emphasis supplied) STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 153 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 39. Thus, Section 169 of the CrPC is silent in making report to the A Magistrate, however the Investigating Officer is under an obligation to submit its report to the Magistrate under Section 173 of the CrPC. Thus, though Section 169 of the CrPC does not contemplate making a report, it contemplates of obtaining a bond with or without sureties from the accused to appear if and when so required before the Magistrate B empowered to take cognizance of the offence on a police report and such report is contemplated under Section 173 of the CrPC. Clauses (d) and (f) of Section 173(2)(i) of the CrPC read as under: “173(2)(i) xxx xxx (d) whether any offence appears to have been committed and, C if so, by whom; xxx xxx xxx (f) whether he has been released on his bond and, if so, whether with or without sureties”. D 40. Section 173(8) of the CrPC deals with further investigation and supplementary report. In the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (for short, ‘the Old Code’), there was no identical provision to that of Section 173(8) of the CrPC. The same is a newly added provision in the CrPC. It was added on the recommendation of the Law Commission in its 41st Report that the right of the police to make further investigation should be E statutorily affirmed. 41. In the Old Code, there was no provision prescribing the procedure to be followed by the police for fresh investigation, when fresh facts came to light, upon the submission of the police report and subsequent to taking cognizance by the Magistrate. There was, also, no F express provision prohibiting further investigation by the police. 42. The said omission was sought to be supplied for the first time by a two-Judge Bench of the Madras High Court as early as in 1919 in Divakar Singh v. A. Ramamurthi Naidu reported in AIR 1919 Mad 751, where it was observed that: G “ Another contention is put forward that when a report of investigation has been sent in under Section 173 of the Cr PC, the police has no further powers of investigation, but this argument may be briefly met by the remark that the number of investigations into a crime is not limited by law and that H 154 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.