In fact the latter maxim “is only an illustration or specific application of the broader maxim noscitur a sociis”. The argument is that certain essential features of E attributes are invariably associated with the words “business and trade” as understood in the popular and conventional sense, and it is the colour of these attributes which is taken by the other words used in the definition though their normal import may be much wider. We are not impressed by this argument. It must be borne in mind that noscitur a sociis is merely a F rule of construction and it cannot prevail in cases where it is clear that the wider words have been deliberately used in to make the scope of the defined word correspondingly wider. It is only where the intention of the legislature in associating wider words with words of narrower significance is doubtful, G or otherwise not clear that the present rule of construction can be usefully applied. It can also be applied where the meaning of the words of wider import is doubtful; but, where the object of the legislature in using wider words is clear and free of ambiguity, the rule of construction in question cannot be pressed into service.” H 588 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A This principle has been applied in a number of contexts in judicial decisions where the court is clear in its mind that the larger meaning of the word in question could not have been intended in the context in which it has been used. The cases are too numerous to need discussion here. It should be sufficient to refer to one of them by way of illustration. In Rainbow Steels Ltd. v. CST [(1981) 2 SCC B 141 : 1981 SCC (Tax) 90] this Court had to understand the meaning of the word ‘old’ in the context of an entry in a taxing traffic which read thus: “Old, discarded, unserviceable or obsolete machinery, stores or vehicles including waste products......” C Though the tariff item started with the use of the wide word ‘old’, the court came to the conclusion that “in to fall within the expression ‘old machinery’ occurring in the entry, the machinery must be old machinery in the sense that it has become non- functional or non-usable”. In other words, not the mere age of the D machinery, which would be relevant in the wider sense, but the condition of the machinery analogous to that indicated by the words following it, was considered relevant for the purposes of the statute.” 76. About Noscitur a Sociis and how it compares with ejusdem E generis, the following statement in G.P. Singh (supra) on Statutory Interpretation is apposite: “It is a rule wider than the rule of ejusdem generis; rather the latter rule is only an application of the former.” F N. WHETHER BITUMEN IS ‘OTHER VALUABLE ARTICLE’ 77. This Court has referred to the Principles of Ejusdem Generis and Noscitur a Sociis, which undoubtedly are rules of construction the latter being described as having treacherous underpinnings and the former requiring the existence of a genus which is not exhausted by the categories G catalogued in the statute.