second respondent has been voiced by the other respondents in the A Transferred Cases. 24. In response to the submissions, Shri K.K Venugopal would point out that it is not the case of the appellants that the appellant is immune from all laws. He would further point out that the deletion of the Nationalisation Act from the Ninth Schedule may not affect his contentions B as the contracts in question relate to the period when the Nationalisation Act was very much in the 9th Schedule. He would submit that as held in Ashoka Smokeless Coal India (P) Ltd. and Others v. Union of India and Others21,it is not as if the actions of the appellants are immune from judicial review under Article 14. He would reiterate that an affected C party could seek redress in other forums. He would emphasize again that the Act and even the Raghavan Committee Report does not refer to the species of public sector company which are geared to achieve the common good under Article 39(b) and whose operation was immunized from challenge by their insertion in the 9th Schedule at the relevant point of time. The words in Article 39(b) “so distributed” is a continuing D command to the State even after the Nationalisation Act was passed. Thisis by way of countering the argument that with the NationalisationAct all was done and it was aone-time affair.In other words, the command of Article 39(b) is that the State shall bear in mind the common good and, therefore, coal even if it is taken out of the Essential Commodities E Act, remains a material resource of the country, which must be distributed to achieve common good. He reiterates his contention in this regard. He drew our attention to the distinction between an ordinary monopoly and a State Monopoly, which is covered by Article 39(b). They are not birds of the same feather, it is pointed out. In fact, Shri Yaman Verma, learned Counsel ably supplemented by pointing to the constraints under which F the appellants are bound to operate. He points out to the new coal policy and the Presidential Directives. He would then point out that even if the Act were found to be applicable, the Court may clarify that the appellants could claim justification of their actions by relying on criteria, which they are bound to follow. We must, here at this juncture, record that when we G queried Shri K. K. Venugopal, learned SeniorCounsel, as to whether he was claiming that the appellants were carrying on activities, which can be described as sovereign functions, the answer was clear and forthright, namely, that he was not having such a case. 21 (2007) 2 SCC 640 H 846 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 25. When the aspect about the Presidential Directives and the policy of the Government was pointed out to the learned Additional Solicitor General, N. Venkataraman, he would ask the question as to what is it that prevents such a contention being raised is not pointed out.