259. The discussions preceding the development for a unified Constitution and the procedure for ratifi cation of the Constitution indicate that: a. The Indian States mentioned in Part III of the First Schedule of the Draft Constitution were placed diff erently when compared to the States mentioned in Part I and Part II of the Schedule because: i. constituent assemblies were constituted by the States in Part III to frame internal constitutions for the States. Upon a steady integration of the States with the Union, it was realised that there was no place for two constitutions in a “people’s polity”; and ii. the legislative competence of the Union over the States in Part III was limited to the subjects of defence, external aff airs, and communications. Later, all States in Part III, other than Jammu and Kashmir, by expanding the scope of IoA correspondingly conferred the Union legislature competence over all entries in List I and List III. In view of the limited competence of the Constituent Assembly of India with respect to the State of Jammu and Kashmir in demarcating legislative competence between the Union and the State, a special provision had to be made for the State of Jammu and Kashmir in the Constitution of India; and b. The procedure for ratifi cation of the Constitution for the State of Jammu and Kashmir was not intended to be diff erent when compared to the procedure for ratifi cation of other States in Part III where the Constitution was made applicable by a Proclamation of the Rajpramukh. Maharaja Hari Singh by issuing the Proclamation on 25 November 1949 declaring that the Constitution of India when adopted would be applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir ratifi ed the acceptance of the Constitution of India. The ratifi cation could not be modifi ed or revoked even by the Constituent Assembly of the State. The Constituent Assembly of the State could make recommendations for the modifi cation of the provision as it related to Jammu and Kashmir (that is, the special provision). However, the Union was not bound to accept such a recommendation. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 165 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] III. Debates in the Constituent Assembly on Article 370 260. On 17 October 1949, the Constituent Assembly took up draft Article 306A. Draft Article 306A corresponded to Article 370 of the Constitution. In introducing the Article, Shri N Gopalaswami Ayyangar stated that the history of the accession of the State of Jammu and Kashmir to the Dominion of India “is also well known”. He stated that “since then, the State has had a chequered history” and “conditions are not yet normal in the State”. Upon accession, he noted, the State “is a unit of a federal State namely, the Dominion of India” and upon the integration of the Republic on 26 November 1950, Jammu and Kashmir “has to become a unit of the new Republic of India”. Ayyangar observed that the IoA “will be a thing of the past in the new Constitution”.