The F is reproduced as follows: “The matter relates to what the petitioner perceives to be a requirement of having a full-proof and better system of appointment of members of the Election Commission. Having heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned G Attorney General for India we are of the view that the matter may require a close look and interpretation of the provisions of Article 324 of the Constitution of India. The issue has not been debated and answered by this Court earlier. Article 145 (3) of the Constitution of India would, therefore, require the Court to refer H the matter to a Constitution Bench. We, accordingly, refer the ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 185 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] question arising in the present proceedings to a Constitution Bench A for an authoritative pronouncement. Post the matter before the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India on the Administrative Side for fixing a date of hearing.” 4. A couple of similar writ petitions were tagged with the above petition. On 29 September 2022, this Constitution Bench started the B hearing of the case. The Bench sat for several days hearing the arguments of the petitioner side and of the Union government and Election Commission of India on the respondents’ side. 5. The Union Government has opposed this group of petitions on the premise that the Court must respect the principle of separation of C power between different organs of the State and should refrain from interfering in the selection process of the Election Commission under Article 324. It was argued by the Union that Article 324 of the Constitution conferred the power to appoint Election Commissioners solely upon the Parliament. He made a reference to the Election Commission (Conditions D of Service of Election Commissioners and Transaction of Business) Act, 1991 (hereinafter being referred to as the “Act 1991”) to emphasize his point that the Parliament being cautious of its responsibility protected the condition of service of the Chief Election Commissioner/Election Commissioners. E 6. The learned Attorney General Mr. R. Venkataramani suggested that the absence of any law does not mean that a constitutional vacuum exists, calling for the interference of the Court. It was also argued by the learned Attorney General that the appointment of the members of the Election Commission by the President has not damaged the process of free and fair elections. F 7. The learned Solicitor General Mr. Tushar Mehta argued that if there are lacunas in the process of selection/appointment of Election Commission, then it is for the Parliament and not the Court to look into the issues. The learned counsel further argued that the appointment of the Election Commissioners is to be made by the President, therefore it G is not open to the judiciary to interfere with the power of the executive. Mr. Mehta further argued that there is something called “independence of the executive” which must not be interfered with. It was also argued by the counsel for the Election Commission that since the right to vote is a statutory right and not a fundamental right, so it does not call any interference for violation of fundamental rights.