[S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] that are grouped together from others who are left out of the group, and (ii) that that differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act. What is necessary is that there must be a nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the Act. When a law is challenged as violative of Article 14, it is necessary in the first place to ascertain the policy underlying the statute and the object intended to be achieved by it. Having ascertained the policy and the object of the Act, the court has to apply a dual test in examining the validity, the test being, whether the classification is rational and based upon an intelligible differentia which distinguished persons or things that are grouped together from others that are left out of the group, and whether the basis of differentiation has any rational nexus or relation with its avowed policy and objects. In that a law may be struck down under this article, the inequality must arise under the same piece of legislation or under the same set of laws which have to be treated together as one enactment. Inequality resulting from two different enactments made by two different authorities in relation to the same subject will not be liable to attack under Article 14" It has also been held, in State of J&K v. Triloki Nath Khosa5 that “the object to be achieved” should not be “a mere pretence for an indiscriminate imposition of inequalities and the classification” should not be “characterized as arbitrary or absurd”. The in Venkateshwara Theatre v. State of A.P.6 , is a decision where this court pointed out, to how discrimination arises, if persons who are un- equals are treated as equals, thus: “Just as a difference in the treatment of persons similarly situate leads to discrimination, so also discrimination can arise if persons who are unequals, i.e., differently placed, are treated similarly. … A law providing for equal treatment of unequal objects, transactions or persons would be condemned as discriminatory if there is absence of rational relation to the object intended to be achieved by the law.” 5 5 1974 (1) SCR 771 6 1993 (3) SCR 616 242 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 16. The observations in Roop Chand Adlakha v Delhi Development Authority7 are very perceptive, and relevant in the present context; the court had said that the “process of classifi cation is in itself productive of inequality and in that sense antithetical of equality. The process would be constitutionally valid if it recognises a pre-existing inequality and acts in aid of amelioration of the eff ects of such pre-existent inequality. But the process cannot in itself generate or aggravate the inequality” and warned that overemphasis on the doctrine of classifi cation “or any anxious and sustained attempts to discover some basis for classifi cation may gradually and imperceptibly deprive the article of its precious content and end in replacing doctrine of equality by the doctrine of classifi cation” thus pushing classifi cation rendering “the precious guarantee of equality “a mere rope of sand”.” The application of the reasonable classifi cation test, in Deepak Sibal v Punjab University8, led to invalidation of a rule which disqualifi ed and rendered ineligible employees of private establishments, and confi ning admission of candidates to government departments and institutions, in evening law college.