Under the circumstances, as such the High Court has rightly upheld the levy of development fees/charges except in the case of Rekha Rani (supra). The decision of the High Court in the case of Rekha Rani (supra) H 906 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A quashing and setting aside the levy of development charges/fees thus is unsustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and set aside and the levy of development charges/fees, which otherwise is permissible under section 15(2-A) of the Act, 1973 is to be upheld. 7. Insofar as the submission on behalf of one of the counsel that B as the area in one of the cases is not included within the development plan, but the same is within the area of Development Authorities and therefore there shall not be any levy of development charges/fees is concerned, the same has no substance. It is required to be noted that the levy of development fee/charges is for the area where development has already taken place and/or which is yet to be developed. The said aspect C has already been considered by this Court in the case of Malti Kaul (supra). In paragraph 5 of the said decision, it is observed and held as under: “5. Section 4 contemplates that the State Government may, by notification in the Gazette, constitute, for the purpose of the Act, D an authority called “Development Authority” for any development area. ‘Development’ has been defined in Section 2(e) with its grammatical variations, to mean the carrying out of building, engineering, mining or other operations in, on, over or under land, or the making of any material change in any building or land, and E includes redevelopment. “Development area” has been defined in Section 2(f) to mean any area declared to be development area under Section 3. It has been empowered, where the Government in exercise of the power under Section 3 has declared that any area within the State requires to be developed according to the plan, to declare such area to be a development area. Section 7 F envisages the objects of the authority and gives power to the developing authority to acquire, hold, manage or dispose of a land and any other property, to carry out building, engineering, mining and other operations, to execute works in connection with the supply of water and electricity, to dispose of sewage and to provide G and maintain other services and amenities and generally to do anything necessary or expedient for purposes of such development and for purposes incidental thereto. ‘Amenity’ has been so defined in Section 2(a) as to include road, water supply, street lighting, drainage, sewerage, public works and such other convenience as the State Government may, by notification in the Gazette specify H MATHURA VRINDAVAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY & 907 ANOTHER v. RAJESH SHARMA AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] to be an amenity for the purposes of the Act. The expression A “engineering operations” has been defined under Section 2(h) and includes the formation or laying out means of access to a road or the laying out of means of water supply.