The idea is to create a clear mechanism for such disposal both for the purpose of dealing with the particular case and to safeguard the contraband being used for any illegal purpose thereafter. 5. Sub-section (2) of Section 52A of the NDPS Act mandates a F competent officer to prepare an inventory of such narcotic drugs with adequate particulars. This has to be followed through an appropriate application to the Magistrate concerned for the purpose of certifying the correctness of inventory, taking relevant photographs in his presence and certifying them as true or taking drawal of samples in his presence with due certification. Such an application can be filed for anyone of the G aforesaid three purposes. The objective behind this provision is to have an element of supervision by the magistrate over the disposal of seized contraband. Such inventories, photographs and list of samples drawn with certification by Magistrates would constitute as a primary evidence. Therefore, when there is non-compliance of Section 52A of the NDPS H 522 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Act, where a certification of a magistrate is lacking any inventory, photograph or list of samples would not constitute primary evidence. 6. The obvious reason behind this provision is to inject fair play in the process of investigation. Section 52A of the NDPS Act is a mandatory rule of evidence which requires the physical presence of a Magistrate B followed by an facilitating his approval either for certifying an inventory or for a photograph taken apart from list of samples drawn. In due compliance of Section 52A(1) of the NDPS Act the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) issued a Notification No. G.S.R. 339(E) dated 10.05.2007 which furnishes an exhaustive manner and mode of disposal of drugs ending with a certificate of destruction: C “4. Manner of disposal 1) Where any narcotic drug or psychotropic substances has been seized and forwarded to the officer-in-charge of the nearest police station or to the officer empowered under section 53, of the Act, or if it is seized by such an officer D himself, he shall prepare an inventory of such narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances as per Annexure 1 to this notification and apply to any Magistrate under sub-section (2) of section 52A as per Annexure 2 to this notification. 2) After the Magistrate allows the application under sub- E section (3) of section 52A, the officer mentioned in clause (1) above shall preserve the certified inventory, photographs and samples drawn in the presence of the Magistrate as primary evidence for the case and submit details of the drug consignments to the Chairman of the Drug Disposal F Committee for a decision by the committee on the disposal. The officer shall send a copy of the details along with the drug consignments to the officer-in-charge of the godown. XXX XXX XXX 4.2 Mode of disposal of drugs. G (i) Opium, morphine, codeine and thebaine shall be disposed of by transferring to the Government Opium and Alkaloid Works under the Chief Controller of Factories.