There is no warrant for such a narrow and restrictive view of the powers of the Magistrate, particularly when such powers are traceable to Section 156(3) read with Section 156(1), Section 2(h) and Section 173(8) CrPC, as has been noticed hereinabove, and would be available at all G stages of the progress of a criminal case before the trial actually commences. It would also be in the interest of justice that this power be exercised suo motu by the Magistrate himself, depending on the facts of each case. Whether further investigation should or should not be ed is within the H 164 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A discretion of the learned Magistrate who will exercise such discretion on the facts of each case and in accordance with law.” It was also clarified that, “The “investigation” spoken of in Section 156(3) would embrace the entire process, which begins with the collection of evidence and continues until charges are framed by the Court, at which stage the trial can B be said to have begun.”. 63. Thus, this Court, in conclusion, observed that, “when Section 156(3) states that a Magistrate empowered under Section 190 may “such an investigation”, such Magistrate may also further investigation under Section 173(8), regard being had to the C definition of “investigation” contained in Section 2(h).” 64. Thus, in view of the law laid down by this Court in the various decisions cited hereinabove, it is well settled that sub section (8) of Section 173 of the CrPC permits further investigation, and even dehors any direction from the court, it is open to the police to conduct proper D investigation, even after the court takes cognizance of any offence on the strength of a police report earlier submitted. 65. However, the question before this Court is whether sub section (8) of Section 173 of the CrPC permits further investigation after the Magistrate has accepted a final report (closure report) under sub section E (2) of Section 173 of the CrPC. The contention raised on behalf of the accused persons is that acceptance of a closure report would terminate the proceedings finally so as to bar the investigating agency from carrying out any further investigation in connection with the offence. 66. The learned counsel appearing for the accused persons submitted that an accepting the closure report under Section F 190(1)(c) of the CrPC is a judicial and not an administrative . Relying on the decision of this Court in Kamlapati Trivedi v. State of West Bengal reported in 1980 (2) SCC 91, it was submitted that when a final report of the police is submitted to the Magistrate and the Magistrate passes an (a) agreeing with the report of the police and filing G proceedings; or (b) not agreeing with the police report and holding that the evidence is sufficient to justify the forwarding of the accused to the Magistrate and takes cognizance of the offence complained of, such is a judicial . 67. We are at one with the aforesaid submission canvassed on H behalf of the accused persons.