Failing this requirement, the fi rst respondent has absolved the appellant of the obligation to pay for the declared capacity to the extent that such declared capacity is attributable to the RLNG which though, a primary source of fuel, could have been obtained by the fi rst respondent only after prior consent of the appellant; b. The placement of the prior approval clause in clause 5.9 suggests that it applies to clause 5.2 capacity charges as well as clause 5.3 energy charges. The impugned decisions make an artifi cial distinction between the two sub-clauses and the two types of charges and incorrectly subjects only clause 5.3 (energy charge) and not clause 5.2 (capacity charge) to the approval requirement in clause 5.9; c. Clause 5.9 reads as follows: MSEDCL. v. RATNAGIRI GAS AND POWER PVT. LTD. 769 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “the conditions of GSA/GST having commercial implications (for example, bearing on plant availability, contracted quantity, price components, Take or pay provisions, penalties, and damages, etc.) shall be signed separately with the MSEDCL as supplementary agreement. The total required to be Gas/LNG is envisaged procured through short-term contracts long long-term contracts through GAIL and under the directions of GOI, the details of which shall be furnished in due course. RGPPL shall be required to obtain approval of MSEDCL on contracting terms and price before entering into the GSA/GTA contract.” The phrase “commercial implication” makes the consent requirement applicable to the present GSA/GTA. The commercial implication of “plant availability” is the average of daily declared capacity as a percentage of net capacity. Thus, plant capacity stands aff ected by the decision to adopt RLNG which aff ects the quantum of declared capacity. Thus, the use of RLNG by the fi rst respondent automatically has “commercial implications” and as such, the prior approval requirement in clause 5.9 stood invoked; d. There is an “organic interlinking” between clause 5.9, commercial implications, plant availability, declared capacity, and declaration of capacity in terms of choice of fuel as provided in clause 4.3. Therefore, the compartmentalization of clauses 4.3 and 5.9, which is the premise of the impugned decisions is fl awed; e. For the reasons stated above, the plant availability factor would be less than 70%, and as such, the capacity charges would be reduced in accordance with Clause 21(1)(a) of CERC (Terms and Conditions of Tariff ) Regulations 2009; f. CERC and APTEL have virtually re-written the contract between the parties which is impermissible under settled principles of contractual interpretation. The correct reading must be in accordance with the terms of the contract as well as the conduct of the parties to the contract. The conduct of the parties in the present case suggests that the approval of the appellant was a 770 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. mandatory pre-requisite in to attach the liability of fi xed charges to the appellant. In the past, for a similar GSA, prior approval of the appellant was sought by the fi rst respondent. As such, the intention as evinced by this past conduct, seems to be that the consent requirement was a mandatory pre-requisite for such GTA/GSA.