E 21. Further, It has come to our notice that in the cases of Additional Commissioner of Customs v. Ram Niwas Verma1, Commissioner of Customs v. Avinash Dawar & Anr2, and Commissioner of Customs v. Jyotsana Chikersal & Anr.3, the High Court of Delhi has taken a contrary view from the decision of the Bombay High Court. F In my humble opinion, such an ambiguity in law has been caused because of the lack of an authoritative pronouncement on the subject matter by this Court. This lack of certainty in the law, has led to differential outcomes of similarly situated persons in different jurisdictions. 22. In such a circumstance, where similarly situated persons are G becoming victim to differential outcomes, this court must clarify such an ambiguity, by resolving the conflict between the two sets of s, 1 2015 SCC Online Del 11542 2 2015 SCC Online Del 13875 3 2019 SCC Online Del 6574 H 924 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A to ensure that the mischief caused by the conflicting views is erased, and the certainty in law is restored. 23. In light of the abovementioned discussions, we are not inclined to agree with the preliminary objections raised by the respondent, regarding maintainability of the petition on mere technicalities and B accordingly reject the same. CONFLICT BETWEEN THE TWO SETS OF HIGH COURT S 24. During the course of arguments on merits, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner herein placed strong reliance on the C of Union Of India vs Suresh Raheja & Ors4. The petitioner in the abovementioned case was caught trying to smuggle goods through the green channel of entry. The seizure of the impugned goods therein, similar to the present case at hand, was conducted within the customs area. Subsequent to the seizure, the petitioner therein was amenable to settle the dues, and seek relief under Section 127 of the Customs Act, D however, the goods seized were explicitly mentioned in Section 123 of the Customs Act, which put a bar on settlement of cases under Section 127 B of the said Act. The relevant paragraph of the said judgement is being extracted herein:- “It is further required to be borne in mind that in so far origin E of the goods is concerned, there is no dispute in respect of both the jewellery as well as the watches. Therefore, the contention of the Petitioner that the Respondents had failed to discharge the burden cast by Section 123 of the said Act is mis-founded. Once the origin of the goods was not in dispute, F the Respondents as held by the Settlement Commission were entitled to invoke the jurisdiction of the Settlement Commission and, therefore, the bar contained in the proviso to Section 127B could not have come in their way. The finding of the: Settlement Commission in the aforesaid factual background that the Respondents herein, who were the Applicants before G the Settlement Commission, fulfill all the conditions laid down in Section 127(B) (1) of the said Act, can be said to be a possible view in the said factual background.” H 4 2011 (267) E.L.T.