The deceased sustained following injuries: C 1. 2xl/2 cm scratched injury in the middle of head with red color soft clotting and hematoma beneath the skin of the head 2. Blue colored swelling on right head measuring 2.SxL D INTERNAL hematoma in frontal head lobe. 3. 2cm stitch wound on occipital region of head. Blood clotting a parietal region of right side of head. 4. 3x2 cm scratched injury in front parietal part. E 5. lxl/2 cm injury over nose. 6. 2xl/2 cm scratched I injury over right knee. 7. 5X0.5 cm scratched injury on the lower part of left leg. 8. 0.5X0.5 cm scratched injury on the middle part of left leg. F 9. 6xl.5 cm blue colored wound on the back of neck. While further dissecting it was found that on left muscles there is hematoma and fourth and fifth cervical ribs were broken. There was swelling on it. 10. On front of stomach 2.5xl.5 cm Blue coloured wound on naval side. G All these wounds and injuries lead to death as per the opinion of the doctor. As per the medical opinion and the deposition of doctor the death occurred due to injury no.9 from the shock of wound at spinal bone of neck. Though the injury no.9 was caused by the accused Bhupendra Singh as observed and held hereinabove the respondent accused H SURENDRA SINGH v. STATE OF RAJASTHAN AND ANR. 365 [M. R. SHAH, J.] being a part of the unlawful assembly and who also A participated in commission of the offence, he shall also be liable to be convicted for the offence under Section 302 IPC with the aid of Section 149 IPC, even for the act of the accused Bhupendra Singh who gave the fatal blow. 12. Under the circumstances the impugned and B passed by the High Court acquitting the accused for the offence under Section 302 read with Section 149 IPC is unsustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and set aside. In view of the above and for the reason stated above the present appeal succeeds. The impugned and passed by the High C Court acquitting the respondent – accused for the offence under Section 302 under Section 149 IPC is hereby quashed and set aside. The and passed by the learned Trial Court convicting the respondent – accused for the offence under Sections 147, 323 and 302/149 IPC is hereby restored. The respondent no.2 – accused to undergo life D imprisonment for the offence under Section 302/149 IPC. The respondent no.2 now to surrender before the concerned authority/court to undergo the remaining sentence of life imprisonment within a period of three weeks from today, failing which, he shall be taken into custody forthwith. Present appeal is accordingly allowed. E Divya Pandey Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Pratap Singh and Shevali Monga, LCRAs) F G H