The issue is who would have control over the “services” in the National Capital Territory of Delhi1: the Government of NCTD2 or the Lieutenant Governor acting on behalf of the Union Government. The question arose subsequent to a notification3 D dated 21 May 2015 issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, which stated as follows: “... in accordance with the provisions contained in article 239 and sub-clause (a) of clause (3) of 239AA, the President hereby directs that – E subject to his control and further s, the Lieutenant Governor of the National Capital Territory of Delhi, shall in respect of matters connected with ‘Public ’, ‘Police’, ‘Land’ and ‘Services’ as stated hereinabove, exercise the powers and discharge the functions of the Central Government, to the extent delegated to F him from time to time by the President. Provided that the Lieutenant Governor of the National Capital Territory of Delhi may, in his discretion, obtain the views of the Chief Minister of the National Capital Territory of Delhi in regard to the matter of ‘Services’ wherever he deems it appropriate.” G The notification provided that the Lieutenant Governor of NCTD shall exercise control “to the extent delegated to him from time to time 1 "NCTD” 2 "GNCTD” 3 "2015 notification” H 504 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A by the President” over “services”, in addition to “public ”, “police”, and “land.” The Lieutenant Governor may seek the views of the Chief Minister of NCTD at his “discretion”. 2. “Services” are covered under Entry 41 of the State List of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. The 2015notification excludes Entry B 41 of the State List, which has as its subject, “State Public Services; State Public Services Commission”, from the scope of powers of GNCTD. The notification stipulates that the rationale for excluding “services” from the ambit of the legislative and executive power of NCTD is that NCTD does not have its own State public services: C “Further, the Union Territories Cadre consisting of Indian Administrative Service and Indian Police Service personnel is common to Union Territories of Delhi, Chandigarh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Puducherry and States of Arunachal Pradesh, Goa and Mizoram which is administered by the Central Government through D the Ministry of Home Affairs; and similarly DANICS and DANIPS are common services catering to the requirement of the Union Territories of Daman & Diu, Dadra Nagar Haveli, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep including the National Capital Territory of Delhi which is also administered by the Central E Government through the Ministry of Home Affairs. As such, it is clear that the National Capital Territory of Delhi does not have its own State Public Services. Thus, ‘Services’ will fall within this category. And whereas it is well established that where there is no legislative power, there is no executive power since executive power is co- F extensive with legislative power. And whereas matters relating to Entries 1, 2 & 18 of the State List being ‘Public ’, ‘Police’ and ‘Land’ respectively and Entries 64, 65 & 66 of that list in so far as they relate to Entries 1, 2 & 18 as also ‘Services’ fall outside the purview of Legislative G Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi and consequently the Government of NCT of Delhi will have no executive power in relation to the above and further that power in relation to the aforesaid subjects vests exclusively in the President or his delegate i.e.