E 90. It is thus clear that all the aforesaid cases arose out of the dispute between the legal heirs of the original allottee, who became co-owner of the property on the demise of original allottee. Whenever any share of co-owner was sold to an outsider, it was held that such a purchaser stepped into the shoes of one of the co-owners and as a co-owner, he was entitled to the share of the property. F 91. Insofar as the case of Tilak Raj Bakshi (supra) is concerned, this Court has specifically observed that the rights of the first defendant were already transferred in favour of the second defendant prior to the 2007 Rules coming into force. G X. CONSIDERATION OF ISSUES: 92. Permitting co-owners of a building and site to occupy a particular part of the building as per the family arrangement/settlement, is a matter totally different than permitting construction of a building, which would have three apartments, and then selling the same to three different persons. H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 651 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 93. It is relevant to note that the 2001 Rules had introduced the A concept of apartments in the city of Chandigarh. The said Rules permitted sub-division of a building duly recognized by the Estate Officer. Each sub-division of a buildingwas recognized as a distinct, identifiable property to which the owner/lessee had title along with the proportionate right in the declared common areas and common facilities. The 2001 B Rules also permitted any residential building situated on a residential plot to be sub-divided into separate dwelling units, with not more than one dwelling unit on each floor. 94. Since the citizens of Chandigarh opposed apartmentalization, the 2001 Rules came to be repealed on 1st October 2007. Immediately C thereafter on 7th November 2007, the 2007 Rules came to be notified. Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules specifically prohibited fragmentation of a site or building. Although fragmentation of any site could be allowed, if such fragmentation was permitted under any scheme notified by the Administration; admittedly, no such scheme is notified. As such, the effect is that though a building was permitted to be converted into apartments D between the year 2001 and 2007, the same is not permitted after the year 2007. 95. When the draft CMP-2031 was published, it was proposed to re-introduce the 2001 Rules, through which sub-division of residential plots of 1000 sq. yards and above into two dwelling units on each floor E was to be permitted. The residential buildings on plots of less than 1000 sq. yards were to be permitted with floor-wise sub-division into separate dwelling units with not more than one dwelling unit on each floor of the building. The said Board was constituted to consider the objections/ suggestions to the draft CMP- 2031. The said Board considered various F aspects such as recommendations of the Heritage Committee, which were accepted by the Government of India. It also considered recommendations of the Heritage Committee that the northern sectors of Chandigarh (Corbusian Chandigarh) should be preserved in their present form as far as possible, that no further enhancement should be given in FAR.