“32) In any event, it is unequivocal that the Corporate Debtor is an MSME and as held by this Tribunal that it is not necessary for the Promoters to compete with other Resolution Applicants to regain the control of the Corporate Debtor. 34) Further, this Tribunal, keeping in view of the object of the Code that the Maximization of the Value of the Assets of Corporate Debtor is to be kept in mind in achieving its object. To give an opportunity to regain the control of the Corporate Debtor, the Management/Promoters/ Erstwhile Directors of the Corporate Debtor being an MSME, not necessary to compete with other Resolution Applicants.” 5. The aforesaid observations have been made in the context of the of the Tribunal in Company Appeal (AT) (Insol.) No. 203 of 2019 titled as “Saravana Global Holdings Ltd. & Anr. Vs. Bafna Pharmaceuticals Ltd. & Ors.”. 6. The appellant sought to invite other plans and thereafter e-voting took place. On the anvil of the results of e-voting to be declared, contempt proceedings were fi led by respondent No.1 and the result of the e-voting process was stayed. The real controversy thus is whether the observations made in the paragraph Nos.32 and 34 of the impugned can be sustained or not in the conspectus of the observations in Bafna’s case (Supra) which is stated to have received imprimatur of this Court by the following :- “1. No case is made out so as to interfere with the impugned passed by the Tribunal. The appeal is, accordingly, dismissed. 2. Pending application(s), if any, shall stands disposed of.” 7. We have been taken through the in Bafna’s case (supra). It is the say of learned counsel for respondent No.1 that in view of the of this Court in C.A. No.5344 of 2019, extracted aforesaid, the principles of merger of the as enunciated in “Kunhayammed & Ors vs State Of Kerala & Anr.”reported as (2000)6 SCC 359 would apply. In this behalf, we may observe that all that has been done by this Court vide dated 15.7.2019 is to simply uphold the of the Tribunal by observing that no case for interference is made out-nothing more and nothing less. R. RAGHAVENDRAN v. C. RAJA JOHN & ORS. 723 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] 8. We, thus, turn to the relevant portion of the in Bafna’s case passed by the Tribunal as to really appreciate the context in which the observations were made in paragraph 22 of that , it is necessary to see how that proceeded from paragraph 18 to 22; “18. Therefore, it is clear that ‘I&B Code’ envisages maximization of value of the assets of the ‘Corporate Debtor’ so that they are effi ciently run as going concerns and in turn, will promote entrepreneurship. The preamble does not, in any manner, refer to liquidation, which is only availed of as a last resort if there is either no ‘Resolution Plan’ or the ‘Resolution Plan’s submitted are not up to the mark. 19. Admittedly, the ‘Corporate Debtor’ is a ‘MSME’ and the promoters are not ineligible in terms of Section 29A of the ‘I&B Code’.