[S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] and unconditional, the discretion of the Court should not be A exercised to deny the valuable right of a Defendant to contest the claim. In short the discretion should be used only when there is a clear ‘admission’ which can be acted upon. (See also Uttam Singh Duggal and Co. Ltd. v. United Bank of India 2000 [Supp 2] SCR 187; Karam Kapahi v. Lal Chand Public B Charitable Trust 2010 (4) SCR 422 and Jeevan Diesels and Electricals Ltd. v. Jasbir Singh Chadha 2010) 6 SCC 526" 26. A plain look at the election petition reveals that apart from allegations pertaining to non-disclosure of criminal cases pending against the appellant, or cases where he was convicted, other averments and C allegations have been made regarding non-compliance with stipulations regarding information dissemination and the manner of dissemination through publication in newspapers, the font size, the concerned newspapers’ reach amongst the populace, etc. The alleged non- compliance with statutory and Election Commission mandated regulations, and their legal effect, cannot be examined in what are essentially summary D proceedings under VII Rule 11, CPC, or even under XII Rule 6, CPC. Even if the allegations regarding non-disclosure of cases where the appellant has been arrayed as an accused, are ultimately true, the effect of such allegations (in the context of provisions of law and the non-disclosure of all other particulars mandated by the Election Symbols E s) has to be considered after a full trial. The admission of certain facts (and not all) by the election petitioner cannot be sufficient for the court to reject the petition, wholly. Even in respect of the undeniable nature of the judicial record, the effect of its content, is wholly inadequate to draw a decree in part. This court has also ruled that the truth or otherwise of anything is ordinarily a matter of evidence, in a full-blown F trial, in Virender Nath Gautam v Satpal Singh & Ors.12: “52. The High Court, in our considered opinion, stepped into prohibited area of considering correctness of allegations and evidence in support of averments by entering into the merits of the case which would be permissible only at the stage of G trial of the election petition and not at the stage of consideration whether the election petition was maintainable and dismissed the petition. The said action, therefore, cannot be upheld and the deserves to be set aside.” 12 2006 Supp SCR 413 H 1238 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 27. Lastly, the right to vote, based on an informed choice, is a crucial component of the essence of democracy. This right is precious and was the result of a long and arduous fight for freedom, for Swaraj, where the citizen has an inalienable right to exercise her or his right to franchise. This finds articulation in Article 326 of the Constitution which enacts that “every person who is a citizen of India and who is not B less than twenty one years of age on such date as may be fixed and is not otherwise disqualified under this Constitution or any law made by the appropriate Legislature on the ground of non-residence, unsoundness of mind, crime or corrupt or illegal practice, shall be entitled to be registered as a voter at any such election”.