The law relating to mala fide exercise of power has been the D subject matter of a catena of decisions [Refer: S. Pratap Singh v. State of Punjab23; Jaichand Lal Sethia v. State of W.B24; J.D. Srivastava v. State of M.P And Others25; and Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. And Others v. Union of India And Others26]. It has been repeatedly held that any exercise of power that exceeds the parameters prescribed E by law or is motivated on account of extraneous or irrelevant factors or is driven by malicious intent or is on the face of it, so patently arbitrary that it cannot withstand judicial scrutiny, must be struck down. In the instant case, though the appellant has levelled allegations of institutional bias and prejudice against the respondents, particularly against the then Chairman, CBDT who was a Member of the Review Committee, the F said officer was not joined by the appellant as a party before the Tribunal or the High Court, for him to have had an opportunity to clarify his stand by filing a counter affidavit. Hence, these allegations cannot be looked into by this Court. 39. Dehors the aforesaid allegations of institutional bias and malice, G having perused the material placed on record, we find merit in the other grounds taken by the appellant. It is noticed that though FR 56(j) 23 AIR 1964 SC 72 24 AIR 1967 SC 483 25 (1984) 2 SCC 8 26 (1986) 1 SCC 133 H 58 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A contemplates that the respondents have an absolute right to retire a government servant in public interest and such an could have been passed against the appellant any time after he had attained the age of fifty years, the respondents did not take any such decision till the very fag end of his career. The impugned of compulsory retirement was passed in this case on 27th September, 2019 whereas the appellant B was to superannuate in ordinary course in January, 2020. There appears an apparent contradiction in the approach of the respondents who had till as late as in July, 2019 continued to grade the appellant as ‘Outstanding’ and had assessed his integrity as ‘Beyond doubt’. But in less than three months reckoned therefrom, the respondents had turned C turtle to arrive at the conclusion that he deserved to be compulsorily retired. If the appellant was worthy of being continued in service for little short of a decade after he had attained the age of 50 years and of being granted an overall grade of 9 on the scale of 1 - 10 on 31st July, 2019 it has not been shown as to what had transpired thereafter that made the respondents resort to FR 56(j) and invoke the public interest D doctrine to compulsorily retire him with just three months of service left for his retirement, in routine. In such a case, this Court is inclined to pierce the smoke screen and on doing so, we are of the firm view that the of compulsory retirement in the given facts and circumstances of the case cannot be sustained.