Out of this, about 2000 acres of land has been identified G for main plant, about 1100 acres for ash disposal/dyke and 400 acres for colony. Water source for the project is Govind Ballabh Pant Sagar (Rihand Reservoir), which is about 6-7 km from the main plant site. Water will be brought to site by suitable pumping arrangement and H pipelines. HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 11 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Coal blocks (mines) in Singrauli area with reserves of about 700- A 800 million tons will be allocated as Captive Coal Blocks (mines) for this Project. The Project will require the development of a coalmine with production of 18-20 million tons per annum (MTPA) Vicinity map of Site is enclosed. Further details are provided in the Project Report.” B (9) We may, at this juncture, notice also that the Special Purpose Vehicle which was put in place for carrying out the activities also, commissioned a study by WAPCOS (a public sector body of the Central Government). It was tasked with the project to ascertain about the availability of water inter alia. Water is an indispensable factor for the C successful running of the power plant which was contemplated. WAPCOS made available its report on 03.08.2006. (10) Reliance Power Limited applied pursuant to the RFP. Though, initially, its bid was not the lowest, but on account of the fact that the lowest bidder was found to be not eligible, Reliance Power Limited D emerged as the lowest bidder. In keeping with the conditions, Reliance Power Limited acquired 100 per cent share holding of the first respondent and it was favoured with the Letter of Intent on 01.08.2007. It entered into a Power Purchase Agreement (hereinafter referred to as ‘PPA’) on 07.08.2007. In the second week of December, 2007, it would appear E that the first respondent which now stood transformed as a fully owned company of the successful bidder Reliance Power Limited, commissioned a new Study by WAPCOS. WAPCOS submitted its report on 04.04.2008. We must at this juncture notice that ‘21.07.2007’ has been determined as the cut off date, the relevance of which will be unfolded in the later part of the . F (11) The PPA contemplated two phases. The first phase was the construction of the power plant. The second was the operation of the power plant. The PPA was to be enforced for a period of 25 years. Therefore, we can safely characterise it as along term agreement to purchase power. Since this was a case of competitive bidding, leading to G the finding out of the lowest bidder, but faced with the regime under Section 63 of the Act which stood attracted, after the PPA was entered into, a petition was moved before the Commission for adopting the rates as contemplated in the PPA. By dated 17.10.2007, the Commission after considering the relevant matters, adopted the rates in accordance with the PPA. It is, thereafter, that the present petition was moved by H 12 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.