Their Lordships pointedly observed: “We can see no reason to confi ne the contents of the constitutional guarantee to this barely literal import. So to limit it would be to rob guarantee of its substantial purpose and to miss the substance for the sum as stated in certain decisions. A person can be a witness not merely by giving oral evidence but also by producing documents or making intelligible gestures as in the case of a dumb witness or the like. To be a witness is nothing more than to furnish evidence and such evidence can be furnished through the lips or by production of a thing or of a document or any other means”. 11. The Magistrate has directed the production of the petitioner in a test identifi cation parade. The petitioner has objected to this procedure. Consequently, there is an element of coercion and therefore no question of acquiescence arises. This kind of objection may be raised, in my opinion, by an accused person not only at the time of passing of such an by a Magistrate orally or in writing, personally or through his lawyer, but also at the time of actual collection of his evidence which, MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 909 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] according to the accused, may be self-incriminatory in character. The objection of the petitioner is in time. There is, therefore, no technical bar. 14. Apart from the question of coercion as opposed to acquiescence the fundamental idea stressed is ‘positive volitional evidentiary act’. This is distinct from ‘negative attitude of silence or submission’. It is clear that the Supreme Court did not lay down only the negative principle of silence or acquiescence. What stands out prominently in the is ‘a positive volitional evidentiary act’. If coercion is sought to be imposed in getting from an accused evidence which cannot be procured save through positive volitional act on his part, the Constitutional guarantee will step in to protect him. This was the view of this Court in the case of Farid Ahmed v. The State, AIR 1960 Cal 32, in connection with a case in which the Magistrate allowed an investigating offi cer to take specimen writing and signatures of the accused. But if that evidence can be procured without any positive volitional evidentiary act on the part of the accused, Article 20(3) of the Constitution will have no application. In so far as the above ratio decidendi laid down by the Supreme Court was not kept in view fully in Bhaluka Behara v. The State, AIR 1957 Orissa 172; Brij Bhusan v. The State, AIR 1957 Madh Pra 106; Nazir Singh v. The State, AIR 1959 Madh Pra 411, or Sailendra Nath v. The State, AIR 1955 Cal 247, or Ram Swarup v. The State, AIR 1958 Cal 119, we would with due deference dissent from the views in these decisions. In Bhaluka Behara v. The State, the Orissa High Court seems to have been of the opinion that any direction asking the accused to give his thumb impression would amount to asking him to furnish evidence which is prohibited under Article 20(3).