Certain incidents which could disqualify a parliamentarian are specifi ed in clauses (a) to (d) of Article 102. Sub- clause (e) of clause (1) of Article 102, having relevance here, provides that “a person shall be disqualifi ed for being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament if he is so disqualifi ed by or under any law made by Parliament”. Sub-clause (e) of clause (1) of Article 191 100 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. is similarly worded. The affi rmative words used in Articles 102(1)(e) and 191(1)(e), thus, confer absolute and unconditional power on the Parliament to provide for disqualifi cation of an elected member through legislation. 35. As a reasonable sequitur, the Parliament by exercising this power has listed out the disqualifi cations for membership of Parliament and Legislative Assemblies/Legislative Councils of State as are found in section 8 of the RoP Act. Sub-section (3) of section 8 provides that “(A) person convicted of any off ence and sentenced to imprisonment for not less than two years other than any off ence referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be disqualifi ed from the date of such conviction and shall continue to be disqualifi ed for a further period of six years since his release”. Any interpretation of section 8 of the RoP Act, therefore, has to be in consonance with this Constitutional scheme. 36. In this regard, a brief reference to K. Anandan Nambiar, In Re19, a decision of ancient vintage rendered by a Division Bench of the Madras High Court, may not be inapt. The Court was dealing with a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution presented by a member of the Legislative Assembly. Upon his arrest and continuous detention under the Madras Maintenance of Public Act, 1949, the petitioner applied for a mandamus or any other appropriate writ to declare and enforce his right to attend the sittings of the Legislative Assembly then in progress, either freely or with such restrictions as may be reasonably imposed. It was held that a member of the Legislative Assembly who is detained in prison cannot claim any superior right to participate in the session of the Assembly. A passage from the decision, which was delivered at the dawn of the Constitution, gives an insight to the pillars underground on which the Constitution is founded and whether placing the petitioner under detention, necessarily resulting in his absence from assembly sessions, could put in jeopardy any basis of the Constitution. The relevant passage is quoted below: “7. We have tried to follow Mr. Kumaramangalam in his underground exploration of the foundations of the Constitution. But we cannot see how they could be placed in jeopardy by MLAs under the lawful preventive detention being (not?) permitted while under such 19 AIR 1952 Madras 117 AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 1007 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] detention to attend the sittings of the House. We are able to discern two main massive and indispensable pillars underground on which the Constitution is founded.