The time limit fixed under the said Rule is also a pointer which suggests that the enquiry to be made by the Competent Authority is a summary enquiry and a detailed enquiry is not contemplated. The mandate G of issuing caste certificates within 15 days cannot be accomplished if the Competent Authority is to hold a detailed enquiry on par with the one which is required to be held by the Scrutiny Committee. The law contemplates very detailed scrutiny of the caste claim by the Scrutiny Committee. If both the Competent H Authority and the Caste Scrutiny Committee were to make the MAH. ADIWASI THAKUR JAMAT SWARAKSHAN SAMITI v. 1103 THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA same degree of scrutiny and detailed enquiry into caste claims, A the very object of the two-tier scrutiny will be frustrated. Section 8 provides that the burden of proving a caste claim before the Competent Authority and the Scrutiny Committee is on the applicant. For discharging the said burden before the Competent Authority, it is enough if the applicant produces prima facie B material to show that his caste claim is genuine. The burden put by Section 8 on the applicant to prove his caste status before the Scrutiny Committee is much higher than the burden which he is required to discharge before the Competent Authority. [Paras 14, 15][1118-F-H; 1119-A-G] C 2. Sub-rule (2) of Rule 12 of the ST Rules clearly provides that only if the Scrutiny Committee is not satisfied with the documentary evidence produced by the applicant, it shall forward the application to the Vigilance Cell for conducting the school, home and other enquiry. Therefore, in every case, as a matter of routine, the Scrutiny Committee cannot mechanically forward the D application to Vigilance Cell for conducting an enquiry. When sub-rule (2) of Rule 12 contemplates that only if the Scrutiny Committee is not satisfied with the documents produced by the applicant that the case should be referred to Vigilance Cell, it follows that the Scrutiny Committee is required to pass an E recording brief reasons why it is not satisfied with the documents produced by the applicant. Before referring the case to the Vigilance Cell, application of mind to the material produced by the applicant is required and therefore, the application of mind must be reflected in the sheets of the Scrutiny Committee. [Para 19][1123-B-D] F 3. The Scrutiny Committee may be satisfied that the caste validity certificate relied upon by the applicant has been issued after making a lawful enquiry. But if the Scrutiny Committee is of the view that the applicant has not clearly established that the person to whom caste validity certificate produced on record has G been granted is his blood relative, in terms of sub-rule (2) of Rule 12 of the ST Rules, the Caste Scrutiny Committee will have to refer the case for conducting an enquiry through Vigilance Cell. In such a case, the Vigilance Cell can be directed by the Scrutiny Committee to conduct an enquiry limited to the relationship H 1104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.