The learned Attorney General for India opined that there was a conflict between Section 26 of the 2014 Act and Article 170 of the Constitution and therefore, Article 170 will prevail. It was F submitted that the said opinion will govern the relevant provisions of the J&K Reorganisation Act as well; (g) A non-obstante clause in a statute cannot override the provisions of the Constitution. Reliance was placed upon a decision of this Court in the case of Engineering Kamgar G Union v. Electro Steel Casting1 on this behalf; (h) The delimitation of 2008 published by the Election Commission cannot be deviated from. The guidelines issued by the Election Commission are very relevant on this behalf; 1 2004 (6) SCC 36 H 524 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A (i) As under Section 62 of the J&K Reorganisation Act, the work of delimitation has been entrusted to the Election Commission, the notification dated 6th March 2020 which permits Delimitation Commission to undertake the said exercise, is completely illegal; B (j) It is a settled law that this Court can take judicial notice of the proceedings of the Houses of Parliament. A question was asked in the Lok Sabha by a Hon’ble Member regarding undertaking the delimitation of the constituencies in the State of Telangana along with the Union territory of J & K. The answer given by Shri Nityanand Rai, the Hon’ble Minister C of State in the Ministry of Home Affairs on 3rd August 2021 to the question was that the total number of seats in the Assembly of each State will be readjusted after the first census is published after the year 2026; (k) In any event, the appointment of the Delimitation D Commission under the dated 6th March 2020 is completely contrary to Section 3 of the Delimitation Act which provides that the Delimitation Commission shall be constituted at the earliest. Sub-Section (6) of Section 10 of the Delimitation Act, 2002 requires the Delimitation Commission to complete the exercise and to publish s E under sub-Section (1) of Section 10, not later than 31st July 2008. Hence, the s passed by the Delimitation Commission constituted under the notification dated 6th March 2020 are in complete violation of the mandate of sub-Section (6) of Section 10; F (l) The Delimitation Act, 2002 contemplates the constitution of a single Delimitation Commission and not multiple Commissions. He would, therefore, submit that the constitution of the Delimitation Commission is completely illegal; G (m) The States of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and Nagaland were illegally excluded from the purview of the notification dated 6th March 2020. The said action was taken on the basis of the letter dated 22nd February 2021 addressed by the Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Home H Affairs, stating that considering the litigations pending HAJI ABDUL GANI KHAN & ANR. v. UNION OF INDIA & 525 ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] concerning the delimitation exercise in North-Eastern States, A the delimitation exercise should not be undertaken in the said States.