This was followed by consequential amendment of the Fundamental Rules and Supplementary Rules, 1922. Since, Ayurveda doctors were not covered by the Ministry’s dated 31.05.2016, the Ayurveda doctors fi led applications before the Administrative Tribunal. The Administrative Tribunal allowed the applications by an dated 24.08.2017. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation (Employer) fi led writ petitions before the High Court of Delhi challenging the decision of the Tribunal. During the pendency of the writ petitions, the Ministry of AYUSH issued an dated 24.11.2017 enhancing the age of retirement of AYUSH doctors also to 65 years, but w.e.f. 27.09.2017. It is in that context that this Court held as aforesaid in Dr. Ram Naresh Sharma (supra). Thus, this decision is in no manner helpful to the respondent No. 1. 48. We may only say that the entire approach of the High Court towards the present litigation was incorrect. We are a bit disappointed to observe that the High Court dealt with the present litigation in a very casual manner. First, the High Court went to the extent of granting interim relief extending the period of service beyond 60 years till the disposal of the Original Petition by the CAT. By virtue of such interim which the High Court ordinarily should not grant, the respondent No. 1 although was to retire in 2018 yet continued in service till 2021. It is only when this Court stayed the operation of the impugned passed by the High Court while issuing notice that the service of the respondent No. 1 came to an end. The Court or the Tribunal should, therefore, be slow and circumspect in granting interim relief for continuation in service, unless prima facie evidence of unimpeachable character is produced because if the public servant succeeds, he can always be compensated. But if he fails, he would have enjoyed undeserved benefi t of extended service and merely caused injustice to his 774 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. immediate junior. At the cost of repetition, we may state that the High Court was conscious of the fact as very much recorded in the impugned that the respondent No. 1 was appointed as a Research Assistant and was functioning as a Researcher under the Research Council and his service conditions were also diff erent compared to the AYUSH doctors serving with the Ministry of AYUSH. The High Court misdirected itself saying that the benefi t of enhanced age of superannuation can also be granted if the duties performed are the same like AYUSH doctors. We fail to understand how can the Court fi x the age of superannuation of an employee saying that he is very much devoted towards his job. The age of superannuation is always governed by statutory rules & other service conditions. 49. Before we close this matter, we would like to observe something important in the aforesaid context: Two cardinal principles of law governing exercise of extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution more particularly when it comes to issue of writ of certiorari.