[S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 26. Reasonable accommodation thus, is “appropriate modifi cation and adjustments” that should be taken by the employer, in the present case, without that duty being imposed with “disproportionate or undue burden”. TANGEDCO- the employer expresses its willingness to accommodate the appellant. Yet the position it off ers, is highly inadequate: that it is belated, is beside the point. In the considered view of this court, the post off ered, i.e., Junior Assistant, is inconsistent with the appellant’s qualifi cation which cannot be off ered to him; the off er is a mere palliative gesture, which he justifi ably rejected. 27. TANGEDCO, during the hearing was unable to show how it employing the appellant in one of the many departments or units [as AE (Material Management) or AE (CAUP) in the offi ce of the Executive Engineer or even as AE (General) in the offi ce of the SE or as AE (General)] is not possible. The hierarchy of posts further indicates that the primary inspection responsibilities of technical nature are upon Junior Engineers, who oversee the work of Technical Assistants, and that of Linemen. It is evident that the AE works at a position of overseeing supervisory work of Junior Engineers. This could involve, at the fi eld stage, satisfaction after visual inspection. Suffi cient safeguards (whenever the appellant’s services in that regard are absolutely essential, and he is deployed on some occasions) can be taken, to ensure that he is accompanied by those without any colour vision defi ciencies or impairments. TANGEDCO’s units and organizational structure, in this court’s opinion, have suffi cient possibility for accommodating the appellant in a unit or department which may not require utilization of skills that involve intense engagement with colour. As stated earlier, these are AE (General) in SE offi ce, AE (CAUP) in EE offi ce; AE (Material Management). The TANGEDCO, is under an obligation to ensure that the appellant is therefore, suitably accommodated in any such general department or establishment. 28. In view of the foregoing discussion, the impugned cannot stand; it is set aside. TANGEDCO, the respondent corporation, is directed to appoint and continue the appellant in its service, as AE (Electrical) at the appropriate stage of the grade of pay, from the date he was terminated from service, or his appointment was cancelled, and accommodate him in a suitable department, where he can be given appropriate responsibilities. 942 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. The appellant shall also be entitled to 50% of full arrears of salary, and all allowances, and his service shall be reckoned from the original date of appointment, (which was later cancelled), with full continuity. The appeal is allowed in these terms, without on costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Ankit Gyan