Pay revisions also subserve other objectives, such as enthusing a renewed sense of G commitment and loyalty towards public employment. Another important public interest consideration, is that such revisions are meant to deter public servants from the lure of gratification; of supplementing their income by accepting money or other inducements for discharging their functions. H MAHARASHTRA STATE FINANCIAL CORP. EX- EMPLOYEES 1187 ASSOC. v. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 28. Article 43 of the Constitution10 obliges the state to ensure that A all workers, industrial or otherwise, are provided with a living wage and assured of a decent standard of living. In this context, the need for providing a mechanism to neutralize price increase, through dearness allowance has been emphasized, in past decisions of this court. In Hindustan Lever Ltd. v. B.N. Dongre11, the court explained that if pay B packets are “frozen”, the purchasing power of the wage would shrink, and there would be a fall in real wages, which needs to be neutralized. The court also noted neutralization of wages, through dearness allowance is on a “sliding scale” with those at the lowest wage bracket, getting full neutralization and those in the highest rungs being given the least of such allowance: C “Workers are therefore concerned with the purchasing power of the pay- packet they receive for their toil. If the rise in the pay-packet does not keep pace with the rise in prices of essentials the purchasing power of the pay- packet falls reducing the real wages leaving the workers and their families D worse off. Therefore, if on account of inflation prices rise while the pay- packet remains frozen, real wages will fall sharply. This is what happens in periods of inflation. In to prevent such a fall in real wages different methods are adopted to provide for the rise in prices. In the cost-of-living sliding scale systems the basic wages are automatically E adjusted to price changes shown by the cost-of-living index. In this way the purchasing power of workers’ wages is maintained to the extent possible and necessary. However, leap-frogging must be avoided. This Court in Clerks & Depot Cashiers of Calcutta Tramways Co. Ltd. v. Calcutta Tramways F Co. Ltd. [AIR 1957 SC 78], held that while awarding dearness allowance cent per cent neutralisation of the price of cost of living should be avoided to check inflationary trends. That is why in Hindustan Times Ltd. v. Workmen [AIR 1963 SC 1332] Das Gupta, J. observed that the whole purpose of granting G 10 “Article 43. Living wage, etc, for workers The State shall endeavour to secure, by suitable legislation or economic organisation or in any other way, to all workers, agricultural, industrial or otherwise, work, a living wage, conditions of work ensuring a decent standard of life and full enjoyment of leisure and social and cultural opportunities and, in particular, the State shall endeavour to promote cottage industries on an individual or co-operative basis in rural areas.” 11 [1994] 2 Suppl.