As stated earlier, many off ences under Chapter XVII of IPC are not included in Parts A and B. They become scheduled off ences only if the same have cross- b implications. Thus, the off ences of dishonest misappropriation of property or criminal breach of trust or theft can become a scheduled off ence, provided they have cross-b implications. If the argument of the learned Additional Solicitor General is accepted, if there is a conspiracy to commit off ences under Section 403 or Section 405, though the same have no cross-b implications, the off ence under Section 120-B of conspiracy to commit off ences under Sections 403 and 405 will become a scheduled off ence. Thus, if any off ence is not included in Parts A, B and C of the Schedule but if the conspiracy to commit the off ence is alleged, the same will become a scheduled off ence. A crime punishable under Section 132 of the Customs Act is made a scheduled off ence under Part B, provided the value involved in the off ence is Rupees One Crore or more. But if Section 120-B of IPC is applied, one who commits such an off ence having a value of even Rs.1 lac can be brought within the purview of the PMLA. By that logic, a conspiracy to commit any off ence under any penal law which is capable of generating proceeds, can be converted into a scheduled off ence by applying Section 120-B of the IPC, though the off ence is not a part of the Schedule. This cannot be the intention of the legislature. 23. The penal statutes are required to be strictly construed. It is true that the penal laws must be construed according to the legislative intent as expressed in the enactment. In Chapter 1 of GP Singh’s Principles of Statutory Interpretation (15th Edition), it is observed that: “The intention of the Legislature, thus, assimilates two aspects: In one aspect it carries the concept of “meaning”, i.e. 106 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. what the words mean and in another aspect, it conveys the concept of “purpose and object” or the “reason and spirit” pervading through the statute. The process of construction, therefore, combines both literal and purposive approaches. In other words the legislative intention, i.e., the true or legal meaning of an enactment is derived by considering the meaning of the words used in the enactment in the light of any discernible purpose or object which comprehends the mischief and its remedy to which the enactment is directed.” In the words of A Driedger, Construction of Statute, 2nd Edn, 1983: The words of an Act are to be read in their entire context and in their grammatical and ordinary sense harmoniously with the Scheme of the Act, the object of the Act, and the intent of the Parliament. This formulation later received the approval of the Supreme Court and was called the “cardinal principle of construction”.” In both Constitutional and statutory interpretation, the court is supposed to exercise discretion in determining the proper relationship between the subjective and objective purposes of the law and help the law achieve its purpose.” (Emphasis added) 24.