xi. The correct interpretation to be placed on Article 96 is to confine its ambit to suits to recover possession where the right to recover possession was not lost under Section 27 F of the Limitation Act. In other words, it is found that Article 96 would be of avail only in regard to voidable transfers. xii. The finding of the Tribunal that the respondents had acquired title by adverse possession, was found correct. The contention based on Section 66G of the Waqf Act, 1954, G was repelled, though it provided for a period of thirty years. This was on the basis that the said enactment was never made applicable to Uttar Pradesh. 4 AIR 1970 Allahabad 509 H 950 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A xiii. Section 107 of the Act, which excludes the Limitation Act, was found to be of little avail to the appellant. A person in adverse possession does not claim through the Mutawalli. The right of the respondents having ripened by adverse possession, it could not be defeated by invoking Section 107 of the Act. B xiv. The view expressed by the Tribunal that the Waqf Board was duty-bound to hold an inquiry and that such an inquiry was not held, was found to be erroneous. The contention of the appellant that the Waqf was registered, had not been disputed, and it was also not disputed that there was no C previous sanction for the sale, was found to be with merit. xv. It was noted that in the Report of the Inspector, it is stated that Waqf was registered as Waqf No. 1456, which recital was not established as incorrect. It was further found that the respondents had not set up any case that the Waqf was D not registered in the Register of Waqfs. The of the Controller, therefore, was not required, it is found, to be quashed on the ground of no inquiry being held under Section 52. It was also found that it could not be so quashed on the ground that there was no application of mind. E xvi. The effect of the decision reported in Khilli Ram v. State of Rajasthan5, was found to be that the entry in the Waqf Register would not be open to question in an Appeal against the passed by the Collector. The Appeal against the of the Collector lies before the Tribunal under the Act. The Tribunal has wide powers and it can go into the F question. The Tribunal could go into the validity of the Requisition issued by the Board. These are views expressed in the of a learned Single Judge in the decision reported in (Smt.) Amina Khatoon v. Third Addl. D.J. Farukhabad and others6. The High Court agreed G with the said view. xvii. The Tribunal erred in finding the notice being defective on the ground that thirty days’ notice was not given. High Court 5 (1985) 1 SCC 28 H 6 1987 All LJ 1282 SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD.