348. The petitioners also contended that reading the power under Article 370(3) independent of the proviso would lead to an internal interpretative inconsistency. It was argued that the President could not unilaterally exercise power under Article 370(1) by which the provisions of the Constitution are applied to the State of Jammu and Kashmir but the President could unilaterally extinguish the special status of the State of Jammu and Kashmir. It was argued that this would lead to a situation where greater federal participation would be required for the purpose of applying the provisions of the Constitution but not for extinguishing the special status which the State enjoys. This argument misses the crux of the power conferred by Article 370(1). By virtue of the power under Article 370(1), the Union and the State decide on the scope of the legislative powers of the Union in the State and the provisions of the Constitution (with such modifi cations) which will apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Thus, the power under Article 370(1) is exercised to establish a system of governance in the State. 349. The provisions of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir must be referred to, to elucidate this point. The legislative and executive power of the State depends on the scope of the legislative and executive power of the Union in the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Under Section 5 of the IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 213 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the extent of the legislative and executive power of the State extends to those matters over which Parliament does not have legislative competence under the provisions of the Constitution of India. In other words, the residual power after excluding matters with respect to which Parliament can enact laws in relation to the State falls within the ambit of the legislative power of the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 350. Part IV of the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution contained provisions for the Directive Principles of State Policy. Part V of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir contained provisions for the executive including the Governor and the Council of Ministers to aid and advice the Governor. Part VI contained provisions for the State legislature including the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council. Parts IV, V, and VI of the Constitution of India were not made applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir through the Constitution s. The Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir deals with subjects which have been omitted from the Constitution of India as it is applicable to the State. In doing so, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir does not prescribe principles and a system of governance which are radically diff erent from that which is prescribed by the Indian Constitution. In fact, there is more than one similarity. 351. Part IV deals with the Directive Principles of State Policy. Section 12, similar to Article 37 of the Constitution of India, states that the Directive Principles are unenforceable in Courts and that they are guiding principles.