Various issues arising from these events fall to be determined by this Court in these proceedings. A detailed narration of the factual background follows. E A. Factual Background i. A change in the government of the State of Maharashtra 2. The Shiv Sena was founded in 1966 in Maharashtra. The Election Commission of India5 recognizesthe Shiv Sena as a state political F party. The organizational election of the party for the term extending from January 2018 to January 2023 was held on 23 January 2018 and Mr. Uddhav Thackeray was elected as the Party President or the ‘Paksh Pramukh.’ 3. The elections to the 14th Legislative Assembly of Maharashtra G were held in October 2019. Of a total of two hundred and eighty-eight seats, the BJP returned candidates in one hundred and six seats, the 1"NCP” 2"INC” 3"MLA” 4"BJP” H 5"ECI” SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 871 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] Shiv Sena in fifty-six seats, the NCP in fifty-three seats, and the INC in A forty-four seats. Independent candidates were returned in thirteen constituencies and the remaining constituencies returned candidates from various other parties. In November 2019, the Shiv Sena, the NCP, and the INC formed a post-poll alliance which came to be known as the Maha Vikas Aghadi.6 The MVA successfully staked a claim to form the B government in Maharashtra and Mr. Uddhav Thackeray was sworn in as the Chief Minister. On 25 November 2019, pursuant to a meeting chaired by Mr. Uddhav Thackeray, all fifty-six MLAs of the Shiv Sena issued a communication to the Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly intimating him that Mr. Eknath Shinde was appointed as the Group Leader of the Shiv Sena Legislature Party7 and that Mr. Sunil C Prabhu was appointed as the Chief Whip of the SSLP. 4. The MVA continued to govern the State of Maharashtra until June 2022, when news reports revealed that some MLAs who belonged to the Shiv Sena were meeting with leaders of the BJP. At this time, the office of the Speaker lay vacant, and the functions of the Speaker were D being discharged by the Deputy Speaker, Mr. Narhari Zirwal. 5. The events which followed indicate that the SSLP fractured into two factions: one led by the then Chief Minister, Mr. Uddhav Thackeray, and the other led by the Group Leader of the SSLP, Mr. Eknath Shinde. Each faction claimed to represent the “real” political E party and passed various resolutions pertaining to the affairs of the SSLP.For ease of reference, we refer to the faction led by Mr. Thackeray as the petitioners and the faction led by Mr. Shinde as the respondents. 6. On 21 June 2022, the Chief Whip of the Shiv Sena, Mr. Sunil Prabhu, issued a whip directing all MLAs of the Shiv Sena to attend a F meeting at Mr. Thackeray’s residence on the same day. Many MLAs, including the Group Leader Mr. Eknath Shinde, did not attend this meeting. The MLAs who were in attendance passed a resolution removing Mr. Eknath Shinde from the position of the Group Leader of the SSLP and appointing one Mr. Ajay Choudhari in his place.