Therefore, after comprehensive consultation on the educational rights of the OCI cardholders in the meeting held on 19.07.2018 it was decided that the OCI cardholders may be treated at par with NRIs in the quota F for NRI seats and they would not be eligible against the seats meant for Indian citizens. 11. Hence the issue of the consolidated Notification of 04.03.2021 was in supersession of earlier Notifications of 2005, 2007, and 2009 to bring clarity with regard to various provisions which were under G consideration of the Ministry of Home Affairs for quite some time. In this context, consultations were held with all stakeholders and the Notification was issued. 12. Reference to the s cited by the learned Additional Solicitor General to substantiate her contention that the consideration H 260 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A with regard to the validity of the Notification cannot be of a similar purport when it is assailed by the citizens of India and other decisions referred to would be considered at the appropriate stage. The sum and substance of the contention is that the decision is with the object of legitimate public interest and in the interest of the Indian citizens. Hence, it is contended that the impugned Notification does not call for interference B and the petitioners are not entitled to seek any relief from this Court. 13. In the light of rival contentions, at the threshold it is necessary to take note that though the arguments were elaborately addressed and the learned Additional Solicitor General referred in detail to the provisions of the constitution relating to citizenship and also the sovereign power of C the respondent No.1 under the Act, 1955, we do not find it necessary to dwell into much detail in this batch of petitions. This is for the reason that from the very case put forth by the petitioners they are not questioning the power of respondent No.1 to issue notifications prescribing the right in respect of OCI Cardholders. However, the grievance is only that a right which existed in their favour has been altered to their detriment D without application of mind to the fact that most of the petitioners have spent their entire lifetime in India and also pursued their educational careers in India including appearing for the qualifying exam. As such the only grievance of the petitioners herein is with regard to the proviso to clause 4(ii) and Explanation contained in the impugned notification dated E 04.03.2021 whereunder a limitation has been prescribed wherein they have been made entitled only to the seats available to NRIs and they have been specifically excluded from seeking admission to the seats which are exclusively available to the Indian citizens. 14. In that regard, the provisions of Act, 1955 which are to be F noted read as hereunder:- “7A. Registration of overseas citizens of India Cardholder.- (1) The Central Government may, subject to such conditions, restrictions and manner as may be prescribed, on an application made in this behalf, register as an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder- G (a) any person of full age and capacity,- (i) who is citizen of another country, but was a citizen of India at the time of, or at any time after, the commencement of the Constitution; or H ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS.