P-13), amongst other articles, a lathi was seized by the police from the place where the dead body was lying - whose lathi it was, the prosecution evidence is silent; (d) the articles i.e. lathi and clothes seized at the instance of the accused though were stained with blood, the serologist report could not confi rm its origin; and (e) PW-2 sets up a story that he narrated the incident to PW-9 but PW-9, who is Kotwarin (village Chowkidar) of a neighbouring village, states that she was not informed by any eye witness, rather she arrived at the spot as a reaction to the commotion. All these aspects were material as they were indicative of a mob violence on the deceased due to some incident concerning a lady of the village. 15. Bearing the above aspects in mind, we shall now carefully examine the prosecution evidence to test whether it inspires confi dence and succeeds in proving the charge against the accused beyond reasonable doubt. 16. Before we proceed to analyse the testimony of the two material eye-witnesses of the incident (i.e., PW-2 and PW-6), what is important to note is that as per the ocular account of PW-2 and PW-6, the assault on the deceased took place between 7 pm and 8 pm of 25.08.1989. However, neither PW-2 nor PW-6 lodged the FIR. Rather, a named FIR was lodged on 26.08.1989 at 10 am by PW-9 i.e., Kotwarin (village Chowkidar) of neighbouring village Khapri, even though she was not an eye witness. In these circumstances, the statement of PW-9 assumes importance to ascertain the source of her information. Unfortunately, neither the trial court nor the High Court have carefully considered the deposition of PW-9. 17. PW-9, in her deposition, stated that she is Kotwarin of village Kharpi and Kotwar of village Kohroda (i.e., the place where incident 146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. occurred) is some other person. Ellahabadiya @ Vijay (the deceased) was a resident of her village. On the night of the incident, at about 9 pm, while she was taking a round of her own village, she heard loud noises coming from village Kohroda. Fellow villagers Lulwa and Sudhwa asked PW-9 to go to village Kohroda. When she went to village Kohroda, she noticed the dead body of Ellahabadiya lying near Rupau temple. Upon fi nding the dead body there, she went to inform the village Chowkidar of Kohroda, woke him up and brought him to the place where the dead body was lying. Thereafter, the body was guarded through the night with the help of villagers and next day morning, FIR was lodged at P.S. Hirri. During cross-examination, PW-9 specifi cally stated that she was not informed by any person that he had witnessed the deceased being beaten. She also specifi cally stated that neither Parasram nor Sitaram came to inform her about the incident. 18. The statement of PW-9 is of signifi cance for multiple reasons. First, that PW-2 did not inform her about the night incident as is alleged by PW-2 in his deposition; second, the body of the deceased was found near the temple and was kept there overnight; and third, if no one had told PW-9 about the incident, why a named FIR was lodged.