This is more significant because the High Court denied such interim measure in its previous dated 17.12.2021. 12. It was argued that the direction to approach RBI for clarification is beyond the scope of the original petition as DBS did not assert or seek relief in its quashing petition for the parties to approach the RBI for clarification. This direction essentially imposes a new obligation on the parties involved. If the High Court deemed it necessary to seek RBI’s view, it should have ideally impleaded RBI as a necessary party. Nevertheless, the RBI cannot sit in appeal over the findings of the High Court. Additionally, the High Court failed to take into account its own findings regarding interpretation of Clause 3(3) of the amalgamation scheme, that is – “15. Now, if one peruse sub clause 3 of Clause 3 of Scheme of Merger, it may appear there is no impediment to prosecute the petitioner company as the proviso of the said Scheme specifi cally says any cause of action or any other proceedings of whatsoever nature, against the transferee bank, the same shall not abate but shall be prosecuted by or against the transferee bank. The proviso to sub clause 3 appears to be only qua Director, Secretary, Manager, offi cer or other employee of the transferee bank who has actually committed criminal off ence.” 13. RFL argued that criminal proceedings do not automatically abate upon the amalgamation of a company. LVB gained from the illegal transaction, and DBS is benefited from the assets of LVB, which 204 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. included misappropriated funds obtained from RFL’s fixed deposits. Moreover, Clause 3(3) of the scheme incorporates the notion of criminal accountability, and there is no such bar on transferring criminal liability onto the transferee bank. The High Court’s decision essentially denies the petitioner the chance to pursue the case on merits, and instead, it necessitates involving an external body to interpret the amalgamation scheme. Lastly, as the trial is in its early stages, an indefinite stay will further delay the trial process. Contentions of DBS 14. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi and Mr. Jayant Bhushan, learned senior counsel, argued that the acts outlined in the chargesheet occurred well before the appointed date of the amalgamation, i.e., 27.11.2020. LVB was not implicated as an accused prior to the appointed date and was only added in the supplementary chargesheet. Before the amalgamation, LVB had no ties to DBS. LVB existed as a distinct and separate entity without being part of the same group or affiliate of or in any manner associated with DBS in any capacity. It ceased to exist in terms of Clause 7(2) of the scheme of amalgamation. 15. It was submitted that it is well settled principle that only the actual wrongdoer can only be punished for its wrongdoing, and no vicarious criminal liability can be inherited by a transferee company. Reliance was placed on Sham Sunder & Others v. State of Haryana12and McLeod Russel India Limited v. Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Jalpaiguri & Ors.13 It was further submitted that the High Court has wrongly ignored/rejected a binding passed by a coordinate bench of the same High Court in Nicholas Piramal India Limited v. S. Sundaranayagam14 passed in similar circumstances, wherein it was held that no vicarious criminal liability was being passed on to the transferee company in an amalgamation where the relevant Clause of the scheme was more or less identical by observing: “The legal position which emerges from afore-noted judicial decisions is that upon an amalgamation between two companies, the transferor 12 (1989) 4 SCC 630.