It would involve a detailed inquiry into questions such as (a) whether the statement by the Minister was made in his personal or official capacity; (b) whether the statement was made on a D public or private issue; (c) whether the statement was made on a public or private platform. In Amish Devgan vs. Union of India23, while dealing with hate speech, the impact of the speech of “a person of influence” such as a Government functionary, was explained. State of Maharashtra vs. Sarangdharsingh Shivdassingh E Chavan24, provides a clear instance of direct interference with the investigation by a Chief Minister. The Court held the action of the Chief Minister to be “wholly unconstitutional” and contrary to the oath of allegiance to the Constitution and imposed costs on the State. The F concurring opinion emphasizes the responsibility that the oath of office casts on the Minister under the Constitution. In Secretary, Jaipur Development Authority, Jaipur vs. Daulat Mal Jain25, while dealing with a case involving the misuse of public office by a Minister, this Court elaborated on the responsibility and liability of the Ministerial office G under the Constitution. The importance of the Oath of Office under the Constitution was also emphasized by the 23 (2021) 1 SCC 1 24 (2011) 1 SCC 577 H 25 (1997) 1 SCC 35 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 619 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] Constitution Bench in Manoj Narula vs. Union of India26. A However, the Ministerial code of conduct was held to be not enforceable in a court of law in R. Sai Bharathi vs. J. Jayalalitha27, as it does not have any statutory force. An argument can be made that the Minister is personally bound by the oath of his office to bear true faith and allegiance to B the Constitution of India under Articles 75(4) and 164(3) of the Constitution. The Constitution imposes a solemn obligation on the Minister as a Constitutional functionary to protect the fundamental rights of the citizens. The code of conduct for Ministers (Both for Union and States) specifically lays down that the Code is in addition to the “. C . . observance of the provisions of the Constitution, the Representation of the People Act, 1951”. Therefore, a Constitutional functionary is duty bound to act in a manner which is in consonance with this constitutional obligation of the State. D Question No. 5 (v) The State acts through its functionaries. Therefore, the official act of a Minister which violates the fundamental rights of the citizens, would make the State liable under constitutional tort. The principle of sovereign immunity of E the State for the tortious acts of its servant, has been held to be inapplicable in the case of violation of fundamental rights. The principle of State liability under Constitutional tort was expounded in Nilabati Behera (supra). In Common Cause, A Registered Society vs. Union of India.28, the F position in the case of a public functionary was explained. III.C. Written submissions of Shri Kaleeswaram Raj, Advocate for the SLP petitioner 11.