In the above backdrop we have heard Ms. Meenakshi Arora, learned senior counsel and Shri S. Niranjan Reddy, learned senior counsel for the respective appellants, Shri Kailash Vasdev, learned senior counsel, and Ms. Niharika Ahluwalia, learned counsel for the respondents and perused the appeals papers. 8. In the light of the contentions put forth and the sequence of events mentioned above being kept in perspective, the matter requires examination. At the outset, it would be appropriate for us to take note of the legal position on which the emphasis was laid by the learned senior counsels for the appellants by placing the decisions of this Court for our consideration. (i) The decision of the Constitutional Bench of this Court in the case of Central Bank of India vs. Ravindra & Ors. (2002) 1 SCC 367 is relied upon with specifi c reference to para 37 wherein the purport 840 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. of the terms ‘interest’ as compensation has been taken note of in the context of the defi nition of interest being compensation fi xed by agreement or allowed by law for the use or retention of money or for the loss of money by one who is entitled to its use. In that regard, we note that the consideration in the said proceedings was predicated in the context of the phrases ‘the principal sum adjudged’ and ‘such principal sum’ in the background of the provision contained in Section 34 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1918. (ii) The decision of this Court in South Eastern Coalfi elds Limited vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and Ors. (2003) 8 SCC 648 with specifi c reference to paras 26 and 28 is placed to emphasize the principle of restitution whereby the parties are put to the same position and to contend that no one shall suff er by an Act of the Court which was considered and applied in the said case for the benefi t of grant of interest. (iii) The decision in the case of Rajasthan Housing Board & Ors. vs. Krishna Kumari (2005) 13 SCC 151 is placed with reference to para 5 wherein, even while providing benefi t to the allotting authority and denying relief to the allottee to waive interest over the arrears, this Court had emphasized the legal maxim ‘Actus Curiae Neminem Gravabit’. (iv) Further on the same principle of application of the Principle of Actus Curiae Neminem Gravabit and providing relief to the party altering the position during the pendency of the litigation, the decision in the case of Food Corporation of India and Anr. vs. M/s Seil Ltd. & Ors. (2008) 3 SCC 440 with specifi c reference to para 25 is placed for our consideration. 9. In that backdrop while getting back to the facts on hand, in to consider whether the benefi t of the legal proposition enunciated in the above cases would be applicable to the instant facts, what would be relevant to be taken note herein and which has in fact been emphasized by the learned senior counsel for the appellant is the interim dated 07.05.2010 passed by the High Court in W.P.