Section 10 Rule 1 of the Hindu Succession Act does not distinguish between heirs born out of void or voidable marriages and those born out of a legal marriage. Class I heirs are similarly not distinguished on the basis of legitimacy under the Act. Impliedly, the law overall, for all purposes including notional and actual partition does not intend diff erent treatment among legitimate children, for all purposes, including the rights in and to the coparcenary property of the parents. The child conferred with legitimacy need not be a coparcener in to be entitled to such a right.22 f. The latter part of Section 16(3) states- “where but for the passing of this act, such child would have been incapable of possessing or acquiring any such rights by reason of his not being the legitimate child of his parents”. Section 4 gives an overriding eff ect to the provisions of the Act in matters specifi cally covered thereunder. The Act does not defi ne a “coparcenary”. Therefore, the position of law prior to the enactment of the Hindu Succession Act applies with respect to “coparcenary”. Under the law, as it stood then, children born from the same male ancestor were all considered coparceners, regardless of legitimacy.23 20 Written submissions on behalf of the Petitioners in Balkrishna Pandurang Halde vs Yeshodabai Balkrishna Halde by Mr. Sudhanshu Choudhari, page 7, para 3 21 Brief Notes of Arguments in Rejoinder on Behalf of Respondent No.4 in Mankarnabai vs Niranjan, by Mr. AIS Cheema, Sr. Advocate, page 8. 22 Written submissions of Mr. Nikhil Majithia, in Sri. Eshwarachari vs Smt. Sarojamma, page 4. 23 Written submissions of Mr. Nikhil Majithia, in Sri. Eshwarachari vs Smt. Sarojamma, page 4-5. REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 341 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] g. Limited reading of S.16(3) violates the property rights of the children born out of void or voidable marriages under Article 300A of the Constitution of India24. The above, interpretation is questioned on the basis of the following formulations: a. There is a diff erence between conferring legitimacy on a child and elevating them to the status of a coparcener. While Section 16 of the HMA 1955 grants legitimacy, Section 16(3) clarifi es the extent of inheritance rights.25 This distinction becomes clear through the decision in Jinia Keotin, where the court held that children covered by Section 16(3) have rights limited to their parents’ property.26 b. Article 14 of the Constitution of India allows reasonable classifi cation with an intelligible diff erentia, which justifi es treating children from various marriages diff erently due to distinct legal status. This classifi cation safeguards the interests of both legitimate off spring and innocent co-parceners, ensuring a balanced approach.27 c. The legislative intent behind Section 16 is to bestow legitimacy and inheritance rights upon children from void and voidable marriages. However, these rights are intentionally confi ned to parental property, excluding coparcenary or ancestral property, as evidenced by the legislative history and objectives.28 24 Written submissions on behalf of the Petitioners in Balkrishna Pandurang Halde vs Yeshodabai Balkrishna Halde by Mr. Sudhanshu Choudhari, page 8 25 Submitted by Shri K. Radhakrishnan, Senior Advocate on behalf of the Respondents in Revanasiddappa and Anr v. Mallikarjun and Ors, C.A No.