[2023] 15 S.C.R. 808 : 2023 INSC 1047 CASE DETAILS RAM LAL v. STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 7935 of 2023) DECEMBER 4, 2023 [J. K. MAHESHWARI AND K.V. VISWANATHAN, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the dismissal of the appellant- constable from service pursuant to the departmental enquiry was justifi ed; and what is the eff ect of the acquittal, ed by the appellate judge in the criminal trial, on the of dismissal passed in the departmental enquiry. Service law – Dismissal from service pursuant to the departmental enquiry on allegation of commission of fraud – Justifi cation – Eff ect of acquittal ed by the appellate judge in the criminal trial, on the of dismissal – Allegation against the appellant-constable of altering his date of birth in his 8th standard marksheet to project himself as having attained majority at the time of recruitment to the post – Initiation of departmental proceeding – Dismissal from service – Conviction and sentence of the appellant u/s. 420 IPC by the trial court, however, acquittal by the appellate court – Writ petition seeking quashing of the dismissal and re-instatement in service – Dismissed by the High Court – Correctness: Held: Inference drawn about the proof of the charges by ignoring the relevant and material evidence being the deposition of the prosecution witness, the marksheet of 8th class of the appellant enclosed in the chargesheet and the original marksheet which have direct bearing on the charge – Disciplinary Authority and the appellate authority merely reiterated the reasoning in the enquiry report – Explanation given by the appellant that overwriting in the application form was only due to correction of an inadvertent error is accepted – As long as the original 8th standard 808 RAM LAL v. STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. 809 marksheet reflected his date of birth as 21.04.1972 and there is no correction or manipulation in that document, the appellant cannot be penalised – Furthermore, reading of the entire clearly indicates that the appellant was acquitted after full consideration of the prosecution evidence and after noticing that the prosecution miserably failed to prove the charge – Findings of the appellate judge in the criminal case clearly indicate that the charge against the appellant was not just, “not proved”, in fact the charge even stood “disproved” by the very prosecution evidence – Charges were not just similar but identical and the evidence, witnesses and circumstances were all the same – Thus, the of termination, the of the appellate authority, the s refusing to reconsider and review the penalty, being illegal and untenable, are quashed – of the High Court is set aside – Issuance of direction to re-instate the appellant with all consequential benefits including 50% of the backwages. Judicial review – of the Disciplinary Authority – Power of writ court to review: Held: Is very limited – Scope of enquiry is only to examine whether the decision-making process is legitimate – Courts are entitled to consider whether the findings of the Disciplinary Authority have ignored material evidence and if so the courts can interfere – Mere acquittal by a criminal court would not confer on the employee a right to claim any benefit, including reinstatement – However, if the charges in the departmental enquiry and the criminal court are identical or similar, and if the evidence, witnesses and circumstances are one and the same, then the matter acquires a different dimension – Court would be entitled to exercise its discretion and grant relief, if it concludes that allowing the findings in the disciplinary proceedings to stand would be unjust, unfair and oppressive.