This was also considered in a recent decision of this Court in SEBI v. Sunil Krishna Khaitan,32 where it was observed that regularity and predictability are hall-marks of good regulation and governance.33 This Court held that certainty and consistency are important facets of fairness in action and non-arbitrariness: “59. […] Any good regulatory system must promote and adhere to principle of certainty and consistency, providing assurance to the individual as to the consequence of transactions forming part of his daily aff airs. […] This does not mean that the regulator/authorities cannot deviate from the past practice, albeit any such deviation or change must be predicated on greater public interest or harm. This 31 S G Jaisinghani v. Union of India, 1967 SCC OnLine SC 6 32 (2023) 2 SCC 643 33 (2023) 2 SCC 643 SIVANANDAN C T AND OTHERS v. HIGH COURT OF KERALA AND 699 OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] is the mandate of Article 14 of the Constitution of India which requires fairness in action by the State, and non-arbitrariness in essence and substance. Therefore, to examine the question of inconsistency, the analysis is to ascertain the need and functional value of the change, as consistency is a matter of operational eff ectiveness.” (emphasis supplied) 43. The underlying basis for the application of the doctrine of legitimate expectation has expanded and evolved to include the principles of good administration. Since citizens repose their trust in the state, the actions and policies of the state give rise to legitimate expectations that the state will adhere to its assurance or past practice by acting in a consistent, transparent, and predictable manner. The principles of good administration require that the decisions of public authorities must withstand the test of consistency, transparency, and predictability to avoid being regarded as arbitrary and therefore violative of Article 14. 44. From the above discussion, it is evident that the doctrine of substantive legitimate expectation is entrenched in Indian administrative law subject to the limitations on its applicability in given factual situations. The development of Indian jurisprudence is keeping in line with the developments in the common law. The doctrine of substantive legitimate expectation can be successfully invoked by individuals to claim substantive benefi ts or entitlements based on an existing promise or practice of a public authority. However, it is important to clarify that the doctrine of legitimate expectation cannot serve as an independent basis for judicial review of decisions taken by public authorities. Such a limitation is now well recognized in Indian jurisprudence considering the fact that a legitimate expectation is not a legal right.34 It is merely an expectation to avail a benefi t or relief based on an existing promise or practice. Although the decision by a public authority to deny legitimate expectation may be termed as arbitrary, unfair, or abuse of power, the validity of the decision itself can only be questioned on 34 Union of India v. Hindustan Development Corporation, (1993) 3 SCC 499; Bannari Amman Sugars Ltd v. CTO, (2005) 1 SCC 625; Monnet Ispat and Energy Ltd v. Union of India, (2012) 11 SCC 1; Union of India v. Lt. Col. P K Choudhary (2016) 4 SCC 236; State of Jharkhand v. Brahmputra Metallics, 2020 SCC OnLine SC 968 700 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.