]” 6. The aforesaid provision was inserted by way of amendment with effect from 21/09/2004. Relying upon the said H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 513 [M. R. SHAH, J.] provision, it is contended by him that if the view expressed in Arup A Bhuyan (supra) and Sri Indra Das (supra) is allowed to remain in the field various laws in other enactments would be affected. It is further urged by him that the Court has erroneously referred to its earlier in Raneef’s case wherein the basic fact was different, namely, the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) B was not a banned organization. The learned Solicitor General would impress upon us that once an organization is banned, Section 10 of the 1967 Act would come into play. Learned Solicitor General has also drawn our attention to certain paragraphs in Raneef’s case wherein it has been opined even assuming the PFI is an illegal organization, yet it remains to be considered whether all the C members of the Organization can be categorically held to be guilty. It is put forth by him that the said did not affect the provisions in other enactments inasmuch as the PFI was not a banned Organization, but after the decisions in Arup Bhuyan (supra) and Sri Indra Das (supra), the Trial Courts and the High D Courts are relying on the said decisions by giving emphasis on the facet of mens rea. The submission in essence, is that had the Union of India been impleaded as a party it could have put forth its stand before the Court and then possibly such reading down of the provision would not have been required. E 7. Mr. Jaideep Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the State of Assam, supporting the stand put forth by the Union of India has urged that if such an interpretation is allowed to stand the terrorism would spread and it will be difficult on the part of the State to control the said menace. It is further canvassed by him that the abuse of process of law would not affect the constitutional F validity and that to when it is not under assail. xxx xxx xxx 10. The crux of the matter as submitted by Mr. Ranjit Kumar, learned Solicitor General for Union of India, is that when any G provision in Parliamentary legislation is read down, in the absence of Union of India it is likely to cause enormous harm to the interest of the State as in many cases certain provisions have been engrafted to protect the sovereignty and integrity of India. 11. The learned Solicitor General would contend that the authorities which have been placed reliance upon in both the H 514 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A s by the two-Judge Bench are founded on Bill of Rights which is different from Article 19 of the Constitution of India. He has referred to Article 19(1)(c) and 19(4) of the Constitution. Article 19(1)(c) reads as follows.