The High Court perseveres in this observation on three occasions. We must observe that what Section 17 of the Act contemplates in the proviso is that the applicant seeking to set aside an ex-parte decree inter alia must either make a deposit of the amount in question or give B security. What this Court in Kedarnath (Supra) laid down was that the provision as to deposit can be dispensed with by the Court. The applicant can, in other words, seek a dispensing with of the deposit and seek leave for furnishing such security as the Court may direct. Therefore, the High Court was not correct in proceeding on the basis that appellants C did not make any application for dispensing with surety. No doubt, at one place, the High Court states that there is no prayer for dispensing with the surety or the amount sought to be deposited by way of security. The prayer of the appellants was to permit deposit/furnishing surety of Rs.50000/- which was part of the decretal amount. This could be treated impliedly as seeking a direction within the meaning of Section 17. An D applicant could no doubt also propose the security which he wishes to give. In fact, ordinarily, an application for dispensing with the cash deposit and for direction to furnish security should be made prior to application under IX Rule 13 of CPC. On the passed on the same, the applicant is to comply with the same and furnish the security at the time E when he files the application under IX Rule 13. Since an application under Section17 which is really required only in the absence of the cash deposit can be filed up to the date of the application under IX Rule 13 as held in Kedarnath (supra) ordinarily, the security must be made available along with such application. There then arises the aspect that the application under IX Rule 13 can be filed within 30 days F as provided in Article 123 of the Limitation Act. Undoubtedly, the deposit or security must be furnished within 30 days as held by the full Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Ram Bharose (supra). This is on the basis that the application can be made under IX Rule 13 upto the 30th day but at the same time, the conditions in the proviso, namely, the deposit G or the security must be furnished at the time of presenting the application under IX Rule 13. But if the application under Section 17 can be moved along with the application under IX Rule 13, then if a direction is required for furnishing security and the Court grants permission and time, then it may be possible to furnish the security only after the date of the application under IX Rule 13. As held by this Court in H ARTI DIXIT & ANR v. SUSHIL KUMAR MISHRA & ORS 751 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Kedarnath (supra), the Court is expected to pass an promptly on A the application which may be filed under Section 17 which may be of the same date as the application under IX Rule 13.