In his concurring opinion in the 2018 Constitution Bench , Justice Chandrachud held that these Rules provide a mechanism to be followed in matters relating to the executive functions of GNCTD. It was held: “428. A significant aspect of the Rules is that on matters C which fall within the ambit of the executive functions of the Government of NCT, decision-making is by the Government comprised of the Council of Ministers with the Chief Minister at its head… Rule 24 deals with an eventuality when the Lieutenant Governor D may be of the opinion that any further action should be taken or that action should be taken otherwise than in accordance with an which has been passed by a Minister. In such a case, the Lieutenant Governor does not take his own decision. He has to refer the proposal or matter to the Council of E Minister for consideration… the Lieutenant Governor has not been conferred with the authority to take a decision independent of and at variance with the aid and advice which is tendered to him by the Council of Ministers. If he differs with the aid and advice, the Lieutenant Governor must refer the matter to the Union F Government (after attempts at resolution with the Minister or Council of Ministers have not yielded a solution). After a decision of the President on a matter in difference is communicated, the Lieutenant Governor must abide by that decision. This principle governs those areas which properly lie within the ambit G and purview of the executive functions assigned to the Government of the National Capital Territory.” (emphasis added) The above interpretation indicates that in matters in the executive domain of NCTD, it is the elected government of NCTD which is H GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 551 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] empowered to take decisions. The Lieutenant Governor may request A the Minister or the Council of Ministers to reconsider its decision. It is only if difference persists even after attempts at resolution that he may refer the matter to the President, and await the decision. 90. Rule 45 of the Transaction of Business Rules also indicates that the Lieutenant Governor must act within the confines of clauses (3) B and (4) of Article 239AA in exercising his executive functions, that is, he shall abide by the “aid and advice” of the Council of Ministers on matters in respect of which NCTD has legislative power. Rule 45 provides: “The Lieutenant Governor, may by standing s in writing, regulate the transaction and disposal of the business relating to C his executive functions: Provided that the standing s shall be consistent with the provisions of this Chapter, Chapter V and the instructions issued by the Central Government for time to time. Provided further that the Lieutenant Governor shall in D respect of matters connected with ‘public ’, ‘police’ and ‘land’ exercise his executive functions to the extent delegated to him by the President in consultation with the Chief Minister, if it is so provided under any issued by the President under article 239 of the Constitution.