Any such idea would be directly in the teeth of conclusion (3) as aforesaid.” (Emphasis supplied) 107. It is pertinent to note here that in Baljinder Singh (supra) the decision of SK. Raju (supra) was not looked into, however, the decision 360 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. in the case of Dilip (supra) was considered and held to be not laying down the correct law on the ground that it did not consider the decision of Baldev Singh (supra). This Court held that:- “18. The decision of this Court in Dilip’s case, however, has not adverted to the distinction as discussed hereinabove and proceeded to confer advantage upon the accused even in respect of recovery from the vehicle, on the ground that the requirements of Section 50 relating to personal search were not complied with. In our view, the decision of this Court in said in Dilip’s case is not correct and is opposed to the law laid down by this Court in Baldev Singh and other s.” (Emphasis supplied) Settling the confl ict between SK. Raju and Baljinder Singh 108. The High Court of Delhi in Akhilesh Bharti v. State reported in 2020 SCC OnLine Del 306 : (2020) 266 DLT 689, had the occasion to look into the cleavage of opinion expressed in Baljinder Singh (supra) and SK. Raju (supra). The High Court therein, noted the thin line of distinction drawn by SK. Raju (supra) where the contraband is recovered from an object which is held by the accused in his hand. In such a situation the High Court held that even if nothing is recovered from the person, Section 50 ought to be complied with. The High Court held as under:- “26. It is essential to observe that vide the verdict of the Hon’ble three Judge Bench of the Hon’ble Supreme Court dated 05.09.2018 in “SK. Raju alias Abdul Haque alias Jagga Vs. State of West Bengal” (2018) 9 SCC 708, it has specifi cally been observed to the eff ect that where merely a bag carried by a person is searched without there being any search of his person, Section 50 of the NDPS Act, 1985 will have no application but if the personal search of the accused is also conducted, the provisions of Section 50 of the NDPS Act, 1985 would wholly apply. The verdict of the Hon’ble Supreme Court dated 15.10.2019 in “State of Punjab Vs. Baljinder Singh and Another” is also a verdict of the Hon’ble three Judge Bench of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in which the personal search of the accused did not result into recovery of any contraband but there was a recovery of contraband eff ected RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 361 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] from the vehicle in which the accused persons were seated with one of them being the driver. Though, the Hon’ble Supreme Court in “State of Punjab Vs. Baljinder Singh and Another” (supra) has observed to the eff ect that the of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Dilip’s case is not correct and is opposed to the decision to the law laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Baldev Singh’s and other s, the observations in the verdict of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in “S.K.