The widow of Netra Pal Singh, the deceased vehicle owner, stated before the Tribunal that her husband had told her he had taken a driving skill test after seeing the driving licence produced by Ujay Pal, before employing him as a driver. However, the Record Clerk from the ARTO, Mathura, testifi ed that, as per their record, the licence produced by Ujay Pal was fake as that licence number related to some other person. In view of this evidence, the Tribunal held that the petitioner-insurance company would not be liable, owing to a breach of the terms and conditions of the insurance policy by the vehicle owner, and granted the right of recovery to the petitioner-insurance company. However, in appeal, the High Court opined that the petitioner-insurance company had neither pleaded nor proved that the deceased vehicle owner did not take adequate steps to verify the genuineness of the driving licence and in the absence of such a plea on its part, the Tribunal could not have concluded that there was a breach of the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. The High Court, therefore, held that the petitioner-insurance company did not have the right to recover the compensation from the vehicle owners. 4. It would be apposite at this stage to note the statutory milieu pertinent to this case. Section 149 of the Act of 1988, to the extent relevant, reads as under: - ‘149. Duty of insurers to satisfy s and awards against persons insured in respect of third party risks. - (1) ….. (2) No sum shall be payable by an insurer under sub-section (1) in respect of any or award unless, before the commencement of the proceedings in which the or award is given the insurer had notice through the Court or, as the case may be, the Claims Tribunal of the bringing of the proceedings,……; and an insurer to whom notice of the bringing of any such proceedings is so given shall be entitled to be made a party thereto and to defend the action on any of the following grounds, namely:- 66 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (a) that there has been a breach of a specifi ed condition of the policy, being one of the following conditions, namely: - (i) …...; or (ii) a condition excluding driving by a named person or persons or by any person who is not duly licensed, or by any person who has been disqualifi ed for holding or obtaining a driving licence during the period of disqualifi cation; or………….’ 5. On behalf of the petitioner-insurance company, it was argued that the hearsay evidence of the widow of the vehicle owner was accepted as the biblical truth by the High Court without any corroboration thereof. This argument was advanced in the context of the deceased vehicle owner having taken a driving skill test of Ujay Pal prior to his employment as a driver. It is pointed out that his widow admitted that she had not seen any such test being taken and that her late husband had merely told her so and, further, the inescapable fact also remains that the driving licence of Ujay Pal, the driver of the vehicle, was a fake one.