The licence fee payable is given in Schedule “C” condition 19 of this licence. 3. The licence is governed by the provisions of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 and Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1933 as modifi ed from time to time. 4. Unless otherwise mentioned in the subject or context appearing hereinafter the main body of the agreement and all the Schedules annexed hereto including the tender documents will form part and parcel of this agreement provided however in case of confl ict terms of this agreement and those of schedules hereto will prevail over the tender documents. 5. In this Agreement words and expressions will have the same meaning as are respectively assigned to them in the Schedule “C” Part-I. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 413 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 6. The licensee should clearly indicate the specifi cations of the service to the subscribers at the time of signing the contract with them. 7. The Ceiling Tariff to be charged from the subscribers of the service is given in Schedule “B” annexed hereto. Licensee can charge less tariff without any approval of the Authority. 8. The bank guarantees to be given by the licensee prior to the signing of the Licence Agreement is given in Schedule “D” annexed hereto. 9. The Licensee will not assign or transfer its rights in any manner whatsoever under the licence to a third party or enter into any agreement for sub-licence and/or partnership relating to any subject matter of the licence to any third party either in whole or in part i.e. no sub-leasing /partnership/third party interest shall be created. 10. In case of interruption of service lasting for more than 72 hours, an appropriate rebate shall be given to the users of the service by the Licensee. The Authority reserves the right to, in case of a default, impose any penalty as it may deem fi t. 11. The Authority may at any time revoke the licence on the breach of any of the terms and conditions therein contained or in default of payment of any consideration payable thereunder by giving a 60 days notice. 12.1 The Licensee is not allowed to use any encryption in the network. 12.2 The Licensee is required to provide list of subscribers to the Authority every quarter regularly and, as and when required by the Authority. 12.3 The Authority or its representative will have an access to the MSC as well as the technical facility provided by the Licensee for monitoring, inspection etc. without giving any prior notice. 13. It is further agreed and declared by the parties that notwithstanding anything contained hereinbefore, that (i) The licence is issued on non-exclusive basis. The Authority reserves the right to operate the service within the same geographical area. 414 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (ii) The Authority reserves the right to modify at any time the terms and conditions of the licence covered under Schedules “A”, “B”, “C”, and “D”, annexed hereto, if in the opinion of the Authority it is necessary or expedient to do so in the interests of the general public or for the proper conduct of telegraphs or on security consideration.