In the present case, it is undeniable that the appellant came into possession even before the wakf was created; before even the Wakf Act, 1954 was enacted (although the precise date is unclear and could be a matter of dispute). It is, however, sufficient to notice that in an interpleader suit, the appellants were permitted to pay rents to the D third defendant in the suit. They were holding the premises when the amendment came into force; indeed, a proceeding purporting to evict them was unsuccessfully initiated before the amendment. Another one was commenced and was pending after it came into force. In these circumstances, could it be said- having regard to the previous discussion- that the dispute over the termination of their tenancy, resulted in their E becoming “encroachers” after the amendment became effective? 22. In the considered view of this court, the expiry of leases, or other arrangements, by efflux of time or their valid terminations, in the past, cannot be construed (as broadly as suggested by the respondents) to mean that such lessees become “encroachers”. Nor would past F tenants whose possession is disputed, and eviction proceedings pending against them before a court, fit that description under Section 3 (ee). The consequences of such an interpretation would be too startling; even before an adjudication of the validity of termination (of leases, for instance), tenants holding over would be exposed to prosecution. There G is no allusion to “continuing offence” or any expression suggesting that such a term (mentioned in Section 472 Cr.PC) would be attracted to actions which commenced in the past, i.e., before the amendment of 2013 came into force. To hold otherwise, this court would be resorting to an interpretation that directly deprives the appellants of their rights under Article 20 (1)- a consequence that cannot be countenanced. The plain H P. V. NIDHISH & ORS. v. KERALA STATE WAKF BOARD & 563 ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] text of that provision forbids such an interpretation, and the authorities A on that aspect clearly indicate that giving effect to a penal statute so as to cover past acts is a proscribed action in law. Therefore, the expression “Whoever alienates or purchases or takes possession of”, which is the opening phrase of Section 52A, cannot be read or construed to include possession taken in the past, which resulted in continued possession, B when the provision was enacted. That is to say that Section 52A cannot cover cases where leases of wakf properties had expired in the past and where the tenant or lessee was, at the time the amendmentof 2013 came into force, in physical possession and facing civil proceedings for eviction. 23. It is a matter of record that by an dated 27.10.2020, the C Kerala High Court quashed the of the CEO of the respondent15allowing a revision petition and setting aside the eviction of the tenant. The High Court set aside the finding that the tenant was an encroacher. The entire matter was remitted for fresh consideration, by the Wakf Tribunal, with the following directions: D “If the entity created by Mammu Haji is found to be a Wakf, the person in Management shall have the powers to terminate the tenancy and shall be entitled to take proceedings under the Wakf Act for eviction of a tenant, who after such termination of tenancy, is deemed to be an encroacher.