Article 357, as indicated in the marginal note, deals with the exercise of legislative powers upon the issuance of a Proclamation under Article 356. The provision states that upon a declaration being made under Article 356(1)(b), it shall be competent: a. For Parliament to confer law making powers on the President or authorise the President to delegate the power to any other authority; IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 137 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] b. For Parliament to make laws conferring powers and duties upon the Union or offi cers and authorities; and c. For the President to authorise expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of the State when the House of People is not in session and pending sanction of such expenditure by Parliament. 225. Article 357(1) states that it shall be competent for Parliament to exercise the powers stipulated in the clauses. Article 357(1) confers the law-making body with powers which are otherwise not available to it. By virtue of Article 357(1)(a), Parliament can delegate the law-making function to the President and authorise the President to delegate the power to any other authority. This is a unique power granted by the provision which is an exception to the executive and legislative divide between Parliament and the executive. Under Article 357(1)(b), Parliament can (acting as the Legislative Assembly of the State) enact laws conferring powers and imposing duties upon the Union. By Article 357(1)(c), the President is granted the power to authorise expenditure in deviation from the procedure prescribed in Article 204 by which expenditure from the Consolidated fund of the State can only be authorised by a law. The phrase “competence” in Article 357(1) has an expansive and not a restrictive scope. 226. Article 357(1) dwells on the competence of Parliament and the President from a constitutional perspective, when under a Proclamation under Article 356, the “powers of the legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament”. The expression “powers of the legislature of the state” in Article 356(1)(b) and in the prefatory part of Article 357(1) is broader in content than “the power of the legislature of the state to make laws” in Article 357(1)(a) and 357(1)(b). The latter is the law-making power of the state legislature while the former includes but is not confi ned to the power to legislate. Clause (a) of Article 357(1) deals with “the power of the legislature of the state to make laws”. Clause (b) refers to the same subject when it speaks of “the authority in whom such power to make laws is vested under sub-clause (a)”. Article 357 uses the expression “competent” initially, in the prefatory part, to indicate certain actions which fl ow from the declaration under Article 356 that the power of the state legislature shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament. Clause 2 also uses the expression “competent” to indicate that 138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. a law made by Parliament or the President while exercising the power of the legislature of the state during a Proclamation under Article 356 shall continue in force after the Proclamation has ceased to operate even though such a law would not have been competent in the absence of a Proclamation.