(2023) SCC OnLine 158] 17.8 Cases involving several accused Persons B A three judge bench of which one of us (B.R Gavai J.) was a member, observed as under in respect of the application of Section 149, of the Indian Penal Code, 1860- “30. Section 149 of the Indian Penal Code is declaratory of the vicarious liability of the members of an unlawful assembly for C acts done in prosecution of the common object of that assembly or for such offences as the members of the unlawful assembly knew would be committed in prosecution of that object. If an unlawful assembly is formed with the common object of committing an offence, and if that offence is committed in prosecution of the object by any member of the unlawful assembly, all the members D of the assembly will be vicariously liable for that offence even if one or more, but not all committed the offence. Again, if an offence is committed by a member of an unlawful assembly and that offence is one which the members of the unlawful assembly knew to be likely to be committed in prosecution of the common object, E every member who had that knowledge will be guilty of the offence so committed.” [Hari v. State of UP 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1131; Shambhu Nath Singh v. State of Bihar, AIR 1960 SC 725] While overt act and active participation may indicate common F intention of the person perpetrating the crime, the mere presence in the unlawful assembly may fasten vicariously criminal liability under Section 149. [Lalji Vs. State of U.P. (1989) 1 SCC 437] When a case involves large number of assailants it is not possible for the witness to describe the part played therein by each of such G persons. It is not necessary for the prosecution to prove each of the members’ involvement especially regarding which or what act. [Masalti Vs. State of UP AIR 1965 SC 202] 17.9 Power of Court of Appeal: a) The Court of appeal has wide powers of appreciation of H evidence in an of acquittal as in the of conviction, along with RAVASAHEB @ RAVASAHEBGOUDA ETC. v. STATE OF 977 KARNATAKA [SANJAY KAROL J.] the rider of presumption of innocence which continues across all stages A of a case. Such Court should give due importance to the rendered by the Trial Court. [Atley Vs. State of UP AIR 1955 SC 807] b) Referring to Gurudutt Pathak Vs. State of U.P. [(2021) 6 SCC 116] the in Geeta Devi Vs. State of U.P. [2022 SCC B OnLine 57], this Court appreciated the law on this aspect and then observed that the High Court, being the First Appellate Court must discuss/ re-appreciate the evidence on record. Failure to do so is a good ground enough to remand the matter for consideration. 17.10 Power of the Supreme Court under Article 136: C In the absence of very special circumstances or in the presence of gross errors of law committed by the High Court, this Court does not interfere with the concurrent findings of fact of the courts below.