Under these circumstances, the claim that the appellant was having a bonafide belief that the additional discounts 1[2001 (134) ELT 230] H THE COMMISSIONER, CENTRAL EXCISE AND CUSTOMS v. 1293 M/S RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] are permissible has to be accepted and demand of duty has A to be confined to duty within the normal period of limitation. No penalty will be justified.” 10. The corresponding finding of the Member (Judicial) on the issue of limitation were as under: B “The s proposed by learned Member (Technical) allowed Appeal No. E/228/07, on point of limitation, by setting aside the confirmation of demand and penalty imposed upon the appellant. I agree with the said passed by learned Member (Technical) in the said appeal.” C ANALYSIS 11. We have heard the contentions of both the parties in great detail. 12. Section 11A of the Central Excise Act, 1944, which deals with the issue of limitation for issuing show cause notices for recovery of D duties which have been short paid or short levied, is the governing law in the present case. Sub-section (1) of Section 11(A), which is most relevant to the present case, for the sake of convenience, is being reproduced hereunder: “(1) When any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or E has been short-levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded, whether or not such non-levy or non-payment, short-levy or short payment or erroneous refund, as the case may be, was on the basis of any approval, acceptance or assessment relating to the rate of duty on or valuation of excisable goods under any other provisions of this Act or the rules made F thereunder, a Central Excise Officer may, within one year from the relevant date, serve notice on the person chargeable with the duty which has not been levied or paid or which has been short-levied or short paid or to whom the refund has erroneously been made, requiring him to show cause why he G should not pay the amount specified in the notice: “ 13. The first proviso to the abovementioned sub-section (1), which is the relevant provision relating to the extended period of limitation, reads as under: H 1294 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “Provided that where any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been short levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded by reason of fraud, collusion or any wilfull misstatement or suppression of facts, or contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of the rules made thereunder with intent to evade payment of duty, by such person or his B agent, the provisions of this sub-section shall have effect, for the words one year the words five years were substituted.” 14. In the case of Pushpam Pharmaceuticals Company Vs. Collector of Central Excise, Bombay2, this Court, while dealing with a similar fact circumstance wherein the extended period of limitation under C the abovementioned proviso had been invoked, held that since the expression “suppression of facts” is used in the company of terms such as fraud, collusion and willful misstatement, it cannot therefore refer to an act of mere omission, and must be interpreted as referring to a deliberate act of non-disclosure aimed at evading duty, that is to say, an D element of intentional action must be present.