Bottom ash handling system comprising jet pump system in conjunction with water impounded bottom ash hopper designed from minimum 50 TPH (on dry ash basis) capacity or more for pulverized coal fi red boilers. AND b. First stage fl y ash handling system for conveying fl y ash from ESP hoppers to Intermediate Surge Hopper (ISH) by vacuum conveying system designed for minimum 30 TPH capacity (dry ash basis) per stream. AND c. Second stage fly ash handling system for conveying fly ash from Intermediate Surge Hopper (ISH) to Fly ash silos by pressure conveying system designed from minimum 20 TPH capacity (dry ash basis) per line for a distance not less than 500 mtrs. AND d. High Concentration Ash Slurry Disposal (HCSD) System for minimum 40 TPH capacity (dry ash basis) per line. The above Clauses 01.01.01 (a), (b), (c) and (d) can be in one single plant or in a combination of plants.” 5. Clause 01.01.02 stipulated that a bidder who is a supplier of a bulk material handling system, but does not fulfi ll the requirements under clause 01.01.01 could also participate, subject to certain stipulations. The clause is extracted below: 156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “Bidder who is a supplier of bulk material handling system but does not meet the requirements under clause 01.01.01 above in part or in full can also participate provided he has executed at least the following systems design, engineering, manufacture, supply, erection & commissioning (or supervision of erection & commissioning): a. Fly Ash Handling System for conveying Fly Ash from ESPs in dry form (vacuum conveying or pressure conveying system) or in wet slurry mode OR b. Bulk material handling system, comprising of bell conveyors having a minimum design capacity of 800 TPH The systems mentioned at 01.01.02 (a) or (b) above should be in successful operation in at least two (2) plants for at least two (2) years as on date of submission of bid and should have been installed for pulverized coal fi red boiler units in India/abroad generating not less than 40 TPH of Ash per boiler. AND Collaborate(s)/Associate(s) with party(ies) who meet(s) either the total requirement under 01.01.01 (a), (b) and (c) above or any of the above requirement under 01.01.01 (a), (b) and (c), which the bidder himself is not able to meet. In such a case, the Bidder shall be required to furnish consortium agreement jointly executed by the Bidder and the collaborator(s)/ Associate(s) and each executant, shall be jointly and severally liable to employer for successful performance of the relevant system, as per the format (Annexure -A) enclosed along with bid. The collaboration agreement should be submitted along with the bid. In such a case, each Collaborator/Associate shall be required to furnish a bank guarantee at the time of placement of as follows: i. INR 10 Lakh (Rupees Ten Lakh) for Collaborator/Associate for Jet pumping system BTL EPC LTD. v. MACAWBER BEEKAY PVT LTD AND 157 OTHERS [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] ii.