If he goes beyond this he drops the mental of a judge and assumes the robe of an advocate, and the change does not become his well”. 1 1957 2 QB 55 MOHAMMED ABDUL WAHID v. NILOFER & ANR. 871 THE CONFLICT 4. This appeal takes exception to a delivered by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay2 (Nagpur Bench) by which the Division Bench had answered three questions framed by a Learned Single Judge of that Court in view of the two allegedly confl icting decisions, viz. Vinayak M Dessai v. Ulhas N. Naik and Ors.3 and Purushottam v. Gajanan4. 5. In Purushottam (supra) the Learned Single Judge had observed: “8. Therefore, in my opinion, as long as, the and in Writ Petition No. 869 of 1997 is in force and admittedly not challenged by either of the parties, it was not open for the trial Court to allow production of documents to confront the original defendant i.e. the petitioner herein. It is diff erent matter if the production is allowed for confronting the witnesses of the party. This Court is not inclined to express any opinion about the said aspects and it is left open for the parties to take appropriate proceeding in that respect. However, as concluded by this Court in Writ Petition No. 869 of 1997, the defendant i.e. petitioner herein cannot be confronted by the plaintiff by producing documents during the course of cross-examination…” (Emphasis Supplied) 5.1 In Vinayak M Dessai (supra) the Learned Single Judge observed : “17. Evidence in terms of section 3 of the Evidence Act, 1872 means and includes all statements which the Court permits or requires to be made before it by witnesses in relation to matters of fact under inquiry; such statements being called oral evidence and all documents including electronic records produced for the inspection of the Courts being the documentary evidence. Section 118 of the said Act provides for the persons who may testify and reads that all persons must be competent to testify unless the Court considers that they are prevented from understanding the questions put to them, or from giving rational answers to those questions, by tender years, extreme 2 WP No. 7717/2019 & 6931/2019; (Hereinafter, the Impugned ) 3 2017 SCCOnLine Bom 8515 4 2012 SCCOnLine Bom 1176 872 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. old age, disease, whether of body or mind, or any other cause of the same kind. Section 120 provides that parties to the civil suit and their wives or husbands or husband or wife of person under criminal trial shall be competent witnesses while section 137 deals with the examination in chief of a witness by the party who calls him for his examination, the cross- examination being by the adverse party and re-examination being subsequent to cross-examination by the party who called him. However, a discussion of these relevant provisions of the Evidence Act no doubt substantiate the contention of Shri Pangam, learned Advocate for the Respondents, that if a party is not a witness, it would lead to a disastrous interpretation and even to the extent that section 137 of the Evidence Act may not apply to a party and which could defeat the purpose of examination and cross-examination.