4. Notice was issued in these proceedings on 20 April 2021. Thereafter, the proceedings have been listed before this Court on 21 April 2023 and 10 July 2023. 482 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 5. The RTI Act was enacted to operationalize the rights of citizens to access information about the functioning of the government, which is otherwise only held by the government authorities. The legislation sets out a practical regime for citizens to secure access to information under the control of the public authorities, promote transparency and accountability in the functioning of public authorities, and constitute the CIC and SICs. Thus, the RTI Act pursues the legitimate state aim of ensuring transparent and accountable government. 6. In view of the stated objectives, Section 3 of the RTI Act provides that all citizens shall have the right to information. Section 2(j) defi nes right to information to mean the right to information accessible under the RTI Act which is held by or under the control of any public authority and to include : (i) the right to inspection of work, documents records; (ii) taking notes, extracts or certifi ed copies of documents or records; (iii) taking certifi ed samples of material; and (iv) obtaining information in the form of diskettes, fl oppies, tapes, video cassettes, or in any other electronic mode or through printouts where such information is stored in a computer or in any other device. Section 2(h) defi nes a public authority as follows: (h) “public authority” means any authority or body or institution of self-government established or constituted – (a) by or under the Constitution; (b) by any other law made by Parliament; (c) by any other law made by State Legislature; (d) by notifi cation issued or made by the appropriate Government, and includes any – i. body owned, controlled or substantially fi nanced; ii. non-Government organisation substantially financed, directly or indirectly by funds provided by the appropriate Government. 7. Section 4 obliges every public authority to maintain its records and computerize them to facilitate right to information under the RTI Act. Section 5 mandates every public authority to designate Central Public Information KISHAN CHAND JAIN v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 483 Offi cers4 or State Public Information Offi cers5, as the case may be, to provide information to persons requesting for the information under the RTI Act. Section 6 allows any person to make a request in writing to the CPIO or the SPIO, as the case may be, specifying the particulars of the information sought by them. Section 7(1) mandates the CPIO or SPIO to act on the request for information within thirty days and forty-eight hours in case of information concerning the life and liberty of a person. Moreover, Section 7(2) states that failure of the CPIO or SPIO to give a decision within the stipulated timelines will be deemed to be a refusal of the request. 8. Section 2(k) defi nes SIC to mean “the State Information Commission constituted under sub-section (1) of section 15.” Section 15 provides that every State Government shall, by notifi cation in the Offi cial Gazette, constitute an SIC to exercise powers conferred on, and to perform the functions assigned to them under the RTI Act.