Ms. Shantha Devi Raman, Garvesh Kabra, Arihant Jain, Advs. for the Appellant. C Amit Sharma, Dipesh Sinha, Ms. Pallavi Barua, Advs. for the Respondents. The of the Court was delivered by SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J. D 1. The non-application of the general strict liability principle, in case of an insurance policy, is sought to be questioned, where an expanded meaning has been given to the relevant term of the insurance policy in to grant insurance claim, now assailed before us by the insurance company, the Appellant herein, in view of the dated 03.10.2017 E passed by the Division Bench of Patna High Court in favour of Respondent No. 1 herein. The original claim was made by a writ petition filed by the prospective beneficiary i.e. Respondent No.2 herein, but while granting the benefits to the beneficiary, a liability was placed on Respondent no.1 and not on the insurance company, which aspect was reversed by the Division Bench vide its dated 03.10.2017 F fastening the liability on the insurance company. Facts: 2. The Appellant, insurance company, and Respondent No.1, the Chief Electoral Officer, Bihar, Patna, entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (hereinafter referred to as ‘MoU’) on 09.02.2000 to G provide insurance cover to the persons deployed for election related work for Bihar Legislative Assembly Elections in the year 2000. The relevant Clause in question of the MoU is Clause 3, which reads as under: H NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. v. THE CHIEF 317 ELECTORAL OFFICER & ORS. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] “Scope of Cover A The insurance is intended to provide for the payment of compensation in the event of death only resulting solely and directly from accident caused by external violent and any other visible means.” B On the MoU being executed, the State Government opted for a Group Insurance Scheme vide letter dated 10.02.2000 to cover its premium paying employees, who were appointed for election related activities. It appears that keeping in mind the period of the by-polls, the duration of the insurance scheme was extended from 24.05.2000 to 23.06.2000 by way of a supplementary policy. The incident, we are C concerned with, was during these by-poll elections. 3. The husband of Respondent No.2, late Deval Ravidas, Constable, Shivhar District Force, was a member of the Static Armed Force, posted at Booth no.67, Primary School, Mathura Sultanpur, Police Station Bidupur, District Vaishali, who died due to a sun stroke/heat stroke D while performing election duty for the Bihar Legislative Assembly. As stated, this was during the extended period of the insurance policy. It appears that the matter rested at that for a fairly long time and it is only in the year 2008 that Respondent No.2, wife of the deceased Constable Deval, sought to raise the issue of compensation vide her letter dated E 21.11.2008. 4. The Assistant Election Officer, Bihar-cum-Under Secretary to the Government, vide letter dated 20.11.2009 addressed to the Under Secretary to the Lokayukta, Patna, Bihar, noted that the death of the deceased Constable had occurred on account of heat stroke on 26.05.2000 during election duty and had not occurred on account of any F external violent activity/accident.