The question which has arisen in the present petition is how the amount of “tax” should be determined for set off against the available tax incentives E i.e. 100% of the eligible capital investments. The issue has arisen in context of the legal provision of the Gujarat Entertainment Tax Act. Section 3 of the Act is held to be a charging Section. It is held that liability for payment of duty is imposed upon the proprietor and not upon the visitors of F the theater. The proprietor does not act as an agent of the Government’ for collection of duty. The entertainment duty is a payment which the proprietor is required to make as a condition for enabling visitors to attend or continue to attend the entertainment. Section 3 which levies fax provides for levy on “gross” G payment received from consumer as is clear from the words of Section·3 and also as Interpreted in 1971 (1) SCC 471. The assessable value for determination of the tax liability is the payment received, irrespective of the break up of this amount, charged for admission to entertainment and tax H payable thereon. THE STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. v. MULTIPLEX ASSN. OF 123 GUJARAT THROUGH ITS PRESIDENT [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] The entertainment tax being a taxing measure, and Section A 3 being a charging section, it has to be strictly construed and, therefore, liability to pay tax cannot be enlarged beyond what is provided in the Act. The multiplex cinemas in the ticket issued show that nothing’ is received in the name of or on account of entertainment tax B from the viewers. Therefore, in case of multiplex cinemas, the amount would be taxed under Section 3. In the tickets issued, payment of admission is shown as admission to entertainment, tax is shown as·”O”, service charges shown as “0” and total amount recoverable by and payable to the proprietor is Rs.100/ ·, Tax liability has to be, therefore, calculated on this amount C i.e. Rs.100/- which would be at 50% payment for admission received from the viewers. Under the incentive, there is no special method of calculation of the tax liability prescribed as a condition of exemption for the purpose of setting off such tax liability D against the incentive limit. This method is prescribed for the first time by the impugned Circulars in November/December, 2000.” The final directions in this regard are as follows: “111. In view of the above discussion, we are of the view that E the respondent-State is not justified in considering the entire amount of the value of the ticket as the capital value for the purpose of setting off the eligible capital investment of the members of the petitioner Association. We are also of the view that the amount collected by the members of the petitioner F Association while permitting. the viewers to the Multiplex Theaters also includes an element of tax and hence, the applicable rate of tax so collected by the members of the petitioner Association are only required to be set off against the eligible investment under the Scheme.