The Offi cer was to issue the certifi cate after carefully verifying all relevant documents following due process as prescribed by the respective States/UTs. 5. This was followed up by another Offi ce Memorandum [OM] dated 31.01.2019 issued by the Department of Personnel &Training, Government of India. Under this OM, issued in continuation to the OM of 19.01.2019, in Clause 5 it is provided as under: 5. INCOME AND ASSET CERTIFICATE ISSUING AUTHORITY AND VERIFICATION OF CERTIFICATE: “5.1 The benefi t of reservation under EWS can be availed upon production of an Income and Asset Certifi cate issued by a Competent Authority. The Income and Asset Certifi cate issued by any one of the following authorities in the prescribed format as given in Annexure-I shall only be accepted as proof of candidate’s claim as belonging to EWS:- 52 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (i) District Magistrate/Additional District Magistrate/ Collector/Deputy Commissioner/Additional Deputy Commissioner/ 1st Class Stipendary Magistrate/ Sub-Divisional Magistrate/Taluka Magistrate/Executive Magistrate/Extra Assistant Commissioner. (ii) Chief Presidency Magistrate/Additional Chief Presidency Magistrate/ Presidency Magistrate. (iii) Revenue Offi cer not below the rank of Tehsildar and (iv) Sub-Divisional Offi cer or the area where the candidate and/or his family normally resides. 5.2 The Offi cer who issues the certifi cate would do the same after carefully verifying all relevant documents following due process as prescribed by the respective State/UT. 5.3 The crucial date for submitting income and asset certifi cate by the candidate may be treated as the closing date for receipt of application for the post, except in cases where crucial date is fi xed otherwise. 5.4 The appointing authorities should, in the off er of appointment to the candidates claiming to be belonging to EWS, include the following clause:- “The appointment is provisional and is subject to the Income and asset certifi cate being verifi ed through the proper channels and if the verifi cation reveals that the claim to belong to EWS is fake/ false the services will be terminated forthwith without assigning any further reasons and without prejudice to such further action as may be taken under the provisions of the Indian Penal Code for production of fake/false certifi cate.” The appointing authority should verify the veracity of the Income and asset certifi cate submitted by the candidate through the certifi cate issuing authority. 5.5 Instructions referred to above should be strictly followed so that it may not be possible for an unscrupulous person to secure employment on the basis of a false claim and if any person gets an appointment on the basis of such false claim, her/his services shall be terminated invoking the conditions contained in the off er of appointment.” DIVYA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 53 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] Civil Services Examination Rules, 2022 : 6. For the sake of convenience, we set out herein below Rules 13, 27 & 28 of the CSE-2022 Rules: - “Detailed Application Forms-I. 13. For the Main Examination, a candidate shall be required to submit an on-line Detailed Application Form-I (DAF-I) along with scanned documents/certifi cates in support of date of birth,category [viz.