In Than Kunwar v. State of Haryana reported in (2020) 5 SCC 260, this Court took a diff erent view. In the said case, the personal search of the accused did not lead to any recovery. However, upon conducting the search of the bag, opium was recovered. This Court acknowledged the divergent views and noted that the decision of SK. Raju (supra) was not considered while deciding Baljinder Singh (supra). However, the latter was applied and was read to be in line with Baldev Singh (supra). It was held that:- “22. Having regard to the by the three-Judge Bench, which directly dealt with this issue, viz., the correctness of the view in Dilip (supra) reliance placed by the appellant on para 16 may not be available. As already noticed, we are not oblivious of the observation which has been made in the other three-Judge Bench of this Court in SK. Raju (supra), which it appears, was not brought to the notice to the Bench which decided the case later in Baljinder Singh (supra). We notice however that the later decision draws inspiration from the Constitution Bench decision in Baldev Singh (supra). We also notice that this is not a case where anything was recovered on the alleged personal search. The recovery was eff ected from the bag RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 363 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] for which it is settled law that compliance with Section 50 of the Act is not required.” (Emphasis supplied) 112. Baljinder Singh (supra) was followed by this Court in Kallu Khan v. State of Rajasthan reported in 2021 SCC OnLine 1223, wherein the search and seizure was made from the accused’s motorcycle. This Court while holding that the search cannot be said to be vitiated on account of non-compliance of Section 50 as the same only applies to a search of a person, held as under:- “15. Simultaneously, the arguments advanced by the appellant regarding non-compliance of Section 50 of NDPS Act is bereft of any merit because no recovery of contraband from the person of the accused has been made to which compliance of the provision of Section 50 NDPS Act has to follow mandatorily. In the present case, in the search of motor cycle at public place, the seizure of contraband was made, as revealed. Therefore, compliance of Section 50 does not attract in the present case. It is settled in the case of Vijaysinh (supra) that in the case of personal search only, the provisions of Section 50 of the Act is required to be complied with but not in the case of vehicle as in the present case, following the s of Surinder Kumar (supra) and Baljinder Singh (supra). Considering the facts of this case, the argument of non-compliance of Section 50 of NDPS Act advanced by the counsel is hereby repelled.” (Emphasis supplied) 113. Similarly, in a recent judgement, this Court in Dayalu Kashyap v. State of Chhattisgarh reported in (2022) 12 SCC 398, held that an extended view of Section 50 cannot be given to include a polythene bag containing narcotics being carried by the accused.