Rather, it is one which concerns the viability of a medical termination of a pregnancy and the 19 (2017) 7 SCC 444 X v. UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. 461 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] course of action to be adopted by the doctors on the basis of the development of the foetus; b. Certain aspects of the case which ought to have been brought to the attention of this Court came to light after the dated 9 October 2023 had been passed. This was not within the control of any of the parties to the case but was the result of the actions of a third party altogether (the Medical Board). However, this information could have had a bearing on the directions issued by this Court; and c. There was immense urgency in this matter. ii. Decision on the prayer 23. We now turn to the issue of whether the relief sought in the writ petition can be granted. 24. As noticed above, the length of the pregnancy has crossed twenty- four weeks. It is now approximately twenty-six weeks and fi ve days. A medical termination of the pregnancy cannot be permitted for the following reasons: a. Having crossed the statutory limit of twenty-four weeks, the requirements in either of Section 3(2B) or Section 5 must be met; b. There are no “substantial foetal abnormalities” diagnosed by a Medical Board in this case, in terms of Section 3(2B).This Court called for a second medical report from AIIMS to ensure that the facts of the case were accurately placed before it and no foetal abnormality was detected; and c. Neither of the two reports submitted by the Medical Boards indicates that a termination is immediately necessary to save the life of the petitioner, in terms of Section 5. 25. Under Article 142 of the Constitution, this Court has the power to do complete justice. However, this power may not be attracted in every case. If a medical termination were to be conducted at this stage, the doctors would be faced with a viable foetus. One of the options before this Court, which the email from AIIMS has fl agged, is for it to direct the doctors to 462 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. stop the heartbeat. This Court is averse to issuing a direction of this nature for the reasons recorded in the preceding paragraph. The petitioner, too, did not wish for this Court to issue such a direction. This was communicated by her to the court during the course of the hearing. In the absence of a direction to stop the heartbeat, the viable foetus would be faced with a signifi cant risk of lifelong physical and mental disabilities. The reports submitted by the Medical Board speak for themselves. 26. For these reasons, we do not accede to the prayer for the medical termination of the pregnancy. 27. The delivery will be conducted by AIIMS at the appropriate time. The Union Government has undertaken to pay all the medical costs for the delivery and incidental to it.