10. As per the learned AAG appearing for the State of Uttar Pradesh and learned counsel for the complainant, the allegations set out in the FIR and statements of the witnesses examined under Section 161 CrPC clearly disclose necessary ingredients of the off ences alleged and as per them, there is no scope for interference in the impugned s. They sought dismissal of the appeal. These oral submissions have further been supplemented by written submissions which are virtually reiteration of what was argued before the Court. 11. We have carefully considered the submissions made by the learned counsel at the Bar and have perused the material available on record. 12. At the outset, it may be emphasised that in the written submissions fi led on behalf of the State, the pertinent plea raised by the learned counsel for the appellants that necessary ingredients of the off ence punishable under Section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act are not made out from the admitted allegations of the prosecution, has not been specifi cally controverted. There cannot be any quarrel with the principles laid down in the s cited by the State counsel in the written submissions that at the stage of framing of charges, the Court is not required to undertake a meticulous evaluation of evidence and even grave suspicion is suffi cient to frame charge. Nevertheless, there is also a long line of precedents that from the admitted evidence of the prosecution as refl ected in the documents fi led 107 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. by the Investigating Offi cer in the report under Section 173 CrPC, if the necessary ingredients of an off ence are not made out then the Court is not obligated to frame charge for such off ence against the accused. Reference in this regard may be made to the rendered by this Court in the case of Suresh @ Pappu Bhudharmal Kalani Vs. State of Maharashtra reported in AIR 2001 SC 1375. 13. Learned senior counsel representing the accused appellants had restricted his submissions to the extent of charge framed under Section 3(2) (v) of the SC/ST Act. Thus the language of the said provision needs to be considered and the same is reproduced herein below for the sake of ready reference:- “3. Punishments for off ences of atrocities. (2) Whoever, not being a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe, — …. (v) commits any off ence under the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) punishable with imprisonment for a term of ten years or more against a person or property knowing that such person is a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe or such property belongs to such member, shall be punishable with imprisonment for life and with fi ne.” 14. From a bare perusal of the provision, it is crystal clear that for the above off ence to be constituted, there must be an allegation that the accused not being a member of Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe committed an off ence under the IPC punishable for a term of 10 years or more against a member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe knowing that such person belongs to such ‘community’.