The Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana which provides an annual health cover of Rs. 5 lakhs per family has H DR NARENDRA GUPTA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 999 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] been extended to cover twelve crore families across the nation. The A scheme covers the treatment of 1949 procedures, including hysterectomies under 27 different specialties. As of 16 March 2023, 45,434 hospital admissions were authorized under this scheme for hysterectomy related treatments. Two Standard Treatment Guidelines have been developed for fourteen procedures relating to hysterectomies. B The Union government has set out the details of procedures and State/ UT-wise details of authorized hospital admissions for the purpose of hysterectomies under the Scheme. 11. Besides setting out the provisions of the Guidelines, the status report filed by the Union government indicates the steps which were C taken by the States of Chhattisgarh and Bihar while dealing with the performance of unnecessary hysterectomies. 12. The Union government has proposed an action plan in its status report, which is set out below: D “E. PROPOSED ACTION PLAN 10. Setting Up of Grievance Portal - It is pertinent to mention here that the Rasthriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY) has been subsumed in PMJAY with the launch of Ayushman Bharat- Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) on 23.09.2018. E The PMJAY website hosts a grievance portal for its beneficiaries. An additional grievance portal would also be maintained by National Health Authority especially designed for PMJAY beneficiaries of hysterectomies. The proposed portal will be activated for hysterectomy F beneficiaries within a period of three months. Any grievance received on the portal will be monitored by the National Hysterectomy Monitoring Committee. 11. Formation of Committees – The Ministry will endeavour to G form a National Hysterectomy Monitoring Committee, as proposed under the Guidelines within 4 to 6 weeks. Simultaneously the states will also be continuously advised to expedite formation of the state and district level committees so that the implementation of the National Guidelines can be properly monitored and supervised.” H 1000 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 13. The Guidelines which have been adopted by MoHFW to prevent unnecessary hysterectomies must be adopted by all the States and Union Territories. MoHFW shall engage with all the Statesand Union Territories to ensure that the Guidelines are adopted expeditiously. We direct that: B a. All States and Union Territories shall adopt the Guidelines within three months and report compliance to MoHFW; b. All the States and Union Territories shall implement the Guidelines without delayand report compliance to MoHFW; and C c. All the States and Union Territories shall ensure that all public and private hospitals within their territories are made aware of the existence and importance of the Guidelines. The Guidelines, for convenience of reference, are annexed to this D as Annexure A to facilitate compliance. 14. Ms.Kawalpreet Kaur, counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner, has urged two submissions which seek to supplement the Guidelines. Firstly, it has been submitted that under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, where a hysterectomy is performed E on a woman below the age of forty years, the requirement of the procedure has to be certified by at least two doctors.