Xxx xxx xxx 13. Now so far as the remedy which may be available under G Article 136 of the Constitution of India is concerned, it cannot be disputed that the remedy by way of an appeal by special leave under Article 136 of the Constitution of India may be too expensive and as observed and held by this Court in the case of L. Chandra Kumar (supra), the said remedy H 1172 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A can be said to be inaccessible for it to be real and effective. Therefore, when the remedy under Article 227 of the Constitution of India before the concerned High Court is provided, in that case, it would be in furtherance of the right of access to justice of the aggrieved party, may be a complainant, to approach the concerned High Court at a B lower cost, rather than a Special Leave to Appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution. Xxx xxx xxx 14.1. The scope and ambit of jurisdiction of Article 227 of C the Constitution has been explained by this Court in the case of Estralla Rubber v. Dass Estate (P) Ltd., (2001) 8 SCC 97, which has been consistently followed by this Court (see the recent decision of this Court in the case of Garment Craft v. Prakash Chand Goel, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 29). Therefore, while exercising the powers under Article 227 of D the Constitution, the High Court has to act within the parameters to exercise the powers under Article 227 of the Constitution. It goes without saying that even while considering the grant of interim stay/relief in a writ petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India, the High Court E has to bear in mind the limited jurisdiction of superintendence under Article 227 of the Constitution. Therefore, while granting any interim stay/relief in a writ petition under Article 227 of the Constitution against an passed by the National Commission, the same shall always be subject to the rigour of the powers to be exercised under Article 227 of the F Constitution of India.” (Emphasis supplied) 38. In the aforesaid view of the matter, we have reached to the conclusion that we should not adjudicate this petition on merits. We must ask the petitioner herein to first go before the jurisdictional High Court G either by way of a writ application under Article 226 of the Constitution or by invoking the supervisory jurisdiction of the jurisdictional High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution. Of course, after the High Court adjudicates and passes a final , it is always open for either of the parties to thereafter come before this Court by filing special leave petition, H seeking leave to appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution. M/S UNIVERSAL SOMPO GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. 1173 SURESH CHAND JAIN AND ANR. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 39. We take notice of the passed by this Court dated A 29.03.2023 which reads thus: “2. In the meantime, there shall be stay of the impugned and , subject to deposit of 50 per cent of the awarded amount in this Court.” B 40.