It is submitted that though the conditions of the NTRO appointment refers to the respondent’s service being terminable under CCS (Temporary Service) Rules, 1965, G the said rules nowhere states that the respondent is not entitled for pension on the basis of the last pay drawn. It is submitted that CCS (Temporary Service) Rules, 1965 shall be applicable to those employees who “do not hold a lien or a suspended lien on any post under the Government of India or any State Government”. H 378 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 4.11 It is submitted that as per Rule 2 of CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972, there is no distinction between temporary and permanent employees in the application of Pension Rules. It is submitted that as per Rule 13 of the Pension Rules, qualifying service of a Government servant commences from the date he takes charge of the post to which he is first appointed substantively. It is submitted that in the present case, the B respondent was first appointed substantively on 12.09.1988. She joined DRDO in the entry grade of Scientist ‘B’ on this date and after two years, her probation was confirmed. It is submitted that therefore, the respondent’s qualifying service starts from 12.09.1988, i.e., the date on which she took charge of the post on which she was first appointed C substantively. 4.12 Making above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. 5. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length. D 6. By the impugned and , the High Court has allowed the writ petition preferred by the respondent herein and has quashed and set aside the and passed by the Central Administrative Tribunal dismissing the O.A. and has modified the dated 12.02.2019 issued by the NTRO and has directed that the same E be held and treated as an of discharge simpliciter. By the impugned and , the High Court has also directed that under the dated 12.02.2019, the services of the original writ petitioner – respondent herein shall stand discharged and that she shall be entitled to all consequential benefits including the benefit of past services that she had rendered in DRDO for computing her terminal benefits. The High F Court has further clarified that the respondent herein – original writ petitioner would be entitled to all such benefits as permissible to her on the premise that she had held the post of Scientist – H and the last pay drawn in that post would be the criteria for settling all her benefits. 6.1 While considering the challenge to the aforesaid directions at G the instance of the NTRO, few glaring dates and events are required to be noted, which are as under:- (i) That the respondent herein – original writ petitioner was serving as Scientist -G in DRDO. Applications were invited by the NTRO for the post of Scientist – H for appointment H NATIONAL TECHNICAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION v. 379 DIPTI DEODHARE [M. R. SHAH, J.]