The amount so remitted will be adjusted against the dues C from the previous consumer if the Board gets the full dues from the previous consumer through R.R. action or other legal proceedings the amount remitted by the new owner/occupier to whom connection has been effected shall be refunded. But the amount already remitted by him/her shall not bear any interest)” D 146. In terms of Clause 15(c), when there is a transfer of ownership or right of occupancy of the premises, the registered consumer shall intimate the transfer of the right of occupancy of the premises within seven days to the officer concerned. On such intimation being received, the service shall be disconnected. If the transferee desires a service E connection, they shall pay off the dues and apply for transfer of the ownership of the service connection. In terms of Clause 15(d), all dues to the KSEB from a consumer shall be the first charge on the assets of the consumer. In terms of Clause 15(e), a new connection or reconnection shall not be given to any premises where there are arrears on any account unless they are cleared in advance. F 147. The validity of Clause 15(e) was upheld by a Full Bench decision of the Kerala High Court in Suraj v. KSEB.68 The High Court upheld the validity of the said regulation on the ground that it is unjust to compel the Board to supply electricity to the very same premises without the arrears of the previous owner or occupier being cleared. The High G Court observed: “8. Regulations make no distinction between an auction purchaser and others in the matter of supply of electricity. Regulations 15(d) and (e) have been incorporated with a purpose, or else by H 68 2005 (3) KLT 856 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 719 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] successive transfer of the premises the Board’s right to recover A the amount from the previous consumers as well as from the assets could be effectively defeated at the same time the Board is called upon to provide electricity to the same premises. Regulation 15(e) has a reasonable nexus with the object sought to be achieved, that is to save public property so as B to subserve the general interest of the community. Once electricity is disconnected and the equipment dismantled, it is unjust to compel the Board to give electricity connection to the very same premises at the instance of a third party which will not be in public interest especially when electricity is considered as a public property. Further C petitioner has also not challenged the validity of Regulations 15(d) and 15(e) in this writ petition.” (emphasis supplied) 148. Two cases — K.C. Ninan v. KSEB69 andKJ Dennis v. D KSEB,70 arise from the state of Kerala. In both these cases, the Kerala High Court upheld the validity of Clause 15(e) and directed that to avail a fresh electricity connection for premises where arrears are due, the auction purchasers would have to pay outstanding dues of the previous consumer in compliance with the said condition.