Therefore, the State power to legislate has to be viewed in continuum or as continuing from the date it was brought into force which is 17.06.2017 and formed from the State enactment. Consequentially, even the power to enact the law on the part of the state was preserved. Learned counsel also relied upon the decision of this Court in Fuerst Day Lawson Ltd v Jindal Exports Ltd12 in support of the submission. In the case of Maharashtra VAT Act, it was highlighted that the amendment Act was brought into force on 15.04.2017. The Central Goods and Services Tax Act (hereafter “CGST Act”) came into force on 01.07.2017. In terms of the amendment to the State VAT Act, the pre-deposit of 10% became the condition for hearing the appeal. 11 (1982) 1 SCR947 12 2001 (3) SCR 479 164 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 28. It was argued on behalf of the State of Maharashtra that what is material is the existence of a power to legislate and not the manner of exercise of that power. Therefore, the existence of a power to legislate was preserved by Section 19; its purpose was to preserve both the portion of existing laws and also to permit the State legislature and the Parliament to amend or repeal the existing law. Being a constitutional amendment, no expression or term ought to be interpreted in a limited manner. The reasoning of the Telangana and Gujarat High Courts that the power of amendment was limited to bringing the existing enactments, i.e. State VAT Acts in conformity with the express terms of the 101st amendment, was erroneous. It was submitted that till the date specifi ed in the 101st amendment, i.e. the expiration of one year which was eff ectively 30th June, 2017, the power of the competent legislatures, i.e. the State and the Union was untrammeled. Learned counsel also pointed to amendments made to the Central Excise Act, much in the same terms as in the case of the Telangana and Gujarat amendments which enlarged the period of limitation in certain respects. It is fallacious to contend that the State legislatures were denuded the power to legislate. The power was traceable to the amended provisions of the Constitution notwithstanding that relevant entries in the State List 54 and 62 had been altered. It was submitted that such a view was taken notice of and discussed in UOI & Anr. v. Mohit Minerals Private Limited13. 29. It is urged that the power to amend the Constitution is a constituent power of the Parliament in accordance with Article 368. Under Article 368(2), the amendment to the Constitution is initiated by introduction of a bill and after assent to the bill by the President, the Constitution stands amended in accordance with the terms of the Bill. In other words, every single provision in the Constitutional Amendment Bill becomes a part of the amended Constitution. 30. It is further submitted that absence of specifi cally inserting Section 19 in the Constitution makes no diff erence.