The High Court considered and decided the following substantial questions of law: “1) Whether the endorsement made on the sale deed No. 1-10394 E dated 03.09.1968 in respect of the power of attorney is a substantive evidence in respect of the power of attorney authorising the plaintiff no. 2 to sell the said land as demised in the sale deed dated 03.09.1968? 2) Whether the defendants had fundamental onus to discharge in F respect that the power of attorney was not in existence or forged and as such, the sale deed dated 03.09.1968 cannot be treated as the instrument of valid transfer?” 8. The following findings were recorded by the High Court in the impugned : G (i) That facts as to the authority of plaintiff no. 2 to execute the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 were recited therein and having been satisfied about the power of plaintiff no. 2 to execute the sale deed,the same was allowed by the Sub-Registrar for being registered. H 168 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (ii) When a registering authority has made an endorsement accepting that by virtue of a power of attorney, the attorney was allowed to execute the sale deed, a statutory presumption ought to be drawn as to the fact of validity of the power of attorney and consequently of the sale deed. B (iii) That there is a presumption of correctness under Section 58 of the Registration Act, 1908, to transactions endorsed by a Sub-Registrar. That such statutory presumption can be rebutted only by strong evidence to the contrary. C (iv) That the Trial Court and first appellate court had wrongly shifted the onus on the plaintiffs, while the burden ought to have been on the defendants to prove their case which was contrary to the statutory presumption of validity of the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968. That the defendants failed to rebut the presumption of validity of the sale deed even D though the onus was squarely on them. Aggrieved by the of the High Court allowing the second appeal preferred by the plaintiffs, the appellants-defendants have approached this Court. 9. We have heard Sri Rana Mukherjee, learned senior advocate E appearing on behalf of the appellants and Sri. Hrishikesh Baruah, learned advocate appearing on behalf of the respondents, and perused the material on record. 10. Learned Senior Counsel for the appellants-defendants at the outset contended that the High Court was not right in allowing the second F appeal preferred by the plaintiffs by drawing a presumption as to validity of the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968. That the High Court committed a serious error in law while setting aside the concurrent findings of the Trial Court and first appellate court to hold that the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 was valid even though the power of G attorney forming the basis of such sale deed was neither produced nor proved. That there may be a statutory presumption under Section 60 of the Registration Act, 1908 only where all other requirements of execution of sale deed are complied with and when there is no doubt as to the genuinity of the power of attorney.