15.1. Right to Circulate: Freedom of the press takes within its fold a number of rights and one such right is the freedom of publication. Publication also means dissemination and circulation; indeed, D without circulation, publication would be of little value, vide Romesh Thappar; Sakal Papers (P) Ltd. vs. Union of India, A.I.R. 1962 SC 305 (“Sakal Papers (P) Ltd.”). In Life Insurance Corporation vs. Prof. Manubhai D. Shah,(1992) 3 SCC 637 (“Prof. Manubhai D. E Shah”)this Court reiterated that the freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) must be understood to take within its ambit the freedom to circulate one’s view. That such circulation could be by word of mouth, in writing or through audio-visual media. The freedom to ‘air one’s F view’ was declared as a “lifeline of any democratic institution” and the Court expressed strong criticism at any attempt aimed at stifling or suffocating the right to circulation. In the said case, the appeals concerned separate instances of state-controlled entities (LIC and Doordarshan) refusing to publish or broadcast work that criticized the government. G The Court reasoned that government-controlled means of publication have a greater burden to recognize an individual’s right to defend themselves and if a state censors content, then it is obligated to provide reasons valid in law. That when a state-controlled entity refuses to circulate through H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 739 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] its magazine or other platform, one’s views, including one’s A defence, the right to circulate is violated. This Court has therefore, on several occasions recognised the right to circulation, as a facet of the right to freedom of speech. The right to circulation includes, the right to optimise/maximise the volume of such circulation B and also determine the content and reach thereof. 15.2. Right to dissent: Article 19(1)(a) serves as a vehicle through which dissent can be expressed. The right to dissent, disagree C and adopt varying and individualistic points of view inheres in every citizen of this Country. In fact, the right to dissent is the essence of a vibrant democracy, for it is only when there is dissent that different ideas would emerge which may be of help or assist the Government to improve or innovate upon its policies so that its D governance would have a positive effect on the people of the country which would ultimately lead to stability, peace and development which are concomitants of good governance. 15.3. The following s of this Court on the right to E dissent are noteworthy: (i) In Romesh Thappar, this Court recognised that criticism or dissent directed against the Government, was not to be curtailed and any attempt to do so could not be justified as a F reasonable restriction under Article 19 (2) of the Constitution. This declaration by this Court cemented the idea that the freedom of speech and expression covers the right to dissent or criticise, even when such right is employed with respect to criticism of governmental policy or action or G inaction.