The period of limitation under Section 56(2) is relatable to the sum due under Section 56. The sum due under Section 56 relates to the sum due on account of the negligence of a person to pay for electricity. Section 56(2) provides that such sum due would not be recoverable after the period of two years from when such sum became first due. The means of recovery provided under Section 56 relate to the remedy C of disconnection of electric supply. The right to recover still subsists. 130. We may also briefly deal with the objection of the auction purchasers that the conditions of supply cannot be used to resurrect time barred debts. Counsel placed reliance on VT Kallianikutty (supra), where it was held that a time barred debt cannot be recovered by taking D recourse to the provisions of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act.This decision is not helpful to the auction purchasers in the present batch of cases. In that case, a three-judge Bench of this Court while dealing with agricultural loans extended by the Kerala Finance Corporation, held that since the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act does not create a new right, a E person could not claim the recovery of amounts which are not legally recoverable. In reaching its decision, this Court, however, reasoned that the statute of limitation bars the remedy by way of a suit beyond a certain time period, without touching the right to recover the loan. The right remains untouched and it can be exercised in any other suitable manner provided. F 131. We therefore, reject the submission of the auction purchasers that the recovery of outstanding electricity arrears either by instituting a civil suit against the erstwhile consumer or from a subsequent transferee in exercise of statutory power under the relevant conditions of supply is barred on the ground of limitation under Section 56(2) of the 2003 Act. G Accordingly, while the bar of limitation under Section 56(2) restricts the remedy of disconnection under Section 56, the licensee is entitled to recover electricity arrears through civil remedies or in exercise of its statutory power under the conditions of supply. H 710 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A VII. Implication of the sale of premises on “as is where is” basis, with or without reference to electricity arrears of the premises 132. The Electric Utilities have urged that (i) the auction purchasers were put to notice of the requirement of the clearance of dues; (ii) the B public auction-sales of premises were held on an “as is where is” basis; (iii) this would include a condition of acknowledging all liabilities in respect of the premises, with or without a specific reference of payment of electricity dues; and (iv) in a sale arising out of commercial transactions, the auction purchaser is required to undertake due diligence of outstanding dues which are premises specific. On the other hand, the auction C purchasers submitted that (i) a condition such as “as is where is” is a feature of physical property and does not extend to claims which are not charges or other encumbrances running with land; (ii) the argument finds support in the decisions in Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority v. Raghu Nath Gupta61 and Delhi Development Authority D v. Kenneth Builders and Developers Pvt Limited62; (iii) electricity dues cannot be ascertained merely by looking at a property; and (iv) there was no obligation on the applicants to ascertain the electricity dues payable, more so in view of the judgement in the Isha Marbles (supra).