24. During cross-examination, Ashok Kumar (PW-8) stated that,-- he had witnessed the altercation; after the accused left, he went behind them; he, however, did not notice if any of his relatives were near the place of altercation; the accused went towards Babu Ram’s house whereas he went to his own house; after reaching his house, he put on his shoes, then, after 4/5 minutes, he heard gun shots; he immediately came out of his house to notice people running helter-skelter; the fi ring continued for about 20/25 minutes; he did not sustain any injury and no pellet came towards his house; he had no enmity with the accused prior to the incident, rather they had been attending each other’s functions; accused had cordial relations with the deceased Vijay; he had never appeared as a witness against the accused in any other case nor made any complaint against them; he and his family never favoured Satpal; his elder son, besides the deceased Vijay, was in the house at that time. 25. At this stage, we may observe that Mangat Ram (PW-2) (i.e. brother of the deceased Anil) too, was not aware of any kind of animosity between any of the accused and Anil. There is no clarity in PW-2’s statement about Anil taking side of Satpal while he was in an altercation with Shri Krishan. In fact, during cross-examination, PW-2 stated that,-- the altercation took place at a distance of about 10-12 paces from the place where he was lying 400 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. on his cot; at that time, Sushil (his other brother) and Anil (the deceased) were inside the house; at the time of altercation between Lala and Shri Krishan, Ravinder, Vijay and Babu were not there; Babu Ram arrived at the place of altercation at about 2.45 pm and stayed for about 10 minutes; he cannot say as to how many persons came there; he cannot tell as to how many persons remained with Satpal, when Babu Ram left. PW-2 specifi cally added that neither he nor his brother Anil were supporter of anyone. He, however, clarifi ed that he saw accused standing on the roof, fi ve minutes after they left the place of altercation. He also added that from the place where he was lying on the cot, Babu Ram could not be seen. Further, he could not tell as to how many minutes the fi ring continued as he, and his brother, sustained injuries and wer removed to the Hospital. In respect of the role played by the appellants, PW-2 stated that his brother Anil was coming from the other side, when Babu Ram was instigated to fi re at him. PW-2 clarifi ed that neither he nor Anil had any previous enmity with Babu Ram or any other accused person and that neither he nor his brother ever supported Lala Satpal. 26. A close examination of the statement of these witnesses would reveal that, though they disclose the presence of the accused-appellants with Babu Ram at the roof-top as also that they were instigating Babu Ram not to spare the supporters of Satpal, they are not specifi c and consistent about the two deceased (i.e., Anil and Vijay) being targeted by Babu Ram at the instigation of the present appellants.