11 Hereinafter referred to as “the SMA”. 12 D.S. Nakara v. Union of India, 1983 (2) SCR 165. 142 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. creates two distinct and intelligible classes – i.e., heterosexual partners who are eligible to marry and non-heterosexual partners who are ineligible. 13. Under the second prong, the Court examines whether the classifi cation is in pursuit of a State objective. The SMA’s Statement of Objects and Reasons assists us in determining the objective. It is reproduced hereunder: “Statement of Objects and Reasons. —This Bill revises and seeks to replace the Special Marriage Act of 1872 so as to provide a special form of marriage which can be taken advantage of by any person in India and by all Indian nationals in foreign countries irrespective of the faith which either party to the marriage may profess. The parties may observe any ceremonies for the solemnisation of their marriage, but certain formalities are prescribed before the marriage can be registered by the Marriage Offi cers. For the benefi t of Indian citizens abroad, the Bill provides for the appointment of Diplomatic and Consular Offi cers as Marriage Offi cers for solemnising and registering marriages between citizens, of India in a foreign country. 2. Provision is also sought to be made for permitting persons who are already married under other forms of marriage to register their marriages under this Act and thereby avail themselves of these provisions. 3. The bill is drafted generally on the lines of the existing Special Marriage Act of 1872 and the notes on clauses attached hereto explain some of the changes made in the Bill in greater detail.” (Emphasis supplied). 14. From the above, we see that the SMA postulates a ‘special form of marriage’ available to any person in India irrespective of faith. Therefore, the SMA provides a secular framework for solemnization and registration of marriage. Here, I respectfully disagree with my brother Justice Ravindra Bhat, that the sole intention of the SMA was to enable marriage of heterosexual couples exclusively. To my mind, the stated objective of the SMA was not to regulate marriages on the basis of sexual orientation. This cannot be so as it would amount to confl ating the diff erentia with the object of the statute. Although substantive provisions of the SMA confer SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1425 UNION OF INDIA [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] benefi ts only on heterosexual relationships, this does not automatically refl ect the object of the statute. For as we are all aware, we often act in ways that do not necessarily correspond to our intent. Therefore, we cannot look at singular provisions to determine substantive intent of the statute. Doing so would be missing the wood for the trees. 15. If the intent of the SMA is to facilitate inter-faith marriages, then there would be no rational nexus with the classifi cation it makes, i.e., excluding non-heterosexual relationships. 16. In any event, regulating only heterosexual marriages would not be a legitimate State objective.