The ratio of the decision in Supriya Jain (supra) fi nds support from an earlier decision of this Court in Chand Dhawan (Smt.) v. Jawaharlal26, where it was held that the High Court of Punjab and Haryana was not justifi ed in quashing the complaint and the criminal proceedings on the ground of abuse of the process of court by relying on additional material produced by the accused, which was not admitted in evidence or accepted by the complainant. 55. The Power of Attorney is yet not proved by the appellant according to law and, therefore, could not have been considered by the learned Judge and cannot be considered by this Court as well. Even if proved, its eff ect and import necessarily have to be considered by the Trial Court in the light of the guiding factors for applicability of an Exception as indicated in the concurring authored by Hon’ble O. Chinnappa Reddy, J. in Sewakram Sobhani (supra). 56. However, if from evidence led it is established that the authorised agent had issued defamatory statements with the consent of the principal or that the principal, without giving consent, had due knowledge of such defamatory statements, yet, did not caution/reprimand the agent for doing so or had not disowned the statements so made, there is no reason why a prosecution for defamation should be nipped in the bud on the specious ground that an authorised agent is supposed to act lawfully and not unlawfully. 26 (1992) 3 SCC 317 M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 257 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 57. Turning to question (c), it is for the appellant to demonstrate before the Trial Court that the Fourth Exception is attracted, or plead any other defence, and discharge its burden of proof in respect thereof during the course of the trial. This, in our opinion, is not the right stage to opine one way or the other and, therefore, we leave it open for being decided by the Trial Court in accordance with law. CONCLUSION 58. Having answered all the questions, what is left for us is to dismiss the appeal which we hereby . The appeal is dismissed, with the result that the interim shall stand vacated forthwith. There shall, however, be no for costs. 59. Except to the extent decided by this , all other points are left open to be urged by the appellant before the Trial Court for a decision by it. 60. Since the proceedings have been unduly delayed, the Trial Court is encouraged to expedite the same. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal dismissed. Ankit Gyan