In paragraph 144 therein it was held as under: - G “144. It was further submitted that what is required by clause (c) is that the holding of the inquiry should not be expedient in the interest of the security of the State and not the actual conduct of a government servant which would be the subject- matter of the inquiry. This submission is correct so far as it H 788 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A goes but what it overlooks is that in an inquiry into acts affecting the interest of the security of the State, several matters not fit or proper to be made public, including the source of information involving a government servant in. such acts, would be disclosed and thus in cases such as these an inquiry into acts prejudicial to the interest of the security of the State B would prejudice the interest of the security of the State as much as those acts would.” 12. In the decision in Union of India v. Balbir Singh3, this Court referred to the earlier decision in A.K. Kaul v. Union of India4, in paragraph 7 as under: - C “7. In the case of A.K. Kaul v. Union of India [(1995) 4 SCC 73 : 1995 SCC (L&S) 922 : (1995) 30 ATC 174] this Court has examined the extent of judicial review permissible in respect of an of dismissal passed under second proviso clause (c) of Article 311(2) of the Constitution. This Court D has held that the satisfaction of the President can be examined within the limits laid down in S.R. Bommai v. Union of India [(1994) 3 SCC 1]. The of the President can be examined to ascertain whether it is vitiated either by mala fides or is based on wholly extraneous and/or irrelevant E grounds. The court, however, cannot sit in appeal over the , or substitute its own satisfaction for the satisfaction of the President. So long as there is material before the President which is relevant for arriving at his satisfaction as to action being taken under clause (c) to the second proviso to Article 311(2), the court would be bound by the so passed. F This Court has enumerated the scope of judicial review of the President’s satisfaction for passing an under clause (c) of the second proviso to Article 311(2). The Court has said, (1) that the would be open to challenge on the ground of mala fides or being based wholly on extraneous G and/or irrelevant grounds; (2) even if some of the material on which the action is taken is found to be irrelevant the court would still not interfere so long as there is some relevant material sustaining the action; (3) the truth or correctness of 3 (1998) 5 SCC 216 H 4 (1995) 4 SCC 73 DR. V. R. SANAL KUMAR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 789 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] the material cannot be questioned by the court nor will it go A into the adequacy of the material and it will also not substitute its opinion for that of the President; (4) the ground of mala fides takes in, inter alia, situations where the proclamation is found to be a clear case of abuse of power or what is sometimes called fraud on power; (5) the court will not lightly presume B abuse or misuse of power and will make allowance for the fact that the President and the Council of Ministers are the best judge of the situation and that they are also in possession of information and material and the Constitution has trusted their in the matter; (6) this does not mean that the President and the Council of Ministers are the final arbiters C in the matter or that their opinion is conclusive.