F 113. When these three means identified are placed on the continuum, public interest immunity claims would be placed on one end as they have the least impact on rights as opposed to the Totten claim which would be placed on the other end. The closed material procedure would be placed in the middle because Special Advocates are used in an G attempt to counterbalance the infringement of procedural rights. The difference in the impact must be determined firstly, based on the stage of consideration. The public interest immunity claim and closed material procedure claim are raised at the discovery stage. As opposed to this procedure, under the Totten claim, the claim is held to be non-justiciable H 676 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A at the pleading stage if the State contends that the proceedings are premised on state secrets. Secondly, the Totten claim limits the fundamental right to judicial review since claims based on state secrets are rendered non-justiciable. However, in a public interest immunity claim, whichever way the claim is decided, the parties will have equality of arms because the same evidence will have to be relied on in the course B of the proceedings. It may be argued that the removal of the documents from the proceedings would, in effect, render the claim non-justiciable if the documents that are sought to be not disclosed are closely intertwined with the cause of action. We have addressed this argument in detail in Section J of this . Similar to the sealed cover procedure, in the C closed material proceeding, the non-disclosable evidence that is used in a substantive hearing of the case is excluded for the claimant. However, the closed material procedure in the United Kingdom does not exist independent of special advocates who aim to provide sufficient counterbalance. The closed material proceeding is more injurious to the claimant’s procedural guarantees as compared to public interest immunity D because non-disclosed material is used by the State to defend its actions and relied on by the court to arrive at a conclusion. As compared to this, in public interest immunity, the non-disclosable evidence is completely removed at the discovery stage. Though the Special Advocates aim to provide sufficient counterbalance, the process still causes prejudice to E the claimant since the security cleared advocates are not permitted to interact with the claimant about the evidence. The (in)sufficiency of the counterbalance provided by special advocates largely depends on the facts of the case, particularly on the material that is sought to be unrevealed and revealed. The interrelationship between the allegations, open material, and closed material was aptly addressed by the ECHR in F A (supra). The relevant observations are extracted below: “ 220. The Court further considers that the special advocate could perform an important role in counterbalancing the lack of full disclosure and the lack of a full, open, adversarial hearing by testing the evidence and putting arguments on behalf of the detainee G during the closed hearings. However, the special advocate could not perform this function in any useful way unless the detainee was provided with sufficient information about the allegations against him to enable him to give effective instructions to the special advocate.