12. On the same proposition, learned senior counsel referred to M K Rajagopalan v Dr Periasamy Palani Gounder, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 574, the relevant being at Paragraphs 167, 168 and 169, holding that when the CoC was fully satisfi ed with the valuation conducted in respect of the Corporate Debtor and had endorsed the same, then it was unnecessary and unjustifi able on the part of the NCLAT to presume irregularities in the Resolution Plan and interfere therewith. 13. It was submitted that the RP in statutory form had certifi ed that the Resolution Plan received from the appellant complied with all the provisions of the Code and the Regulations and did not contravene any provisions of law. 14. It was contended that the fi nding of the NCLAT that an avoidance transaction of approximately Rupees one thousand crores had come to light and the present case justifi es its interference since fi gures of crores are involved, could not have been an issue as it has no bearing in the instant case and ought not to have been considered by the NCLAT. It was submitted that safeguard against avoidance transaction and its impact upon a Corporate Debtor’s CIRP has been provided in the Code and the Regulations as also expounded in judicial precedents. In this regard, 684 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. attention was drawn to Section 2610 of the Code which provides that fi ling of avoidance application(s) by the RP shall not aff ect the CIRP proceedings. It was further stated that Regulation 38(2)(d)11, CIRP Regulations has been recently introduced through the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2022 (hereinafter referred to as the “2022 Amendment”) with eff ect from 14.06.2022 which requires, for all Resolution Plans submitted to the Adjudicating Authority on or after the 2022 Amendment to provide for treatment of avoidance applications post-approval of a Resolution Plan, along with the manner in which the proceeds from such proceedings will be distributed. It was contended that even though in the present case, the approval application has been fi led by the RP prior to the 2022 Amendment, the Resolution Plan provides for the treatment of proceeds generated through avoidance applications and states that all amounts received by ACIL pursuant to any avoidance transaction shall be payable to the FC(s) and no avoidance pay-out amounts shall be payable by the Corporate Debtor, which in the present case would mean that avoidance transaction of approximately Rupees one thousand crores will not aff ect the ongoing CIRP, in view of the Resolution Plan providing a clear way for its treatment. In this connection, learned senior counsel referred to the decision by a Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi in Tata Steel BSL Limited v Venus Recruiter Pvt. Ltd., 2023 SCC OnLine Del 155, Paragraph 91 whereof says that when any kind 10 ‘26. Application for avoidance of transactions not to aff ect proceedings.—The fi ling of an avoidance application under clause (j) of sub-section (2) of Section 25 by the resolution professional shall not aff ect the proceedings of the corporate insolvency resolution process.’ 11 ‘38.