Noticeably, the appellants assail the reversal of the modification of the and decree passed by the First Appellate Court and attempting to sustain the modification based on contentions founded on the principle of estoppel and relying upon Section 51 of the TP Act. Conceptually, the underlying principles in Section D 51, TP Act and the principle of estoppel under Section 115 of the Evidence Act, 1872 are converse and cannot co-exist. [Para 7][290-C-D] 1.2 The original appellant failed to establish that he is a “transferee” within the meaning of the TP Act and for the purpose E of Section 51, TP Act. In to attract the Section the occupant of the land must have held possession under colour of title, his possession must not have been by mere possession of another but adverse to the title of the true owner and he must be under the bone fide belief that he has secured good title to the property F in question and is the owner thereof. Section 51 gives only statutory recognition to the above three things. At the same time, in the case on hand, the concurrent findings of the courts below is that the respondent is the owner of the land in question and the original appellants had encroached upon it and effected construction. The appellants have failed to establish the above G mentioned three things. The evidence on record would also go to show that even the construction was effected in deviation of the approved plan. [Para 10][292-C-E] 1.3 In the light of the concurrent findings on the questions of ownership and encroachment, it can only be held that it was H 284 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A after encroaching upon the land in question and ignoring the absence of any title that he made structures thereon at his own risk. Once it is so found, the original appellant cannot be treated as a ‘transferee’ within the meaning of the TP Act and for the purpose of Section 51, TP Act. Therefore, the appellants are not entitled to rely on the provision under Section 51, TP Act to seek B for restoration of the modification made by the First Appellate Court with respect to demolition and possession. The appellants, rightly, did not take up the plea of adverse possession and in the circumstances, being not a transferee for the purpose of Section 51 TP Act, he cannot legally require the respondent either to pay C the value of improvements and take back the land or to sell out the land to him at the market value of the property, irrespective of the value of the improvements. [Para 11][292-F-H; 293-A] 1.4 To invoke the concept of estoppel the defendant has to specifically plead each and every act or omission, as the case D may be, that constitutes representation from the plaintiff. [Para 12][293-F] 1.5 The equity will follow the law and it would tilt in favour of law and further that to claim equity the party must explain previous conduct.