208 of 2003 in C respect of the said accused persons. Vide the same impugned , the High Court, however, allowed the appeal filed by Biju @ Babi (accused No. 2) and acquitted him from all the offences charged with. 2. Shorn of details, the facts leading to the present appeal are as D under: 2.1 On 21st November, 2000, Leela w/o Vishwanathan (Complainant/PW-1) made a statement before the Police Station, Anthikkadu, Dist. Thrissur, wherein she alleged that Shibu @ Shibu Singh (accused No. 1), the younger brother of her husband, Vishwanathan E (deceased), was a convict who was then undergoing imprisonment as he was involved in many theft cases wherein stolen articles from the said thefts were disposed of by her husband. 2.2 It is the case of the complainant that Shibu @ Shibu Singh (accused No. 1) had escaped from the prison and was absconding. Due F to the fear that Vishwanathan (deceased) would disclose to the police about his escape from jail, Shibu @ Shibu Singh (accused No. 1) along with other accused persons, namely, accused No. 2 to accused No. 7 came in a jeep to the house of Vishwanathan (deceased) on 20.11.2000 at 08.00 p.m. The accused persons then held Vishwanathan (deceased) at knife point, forcefully poured liquor into his mouth and compelled him G to drink till he was left unconscious. When Leela (Complainant/PW-1) tried to interfere, she sustained injuries on her palm due to the knife carried by the accused persons with which they attempted to inflict blows on her. Thereafter, Leela (Complainant/PW-1) along with her husband were blindfolded and taken in a jeep. After covering a distance of about H 340 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 30 kms., the Complainant/PW-1 was dropped at Poomala, which was her native place. When she managed to reach her house with the help of a local named Baiju from the said village, she informed her brother Babu (P.W.6) about the aforesaid incident, who attempted to search for Vishwanathan (deceased) during the said night. Next day, i.e., on 21st November 2000, Leela (Complainant/PW-1) along with Babu (PW-6) B lodged her statement (Ext. P-1) at the Police Station Anthikkadu, Dist. Thrissur. Based on the contents of the aforesaid complaint, a First Information Report (Ext. P-19) (for short, “FIR”) came to be registered against the aforementioned accused persons along with other unknown persons for offences punishable under Section 395 and 365 of the Indian C Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as “IPC”). 2.3 Boby (accused No. 3/appellant herein) was arrested by the Police on 25th November 2000. Based on his disclosure statement (Ext. P-23), the dead body of Vishwanathan, which was buried at Pattithara on the banks of river Bharathapuzha, was recovered. Additionally, stolen D goods were also recovered from the house of accused No. 3 and were marked as Ext. P-14. Shibu @ Shibu Singh (accused No. 1) and Biju @ Babu (accused No. 2) were arrested on 28th November 2000 from a lodge at Guruvayoor by the Guruvayoor Police.