Thus, even when the learned counsel for the contesting parties have made elaborate submissions on a variety of factors and facets, we would confine this F and our consideration to the question of grant of temporary injunction in the civil suits; and to the extent adjudication is requisite by this Court in that regard. Hence, we may not delve into the questions which are not germane to the present adjudication. 6. With the foregoing preliminary comments, observations, and G outline, we may take note of the relevant factual aspects, in brief, as follows: 6.1. A few of the basic facts which admit of no controversy are that the party-AIADMK was founded in the year 1972 and is duly recognised and registered with the Election Commission of India. The H 1128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A party, said to be having primary cadre consisting of more than 1.5 crore members, is governed by its own byelaws. As noticed, the upper levels of party structure include the Executive Committee and the General Council. The byelaws of the party have been amended from time to time, including the amendments in the years 2011 and 2017. The propositions for further amendments are at the root of controversy in B the present matters. Before taking up the questions in controversy, it may be noticed that in the scheme of the byelaws as originally framed and continued for a long time, the topmost position in the party was assigned to its General Secretary, who was to be directly elected by the primary cadre. Earlier, Dr. J. Jayalalitha washolding the said position of C the General Secretary but,after her demise on 05.12.2016, the party drifted into a state of uncertainty as regards leadership. 6.2. On 29.12.2016, in a General Council meeting convened after the demise of Dr. J. Jayalalitha, Ms. V.K. Sasikala was nominated as the interim General Secretary. However, on 14.02.2017, the said interim D General Secretary came to be incarcerated in view of a of this Court. Ultimately, on 28.08.2017, a notice was issued for a General Council meeting on 12.09.2017. At that stage, one of the groups in the party had staked its claim before the Election Commission of India as being in-charge of the affairs of the party. All these features of intra- party dispute at that stage are not of much implication in relation to the E issues at hand. The relevant aspect has been that in the meeting of the General Council held on 12.09.2017, a unique system was put in place by amendment of the byelaws. By way of this amendment, the said late Dr. J. Jayalalitha was assigned the status of “Eternal General Secretary” of the party while providing that the said post of General Secretary would F as such be abolished; andin place of the said post of General Secretary, two high level posts of Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator were created. 6.3. At this juncture, it may also be noticed that the disputes in the civil suits leading to the interim s in question essentially relate to the two persons who were respectively elected as Co-ordinator and G Joint Co-ordinator after such amendment of the byelaws; they being the appellant of the appeal arising out of SLP(C) No.