Therefore, the observations contained in para 50 of the decision in Parkash Singh Badal cannot be taken as carving out an exception judicially, to a statutory prescription. In fact, Parkash Singh Badal cites with approval the other decisions (authored by the very same learned Judge) where this Court made a distinction between an G act, though in excess of the duty, was reasonably connected with the discharge of official duty and an act which was merely a cloak for doing the objectionable act. Interestingly, the proposition laid down in Rakesh Kumar Mishra (supra) was distinguished in paragraph 49 of the decision H 10 (2007) 1 SCC 1 A. SRINIVASULU v. THE STATE REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF 43 POLICE [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] in Parkash Singh Badal, before the Court made the observations in A paragraph 50 extracted above. 51. No public servant is appointed with a mandate or authority to commit an offence. Therefore, if the observations contained in paragraph 50 of the decision in Parkash Singh Badal are applied, any act which constitutes an offence under any statute will go out of the purview of an B act in the discharge of official duty. The requirement of a previous sanction will thus be rendered redundant by such an interpretation. 52. It must be remembered that in this particular case, the FIR actually implicated only four persons, namely PW-16, A-3, A-4 an A-5. A-1 was not implicated in the FIR. It was only after a confession C statement was made by PW-16 in the year 1998 that A-1 was roped in. The allegations against A-1 were that he got into a criminal conspiracy with the others to commit these offences. But the Management of BHEL refused to grant sanction for prosecuting A-3 and A-4, twice, on the ground that the decisions taken were in the realm of commercial wisdom D of the Company. If according to the Management of the Company, the very same act of the co-conspirators fell in the realm of commercial wisdom, it is inconceivable that the act of A-1, as part of the criminal conspiracy, fell outside the discharge of his public duty, so as to disentitle him for protection under Section 197(1) of the Code. E 53. In view of the above, we uphold the contention advanced on behalf of A-1 that the prosecution ought to have taken previous sanction in terms of Section 197(1) of the Code, for prosecuting A-1, for the offences under the IPC. Part-II (Revolving around grant of pardon) F 54. As we have indicated elsewhere, the FIR was filed on 31.01.1997 against 4 persons namely K. Bhaskar Rao (the person who turned Approver later) and A-3 to A-5. K. Bhaskar Rao, who later turned approver, was arrested in August, 1998 and released on bail by the respondents themselves. After his release, the said K. Bhaskar Rao G gave a confession statement under Section 164 of the Code before the XVIII Metropolitan Magistrate, Chennai on 16.11.1998. On the basis of the statement so given by K. Bhaskar Rao, prosecution filed a petition in Criminal M.P No.562 of 2000 before theChief Judicial Magistrate, Maduraiunder Section 306 of the Code for the grant of pardon.