As we have already noted, the primary purpose of such a transit remand is to enable the police to shift the person in custody from the place of arrest to the place where the matter can be investigated. It appears that from the aforesaid requirement of transit remand, has arisen the necessity of ‘transit anticipatory bail’ for, an aff ected person cannot be without a remedy. 35.1. The word ‘transit’ is derived from the Latin word transitus which means passage from one place to another. Since the word ‘transit’ is an undefi ned expression in CrPC, we may take recourse to the dictionary meaning of the word ‘transit’. The Concise Oxford English Dictionary, PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 581 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 10th Edition, Revised, defi nes the word ‘transit’ to mean carrying of people or things from one place to another; the conveyance of passengers on public transport; an act of passing through or across a place. ‘Transited’ or ‘transiting’ would mean pass across or through. Similarly, the word ‘transition’ means the process of changing from one state or condition to another. Likewise, the adjective ‘transitory’ means not permanent; short- lived. An useful example of the above expression is transit visa which means a visa allowing its holder to pass through a country only, not to stay there. The word ‘transit’ has also been defi ned in the Black’s Law Dictionary, 11th Edition, to mean the transportation of goods or person from one place to another; passage; the act of passing. 35.2. In Dr. Brojen Gogol, this Court did not decide whether the Bombay High Court had the jurisdiction to entertain the anticipatory bail applications of the respondents since the crimes were registered within the State of Assam. On the short point that the State of Assam or the Assam police were not heard before granting anticipatory bail to the respondents, this Court set aside the of the Bombay High Court but granted protection from arrest to the respondents for a limited duration to enable them to approach the Gauhati High Court. While passing such an , this Court however made a general observation that the question of granting anticipatory bail to any person who is allegedly connected with the off ence in question, must for all practical purposes be considered by the High Court of Gauhati within whose territorial jurisdiction such activities could have been perpetrated. As we have noted above, this was a general observation made by this Court and not a declaration of law after due adjudication. 35.3. The Allahabad High Court in Anita Garg also noted that there is no legislation or law which defi nes transit or anticipatory bail in defi nitive or specifi c terms. Thereafter, the High Court proceeded to explain the term ‘transit’ to mean the act of being moved from one place to another. Since the expression ‘anticipatory bail’ means granting bail to an accused person who is anticipating arrest, ‘transit anticipatory bail’ would refer to bail granted to any person who is apprehending arrest by police of a state other than the state he is presently located in.