16. In this context, it would be useful to refer to what is known as D the ‘official notice’ doctrine, which is a device used in administrative procedure. Although an authority can rely upon materials familiar to it in its expert capacity without the need formally to introduce them in evidence, nevertheless, the parties ought to be informed of materials so noticed and be given an opportunity to explain or rebut them. The data on which an authority is acting must be apprised to the party against whom the E data is to be used as such a party would then have an opportunity not only to refute it but also supplement, explain or give a different perspective to the facts upon which the authority relies. This has been explained by Schwartz in his work on Administrative Law. The aforesaid doctrine applies with greater force to a judicial / adjudicatory body. F Therefore, applying the aforesaid principle to the cases that come up before the NGT, if the NGT intends to rely upon an expert Committee report or any other relevant material that comes to its knowledge, it should disclose in advance to the party so as to give an opportunity for discussion and rebuttal. Thus, factual information which comes to the G knowledge of NGT on the basis of the report of the Committee constituted by it, if to be relied upon by the NGT, then, the same must be disclosed to the parties for their response and a reasonable opportunity must be afforded to present their observations or comments on such a report to the Tribunal. H 456 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 17. It is needless to observe that the experts’ opinion is only by way of assistance in arriving at a final conclusion. But we find that in the instant case the report of the expert Committee as well as the recommendations have been made the basis of the directions and such an approach is improper. B 18. We have perused the impugned of the NGT and particularly paragraph ‘16’ which has been extracted above. It is apparent that the appellant(s) herein who were respondents before the NGT were not given an opportunity to file their objections to the recommendations made by the Committee constituted by the NGT which is apparent by the fact that the recommendations were uploaded on C 15.01.2022 and the final of the NGT was passed three days later on, i.e. 18.01.2022. Thus, this is a clear case of there being non compliance with the principles of natural justice. On the said ground alone the impugned is set aside, the matter is remanded to the NGT for re- consideration from the stage of the recommendations filed by the expert D Committee constituted by the NGT. The appellant(s) herein are permitted to file their objections, if they are so advised. The NGT shall consider the objections, if any, filed to the recommendations and thereafter dispose of the applications in accordance with law and after giving a reasonable opportunity to all parties.