Although the trust in question was held to be ineligible at the stage of EOI, the appellant was still held to be eligible in his individual capacity. D Thus, while the trust may be disqualified, the trustee, being a separate entity, cannot be disqualified and the financial capability of the appellant was independent of the trust money. 28.2.1. Learned senior counsel would submit that the appellant could not be held ineligible under Section 29-A(e) of the Code, as the E registrar of companies had not disqualified him under Section 164(2)(b) of the Companies Act for the alleged non-refunded deposit in the other company International Aviation Academy Pvt. Ltd, in which the appellant was a director. Further, the DIN status of the appellant was “active compliant” and NCLAT did not consider its own in C. Raja F John v. R. Raghavendran and Ors. : Comp. Appl. (AT)(CH)(Ins) No. 207 of 2021 wherein it was held that if DIN is activated, Section 29-A(e) of the Code will not be applicable. 28.2.2. This apart, it has also been submitted that since the issue of ineligibility was a mixed question of fact and law, it could not have G been raised before NCLAT for the first time, since there is no concept of deemed disqualification under Section 164(2) of the Companies Act. 28.3. Coming to the question of valuation of assets of the corporate debtor, learned senior counsel has submitted that the resolution plan cannot be set aside on the basis of a contention that the valuation was lower than the liquidation value. Reliance has been placed on the in H 846 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Maharashtra Seamless (supra)to submit that the resolution plan would not be required to match the liquidation value. Learned senior counsel would submit that members of CoC were provided with liquidation and fair value; registered valuers were appointed for valuation of core and non-core assets; and these valuers physically visited the properties for that purpose, in compliance of Regulation 35 of the CIRP Regulations. B Thereafter, the CoC approved this valuation in their commercial wisdom, following which NCLT approved it as well, which cannot be second- guessed at a subsequent stage. It has also been submitted that the question as to whether valuer was registered, was not required to be adjudged since it was not in question before IBBI. C 28.4. Learned senior counsel has also submitted that insofar as non-publication of Form-G on the website is concerned, the issue was discussed during the fifth CoC meeting dated 12.11.2020 and the CoC proceeded with the CIRP in its commercial wisdom after a detailed deliberation. Moreover, the earlier of NCLAT dated 05.05.2021 D approving non-publication would act as res judicata. Placing reliance on Kalpraj Dharamshi and Anr. v. Kotak Investment Advisors Limited and Anr. : (2021) 10 SCC 401, it was submitted that non- publication of Form-G on the website cannot be treated as a grave irregularity. E 28.5. As regards the issue of not placing the revised final resolution plan before the CoC, it has been submitted that the appellant had already complied with the requirement of allocating the eligible amount to dissenting financial creditors in the event of liquidation, as per the revised plan and there was no need to seek further approval of the CoC.