Establishment of Central University in Andhra Pradesh E 371-F. Special provisions with respect to the State of Sikkim 371-G. Special provision with respect to the State of Mizoram 371-H. Special provision with respect to the State of Arunachal Pradesh 371-I. Special provision with respect to the State of Goa F 371-J. Special provisions with respect to State of Karnataka” 41. The design of our Constitution is such that it accommodates the interests of different regions. While providing a larger constitutional umbrella to different states and Union territories, it preserves the local G aspirations of different regions. “Unity in diversity” is not only used in common parlance, but is also embedded in our constitutional structure. Our interpretation of the Constitution must give substantive weight to the underlying principles. 42. Therefore, we are unable to agree with the argument of the H Solicitor General that the legislative power of NCTD does not extend to GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 529 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] those subjects which are not available to Union Territories as a class A because Article 239AA employs the term”any such matter is applicable to Union Territories”. The analysis in this section clarifies that there is no homogeneous class of Union territories with similar governance structures. E. Maintaining the balance between local interests and B national interests 43. The Union of India has submitted that the phrase “in so far as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories” in Article 239AA cannot be interpreted inclusively as the Union has a preponderance of interest in the governance of the national capital and therefore the phrase C must be read in a narrow manner. It has submitted that as Delhi is the seat of the Union Government, national interests take precedence over and beyond the quibbles of local interests. We find that this argument does not hold merit in light of the text of Article 239AA(3). This argument was already addressed in the 2018 Constitution Bench . D 44. Article 239AA(3)(a) confers legislative power to NCTD. However, it does not confer legislative power to NCTD over all entries in List II. Article 239AA(3) provides multiple safeguards to ensure that the interest of the Union is preserved. First, sub-clause (a) of clause (3) removes three entries in List II from the legislative domain of NCTD. It E provides that NCTD shall not have the power to enact laws on “matters with respect to entries 1, 2 and 18 of the State List and entries 64, 65 and 66 of that List in so far as they relate to the said entries 1, 2 and 18”. Second, sub-clause (b) of clause (3) clarifies that Parliament has the power to legislate on “any matter” for a Union Territory (including on subjects with respect to which NCTD has legislative power under Article F 239AA(3)(a)). In other words, Parliament has the plenary power to legislate on a subject in any of the three Lists of the Seventh Schedule for NCTD.