Trial Court also found the recovery of articles seized as a result of the disclosure of statement, to be an additional link, as a chain of events, in support of the case set up by the prosecution. 5. However in an appeal preferred by both the accused, the High F Court upheld the conviction of accused Pradeep Kumar in relation to all the offences and the sentences in terms thereunder, but acquitted accused Bhainsa alias Nandlal on all counts. 6. Hence, the present appeal filed by the Appellant – accused Pradeep Kumar. Significantly, none of the Courts below have returned G finding to the effect that the guilt of the accused stands proven by the prosecution, beyond reasonable doubt. Suspicion, howsoever grave or probable it may be, cannot substitute the evidence, be it circumstantial or direct in nature, in establishing the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt, the onus of which, at the first instance, is to be discharged by the prosecution. The distance between “may be” and H 688 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A “must be” is quite large and it divides vague conjectures from solid conclusions. [Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade & Another v. State of Maharashtra, (1973) 2 SCC 793.] 7. The High Court, by relying upon the principles of law enunciated by the Apex Court in Hari Charan Kurmi vs State Of Bihar, AIR B 1964 SC 1184, to the effect that confession of a co-accused being inculpatory in nature, cannot be used against the accused, acquitted Bhainsa alias Nandlal. 8. However, in so far as accused Pradeep Kumar is concerned the Court found testimonies of (PW-1) and (PW-7) to be absolutely C inspiring in confidence and that the witnesses “being independent and disinterested”, having no reason to “manufacture evidence”, “falsely implicating” the accused. Further, the High Court held that the defence was not able to show that the extra-judicial confession made by Pradeep Kumar (Appellant No.2) before the said witnesses was “involuntary” or “made on account of any coercion”, “inducement”, “promise” or “favour”. D The Court below also held that there is no reason “whatsoever” to disbelieve the testimonies of PW-1 & PW-7 qua the issue of extra judicial confession. 9. The accused cannot be convicted on the principles of preponderance of probability. It is the duty of this Court to ensure E avoidance of miscarriage of justice at all costs and the benefit of doubt, if any, given to the accused. [Sujit Biswas v. State of Assam, (2013) 12 SCC 406, Hanumant Govind Nargundkar v. State of M.P. (AIR 1952 SC 343) and State v. Mahender Singh Dahiya, (2011) 3 SCC 109]. F 10. The impugned judgement to say the least, is sketchy. The presumption of the guilt of accused Pradeep Kumar by both the courts below is based on improper and incomplete appreciation of evidence which in the considered view of this Court, has resulted into travesty of justice. G 11. The prosecution case, at best, rests upon three circumstances (a) the alleged confessional statement of accused Pradeep Kumar made before PW-1 and PW-7; (b) prior animosity/“tension” between Pradeep Kumar and the deceased; and (c) the recovery of the keys of the shop of the deceased and his currency notes amounting to Rs.300/-on the asking of the accused.