(101) We also find reinforcement in our view from the following clauses 1.2.12: B “1.2.12 Different parts of this Agreement are to be taken as mutually explanatory and supplementary to each other and if there is any inconsistency between or among the parts of this Agreement, they shall be interpreted in a harmonious manner so as to give effect to each part.” C (Emphasis supplied) (102) An argument was raised by Shri Amit Kapur that the contract in the case calls for the application of the principle of contra proferentem rule. (103) We are of the view that the principle of contra proferentem D is ordinarily utilised in contracts of insurance and standard form contracts. (104) The principle of contra proferentem apparently in substance is that in case of any doubt in its terms, the doubt should be resolved against the party who drafted the contract. We would not think in the facts of this case that the first respondent has been able to plant any E serious doubt in regard to the clauses with which we are concerned with on a true understanding of the same. (105) The second complaint- The Office Memorandum dated 17.06.2011. As far as the question relating to the OM dated 17.06.2011 F providing the premise for change in law claim is concerned, we are of the view that the claim may not have merit in it. It is true that Article 13.1.1 inter alia provides that a change can be brought about by the issuance of a notification by an Indian Governmental authority. Also a change in interpretation of any law by an Indian G Governmental instrumentality inter alia provided that it is final authority under law for such interpretation would constitute a change in law. Indian Governmental Instrumentality is defined as follow: - “Indian Governmental Instrumentality” means the GOI, H Government of States where the Procurers and Project are located HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 67 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] and any ministry or department of or board, agency or other A regulatory or quasi-judicial authority controlled by GOI or Government of States where the Procurers and Project are located and includes the Appropriate Commission;” (106) Law as defined in the PPA is as follows: “Law” means, in relation to this Agreement, all laws including B Electricity Laws in force in India and any statute, ordinance, regulation, notification or code, rule, or any interpretation of any of them by any Indian Governmental Instrumentality and having force of law and shall further include all applicable rules, regulations, s, notifications by an Indian C GovermentalInstrumentatlity pursuant to or under any of them and shall include all rules, regulations, decisions and s of the Appropriate Commission; (107) While the word ‘competent Court’ which can also be the source of a change in interpretation of any law is expressly defined in D Article 13.1.1., when it comes to the Indian Governmental instrumentality which is the final authority, is concerned, there is no definition in the PPA.