The reasoning of this court, in that case, was as below: “4. As per Rule 1 on Interpretive Rules, classification of excisable goods is to be determined according to the terms of E the Heading and in terms of Section/Chapter notes. Note 2(f) to Section XVII (which governs Chapter 87) excludes the goods viz. electrical machinery and equipment (Chapter 85). The goods in question i.e. contractors, switches, control box etc. are the goods used for switching, protecting electrical circuits or for making connections to or in electric circuit. F These parts/components are specifically covered under CSH 8536.90. The CBEC Circular relied upon by the assessee is not relevant. 5. As per the Explanatory Notes to HSN the parts falling under G Chapter Heading 8710 would be covered under the said chapter, provided they fulfill both the conditions i.e. they must be identifiable as being suitable for use solely or principally 11 [2008] 2 S.C.R. 686: 2008 (3) SCC 258 H 278 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A for such vehicles and that they must not be excluded by the provisions of Notes to Section XVII. The identifiable parts under the said heading bodies of armoured vehicles and parts thereof, cover special road wheels for armoured cars, propulsion wheels for tanks, tracts etc. As per this requirement, the goods should not only be identifiable to be B armoured vehicles, but it should so not have been excluded by Notes to Section XVII. The Chapter note 2(f) excludes electrical machinery and equipment falling under Chapter 85. Explanatory Notes to HSN relating to the parts and accessories excluded by Note 2 specify items with reference C to specific Chapter Heading as per (7) (a), (k) which excludes photographs and other current collectors for electric traction vehicles, fuses, switches and other electric apparatus of Heading No.85.35 or 85.36. The items, therefore, manufactured by the appellants are identifiable or are in the nature of goods falling under Chapter Heading 85.36. Since D these fall under the category of excluded goods under Chapter Notes, even though they are used specifically solely or principally with the armoured vehicles of Chapter Heading 8710, they are classifiable under Chapter Heading 8536.90 only as held by the adjudicating authority.” E 28. It is, therefore, clear that when goods are excluded from a particular chapter, the “pull in” through a note has to be narrowly construed, as otherwise, the basis of exclusion would be defeated, and the earlier note (of exclusion) rendered redundant. Finally, Secure Meters (supra) is decisive on the question that LCDs are not articles provided F “more specifically in other headings”, i.e., other than 90.13. Furthermore, the fact that LCDs could be used for purposes other than television sets or audio sets is also concluded because, in that decision, its use in meters was in issue. This court held, pertinently, as follows: “17. Keeping in mind the aforesaid nature of product in G question, we revert to the tariff entries. It cannot be disputed that LCDs are specifically provided in Tariff Item 9013.