This was in the case of National Seeds Corporation Limited v. M. Madhusudhan Reddy and Another (2012) 2 SCC 506 and it was answered thus: “64. According to the learned counsel for the appellant, if the growers had applied for arbitration then in terms of Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act the dispute arising out of the arbitration clause had to be referred to an appropriate arbitrator and the District Consumer Forums were not entitled to entertain their complaint. This contention represents an extension of the main objection of the appellant that the only remedy available to the farmers and growers who claim to have suff ered loss on account of use of defective seeds sold/supplied by the appellant was to fi le complaints with the Seed Inspectors concerned for taking action under Sections 19 and/or 21 of the Seeds Act. SMT. M. HEMALATHA DEVI & ORS. v. B. UDAYASRI 271 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] 65. The consideration of this issue needs to be prefaced with an observation that the grievance of a farmer/grower who has suff ered fi nancially due to loss or failure of crop on account of use of defective seeds sold/supplied by the appellant or by an authorised person is not remedied by prosecuting the seller/supplier of the seeds. Even if such person is found guilty and sentenced to imprisonment, the aggrieved farmer/grower does not get anything. Therefore, the so-called remedy available to an aggrieved farmer/grower to lodge a complaint with the Seed Inspector concerned for prosecution of the seller/supplier of the seeds cannot but be treated as illusory and he cannot be denied relief under the Consumer Protection Act on the ground of availability of an alternative remedy. 66. The remedy of arbitration is not the only remedy available to a grower. Rather, it is an optional remedy. He can either seek reference to an arbitrator or fi le a complaint under the Consumer Protection Act. If the grower opts for the remedy of arbitration, then it may be possible to say that he cannot, subsequently, fi le complaint under the Consumer Protection Act. However, if he chooses to fi le a complaint in the fi rst instance before the competent Consumer Forum, then he cannot be denied relief by invoking Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. Moreover, the plain language of Section 3 of the Consumer Protection Act makes it clear that the remedy available in that Act is in addition to and not in derogation of the provisions of any other law for the time being in force.” Later, in a similar matter before this Court [Rosedale Developers Private Limited v. Aghore Bhattacharya and Others (2018) 11 SCC 337], the plea of the builder for arbitrability was dismissed at the very threshold as a “frivolous piece of litigation”, relying upon National Seeds Corporation Limited (supra). 10. Another question raised before this Court by the appellants is that since it is the builder who had fi rst approached the “Court” by fi ling an application under Section 11 for appointment of an arbitrator, in terms of the agreement, the consumer in all fairness should have submitted before the jurisdiction of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, as agreed between the parties (in their agreement), rather than seeking remedy before the Consumer Forum.