The Bench, after explaining that the scope of the Act, 1899 is to secure revenue for the state and not to be used as means to harass the litigant, concluded that unstamped instruments can be acted upon after payment of duty and penalty. Initial defects can be cured and it is never the intention of the legislature to treat an initially unstamped F instrument as non-est in law. 49. The Statute deals with the instances of failure to stamp a document which has got to be stamped under the provisions of the Act, 1899 but does not affect the validity of the transaction embodied in the document. That Part IV of the Act, 1899 deals with the G contingencies of non-payment of stamp duties and once the object of securing the interest of the revenue of State is secured, the claim based on instrument can always be acted upon on payment of the requisite stamp duty. 11 (1969) 1 SCC 597 H 404 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 50. We, therefore, hold that the deficiencies under the Act, 1899 can be fulfilled, and do not render any instrument invalid permanently. Now, it is to be seen whether theCourt orArbitral Tribunal can rectification of the deficiencies under the Act 1899, if any. IV. Historical Background of Arbitration in India B 51. Arbitration can be understood as a procedure of dispute resolution in which the dispute is submitted, by the agreement of the parties, to the appointed Arbitrator or the Arbitral Tribunal who are having the jurisdiction to resolve the dispute in accordance with the applicable law as agreed among the parties. Alternatively, it can be understood as C a mechanism to adjudicate disputes between the parties outside the court in a quasi-judicial manner. 52. The process of arbitration as a preferable method of dispute resolution is not new in India. According to the scholars of the ancient Hindu literature, “Brhadaranayaka Upanishad” is the earliest known treatise that mentions a system that can be closely associated with D present-day arbitration as the same involved various arbitral bodies such as “Puga” or the local courts, “Srenis” or the people carrying out the same profession and “Kulas” or members concerned with the social matters of the same part of the society. All the above-explained bodies were called the Panchas and cumulatively formed Panchayat. The same E has been affirmed by the Privy Council in the case of Vytla Sitanna v. Marivada Viranna12 wherein it was observed that the parties used to refer the dispute to the elected panchayat and these adjudicating bodies were responsible to pass the award which was based on the principle of fair and equitable settlement of the dispute based on the prevalent legal as well as moral grounds. F 53. The arbitration regime in India further evolved with the enactment of the first Bengal Regulation by the Britishers in the year of 1772. Subsequent to this enactment, all the disputes were submitted to arbitration and the award of the same had the same value as that of any decree passed by the Court.