20 SUPREME COU[2R0T2 3R] E2P SO.CR.TRS. 20 [2023] 2 S.C.R. A NIKHIL CHANDRA MONDAL v. STATE OF WEST BENGAL (Criminal Appeal No. 2269 of 2010) B MARCH 03, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] Evidence – Extra-judicial Confession – Evidentiary value – Lady found murdered by a sharp cutting weapon – During investigation, revealed that the appellant-husband of the deceased C had confessed before the prosecution witness that he had murdered the deceased with the murder weapon at that very spot where the body of the deceased was found – However, the trial court found the evidence of the witnesses contradictory to each other and not trustworthy, and acquitted the appellant – In appeal, the High Court D convicted and sentenced the appellant u/s. 302 – Interference with – Held: Not called for – However, strong suspicion may be, it cannot take place of a proof beyond reasonable doubt – Extra–judicial confession is a weak piece of evidence – Where an extra–judicial confession is surrounded by suspicious circumstances, its credibility becomes doubtful and it loses its importance – Trial court found the E testimonies of prosecution witnesses not to be reliable so as to base the conviction solely on the basis of such testimonies – Trial court disbelieved the recovery of clothes and weapon – Approach adopted by the trial court was in accordance with law – Unless such a finding is found to be perverse or illegal/impossible, it is not permissible F for the appellate Court to interfere with the same – View taken by the trial court could not be said to be either perverse or illegal/ impossible to warrant interference – Thus, High Court erred in interfering with the well-reasoned and of acquittal passed by the trial court - Penal Code, 1860 - s. 302. G Allowing the appeal, the Court Held : 1.1. It is a settled principle of law that however strong a suspicion may be, it cannot take place of a proof beyond reasonable doubt. In the light of these guiding principles, we will have to consider the present case. [Para 11][26-C-D] H 20 NIKHIL CHANDRA MONDAL v. STATE OF WEST BENGAL 21 1.2. The trial court observed that where the prosecution A case is entirely based on extra–judicial confession and the prosecution seeks conviction of the accused on that extra–judicial confession, the evidence of the witnesses before whom the alleged confessional statement was made, requires a greater scrutiny to pass the test of credibility. [Para 13][26-E] B 1.3 The trial court found that the evidence of PWs 10 to 12 were contradictory to each other. The trial court had the benefit of witnessing the demeanour of these witnesses. It found the evidence of these witnesses not to be trustworthy. [Para 14][26- F] C 1.4 Extra–judicial confession is a weak piece of evidence. Where an extra–judicial confession is surrounded by suspicious circumstances, its credibility becomes doubtful and it loses its importance. It is a rule of caution where the court would generally look for an independent reliable corroboration before placing any D reliance upon such extra–judicial confession.