The appellants’ rights were crystalised from the day eligibility certificate had been granted under the Act, 1994 and the only justifiable manner in which the State could have rescinded this benefit was to F show overarching public interest. In the present case as well, no overarching public interest has been demonstrated by the respondents in to justify the amendment made to Section 2(17). 4.3 That the doctrine of legitimate expectation can be invoked where the amendment under the provision of law is not made in G consonance with public interest. It is submitted that in the present case, the respondents have failed to showcase any public interest in rescinding the benefits. 4.4 It is submitted that since in this case, the appellants were denied benefit on account of amendment made in the definition of H 834 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A “manufacture” under Section 2(17) of the Act, 1994 which is an arbitrary move by the State without showing any accompanying public interest involved. Therefore, any decision taken in an arbitrary manner contradicts the principle of legitimate expectation, if taken without specifically showing the public interest involved in the matter. B 4.5 It is submitted that the State action in this case, fails to meet the test of reason and relevance, as no explanation has been given by the State for rescinding the benefits. 4.6 It is further submitted that the appellants had altered their position to avail the benefit under the Scheme and incurred additional C cost such of almost Rs. 18,12,967/- and procured loan for almost Rs. 65,00,000/- in the K.B. Tea Products Pvt. Ltd. and since, the appellants had made substantial expenses for availing the benefits under the Scheme, the State cannot take away such benefits unless some overriding public interest is involved. The said act done by the State is unfair and abuse of power against the appellants. Reliance is placed on the following decisions: D Manuelsons Hotels Private Limited Vs. State of Kerala & Ors., (2016) 6 SCC 766; MRF Ltd., Kottayam Vs. Assistant Commissioner (Assessment) Sales Tax & Ors., (2006) 8 SCC 702 and Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors., (1979) 2 SCC 409. E 4.7 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants has also relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of State of Jharkhand & Ors. Vs. Brahmputra Metallics Ltd., Ranchi & Anr. [Civil Appeal Nos. 3860-3862 of 2020] and in the case of Dai-ichi Karkaria Ltd. Vs. Union of India & Ors., (2000) 4 SCC 57 in F support of the submission on the legitimate expectation. 4.8 Making above submissions and relying upon the above decisions, it is prayed to allow the present appeals. 5. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State while opposing the present appeals has vehemently submitted that in the facts and G circumstances of the case, the appellants shall not be entitled to the exemption as claimed. 5.1 It is submitted that in the year 1999, the appellants were granted a certificate of eligibility for Tax Holiday under Section 39 of the Act, 1994 for a period of seven years from the date of first sale of the H M/S.