48. In light of the above discussion and observations, we hold that the proceedings emanating out of the Second SCN are not barred by the doctrine of res judicata or the extended doctrine of constructive res judicata. C.2 THE EXERCISE OF SUO MOTU REVISIONARY POWERS 49. The Appellants have strenuously contended that evocating suo motu revisionary powers and issuing the Second SCN was bad in law as the same was initiated after more than 45 years when the Subject Land was initially assigned and about more than 15 years after the sale deeds were executed. At this stage, we fi rstly refer to the following observations made by this Court in Ibrahimpatnam Taluk Vyavasaya Coolie Sangham v. K. Suresh Reddy18in respect of exercise of suo motu revisionary powers:– “9. …… Exercise of suo motu power depended on facts and circumstances of each case. In cases of fraud, this power could be exercised within a reasonable time from the date of detection or discovery of fraud. While exercising such power, several factors need to be kept in mind such as eff ect on the rights of the third parties over the immovable property due to passage of considerable time, change of hands by subsequent bona fi de transfers, the s attaining fi nality under the provisions of other Acts (such as the Land Ceiling Act). Hence, it appears that without stating from what date the period of limitation starts and within what period the suo motu power is to be exercised, in sub-section (4) of Section 18 Ibrahimpatnam Taluk Vyavasaya Coolie Sangham v. K. Suresh Reddy (2003) 7 SCC 667. 638 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 50-B of the Act, the words “at any time” are used so that the suo motu power could be exercised within reasonable period from the date of discovery of fraud depending on facts and circumstances of each case in the context of the statute and nature of rights of the parties. Use of the words “at any time” in sub-section (4) of Section 50-B of the Act cannot be rigidly read letter by letter. It must be read and construed contextually and reasonably. If one has to simply proceed on the basis of the dictionary meaning of the words “at any time”, the suo motu power under sub-section (4) of Section 50-B of the Act could be exercised even after decades and then it would lead to anomalous position leading to uncertainty and complications seriously aff ecting the rights of the parties, that too, over immovable properties. s attaining fi nality and certainty of the rights of the parties accrued in the light of the s passed must have sanctity. Exercise of suo motu power “at any time” only means that no specifi c period such as days, months or years are not (sic) prescribed reckoning from a particular date. But that does not mean that “at any time” should be unguided and arbitrary. In this view, “at any time” must be understood as within a reasonable time depending on the facts and circumstances of each case in the absence of prescribed period of limitation.” (Emphasis Applied) 50.