2 re-framed by the High Court, as extracted in paragraph 9 hereinabove. 28.As relates issue No. 9, framed by the trial Court, at the risk of repetition, we will state that in regard to ‘the Fragmentation Act’ only a very vague plea was taken in the written statement by the second E defendant viz., “In event, according to the provisions of Consolidation of Act and Prevention of Fragmentation Act, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief.” Thus, when the indisputable position is that no counter-claim, within the meaning of VIII Rule 6A, CPC was made by the second defendant and no averment whatsoever was made specifically in the written statement filed by him how such an issue as to whether ‘he had F proved to be a marginal owner’ in the light of the ‘Fragmentation Act’ arise for consideration. This is because the well-nigh settled position of law is that one could be permitted to let in evidence only in tune with his pleadings. We shall not also be oblivious of the basic rule of law of pleadings, founded on the principle of secundum allegata et probate, that a party is not allowed to succeed where he has not set up the case G which he wants to substantiate. Whether the area in question is a ‘local area’ notified under the ‘Fragmentation Act’ so as to have application of the provisions of the said Act, even if it is so, whether the sale transaction of one acre by the second defendant is legally permissible or could be 4 (2006) 12 SCC 734 H 196 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A regularized etc., were not raised or considered, as is evident from the of the trial Court. This issue was considered by the trial Court in paragraph 26 thereof thus: - “26. So far as issue no. 2 (sic.no.9) is concerned, admittedly, the Defendant No. 2 is marginal owner of the suit property. B So, under the section 8A of the fragmentation Act, the sale deed on Exh-128 in regard to the suit property executed by the Defendant No. 2 in respect of 1 acre of land as per Plaintiff’s case is barred by this section. So, section of fragmentation A it also is applicable to the legality of the sale deed Exh. 128. Therefore, issue No. 9 is required to be decided C in favour of the Defendant No. 2 and I therefore, answer issue No. 9 in the affirmative.” 29. Now, we will refer to issue No. 2 re-framed by the High Court in regard to the application of the ‘Fragmentation Act’. Before dealing with the matter any further, it is only appropriate to refer to the D following recital from paragraph 24 of the impugned of the High Court:- “24. The defendant No. 2 does not dispute that he had sold one acre of land to the plaintiff by the sale deed at Ext. 128 for the consideration of Rs. 3,000/- and he has shown his E readiness and willingness to deliver the possession of it to the plaintiff.” Obviously, the First Appellate Court also arrived at the same finding in respect of the said extent of land and this fact has been duly taken care of by the High Court in paragraph 15 of its .