Such an arbitrary unguided power by itself would violate Article 14 of the Constitution of India, and the regulation making power would have to be struck down. h. Additionally, the procedure and method of making regulations or rules which have to be laid before the House is contained in Rule 235 of “the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha”, which states: “The Speaker shall, in consultation with the Leader of the House, fi x a day or days or part of a day as the Speaker may think fi t for the consideration and passing of an amendment to such regulation, rule, sub-rule, bye-law etc., of which notice may be given by a member:” i. In ‘Parliamentary Procedure: Law Privileges Practice and Precedents’ by Subhash C. Kashyap, Third Edition Page 596, 402 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. it is stated that where a statute provides that rules shall be laid before Parliament and shall be subject to a modifi cation made by Parliament, if a member gives a notice for modifi cation of the Rules, the Government is bound to fi nd time for discussion of the motion. The motion for modifi cation contains a recommendation to the Rajya Sabha for concurrence, and the eff ect of the passing of the motion by both the Houses is that the Government is bound to amend the rules accordingly. j. It has been held in the in Gambhirdan K. Gadhvi (supra) that the UGC regulations, though not so stated in the UGC Act, are part of the UGC Act, and hence, would prevail over the repugnant sections of the State Act, which would be rendered void to the extent of the repugnancy. k. A series of s of this Court state that subordinate legislation becomes a part of the Act, even though the section itself does not say so. These include State of U.P. v. Babu Ram Upadhya, (1961) 2 SCR 679, Express Newspaper (P) Ltd. v. Union of India, 1959 SCR 12, U.P. Power Corpn. Ltd. v. NTPC Ltd., (2009) 6 SCC 235, Udai Singh Dagar v. Union of India, (2007) 10 SCC 306, and State of T.N. v. Hind Stone, (1981) 2 SCC 205. l. On the other hand, there is a line of s which states that unless the Act provides that the rules be deemed as enacted in the Act, a provision of the rule cannot be read as a part of the Act. This includes Hotel Balaji v. State of A.P., 1993 Supp (4) SCC 536, Yogendra Kumar Jaiswal v. State of Bihar, (2016) 3 SCC 183, and State of Mysore v. H. Sanjeeviah, (1967) 2 SCR 361. m. None among these aspects which are crucial to the interpretation of Article 254 of the Constitution have been considered anywhere in the s on this issue, of whether the UGC Regulations are equivalent to the laws made by Parliament or not. This being so, the s being sub silentio, would not have any binding precedent.