iii. What ? Statutory Framework: 10. The statutory scheme and structure of the Act on the characterisation of capital expenditure is as follows: 10.1. Section 32 of the Act identifi es tangible and intangible assets which are capital in nature and prescribes the mode and manner of depreciation. Section 32(1)(i) identifi es a list of tangible assets and Section 32(1)(ii), a set of intangible assets which includes licences. Explanation 3 to Section 32(1) defi nes ‘assets’ into two categories, i.e., tangible and intangible. Licences are identifi ed as intangible assets and are therefore, capital in nature. 10.2. Any capital asset is depreciable in terms of Section 32 of the Act, unless specifi cally dealt with elsewhere. One of the exceptions to depreciation of capital assets is amortisation. Sections 35A, 35AB, 35ABA and 35ABB form one cluster of exceptions wherein, the capital assets referred to in the relevant sections have to be amortised in the manner and mode prescribed therein. 10.3. Amortisation is a form of depreciation, however, the distinction between the two being that in the case of depreciation, an asset may be depreciated progressively, and may even be exhausted before the lifetime expectancy of the asset in question, whereas, in the case of amortisation, the value of the asset gets progressively depleted, matching with the expected timeframe of the right. 402 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 10.4. A brief overview of the provisions of the Act which provide for amortisation as a prescribed method, is as under: i. Section 35A of the Act provides for amortisation of expenditure incurred on acquisition of patent rights or copyright which are intangible assets. ii. Section 35AB of the Act prescribes the method of amortisation in the case of acquisition of know-how. iii. Section 35ABA of the Act prescribes the method of amortisation of expenditure incurred on obtaining the right to use spectrum. iv. Section 35ABB of the Act provides for amortisation of the expenditure incurred for obtaining a licence to operate telecommunication services. 11. At this juncture, it would be useful to reproduce Section 35ABB (1) of the Act, which reads as under: “35ABB. Expenditure for obtaining licence to operate telecommunication services.— (1) In respect of any expenditure, being in the nature of capital expenditure, incurred for acquiring any right to operate telecommunication services either before the commencement of the business to operate telecommunication services or thereafter at any time during any previous year and for which payment has actually been made to obtain a licence, there shall, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of this section, be allowed for each of the relevant previous years, a deduction equal to the appropriate fraction of the amount of such expenditure. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,— (i) “relevant previous years” means,— (A) in a case where the licence fee is actually paid before the commencement of the business to operate telecommunication services, the previous years beginning with the previous year in which such business commenced; C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 403 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.]