No doubt, the original petitioner succeeded in obtaining an ex parte interim but there is no material on record to suggest that this interim was confi rmed after considering State’s objection. Moreover, if possession had been taken prior to the grant of interim , as is the case of the appellants, and while disposing of the writ petition the question of possession was left open, the interim would not, in any way, be conclusive to prove continuity of possession. In these circumstances as also that no documentary evidence was fi led regarding original petitioner’s possession between the years 1979 and 1987, in our view, the interim did not carry much evidentiary value to prove that possession was not taken prior to the year 1987. Conclusion 35. In view of the discussion above and having regard to the following: (a) that there was a serious dispute with regard to taking of possession of the surplus land; (b) that there was a delay of about seven years in fi ling the fi rst writ petition from the date when possession was allegedly taken by the State, after publication of the vesting notifi cation; (c) that no documentary STATE OF U.P. & ANR. v. EHSAN & ANR. 923 evidence such as a Khasra or Khatauni of the period between alleged date of taking possession and fi ling of the fi rst writ petition was fi led by the original petitioner; (d) that in the earlier two rounds of litigation, the High Court refrained from deciding the issue of possession of the surplus land even though that issue had arisen directly between the parties; and (e) that infraction of the prescribed statutory procedure for taking possession cannot be the sole basis to discard State’s claim of possession, when it is stated to have been taken long before the date the issue is raised, we are of the considered view that the High Court should have refrained from deciding the issue with regard to taking of actual possession of the surplus land prior to the cut off date specifi ed in the Repeal Act, 1999. Instead, the writ petitioner should have been relegated to a suit. 36. In view of the above conclusion, the appeal is allowed. The impugned passed by the High Court is set aside. The fi rst respondent’s writ petition is dismissed without prejudice to his right to institute a suit. Parties to bear their own costs. 37. It is clarifi ed that we have not expressed any binding opinion as to whether possession of the surplus land was taken by the State before the cut-off date as specifi ed in the Repeal Act, 1999. Observations, if any, in this regard are purely for the purpose of deciding whether the High Court should have entertained the writ petition or not. Hence, if any suit is instituted the same shall be decided on its own merits. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Ankit Gyan (cid:0) MANOJ MISRA, J. (cid:1)