The pattadar may be rejected by the of the Collector for breach of any of the above conditions: Provided that he has been served with a notice calling upon him to comply with the conditions which he has violated and he fails to comply with it within three months of the date of service thereof. If lands has been transferred in contravention, the conditions, the Collector may eject the transferee.” 28. Thirdly, Mr. Gupta, learned senior counsel drew our attention to this Court’s judgement in Gudepu Sailoo7 which we have already reproduced at Para 17 above, to contend that the impugned decision erroneously concluded that this Court had already decided the issue of alienability. He strenuously argued that the decision was not on merit as this Court held that the challenge was premature and remanded the dispute back to the District Collector. Fourthly, by relying on the decision of the High Court in G.V.K. Rama Rao vs Bakelite Hylam Employees Co-Op.8, it was contended that since the Subject Land was governed 7 Gudepu Sailoo (n 3). 8 G.V.K. Rama Rao vs Bakelite Hylam Employees Co-Op.1997 SCC OnLine AP 200, para 18. YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 623 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] by Laoni Rules of 1950, which stipulated no condition regarding non- alienability, the same would not come under the defi nition of ‘assigned land’ as given under the 1977 Act. In other words, it was submitted that the 1977 Act has no application over the Subject Land. Fifthly, it was urged that evoking suo motu revisionary powers by the revenue authorities as done in the present case is illegal as the same must be exercised within a reasonable time or else it would render the exercise of such power arbitrary. Reliance in this regard was placed on another decision of the High Court in S. Santhanam v State of A.P.9, pointing out that the Special Leave Petition against the aforecited decision was rejected by this court vide dated 19.08.2011 passed in SLP (C) No. 16545 of 2006. Finally, Mr. Gupta submitted that the Subject Land has been in possession with the Assignees from 1953 as noted in the High Court’s dated 21.04.2006 as well as the documents which have been brought on record and therefore even if the Temporary Pattas were given in 1961, the applicable law vis-à-vis the assignment should relate back to 1953 itself. 29. Turning up next for the Appellants was learned senior counsel, Mr. Huzefa Ahmadi who while reiterating the arguments made by Mr. Gupta, made the following additional submissions – Firstly that requirements for application of Section 58-A of the 1317 Fasli Act were not met, which are as follows – (a) there must be a notifi cation in the offi cial gazette; (b) the said notifi cation must be in respect of ‘any village or tract’ to which the 1317 Fasli Act was extended and (c) such land can be transferred with the permission of the Collector. Hence, it was contended that for any bar in respect of alienability to be applicable through any policy, the requirements of Section 58-A are sine qua non.