STATE BANK OF INDIA v. P. ZADENGA 745 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] and (iii) mere non-compliance of the provisions of bipartite agreement, in attending facts, would not result in the disciplinary action to be void ab initio. 11. On the other hand, it is argued on behalf of the delinquent employee that the disciplinary proceedings, the subject matter of the instant lis, were in gross violation of the bipartite agreement, which has been held to have the force of law. In any case, Respondent stand acquitted in two out of three criminal trials. Also, the action initiated by the employer was belated and an afterthought only to harass the delinquent employee. 12. Before proceeding to the merits of the issue at hand, it would be appropriate to reproduce clause 4 of the MoS dated 10th April 2002, which is the bone of contention in this dispute, for the delinquent employee contends an apparent embargo on proceedings with disciplinary enquiry when criminal cases arising from the same transactions are pending, and the appellant-bank submitting to the contrary of there being no such restriction. Clause 4 reads as under: - “If after steps have been taken to prosecute an employee or get him prosecuted, for an off ence, he is not put on trial within a year of the commission of the offi ce, the management may then deal with him as if he had committed an act of “gross misconduct” or of “minor misconduct”, as defi ned below; provided that if the authority which was to start prosecution proceedings refuses to do so or comes to the conclusion that there is no case for prosecution it shall be open to the management to proceed against the employee under the provisions set out below in Clauses 11 and 12 infra relating to discharge, but he shall out below in Clauses 11 and 12 infra relating to discharge, but he shall be deemed to have been on duty during the period of suspension, if any, and shall be entitled to the full wages and allowances and to all other privileges for such period. In the event of the management deciding, after enquiry, not to continue him in service, he shall be liable only for termination with three months’ pay and allowances in lieu of notice as provided in Clause 3 above. If within the pendency of the proceedings thus instituted is put on trial, such proceedings shall be stayed pending the completion of the trial, after which the provisions mentioned in Clause 3 above shall apply.” (Emphasis Supplied) 746 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 13. In respect of the interpretation of clause 4, we fi nd this Court to have observed in State Bank of India & Ors. v. Neelam Nag4 as follows:- “21. In the plain language of Clause 4, in our opinion, it is not a stipulation to prohibit the institution and continuation of disciplinary proceedings, much less indefi nitely, merely because of the pendency of a criminal case against the delinquent employee.