G 4.3. It was next contended that Circular No. 142-Emp. clarified that 97-Emp. was applicable only in respect of State Government employees and directed the municipalities to formulate their own schemes for compassionate appointment. This would mean that as a matter of policy of the State Government, it was declared that it is not viable to give compassionate appointment to heirs of employees of establishments H THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. DEBABRATA TIWARI & 625 ORS. ETC. ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] of public undertakings, statutory bodies, government companies and local A authorities. That by virtue of the clarification under Circular No. 142- Emp., the position would be that no scheme exists for compassionate appointment in Municipalities. It is for such establishments to formulate policies of their own in consultation with the respective administrative department. That, in the absence of a sanctioned scheme for B compassionate appointment in respect of municipal employees, no relief could have been granted by the High Court. 4.4. It was urged that compassionate appointment could not be claimed as a matter of right and a claim for the same must be entertained having regard to the compelling financial circumstances (if any) of the C deceased’s dependent(s). Therefore, entertaining a claim which was made in 2005-2006, in the year 2023, would be of no avail. With the aforesaid submissions, it was prayed on behalf of the appellant-State of West Bengal that the present appeals be allowed and the impugned of the Division Bench of the High Court be set aside. D 5. Per contra, learned counsel for the Respondents-Writ Petitioners, submitted that the impugned was passed based on an unimpeachable appreciation of the facts of the case and the law in this regard, and therefore the same does not call for interference by this Court. E 5.1. It was further submitted that any scheme for compassionate appointment has to be applied across the establishments including the municipalities. Thus, the petitioner State could not contend that the employees of the municipality would not be eligible for compassionate appointment in the absence of any separate compassionate appointment F scheme for municipal employees. 5.2. That Notification No. 301-Emp. declared the following category of persons as ‘exempted category’ extending, inter-alia, the benefit of compassionate appointment to the said ‘exempted category: a) Dependents of employees dying in harness. G b) Dependents of employees retiring incapacitated. c) Persons belonging to families belonging to land losers. d) Ex-census employees. e) Persons holding discharge certificates. H 626 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Further, by Notification No. 302-Emp., the State Government reserved 30% of vacancies to be filled by the ‘exempted category’. Subsequently, a Circular bearing No. 97-Emp. dated 6th June, 2005 was issued by the Petitioner State in the exercise of the powers conferred under Section 3(c) of the 1999 Act, inter-alia, laying down the procedure to be followed in dealing with the issue of appointment on compassionate B grounds to the ‘exempted category’. However, by way of Notification bearing No.