12. Section 499 of the IPC reads, thus: “499. Defamation.—Whoever, by words either spoken or intended to be read, or by signs or by visible representations, makes or publishes any imputation concerning any person intending to harm, or knowing or having reason to believe that such imputation will harm, the reputation of such person, is said, except in the cases hereinafter excepted, to defame that person.” 13. Eighth Exception to Section 499, to which reliance has been placed by the learned counsel, reads as under: “Eighth Exception.—Accusation preferred in good faith to authorised person.—It is not defamation to prefer in good faith an accusation against any person to any of those who have lawful authority over that person with respect to the subject-matter of accusation.” 14. The word “good faith” has been defined in Section 52 of the IPC to mean: “52. ‘Good faith’.—Nothing is said to be done or believed in ‘good faith’ which is done or believed without due care and attention.” 15. We are of the view that no case is made out to put the appellant to trial for the alleged offence. There is no defamation as such. 16. Exception 8 to Section 499 clearly indicates that it is not a defamation to prefer in good faith an accusation against any person to any of those who have lawful authority over that person with regard to the subject-matter of accusation. Even otherwise by perusing the 38 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. allegations made in the complaint, we are satisfied that no case for defamation has been made out. 17. In the overall view of the matter, we are convinced that the appeal deserves to be allowed and is hereby allowed. The impugned passed by the High Court is hereby set aside. As a consequence of the same, the original passed by the Magistrate issuing summons, is also hereby quashed and set aside. The criminal proceedings in the form of Criminal Case No.247 of 2002 pending in the Court of Judicial Magistrate First Class, Worora, Chandrapur, Maharashtra stand terminated. 18. Pending application(s), if any, stands disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Nidhi Jain