This interpretation of Section 140(5) of the Act is, as per the Respondent’s case, clear from the plain words of the provision; b) continuing a proceeding against an auditor under Section 140(5) G of the Act would despite his resignation would lead to reading in a proviso into Section 140(5) of the Act which deems his continuance till the culmination of proceedings under Section 140(5) of the Act; H 976 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A c) The second proviso to Section 140(5) of the Act is arbitrary, harsh and burdensome and ought to be read down. The mandatory ineligibility to act as an auditor for a period of 5 years ought to be read as for a period up to 5 years to make the provision constitutional. B d) The ineligibility to act as an auditor of any company prescribed under the second proviso to Section 140(5) of the Act can only extend to the audit partners concerned and not to the entire firm and the other audit partners who were not connected with the fraudulent act or acts. C 3.17 Meeting with the aforesaid submissions, it is submitted as under: a) Acceptance of Respondent’s contention would mean that the jurisdiction of a quasi-judicial tribunal can be overcome merely by an act of a party. More significantly, it would lead mean that an inquiry into fraudulent conduct can be disrupted and/or stands D satisfied simply by an act of a party. b) The entire contention of the provision operating in terrorem or to incentivize an auditor to resign is untenable. The consequences of indulging in fraudulent activities provided for in the Act including but not limited to Section 447 of the Act itself ought to serve as a E deterrent and operate “in terrorem”. c) The entire construction sought to be attributed to Section 140(5) of the Act by reference to the other provisions of the Act (as per paragraphs 9.17 (a) and (b) above) is to turn the provision into a dead letter [See NEPC Micon Ltd. v. Magma Leasing Limited F (1999) 4 SCC 253]. Moreover, the Respondent’s interpretation, if accepted, would lead to various absurdities. Pertinently, amongst other reasons: i. given that it is accepted that the first proviso provides for a temporary suspension or removal of an auditor, if an application G is filed under the first proviso and the errant auditor replaced (albeit temporarily), then an Second Proviso can never follow. This is because the errant auditor cannot, as on date of the final , be said to be the auditor of a company due to the first proviso . H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 977 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] ii. there exists no reason for Section 140(5) of the Act to operate A in terrorrem or to induce a recalcitrant auditor to resign. This is so since the first proviso to Section 140(5) of the Act operates immediately to effect a change of the auditor/remove the existing auditor after filing of a Petition by the Central Government under Section 140(5) of the Act.