[2023] 7 S.C.R. 347 347 M P HIGH COURT BAR ASSOCIATION A v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 155 of 2023) MARCH 29, 2023 B [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA AND J. B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] Debt Recovery Tribunals and Debt Recovery Appellate C Tribunals Electronic filing Rules, 2020 – e-filing of pleadings – Department of Financial Services introduced e-filing Rules in 2020, where e-filing was made optional – Later on, by a notification dt. 22.07.2021, e-filing was made compulsory where the pecuniary value of the subject matter in dispute was in excess of Rs 100 crores – On 31.01.2023, e-filing was made mandatory in all cases D irrespective of the value of the subject matter – Appellant filed writ petition u/Art.32 to challenge the provisions of amended Rule 3 of the E-filing Rules and for a direction to the DRTs and DRATs to continue with hybrid filing of pleadings and applications before them and further contented that, the rules are implemented without E sufficient deliberations with stakeholder – Held: Material placed on the record indicates that the introduction of e-filing by the Department of Financial Services was facilitated in gradual stages – Sufficient time was given to all stakeholders to adjust to the new regime and stakeholder’s training has been carried out – E-filing provides transparency and efficiency in the administration of justice F – E-filing provides for 24x7 access to the court system and facilitates the convenience of lawyers as well as litigants – In view of the grievances, directions issued: Bar Associations to submit representations to the Department of Financial Services regarding specific difficulties encountered in the process of e-filing; The G Chairpersons of the DRATs and the Presiding Officers of the DRTs directed to submit monthly reports to the Department of Financial Services, highlighting the experience with e-filing and suggesting any necessary upgrades; National Informatics Centre (NIC) to constitute a team to monitor the progress of e-filing and address any difficulties on real time basis; The e-filing module to be upgraded H 347 348 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A with periodical developments; Help desks recommended, e- sewakendras (e-service centers) to be set up at all centres of the DRTs or DRATs to facilitate e-filing and provide a one step solution for all the e-services. Disposing of the petition, the Court B HELD:1. The process has been gradual. Sufficient time was given to all stakeholders to adjust to the new regime. A stakeholder’s training has been carried out. The counter affidavit indicates the specific dates on which training programmes have been conducted. E-filing provides transparency and efficiency in C the administration of justice. E-filing provides for 24x7 access to the court system and, in fact, facilitates the convenience of lawyers as well as litigants. With the march of technology, it would be too late in the day to postulate that e-filing should not be adopted. As a matter of fact, the decision to take up e-filing must be replicated by other tribunals and courts in the country, including the High D Courts in a phased manner and that it eventually becomes mandatory.