We consider it appropriate, bearing in mind the principles which emerge from the decision in SR Bommai (supra), to undertake a textual and purposive reading of Article 356 in particular and Part XVIII as a whole independently. 122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. I. Comparison of executive power held by the President under Articles 352 and 356 198. Part XVIII deals with two types of emergencies, national emergencies, and the failure of constitutional machinery in a State. The invocation of a national emergency under Article 352 and the invocation of President’s rule under Article 356 represent exceptions to the ordinary operation of the Constitution where, to address an urgent internal or external threat, the Constitution temporarily delegates certain powers to the President and Parliament until the threat abates and ordinary Constitutional governance is restored. The invocation and operation of this exceptional power is itself subject to the Constitution and thus the rule of law. In the case of national emergencies, Article 353, and in the case of President’s rule in a State, Article 356(1) clearly delineate the legal eff ects of the emergency and outline the powers that can be exercised by the Union Government and Parliament during such emergencies. As a result, the delegation of powers to the President and Parliament are also governed by the constitutional text of Part XVIII. The key consequence of the Constitution itself providing for emergency powers is a negation of the notion of any extra-legal or extra- constitutional power and the reiteration of the supremacy of the rule of law. All governmental power, even during an emergency, must be exercised subject to constitutional constraints. The task of this Court is not to infer any implied extra-constitutional limitations on the Union’s power during the invocation of President’s rule but rather to interpret the relevant constitutional provisions and scheme to determine if the Constitution places any limits on the Union’s power during the invocation of President’s rule are, and if so, what those limits are. 199. The powers under Articles 352 and 356 cannot be properly understood without a reference to the implications of these powers on the principle of federalism. Both national emergencies and the imposition of President’s rule represent limited constitutionally sanctioned exceptions to the federal principle which ordinarily dictates that the State Governments and Legislatures are supreme within their sphere of operation. In the limited circumstances set out in Articles 352 and 356, the Constitution itself necessitates the temporary and limited delegation of power to the Union to restore the ordinary operation of the Constitution. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 123 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 200. Article 352 grants the President the power to issue a Proclamation of emergency if he is satisfi ed that a grave emergency exists which threatens the security of India or any part of the territory is threatened by war, external aggression or armed rebellion. Similar to Article 356, the Proclamation is required to be approved by both Houses of Parliament. Article 353 stipulates when a national Emergency is in operation, the executive power of the Union shall extend to directing the States on the manner of exercising their executive power, and the power of Parliament to make laws shall extend to matters in the State list.