(ix) Eventually, the writ petitioners filed the second writ petition D seeking a declaration that by virtue of the Acknowledgement Certificate obtained under the Kerala MSME Act, a license under the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act, 19943 was not necessary. (x) The learned Single Judge, without actually getting into the E question relating to the overriding effect of Kerala MSME Act, held that the Hot Mix Plant of the writ petitioners was a portable equipment and that it does not fall within the definition of the word “building” under the Rules of 2019. The learned Single Judge also held that after the grant of F “Consent to Establish” by the Pollution Control Board, permission of the Panchayat was only formal. This view was also confirmed by the Division Bench. This is why the parties have landed up before this Court. 8. A bare reading of the of the learned Single Judge and the G Division Bench would show that the most vital aspect has been lost sight of. Admittedly, the writ petitioners have obtained consent to establish, from the Kerala State Pollution Control Board. It is also admitted that the writ petitioners have obtained an Acknowledgment Certificate under 3 For short, “Act of 1994” H 418 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Section 5(3) of the Kerala MSME Act. Section 6 of the Kerala MSME Act reads as follows: “6. Effect of the Acknowledgement Certificate.—(1) An acknowledgment certificate issued under section 5 shall, for all purposes, have effect as if it is an approval as defined in clause B (c) of section 2, for a period of three years from the date of its issuance and after the expiry of the said period of three years, such enterprise shall have to obtain required approvals as defined in clause(c) of section 2, within six months from the date of such expiry: C Provided that the acknowledgement certificate shall not entitle a person to use a land contrary to the provisions contained in the Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land and Wetland Act, 2008 (28 of 2008) and it shall also not entitle a person to use the land in deviation to the land use specified in the master plan notified under the Kerala Town and Country Planning Act, 2016 (9 of 2016), D wherever such plan is in force. (2) During the period of three years specified in sub-section (1), no competent authority shall undertake any inspection for the purpose of, or in connection with, any approval as defined in clause (c) of section 2.” E 9. It is seen from Section 6(1) extracted above that an Acknowledgement Certificate shall have effect as if it is an approval as defined in Section 2(c). Section 2(c) reads as follows:- “2. (c) “approval” means licenses, permissions, approvals, clearances, registration, consents, no objection certificate and the F like, required under any State law in connection with the establishment or operation of micro small and medium enterprise in the State;” 10. What is held against the writ petitioners today is the requirement of a permission under the Act of 1994.