[Para 27][904-C-D] 5. The whole picture is thus complete with a combined reading of Section 44 of the PMLA and the provisions of Sections H RANA AYYUB v. DIRECTORATE OF ENFORCEMENT 895 THROUGH ITS ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 177 to 184 of the Cr.P.C. Once this combined scheme is A understood, it will be clear that in view of the specific mandate of clauses (a) and (c) of subsection (1) of Section 44, it is the Special Court constituted under the PMLA that would have jurisdiction to try even the scheduled offence. Even if the scheduled offence is taken cognizance of by any other Court, that Court shall commit B the same, on an application by the concerned authority, to the Special Court which has taken cognizance of the offence of money- laundering. [Paras 35 and 36][908-E-G] 6. The involvement of a person in any one or more of certain processes or activities connected with the proceeds of crime, C constitutes the offence of money-laundering. These processes or activities include, (i) concealment; (ii) possession; (iii) acquisition; (iv) use; (v) projecting as untainted property; or (vi) claiming as untainted property. In other words, a person may (i) acquire proceeds of crime in one place, (ii) keep the same in his possession in another place, (iii) conceal the same in a third place, D and (iv) use the same in a fourth place. The area in which each one of these places is located, will be the area in which the offence of money-laundering has been committed. To put it differently, the area in which the place of acquisition of the proceeds of crime is located or the place of keeping it in possession is located or E the place in which it is concealed is located or the place in which it is used is located, will be the area in which the offence has been committed. [Paras 38, 39][909-A-C] 7. The question of territorial jurisdiction in this case requires an enquiry into a question of fact as to the place where F the alleged proceeds of crime were (i) concealed; or (ii) possessed; or (iii) acquired; or (iv) used. This question of fact will actually depend upon the evidence that unfolds before the Trial Court. [Para 45][910-D] Kaushik Chatterjee v. State of Haryana & Ors. (2020) (10) SCC 92 – relied on. G Vijay Madanlal Choudhary & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. 2022 SCC Online SC 929 – referred to. CRIMINAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION : Writ Petition (Criminal) No.12 of 2023. H 896 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A (Under Article 32 of The Constitution Of India) Ms. Vrinda Grover, Soutik Banerjee, Aakarsh Kamra, Ms. Devika Tulsiani, Ms. Mannat Tipnis, Advs. for the Petitioner. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General, Mukesh Kumar Maroria, Zoheb Hussain, Kanu Agarwal, K. Parmeshwar, Padmesh Mishra, Advs. for B the Respondent. The of the Court was delivered by V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J. 1. Challenging a summoning issued by the Court of the C Special Judge, Anti-Corruption, CBI Court No.1, Ghaziabad, on a complaint lodged by the respondent under Section 45 read with Section 44 of the Prevention of Money-laundering Act, 20021, the petitioner has come up with the above writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.