It may be noted that the auction-sale was done after adequate publicity in well-known newspapers. Hence, if any one wanted to make a bid in the auction he should have participated in the said auction and made his bid. Moreover, even after the auction the sale was confi rmed by the High Court only on 30-7-2003, and any objection to the sale could have been fi led prior to that date. However, in our opinion, entertaining objections after the sale is confi rmed should not ordinarily be allowed, except on very limited grounds like fraud, otherwise no auction-sale will ever be complete. xxx xxx xxx 29. … It may be mentioned that auctions are of two types – (1) where the auction is not subject to subsequent confi rmation, and (2) where the auction is subject to subsequent confi rmation by some authority after the auction is held. 30. In the fi rst case mentioned above, i.e. where the auction is not subject to confi rmation by any authority, the auction is complete on the fall of the hammer, and certain rights accrue in favour of the auction-purchaser. However, where the auction is subject to subsequent confi rmation by some authority (under a statute or terms of the auction) the auction is not complete and no rights accrue until the sale is confi rmed by the said authority. Once, however, the sale is confi rmed by that authority, certain rights accrue in favour of the auction-purchaser, and these rights cannot be extinguished except in exceptional cases such as fraud.” 84. In another decision by this Court in K. Kumara Gupta v. Sri Markendaya and Sri Omkareswara Swamy Temple & Ors. reported in (2022) 5 SCC 710, it was held that repeated interferences with public auction would frustrate the sanctity and purpose of holding auctions. The relevant observations made in it are given below: - 138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “14. Once the appellant was found to be the highest bidder in a public auction in which 45 persons had participated and thereafter when the sale was confi rmed in his favour and even the sale deed was executed, unless and until it was found that there was any material irregularity and/or illegality in holding the public auction and/or auction-sale was vitiated by any fraud or collusion, it is not open to set aside the auction or sale in favour of a highest bidder on the basis of some representations made by third parties, who did not even participate in the auction proceedings and did not make any off er. xxx xxx xxx 16. It is also required to be noted that the sale was confi rmed in favour of the appellant by the Commissioner, Endowments Department after obtaining the report of the Assistant Commissioner. Therefore, we are of the opinion that in the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court ought not to have ed re-auction of the land in question after a period of 23 years of confi rmation of the sale and execution of the sale deed in favour of the auction-purchaser by observing that the value of the property might have been much more, otherwise, the object and purpose of holding the public auction and the sanctity of the public auction will be frustrated.