Clause (u) of sub-section 105 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (1) of Section 2 of the PMLA defi nes “proceeds of crime”, which reads thus: “2.Defi nition – (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . (u) “proceeds of crime” means any property derived or obtained, directly or indirectly, by any person as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled off ence or the value of any such property or where such property is taken or held outside the country, then the property equivalent in value held within the country or abroad; Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarifi ed that “proceeds of crime” include property not only derived or obtained from the scheduled off ence but also any property which may directly or indirectly be derived or obtained as a result of any criminal activity relatable to the scheduled off ence.” 12. Clause (v) of sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the PMLA defi nes “property” to mean any property or assets of every description, whether corporeal or incorporeal, movable or immovable, tangible or intangible. To constitute any property as proceeds of crime, it must be derived or obtained directly or indirectly by any person as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled off ence. The explanation clarifi es that the proceeds of crime include property, not only derived or obtained from scheduled off ence but also any property which may directly or indirectly be derived or obtained as a result of any criminal activity relatable to the scheduled off ence. Clause (u) also clarifi es that even the value of any such property will also be the proceeds of crime. Thus, the existence of “proceeds of crime” is sine qua non for the off ence under Section 3 of the PMLA. 13. Clause (x) of sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the PMLA defi nes “schedule”. Clause (y) thereof defi nes “scheduled off ence”, which reads thus: “2. Defi nition – (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. (y) “scheduled off ence” means— PAVANA DIBBUR v. THE DIRECTORATE OF 1059 ENFORCEMENT [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] (i) the off ences specifi ed under Part A of the Schedule; or (ii) the off ences specifi ed under Part B of the Schedule if the total value involved in such off ences is one crore rupees or more; or (iii) the off ences specifi ed under Part C of the Schedule.” 14. The condition precedent for the existence of proceeds of crime is the existence of a scheduled off ence. On this aspect, it is necessary to refer to the decision of this Court in the case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary1. In paragraph 253 of the said decision, this Court held thus: “253.