The entire process was cancelled by the Public Service Commission. In the said context, this Court observed as under: “4. We have heard counsel for the parties and are of the view F that when no defect was pointed out in regard to the written examination and the sole objection was confined to exclusion of a group of successful candidates in the written examination from the interview, there was no justification for cancelling the written part of the recruitment examination.” G The aforesaid case is therefore representative of a situation where the cancellation of the entire recruitment process was held to be not justified since there was no systemic flaw in the written test, and the issue was only with regard to award of marks to the candidates in the interview. The situation could have been remedied by setting aside the H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 755 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] selection made after the interview stage and calling for a fresh interview A of all eligible candidates if the case so warranted which is also not so in the instant case. 14.2. In Mohinder Sain Garg vs. State of Punjab, (1991) 1 SCC 662, 1200 candidates were called for the interview, for filling up 54 posts. Though not through a proper course to have been adopted it was B held that it would not vitiate the selection, more particularly when it could not be said to be tainted with mala fides or ill motive. 14.3. The observations of this Court in Rajesh P.U. are highly instructive as regards the question, whether, setting aside the entire selection process would be excessive or disproportionate a remedy in a C given case. The pertinent findings of this Court in the said case are as under: “...Applying a unilaterally rigid and arbitrary standard to cancel the entirety of the selections despite the firm and positive information that except 31 of such selected candidates, no infirmity D could be found with reference to others, is nothing but total disregard of relevancies and allowing to be carried away by irrelevancies, giving a complete go-by to contextual considerations throwing to the winds the principle of proportionality in going farther than what was strictly and reasonably to meet the situation. In E short, the competent authority completely misdirected itself in taking such an extreme and unreasonable decision of cancelling the entire selections, wholly unwarranted and unnecessary even on the factual situation found too, and totally in excess of the nature and gravity of what was at stake, thereby virtually rendering such decision to be irrational.” F 14.4. In the present case, the entire selection of the appellants was set aside due to the non-availability of individual award rolls, despite, signed approval of the final Select List by the members of the Board. Whether quashing the entire selection process was excessive or justified, would depend on the selection procedure adopted and whether the same G is arbitrary or reveals any mala fides on the part of the selection board.