c. At the time when the SMA was enacted, an alternative conception of a union of persons (other than heterosexuals) did not exist. The SMA is intended to regulate marriage between heterosexuals irrespective of caste and religion. Thus, the omission of non- heterosexual unions from the purview of the enactment would not render the enactment unconstitutional because of under- inclusiveness. The SMA will be underinclusive only when a class of heterosexuals is excluded by the statute; d. There would be no internal cohesion in the SMA if Section 4 is read in a gender-neutral manner. Such an interpretation would render the implementation of Sections 19 to 21A which link the SMA with other personal and non-personal laws diffi cult; e. Courts can use the interpretative tool of reading-in only when the stated purpose of the law is not achieved. Since the purpose of SMA is to regulate heterosexual marriages, this Court cannot read words into the enactment to expand its purview beyond what was originally conceptualized; f. It is up to Parliament to enact a special code regulating non- heterosexual unions and the specifi c issues that such unions would face during and after the partnership, after comprehensively engaging with all stakeholders; g. The course adopted by this Court in Vishaka (supra) cannot be replicated for two reasons: one, there is no legislative vacuum in the instant case, and second, the non-inclusion of all possible kinds of unions cannot be construed as a constitutional omission; h. Courts cannot issue directions granting legal recognition to non- heterosexual marriages because it would require the redesigning of several enactments and rules. Marriage rights must be given only through the parliamentary process after wide consultation; and i. A declaration by this Court granting legal recognition to non- heterosexual marriages accompanied with a scheme of rights would be anathema to separation of powers. This Court must not venture into the realm of policy making and law making. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1269 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 42. Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India, made the following submissions: a. The institution of marriage occupies a central role in the sustenance and progression of humankind. The prominent components of a marriage are companionship, sexual intimacy, and most importantly, procreation. Marriage (from an individual perspective) serves the purpose of sustaining an individual’s gene pool. From a societal perspective, marriage contributes towards the proliferation of future generations for the sustenance of humankind; b. The Constitution does not recognize a right to marry. An expression of a person’s sexuality is protected under Article 19(1) (a) of the Constitution. However, marriage cannot be traced to the right to freedom of expression or the right to form unions under Article 19(1)(c); c. This Court has not previously recognized the right to marry under the Constitution. The observations of this Court in Shafi n Jahan (supra) and Shakti Vahini (supra) that the petitioners’ right to marry has been violated must be read in the specifi c context of these s. In these cases, the right to marry which is conferred by the legislature to inter-caste and inter-religious couples was violated by State and non-State actors; d. Marriage is a creation of statutes.