The effect and scope of the provisions of Section 4-A(b) has been considered by this Court in V.V.R.N.M. F Subbayya Chettiar v. CIT [1950 SCC 971 : (1950) SCR 961, 965] . After examining the relevant decisions on this point, Fazi Ali, J., who delivered the of the Court, has observed “(1) that the conception of residence in the case of a fictitious ‘person’ such as a company, is as artificial as the company itself and the locality of the residence can only be determined by analogy, by G asking where is the head and seat and directing power of the affairs of the company. …(2) Mere activity by the company in a place does not create residence, with the result that the company may be residing in one place and doing a great deal of business in another. (3) The central management and control of a company H 486 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A may be divided and it may keep house and do business in more than one place, and, if so, it may have more than one residence. (4) In case of dual residence, it is necessary to show that the company performs some of the vital organic functions incidental to its existence as such in both the places so that in fact there are two centres of management”. It is in the light of these principles B that Section 4-A(b) has to be construed. Thus, the only question which remains to be considered is whether the High Court of Madras was right in holding that the appellant was resident in India under Section 4-A(b). xxx xxx xxx C 9. Mr Kolah then raised a further point which had not been urged before the High Court. He contended that the control and man- agement mentioned in Section 4-A(b) must be control and man- agement valid and effective in law. Under Section 12 of the Part- nership Act, it is only the majority of partners who could have D given effective directions to the superintendent and since there is no evidence that the alleged control and management has been exercised by the majority of partners acting in concert it would not be possible to hold that any control and management of the firm’s affairs resided in India. We do not think there is any substance in this argument. Under Section 12(a), every partner has a right to E take part in the conduct of the business and it is only where differ- ence arises as to ordinary matters connected with the business of the firm that the same has to be decided by majority of partners under sub-section (c) of the said section. It has not been sug- gested or shown that there was any difference between the part- F ners in regard to the matters covered by the individual partner’s letters of instruction to the superintendent. Indeed the course of conduct evidenced by these letters shows that Andiappa Pillai who holds the maximum number of individual shares has purported to act for the partnership and usually gave instructions in regard to the conduct and management of the firm’s affairs.