G 4.1 It is submitted that their services rendered as work charged cannot be counted for the purpose of actual pension, otherwise, there shall not be any difference between a regular employee and a work charged employee. It is submitted that till the work charged employee is regularized, he continues to be work charged employee. It is submitted H 536 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A that therefore, the Larger Bench of the High Court has rightly observed and held that for the purpose of pension, only such period from the work charged tenure would be added for making the service of an employee to qualify him for pension and while adding such period of work charged tenure, the modus operandi for counting would be one year for every five years of service rendered under work charged establishment and if B that also leaves some shortfall, then further number of years of work charged tenure can be taken / added for making the service of the employee pensionable. It is submitted that therefore, the High Court has rightly upheld the vires of Rules, 2013. 4.2 It is submitted that insofar as the reliance placed upon the C decision of this Court in the case of Prem Singh (supra) relied upon on behalf of the appellants is concerned, it is submitted that the said decision shall not be applicable at all as the reliance placed upon the said decision is absolutely misplaced. 4.3 It is submitted that in the said decision, this Hon’ble Court D was considering Rule 3(8) of the U.P. Retirement Benefit Rules, 1961, which specifically provided that the period of servicein a work charged establishment shall not be counted for qualifying service for pension. It is submitted that to that this Hon’ble Court read down the said provision and has observed and held that service rendered as a work charged E shall have to be counted as qualifying service for pension. 4.4 It is submitted that while considering the validity of Rule 3(8) of the said Rules, this Hon’ble Court observed that after rendering the service for number of years, they cannot be denied the pension on the ground that they have not rendered the qualifying service for pension and that the work charged service can be counted as qualifying service F for pension. It is submitted that while considering the validity of Rule 3(8) of the aforesaid Rules, and denying total work charged service to be counted as qualifying service for pension, this Hon’ble Court has observed and held that it will be unfair, unjust and impermissible to deny them the pension and to that it is observed and held that the work charged G service can be counted as qualifying service for pension. 4.5 It is submitted that in the said decision, this Hon’ble Court has not observed and held that their entire service rendered as a work charged shall be considered for the purpose of counting of the pension. It is submitted that the said decision shall be restricted to the period of service H rendered as work charged to be counted as qualifying service for pension.