Industrial Institute1 and it was held that “commercial purpose” is to be looked into, in the facts and circumstances of each case to consider the purpose for which the goods and services are bought or availed. If it is availed with a view to carrying out large scale commercial activity with B profit motive, then the buyer would not qualify as a consumer and the Act, 1986 would not be applicable and the view of this Court has been consistently affirmed in the later s. 11. Learned counsel further submits that the Commission in its second last para explicitly takes the very policy of insurance within the C purview of the Act, 1986 and in sequel thereof, regardless of the nature of transaction, whenever there is a claim for compensation in reference to the policy of insurance, such complaints became maintainable under the Act, 1986. 12. Learned counsel further submits that dominant purpose of D obtaining insurance contracts by the business entities is to earn profits and thus has a close and direct nexuswith it and accordingly these entities are not entitled to file the claim before the Consumer Court seeking summary proceedings and the present disputes are not of a small disgruntled consumer who is seeking claim of an insurance for loss of E mobile for personal use, or of autorickshaw driver seeking claim for expenses incurred for fixing a defective engine as that is covered for his livelihood. The instant dispute pertains to large scale business entities entering into commercial agreements with the insurance companies to protect the risks associated in carrying out their businesses. If they are being permitted to invoke the jurisdiction as a consumer under the Act, F 1986, it will frustrate the very mandate of the legislative wisdom, pursuant to which this Act has been enacted. 13. Learned counsel further submits that the doctrine of election is not available to the litigant who is aggrieved by the insurance contract as Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, 1986 and Section 2(7) of the Consumer G Protection Act, 2019 Act specifically exclude the provisions of services “for commercial purpose” from the ambit of consumer courts and the only remedy lies to the commercial courts under the Act, 2015. 1 (1995) 3 SCC 583 H 456 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 14. Learned counsel submits that if contention to the contrary of insurance for commercial activities falling within the ambit of the Act, 1986 is to be accepted, then obtaining any service for any commercial activity even for facilitating profit generation for commercial enterprise would fall within the expression “consumer” as defined under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, 1986and it would lead to improbability as it would go B against the basic tenets of service being used for commercial ends whose violation give rise to civil action and not consumer redressal. 15. Learned counsel further submits that if the respondent’s submission of insurance as a service availed by any person within the meaning of the Act is accepted, this would entail an exponential growth C of consumer disputes across the country, not only would that lead to frustration of literal spirit and intent of the socially and economically beneficial legislation, rather it would inadvertently give rise to the premiums charged by the insurance company which would again subserve the overall intent of the Act, as actual consumers who regularly avail the D services will have to pay more for the same coverage and this can be taken note from the Statement of Objects and Reasons which was kept in mind for the purpose of making the amendment in the year 2002.