The next decision is Sewakram Sobhani v. R.K. Karanjia11, rendered by a Bench of 3 (three) Hon’ble Judges. The appeal was directed against an passed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in exercise of jurisdiction under section 397, Cr. PC, alternatively under section 482 thereof. The respondent was the Chief Editor, Blitz. An article was published therein which was per se defamatory. Prosecution for an off ence under section 500, IPC which was launched stood quashed by the impugned on the ground that the case “clearly falls within the ambit of Exception 9 of Section 499 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860”. The appeal was allowed by the majority and the under challenge quashed. This is what the Court, speaking through Hon’ble A.P. Sen, J., said: “6. The recorded by the High Court quashing the prosecution under Section 482 of the Code is wholly perverse and has resulted in manifest miscarriage of justice. The High Court has prejudged the whole issue without a trial of the accused persons. The matter was at the stage of recording the plea of the accused persons under Section 251 of the Code. The requirements of Section 251 are still to be complied with. The learned Magistrate had to ascertain whether the respondent pleads guilty to the charge or demands to be tried. The circumstances brought out clearly show that the respondent was prima facie guilty of defamation punishable under Section 500 of the Code unless he pleads one of the exceptions to Section 499 of the Code. *** It is for the respondent to plead that he was protected under Ninth Exception to Section 499 of the Penal Code. The burden, such as it is, to prove that his case would come within that exception is on him. *** 11 (1981) 3 SCC 208 M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 233 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 7. We are completely at a loss to understand the reasons which impelled the High Court to quash the proceedings. ***” Hon’ble O. Chinnappa Reddy, J., in a concurring , made an illuminating discussion which would also be relevant for answering one of the questions formulated by us touching upon the facts of this appeal. We quote the concluding paragraph of His Lordship’s , reading thus: “18. Several questions arise for consideration if the Ninth Exception is to be applied to the facts of the present case. Was the article published after exercising due care and attention? Did the author of the article satisfy himself that there were reasonable grounds to believe that the imputations made by him were true? Did he act with reasonable care and a sense of responsibility and propriety? Was the article based entirely on the report of the Deputy Secretary or was there any other material before the author? What steps did the author take to satisfy himself about the authenticity of the report and its contents? Were the imputations made rashly without any attempt at verifi cation? Was the imputation the result of any personal ill will or malice which the author bore towards the complainant?