A disputing the claim of assessee, held that the transaction in question is sale of stock in trade. It is contended that the ITAT neither dealt with the findings given by the Assessing Officer nor verified/examined the total sales made by the assessee during the relevant year and during the previous years. Therefore, the ITAT as well as the High Court have materially erred in holding that, merely because the entry made in the B books of accounts involved recording of inventory, the transaction in question becomes sale of stock in trade. That, it is well settled that in to examine whether a particular transaction is sale of capital asset or business transaction, multiple factors like frequency of trade, volume of trade, nature of transaction over the years etc. are required to be C examined. However, in the present case, the ITAT without examining any of the relevant factors confirmed that the transaction was transfer of stock in trade. 4.3 It is further submitted that the ITAT without any basis and solely on the basis of claim made by the assessee, contrary to the accounts D produced before the Assessing Officer, agreed that the transaction was reflected as sale in the tax return for the Assessment Year 2008-09. That, interestingly, the ITAT did not even question as to what happened to the differential amount of Rs. 10,69,79,146/- on account of reduction of sale value of development rights. E 4.4 It is further submitted by Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG, that the High Court has failed to examine the inherent contradiction in the of the ITAT and that the claim was allowed by the Tribunal, contrary to the records produced before the Assessing Officer. Therefore, the of the High Court holding that there was no substantial question of law involves is illegal and perverse. F 4.5 It is further submitted that the High Court has failed to appreciate that, even in the event of acceptance of claim made by the assessee, including the assertion that Rs. 5,24,27,354/- was shown in the tax return for the earlier Assessment Year i.e., 2008-09, the differential amount of Rs. 10,69,79,146/- on account of reduction in the sale G consideration of development rights is to be assessed in the current year as either as capital gain or business income. This is without prejudice to the submission that the Assessing Officer has correctly assessed the income in his Assessment dated 29.11.2011. H COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX 8 MUMBAI v. GLOWSHINE 1013 BUILDERS & DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.6 Making the above submissions, it is prayed that the present A appeal be allowed and the passed by the ITAT as well as the High Court be set aside and the of the Assessing Officer be restored. 5. Shri S.K. Bagaria, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the assessee has taken us to the findings recorded by the High Court as well as the ITAT. It is submitted that the assessee is engaged in the B business of building and development of properties since the year 1999- 2000.