FULMATI DHRAMDEV YADAV & ANR. v. NEW INDIA 381 ASSURANCE CO. LTD. & ANR. [SANJAY KAROL J.] (2) The period of limitation for an appeal under this section shall be sixty days. (3) The provisions of section 5 of 4 [the Indian Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963)] shall be applicable to appeals under this section.” (Emphasis Supplied) 17. The Act is unequivocal in stating that an appeal from an of Commissioner can be entertained only if there exists a substantial question of law to be considered. It has been observed by this Court that the phrase “substantial question of law” within this Act shall be understood by its general meaning.6 When considering the general meaning of this phrase, naturally, the reference is to the Code of Civil Procedure (CPC). The rule therein is that framing of a substantial question of law is of cardinal importance. 18. A bare perusal of the impugned judgement shows that the Court did not frame any such question. 19. The wording of the Act indicates that the existence of such a question is a prerequisite to the appeal being entertained. 20. Illustratively, in North – East Karnataka Road Transport Corporation v. Sujatha7 (Two-Judge Bench) amongst numerous other cases, this Court has observed: “12. In other words, the appeal provided under Section 30 of the Act to the High Court against the of the Commissioner is not like a regular fi rst appeal akin to Section 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 which can be heard both on facts and law. The appellate jurisdiction of the High Court to decide the appeal is confi ned only to examine the substantial questions of law arising in the case.” 21. The other ground making the under challenge, amenable to interference when the scope of jurisdiction is circumscribed by it being exercised only in cases of “substantial question of law”, is perversity in the fi ndings. Here, the impugned judgement does not, even remotely, 6 Om Prakash Batish v. Ranjit (2008) 12 SCC 212 (2 judge-bench) 7 (2019) 11 SCC 514 382 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. refl ect the observation that the fi ndings arrived at by the Commissioner are perverse. The diff erence, between the two judgements, i.e., the of the Commissioner and the in First Appeal, was on the point of the employer-employee relationship having been established. The Commissioner held such relationship to have been established however, the appeal Court observed that “claimants have clearly failed to prove this aspect” 22. It may here only be noted that the Commissioner had not returned any fi ndings in respect of the validity of non-availability of the license of the deceased nor was it one of the questions framed by the Commissioner for consideration. In such a situation, while exercising powers within the limited purview allowed by section 30 of the Act, the learned Court below erred in making observations and giving a holding in that regard. 23. It has also been observed by this Court that the Commissioner is the last authority on facts involved in a case.