Thus, in view of the clear statutory mandate under Section 16-FF(3) of the Act, the High Court has committed an error in coming to the conclusion that the Respondent nos. 1 D to 3 have acquired a vested right to be appointed. [Paras 19, 21][979-D-E; 980-E] 1.2 The appointments are to be made under Section 16-E of the Act. Section 16-F of the Act provides for the constitution and recommendation of Selection Committees and Section 16- E FF therein specifically relates to minority institutions. Regulation 18(1) provides for the time within which an of appointment is to be issued by a Manager to the selected candidate. According to which, where the recommendation is made by a Selection Committee constituted under sub-section (1) or (2) of Section 16-F of the Act, an of appointment is to be issued within 15 F days of the receipt of the recommendation of the Selection Committee. Whereas, in the case of an institution referred to in Section 16-FF of the Act, i.e., a minority institution, as in the instant case, it is to be issued within 15 days of the receipt of the approval of the authority specified therein. Neither Section 16-FF G of the Act nor Regulation 18 provides the period within which approval is to be accorded. Further, neither of the two provisions provide for deemed appointment in the event of delay in granting approval. Therefore, unless the approval contemplated under Section 16-FF(3) is accorded, no appointment could take place. [Para 23][981-E-G] H THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. v. RACHNA HILLS 971 & ORS. 1.3 In any case, when the relevant statutory provision, i.e. A Section 16-FF(3) itself makes approval by DIOS mandatory for appointment to the post of teacher, a Regulation made under the Act could not have provided for a ‘deemed appointment’. Subordinate legislation cannot transcend the prescription of a statutory provision. Additionally, sub-section (4) of Section 16- B FF of the Act has to be read in conjunction with Section 16-FF(2) therein, which provides that “[t]he procedure to be followed by the Selection Committee referred to in sub-section (1) shall be such as may be prescribed”. It is only in the cases where the selection procedure, as prescribed in the Regulations, is followed, that there cannot be a disapproval unless there is a lack of requisite C eligibility and qualifications. Thus, the question of deemed appointment does not arise under section 16-FF(4) of the Act. [Paras 24, 25][981-H; 982-A-C] 1.4 If the statutory provisions read with relevant Regulations were to provide for ‘deemed appointment’, there D would not have been a further remedy against an of disapproval by the DIOS. Sub-section (5) of section 16-FF provides the remedy to the College Management in the event the DIOS does not grant an approval. As per this, the Management can within three weeks from the date of receipt of disapproval, E make a representation to the Regional Deputy Director of Education. In view of the legal provision as obtained under Section 16- FF of the Act, read with Regulation 18, the submissions of the respondents’ that there is a ‘deemed appointment’ of selection under Regulation 18 is rejected.