When constituted or read together, all these lapses-which may be seen singly as small or minuscule, add up to one thing: lack of adherence to or breach of the relevant standards of care reasonably expected from a medical establishment. Therefore, whilst pinpointed accountability of one or some individuals is not possible, nevertheless the systemic failure in ensuring a safe transfusion of blood to 644 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. the appellant, is the only irresistible inference. These facts establish medical negligence, and therefore, vicarious liability on the part of the IAF and the Indian Army. The former is the appellant’s immediate employer; the latter was the organization controlling and in charge of 166 MH and 177 MH. 71. The principle of res ipsa loquitur has been described in Charlesworth & Percy on Negligence59 in the following terms: “6-25. It has been said that “a prima facie case” should be the preferred terminology. It means essentially a case which calls for some answer from the defendant and will arise upon proof of: (1) the happening of some unexplained occurrence; (2) which would not have happened in the ordinary course of things without negligence on the part of somebody other than the claimant; and (3) the circumstances point to the negligence in question being that of the defendant, rather than that of any other person” 6-26 The third requirement is usually fulfi lled by showing that the instrument causing the damage was in the management and control of the defendant at the time of the occurrence, but this is not essential. Where an object which causes an accident has, at all material times, been under the control of the defendants and there is no evidence to show how the accident happened, the presumption of negligence cannot be displaced by evidence of the general care that has been taken.” This court has, on several occasions in the past, particularly in cases involving allegations of medical negligence, invoked the principle of res ipsa loquitur (“the thing speaks for itself”). In V. Kishan Rao v Nikhil Super Speciality Hospital & Anr.60, it was observed: “In a case where negligence is evident, the principle of res ipsa loquitur operates and the complainant does not have to prove anything as the thing (res) proves itself’. In such a case it is for the respondent to prove that he has taken care and done his duty to repel the charge of negligence.” 59 Charlesworth & Percy on Negligence, 14th Edition (2018) Sweet and Maxwell @ 6-25, page 400. 60 [2010] 5 SCR 1. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 645 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 72. All these facts and circumstances, in the opinion of this court, prove and establish that by reasonable standards of evidence, the appellant has justifi ed the invocation of the principle of res ipsa loquitor. The principle was applied in the Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences (supra) wherein this court held that: “77. [..] in a case involving medical negligence, once the initial burden has been discharged by the complainant by making out a case of negligence on the part of the hospital or the doctor concerned, the onus then shifts on to the hospital or to the attending doctors and it is for the hospital to satisfy the Court that there was no lack of care or diligence.” Earlier, in Savita Garg (supra), the court had ruled that once the complainant or aggrieved party had adduced some evidence that the patient suff ered (or died, as in that case) due to lack of care (or as in this case, suff ered irremediable injury due to want of diligence) “then the burden lies on the hospital to justify that there was no negligence on the part of the treating doctor or hospital.