But to enable the courts to have certain basic guidelines in place, for dealing with such cases, this Court developed a tool in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy. While E affirming the right to privacy as a fundamental right, this Court laid down the landscape as follows: “397. Once we have arrived at this understanding of the nature of fundamental rights, we can dismantle a core assumption of the Union’s argument: that a right must either be a common law F right or a fundamental right. The only material distinctions between the two classes of right—of which the nature and content may be the same—lie in the incidence of the duty to respect the right and in the forum in which a failure to do so can be redressed. Common law rights are horizontal in their operation when G they are violated by one’s fellow man, he can be named and proceeded against in an ordinary court of law. Constitutional and fundamental rights, on the other hand, provide remedy against the violation of a valued interest by the “State”, as an 80 (2005) 4 SCC 649 81 (2015) 16 SCC 530 H 678 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A abstract entity, whether through legislation or otherwise, as well as by identifiable public officials, being individuals clothed with the powers of the State. It is perfectly possible for an interest to simultaneously be recognised as a common law right and a fundamental right. Where the interference with a recognised interest is by the State or any other like entity B recognised by Article 12, a claim for the violation of a fundamental right would lie. Where the author of an identical interference is a non-State actor, an action at common law would lie in an ordinary court. 398. Privacy has the nature of being both a common law right as C well as a fundamental right. Its content, in both forms, is identical. All that differs is the incidence of burden and the forum for enforcement for each form.” 78. Thus, the answer to Question No. 2 is partly found in the 9- Judge Bench decision in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy itself. We have seen D from the line of judicial pronouncements listed above that after A.K. Gopalan vs. State of Madras82 lost its hold, this Court has expanded the width of Article 21 in several areas such as health, environment, transportation, Education and Prisoner’s life etc. As Vivian Bose, J., put it in a poetic language in S. Krishnan vs State of Madras83 "Brush E aside for a moment the pettifogging of the law and forget for the nonce all the learned disputations about this and that, and “and” or “or “, or “may” and “must “. Look past the mere verbiage of the words and penetrate deep into the heart and spirit of the Constitution.”. The original thinking of this Court that these rights can be enforced only against the State, changed over a period of time. The F transformation was from “State” to “Authorities” to “instrumentalities of State” to “agency of the Government” to “impregnation with Governmental character” to “enjoyment of monopoly status conferred by State” to “deep and pervasive control”84 to the “nature of the duties/ functions performed”85.