for the Appellants. Narendra Hooda, Sr. Adv., Aljo K. Joseph, Shaurya Lamba, Ms. Shelna K., Ritesh Kumar Chowdhary, Advs. for the Respondent. H 370 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A The of the Court was delivered by C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J. 1.The defendant Nos. 1 and 2 in O.S. No.6456 of 1993 on the file of the Court of XIV Additional City Civil Judge, Bangalore, filed this appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, calling in question B the and decree dated 09.09.2010 passed by the Hon’ble High Court of Karnataka at Bengaluru in RFA No.1966 of 2007. They are the sons of the third defendant in the said suit, who died during its pendency. They filed the stated first appeal on being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the and decree dated 04.07.2007 in O.S. No.6456 of 1993. C During the pendency of the captioned appeal, the second appellant died and consequently his legal heirs were impleaded as additional appellants 2.1 to 2.4. Ergo, in this appeal, hereafter the original first appellant and the impleaded legal heirs of the deceased second appellant are collectively described as ‘appellants’, unless otherwise specifically mentioned. The respondent herein was the plaintiff in the said suit which D was filed originally praying thus: - “to grant a for decree of permanent injunction restraining the first and second defendants either by themselves or through anyone on their behalf from interfering in the plaintiffs right, title and interest over and in the suit schedule E property including creating documents alienating the property to others and award cost and grant such other relief (s) as deemed fit and proper under the circumstances to the interest of justice and equity.” 2.The appellants herein filed written statement contending, inter F alia, that the subject suit is not maintainable, that there is no prayer for possession, that the suit was not valued correctly and that the real owners of the suit property was not arraigned as parties. Subsequently, the plaintiff /respondent herein got amended the plaint by adding paragraph 9 (a), schedules A, B and ‘C’ and also prayers qua them viz., prayer ‘b’. Compositely, the suit property, which is a house bearing No. B-91, has G been described as ‘A schedule’ and out of which a portion measuring 35’ x 40’, within the boundaries mentioned, has been described as ‘B schedule’. ‘C schedule’ is the portion of the premises bearing No. B-91 as described therein. To be precise, the prayers in the amended plaint read as under: - H SHIVSHANKARA & ANR. v. H.P. VEDAVYASA CHAR 371 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] “(a) a and decree of perpetual injunction against A the defendants 1 to 3 directing the defendants to restore the possession of the schedule premises to the plaintiff and not to interfere in the plaintiffs’ lawful possession and enjoyment of the schedule property in any manner whatsoever. (b) A and decree against the defendants for B mandatory injunction directing the defendants to restore the possession of the ‘B’ schedule property, which is marked ‘ABCD’ in the annexed sketch, and there may be decree for permanent injunction against the defendants for ‘CDEF’ portion which is marked as ‘C’ schedule to the plaint and C there may be a decree for the enquiry into the mesne profits with XVIII Rule 12 of CPC, and also there may be a decree for the cost of the suit, with such other relief or reliefs as this Hon’ble Court deems fit in the circumstances of the case.