… After His Highness left at 2 A.M. an offi cer came from the front and informed me that the Dogra Chief of Staff had been wounded and was lying on the road with six or seven bullets in his body. He had ed the rest of his troops to retreat to a position of vantage but did not wish to leave the place where he lay. Though fatally wounded, he was determined to give a fi ght as long as he was alive. Next morning Mr. V. P. Menon and I fl ew to Delhi. We arrived at Safdarjung airport at about 8 A. M. where a car was waiting. I immediately drove to the Prime Minister’s House on Yourd Road. The Prime Minister and Sardar Patel both were there and were apprised of the situation that had arisen. In view of the advance of the raiders towards the town of Baramula and Srinagar. I requested immediate military aid on any terms. I said somewhat emphatically that the town was taken by the tribesmen, India was strong enough to re-take it. Its recapture, however, could not have undone the damage that would have resulted. I, therefore, fi rmly but respectfully insisted on the acceptance of my request for immediate military aid. The Prime Minister observed that it was not easy on the spur of the moment to send troops as such an operation required considerable preparation and arrangement, the troops could not be moved without due deliberation merely on my demand. I was, however, adamant in my submission; the Prime Minister also was sticking to his own view. As a last resort I said, “Give us the military force we need. Take the accession and give whatever power you desire to the popular party. The army must fl y to save Srinagar this evening or else I will go to Lahore and negotiate terms with Mr Jinnah.” When I told the Prime Minister of India that I had s to go to Pakistan in case immediate military aid was not given he naturally became upset and in an angry tone said, “Mahajan, go away.” I got up and was about to leave the room when Sardar Patel detained me by saying in my ear, “Of course, Mahajan, you are not going to Pakistan.” Just then, a piece IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 147 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] of paper was passed over the Prime Minister, He read it and in a loud voice said, “Sheikh Sahib also says the same thing.” It appeared that Sheikh Abdulla had been listening to all this talk while sitting in one of the bedrooms adjoining the drawing room where we were. He now strengthened my hands by telling the Prime Minister that military help must be sent immediately. … At 12.45 p. m. Sardar Baldev Singh came and told me that a decision had been taken to send two companies of Indian troops to Srinagar. All the planes in India had been requisitioned for the purpose.