The question in Ajay Singh (supra) was whether the state government could rely on Section 21 of the General Clauses Act to rescind the notification by which it had appointed the member at the first instance. 62. This Court answered in the negative because Section 3 of the D Commissions of Inquiry Act 1952 provided for the power to fill any vacancies whereas Section 7 provided for the only situation in which a Commission which was already constituted would cease to exist. This Court observed that the Commissions of Inquiry Act 1952 did not provide for the power to reconstitute a Commission or replace its members. The E scheme of the enactment and its context indicated that Section 21 of the General Clauses Act could not be invoked. Further, the object of the Commissions of Inquiry Act 1952 would be frustrated if the appropriate government were permitted to reconstitute a Commission midway through the task that it was charged with completing because it made it possible for an independent agency to exist, free from governmental control. In F the present case, there is no such impediment to the application of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. The object of the Administrative Tribunals Act would not stand frustrated if an SAT is created and then abolished. The Union and State Governments may take alternate routes (some of which may have already been in operation, supplementing SATs) towards G achieving the same objective. Hence, the decision in Ajay Singh (supra) does not assist the appellants’ case. 63. The appellants have also argued that the Union Government’s power to abolish SATs must flow from the same legislation that vests it with the power to establish them. It is their contention that the Union Government does not have the power to abolish SATs because the H ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 779 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Administrative Tribunals Act does not provide for it. This argument fails A for the simple reason that the very purpose of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act is to provide for contingencies such as the instant case when the statute in question does not explicitly provide for the power to add to, amend, vary, or rescind a notification (or , rule, or by-law) which has been issued. Of course, the application of Section 21 of the B General Clauses Act is subject to the test laid down in D N Ganguly (supra) as discussed previously as well as the other requirements mentioned in the provision itself. 64. If the argument of the appellants were to be accepted, Section 21 of the General Clauses Act would be rendered otiose. It would not C apply to any statute which does not explicitly provide for the power to add to, amend, vary, or rescind notifications, s, rules or bye-laws. On the other hand, if the statute itself conferred the power to add to, amend, vary, or rescind notifications, s, rules or by-laws, there would be no need to rely on Section 21 of the General Clauses Act.