were converted from Union Territories to States95; 91 Written Submissions of Mr. Chander Uday Singh, Senior Counsel. 92 Written Submissions of Mr. Chander Uday Singh, Senior Counsel. 93 Written Submissions of Mr. Chander Uday Singh, Senior Counsel. 94 “Seventh Constitution Amendment” 95 Written Submissions of Mr. Chander Uday Singh, Senior Counsel. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 49 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] j. There were historical and cultural reasons to designate certain territories as Union Territories and not full-fl edged states96. In certain cases, it was not deemed reasonable to create a full- fl edged state for a small area, and the cultural diff erences of the people in these territories meant that they could not be subsumed in the neighbouring states. Such territories were considered fi t to be centrally administered. However, in due course of time, these territories came to be designated as states – which was a progressive step towards federalism. However, in the history of Independent India, an existing state has never been retrograded into a Union Territory. This leads to a diminishment of representative democracy and federalism. The Indian understanding of federalism is not to treat states as mere administrative units. The adage that India is an “indestructible union of destructible states” only means that the states can be reorganized by the Parliament; but they cannot be extinguished or retrograded into the Union Territories, in violation of the federal structure97; and k. Article 1(1) states that India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States. The power under Article 3 cannot be used by Parliament to create a ‘Union of Union Territories’. The issue is not whether Parliament would in fact do that. The power of the Union under Article 3 thus clashes with the principle of federalism.98 34. The Reorganisation Act did not represent the people of Jammu and Kashmir because: a. Any alteration to the existing units, their territories, boundaries, and names should come not from the Centre but from the people familiar with the unit concerned. The people aff ected by the alteration should desire such an alteration. The 96 Written Submissions on Behalf of Mr. Kapil Sibal. 97 Written Submissions of Mr. Chander Uday Singh, Senior Counsel; Written Submissions on Behalf of Mr. Kapil Sibal. 98 Written Submissions of Mr. Chander Uday Singh, Senior Counsel. 50 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Centre which is not aware of the local conditions and relevant considerations for such a course, should leave the alteration of such boundaries to the competent bodies such as the Boundary Commission99; b. The Rajya Sabha expressed its views in support of the Reorganisation Bill. Only 4 out of the 240 members of the Rajya Sabha were from Jammu and Kashmir. Therefore, the Rajya Sabha cannot be said to be representative of the will of the people of the State. The will of the people could have been expressed only through the Legislative Assembly of the State. The Assembly was dissolved and elections to the Assembly were deliberately not held only with a view to enact the impugned Act100; and c. The people of the state of Jammu and Kashmir must initiate change rather than the Parliament, which is not the true representative of the people of the state.