B 19. This Court has also ruled that an granting bail in a mechanical manner, without recording reasons, would suffer from the vice of non-application of mind, rendering it illegal, videRam Govind Upadhyay vs. Sudarshan Singh- [(2002) 3 SCC 598]; Prasanta Kumar Sarkar vs. Ashis Chaterjee – [(2010) 14 SCC 496]; Ramesh C Bhavan Rathod vs. Vishanbhai Hirabhai Makwana (Koli)– [(2021) 6 SCC 230] ; Brijmani Devi vs. Pappu Kumar (supra). 20.Reference may also be made to recent decisions of this Court in Manoj Kumar Khokhar vs. State of Rajasthan– [2022 SCC OnLine SC 30] and Jaibunisha vs. Meharban– [(2022) 5 SCC 465], wherein, D on engaging in an elaborate discussion of the case law cited supra and after duly acknowledging that liberty of individual is an invaluable right, it has been held that an granting bail to an accused, if passed in a casual and cryptic manner, de hors reasoning which would validate the grant of bail, is liable to be set aside by this Court while exercising power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. E 21. The Latin maxim “cessante ratione legis cessat ipsa lex” meaning “reason is the soul of the law, and when the reason of any particular law ceases, so does the law itself,” is also apposite. 22. While we are conscious of the fact that liberty of an individual is an invaluable right, at the same time while considering an application F for bail, courts cannot lose sight of the serious nature of the accusations against an accused and the facts that have a bearing on the case, particularly, when the accusations may not be false, frivolous or vexatious in nature but are supported by adequate material brought on record so as to enable a Court to arrive at a prima facie conclusion. While G considering an application for grant of bail, a prima-facie conclusion must be supported by reasons and must be arrived at after having regard to the vital facts of the case brought on record. Due consideration must be given to facts suggestive of the nature of crime, the criminal antecedents of the accused, if any, and the nature of punishment that H 514 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A would follow a conviction vis -a -vis the offence/s alleged against an accused. 23. We have extracted the relevant portions of the impugned above. At the outset, we observe that the extracted portions are the only portions forming part of the “reasoning” of the High Court while granting bail. As noted from the aforecited s, it is not necessary for a B Court to assign elaborate reasons or engage in a roving inquiry as to the merits of the prosecution’s case while granting bail, particularly, when the trial is at the initial stages and the allegations against the accused would not have been crystalised as such. Elaborate details cannot be recorded so as to give an impression that the case is one that would C result in a conviction or, by contrast, in an acquittal while passing an on an application for grant of bail.