This Court held that though the requirement of Section 50 was not complied with qua the personal search of the accused, yet the provision was inapplicable qua the recovery made from the vehicle. Therefore, this Court gave a restricted interpretation to Section 50 and held as under:- “19. Though a portion of the contraband (opium) was recovered from the vehicle for which Section 50 is not applicable, if we exclude the quantity recovered from the vehicle, the remaining would not come within the mischief of “commercial quantity” for imposition of such conviction and sentence. Taking note of the length of period in prison and continuing as on date and in view of non-compliance with sub- section (1) of Section 50 in respect of recovery of contraband from the appellants, we set aside the conviction and sentence imposed on them by the trial court and confi rmed by the High Court.” (Emphasis supplied) 97. Accordingly, Section 50 was read to be understood as applicable only to the personal search of a person and that would not extend to search of a vehicle or a container or a bag. The language of Section 50 was interpreted to include search in relation to a person and not to a search of premises, vehicles or articles. s taking the view that Section 50 must be complied with when search of a bag as well as that of a person is carried out 98. However, in Dilip v. State of M.P. reported in (2007) 1 SCC 450, a contrary view was taken to that of Pawan Kumar (supra). In the said case, Section 50 was not complied with while conducting the search of the person and drugs were recovered from the accused’s scooter. This Court 354 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. while acquitting the accused held that the recovery made from the scooter ought to be inadmissible. It is pertinent to note that in this case the judgement in Pawan Kumar (supra) was not looked into. The Court held as under:- “12. Before seizure of the contraband from the scooter, personal search of appellants had been carried out and, admittedly, even at that time the provisions of Section 50 of the Act, although required in law, had not been complied with. x x x x 15. Indisputably, however, eff ect of a search carried out in violation of the provisions of law would have a bearing on the credibility of the evidence of the offi cial witnesses, which would of course be considered on the facts and circumstances of each case. 16. In this case, the provisions of Section 50 might not have been required to be complied with so far as the search of scooter is concerned, but, keeping in view the fact that the persons of the appellants were also searched, it was obligatory on the part of PW 10 to comply with the said provisions. It was not done.” (Emphasis supplied) 99. The decision of Dilip (supra) was relied upon in Union of India v. Shah Alam reported in (2009) 16 SCC 644, wherein packets of heroin were recovered from the accused’s shoulder bag.