1.4 The proviso to Section 27 of the Act, added by the Andhra Pradesh Amending Act (8 of 1988), does empower the Officer to inspect the property, make local inquiries in the facts, call for connected records, examine them and satisfy that the E provisions of Section 27 are complied with. Section 27, undoubtedly, provides that the consideration, if any, and the other facts and circumstances, affecting the chargeability of any instrument or the amount of duty, must be fully and correctly set forth. Equally, Section 47A of the Andhra Pradesh Amending Act F (8 of 1988), empowers the Registering Officer to deal with undervalued instruments. [Para 39][1136-D-E] 1.5 In the nature of the transaction, and what was actually sold by the Official Liquidator, plant and machinery, such as would answer the description of immovable property, must also be found G part of the property for the purpose of the stamp duty and other charges as per law. [Para 40][1136-H; 1137-A] 1.6 There are two aspects, which remain. Firstly, on account of the default of the appellants to effect service on the second H 1104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A respondent, the SLP stood dismissed. We, however, notice that, at the request of the second respondent, the Company Court ed that the sale deed be executed in favour of its nominee, viz., the first respondent. The first respondent, accordingly, became the vendee under the sale deed. It is the first respondent, which is liable in law as vendee to pay the stamp duty. Therefore, B we would think that the absence of the second respondent, may not affect passing of an as against the first respondent, which, as the vendee, is the entity liable to bear the liability towards stamp duty. Another aspect is that the matter may have to go back to consider the actual plant and machinery as would C answer the description of immovable property as correctly pointed out by the learned Amicus. The passage of time may have its bearing. But it may have to be carried out. As noticed by us, the appellants had also appealed against the of the learned Single Judge. The Single Judge, it must be remembered, while upholding the of the second appellant (District D Registrar) in regard to the value of the plant and machinery, had directed deducting the value of the current assets and also directed making available benefits of GoMS 103 dated 07.02.2001. Apparently, Respondents 1 and 2 in the Appeal gave up their claim to the exemption on the basis that they succeeded in having E the sale deed registered without having to include the value of plant and machinery before the Division Bench. The stand of the appellants would appear to be that GoMS 103 dated 07.02.2001 applied to new industrial units other than those listed as ineligible under GoMS 9 dated 05.01.2001. It appears to be their case that the subject industry is a mini steel industry and mini steel industry F plants were not eligible and the item appears as Item 56 in Annexure 1 to GoMS 9 dated 05.01.2001.