That the High Court has specifically observed and held that the amendment to Section 153C of the Act, 1961 is not merely a change in procedure provision affecting the assessees already covered. A new class of assessees are sought to be brought under Section 153C of the Act, 1961, which affects the substantive rights of the assessees. Subsequent to the date of the search, the assessees, who were not C included within the ambit of Section 153C of the Act, 1961 as on the date of the search are now sought to be brought within its fold. 5.7 It is submitted that before 01.06.2015, the Assessing Officer could have only recorded satisfaction as to whether the seized material belongs to the other person. That in the present case, since the hard D disk, which was found from the searched persons, did not belong to the respondents, on the date of the search, therefore, the jurisdiction under Section 153C of the Act did not exist. It is submitted that as rightly observed by the High Court that if on the date of the search in 2013, the material were forwarded by the Assessing Officer of the searched person E on the basis that it belongs to the respondents - assessees, challenge against issue of notice under Section 153C of the Act, 1961 would have been successful, as the material does not actually ‘belong’ to the respondent. That moreover, having once formed a satisfaction and forwarded the material, there is no question of the Assessing Officer of the searched person once again forming a satisfaction on the basis of F the amended provision. Thus, Section 153C of the Act, 1961 as it stood then, did not permit any action against the respondent, as admittedly the hard disk belonged to the searched person. Hence, the Assessing Officer could not have invoked Section 153C of the Act, 1961 at all. 5.8 It is further submitted that the amended Section 153C of the G Act, 1961 deals with both procedural and substantive rights, therefore, the prospective rule of construction shall be applicable. That as observed and held by this Court in the case of Zile Singh (supra), it is a cardinal principle of construction that every statute is prima facie prospective unless it is expressly or by necessary implication made to have a retrospective operation. The rule in general is applicable where the object H INCOME TAX OFFICER v. VIKRAM SUJITKUMAR BHATIA 773 [M. R. SHAH, J.] of the statute is to affect vested rights or to impose new burdens or to A impair existing obligations. It is submitted that unless there are words in the statute, which are sufficient to show the intention of the legislature to affect existing rights, it is deemed to be prospective only. That the date of search is the relevant date, which has to be taken into consideration for applying the amendment. The same is supported by B the CBDT Circular No. 2/2018 dated 15.02.2018 wherein Section 153A was amended with effect from 01.04.2017.