This Court in Weatherford Oiltool Middle East Limited vs D Baker Hughes Singapore PTE80 where the issue concerned the validity of an unstamped document, noted as under: “8. The bare reading of the afore-stated provision makes it clear that arbitral tribunal is competent not only to rule on its own jurisdiction but to rule on the issue of the existence or validity of E the arbitration agreement. It further clarifies that an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contrAct, and that a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause.” F 85.2. Discussing the Kompetenz Kompetenz principles in NN Global(supra), it was noted: “4.3. The doctrine of kompetenz – kompetenz implies that the arbitral tribunal has the competence to determine and rule on its own jurisdiction, including objections with respect to the existence, G validity, and scope of the arbitration agreement, in the first instance, which is subject to judicial scrutiny by the courts at a later stage of the proceedings. Under the 8 Arbitration Act, the challenge before the Court is maintainable only after the final award is passed H 80 2022 SCC OnLine 1464 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 485 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] as provided by sub-section (6) of Section 16. The stage at which A the of the tribunal regarding its jurisdiction is amenable to judicial review, varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The doctrine of kompetenz – kompetenz has evolved to minimize judicial intervention at the pre-reference stage, and reduce unmeritorious challenges raised on the issue of jurisdiction B of the arbitral tribunal.” [emphasis supplied] 85.3. Justice Thakker emphasized this in his dissenting opinion in SBP(supra) where it was held that the legislature intended to allow the tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction and the function of the Chief Justice C under Section 11(6) was only to “appoint an arbitrator without wasting any time.” 85.4. At this point we may benefit by referring to George A. Bermann whose article titled “Role of Courts at the threshold of Arbitration”81 would havesome relevance in this discussion: D “Positions at the polar ends of the spectrum of judicial involvement are not especially attractive. A system that permits plenary judicial enquiries into all aspects of enforceability of arbitration agreements prior to arbitration risks inviting costs, delay and judicial involvement in a very big way, contrary to arbitration’s basis premises. On the E other hand, a system that treats access to a court for these purposes as wholly off-limits, irrespective of the seriousness of the challenge, risks exacting too great a price in terms of arbitral legitimacy. Efficacy may be achievable through less drastic means.” F 85.5. Specific to the Indian context, while discussing Kompetenz Kompetenz, the overburdened judiciary and huge pendency of cases in our Courts cannot also be overlooked.