b. Development of Law after Chloro Controls 31. In the aftermath of Chloro Controls (supra), the Law Commission of India published a Report in 2014 recommending amendments to the Arbitration Act. The Commission observed that the phrase “claiming through or under” as used and understood in Section 45 is absent in the corresponding provision of Section 8. To cure this anomaly, it was suggested that the defi nition of “party” under Section 2(1)(h) be amended to also include the expression “a person claiming through or under such party.”16 In 2016, the legislature amended Section 8 to bring it in line with Section 45 of the Arbitration Act. The unamended Section 8(1) provided that a party to an arbitration agreement could make an application seeking a reference to arbitration. The amended Section 8(1) provided that “a party to an arbitration 16 Law Commission of India, ‘Amendments to the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996’, Report No. 246 (August 2014) 654 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. agreement or any person claiming through or under him” could seek a reference to arbitration. However, the legislature did not bring about any change in the language of Section 2(1)(h) or Section 7 of the Arbitration Act. Since Chloro Controls (supra) and the amendment to Section 8, subsequent decisions of this Court have referred to the group of companies doctrine to join non-signatories persons or entities to arbitration agreements. 32. In Cheran Properties (supra), the issue before this Court was whether the arbitral award could be enforced under Section 35 of the Arbitration Act against a non-signatory, who was a nominee of one of the signatories to the arbitration agreement and a direct benefi ciary of the underlying contract between the signatories. Section 35 of the Arbitration Act postulates that an arbitral award “shall be fi nal and binding on the parties and persons claiming under them respectively.” This Court observed that the expression “persons claiming under them” refers to every person whose capacity or position is derived from and is same as a party to the proceedings. It held that the non-signatory, being a nominee of one of the signatory parties, was bound by the arbitral award as it was claiming under the signatory. 33. This Court in Cheran Properties (supra) interpreted the group of companies doctrine to hold that its true purport is to enforce the common intention of the parties where the circumstances indicate that both the signatories and non-signatories were intended to be bound. One of us (D Y Chandrachud J) explained the evolution of the group of companies doctrine in the Indian context in the following terms: “23. As the law has evolved, it has recognised that modern business transactions are often effectuated through multiple layers and agreements. There may be transactions within a group of companies. The circumstances in which they have entered into them may refl ect an intention to bind both signatory and non-signatory entities within the same group. In holding a non-signatory bound by an arbitration agreement, the court approaches the matter by attributing to the transactions a meaning consistent with the business sense which was intended to be ascribed to them.