[2023] 7 S.C.R. 403 403 AISH MOHAMMAD A v. STATE OF HARYANA AND ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 4044 of 2023) JUNE 14, 2023 B [VIKRAM NATH AND AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, JJ.] Service Law: Punjab Police Rules, 1934 – rr.8.18 and 16.28 – Power to review proceedings – Compulsorily retirement –Adverse remarks entered into appellant’s Annual Credential Report-ACR, C due to which Departmental Enquiry held and the appellant reverted from the post of Head Constable to the post of Constable – Reversion modified to stoppage of one increment – Adverse remarks entered into ACR, expunged by the Inspector General of Police for a partial period – In a suit, the civil judge interfered with the stoppage of one increment, but not with the ACR – Appellant again filed a D representation before the Inspector General of Police, for expunction of adverse remarks, and the adverse remarks were expunged – However, the Director General of Police issued a Show-Cause Notice to the appellant that the adverse remarks were wrongly expunged, which made the appellant escape compulsory retirement – Thereafter, E the appellant was retired – Thereafter, in a petition, the Single Judge of the High Court held that the Director General of Police could not have passed the said , as it amounted to a review of an passed by his predecessor-in-office – Division Bench set aside the holding that the passed by the DGP to compulsorily retire the appellant as correct – On appeal, held: ‘Review’ F contemplated in r. 16.28 is by a superior authority and not the same authority – Review is a re-look at an passed by the same authority which passed the original , be it a Court oran executive officer – Heading to the rule is a misnomer inasmuch as no power of ‘review’ is created or conferred, as manifest from are G ading of (1), (2) and (3) of r. 16.28 – Director General of Police rightly show-caused the appellant and took subsequent action thereupon – Considering the chain of events, the consequential action, cannot be said to be arbitrary or shocking the conscience of the Court, so as to warrant interference – For a person in uniformed service, like the police, adverse entry relating to his/her H 403 404 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A integrity and conduct is to be adjudged by the superior authority(ies) who record and approve such entry – Personnel having such remarks being compulsorily retired as per the statutory provisions under the 1934 Rules, is not an action this Court would like to interdict – Thus, no inclination to interfere with the impugned – Punjab Civil Services Rules, 1934 – r. 3.26(d). B Punjab Police Rules, 1934: Hierarchy of police force – Rules, originally framed in 1934, contemplated the authorities as Inspector-General, Deputy Inspector-General, and Superintendent of Police – Inspector-General of that time headed the State Police – However, today the Inspector-General of Police is administratively C subordinate to the Director-General of Police and the Additional Director-General of Police – Thus, the Rules, have not kept pace with the times – It cannot be appreciated why the authorities concerned unable to update/amend the Rules with at least the correct official description of posts to obviate confusion.