the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi.” H GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 505 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 3. The above notification was assailed through a batch of petitions A before the High Court of Delhi. The validity of the notification was upheld by the High Court as it declared that “the matters connected with ‘Services’ fall outside the purview of the Legislative Assembly of NCT of Delhi.”4 On appeal, a two-Judge Bench of this Court was of the opinion that the matter involved a substantial question of law about the B interpretation of Article 239AA, which deals with “Special provisions with respect to Delhi”, and hence referred the issue of interpretation of Article 239AA to a Constitution Bench on 15 February 2017. 4. Article 239AA provides as under: “239-AA. Special provisions with respect to Delhi.— C (1) As from the date of commencement of the Constitution (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991, the Union Territory of Delhi shall be called the National Capital Territory of Delhi (hereafter in this Part referred to as the National Capital Territory) and the Administrator thereof appointed under Article 239 shall be D designated as the Lieutenant Governor. (2)(a) There shall be a Legislative Assembly for the National Capital Territory and the seats in such Assembly shall be filled by Members chosen by direct election from territorial constituencies in the National Capital Territory. E (b) The total number of seats in the Legislative Assembly, the number of seats reserved for Scheduled Castes, the division of the National Capital Territory into territorial constituencies (including the basis for such division) and all other matters relating to the functioning of the Legislative Assembly shall be F regulated by law made by Parliament. (c) The provisions of Articles 324 to 327 and 329 shall apply in relation to the National Capital Territory, the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory and the Members thereof as they apply, in relation to a State, the Legislative G Assembly of a State and the Members thereof respectively; and any reference in Articles 326 and 329 to “appropriate legislature” shall be deemed to be a reference to Parliament. 4 Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi v. Union of India (“Delhi High Court ”), (2016) 232 DLT 196. H 506 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (3)(a) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the Legislative Assembly shall have power to make laws for the whole or any part of the National Capital Territory with respect to any of the matters enumerated in the State List or in the Concurrent List insofar as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories except matters with respect to Entries 1, 2 B and 18 of the State List and Entries 64, 65 and 66 of that List insofar as they relate to the said Entries 1, 2 and 18. (b) Nothing in sub-clause (a) shall derogate from the powers of Parliament under this Constitution to make laws with respect to any matter for a Union Territory or any part thereof.