This is evident from a three-Judge Bench decision of this Court in Association H TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE BRIHAN MUMBAI ELECTRIC SUPPLY 715 & TRANSPORT UNDERTAKING (BEST) [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] of Registration Plates v. Union of India and Others, reported in (2005) A 1 SCC 679. 53. The law relating to award of contract by the State and public sector corporations was reviewed in Air India Ltd. v. Cochin International Airport Ltd., reported in (2000) 2 SCC 617 and it was held that the award of a contract, whether by a private party or by a B State, is essentially a commercial transaction. It can choose its own method to arrive at a decision and it is free to grant any relaxation for bona fide reasons, if the tender conditions permit such a relaxation. It was further held that the State, its corporations, instrumentalities and agencies have the public duty to be fair to all concerned. Even when C some defect is found in the decision-making process, the court must exercise its discretionary powers under Article 226 with great caution and should exercise it only in furtherance of public interest and not merely on the making out of a legal point. The court should always keep the larger public interest in mind in to decide whether its intervention is called for or not. Only when it comes to a conclusion that overwhelming D public interest requires interference, the court should interfere. 54. As observed by this Court in Jagdish Mandal v. State of Orissa and Others, reported in (2007) 14 SCC 517, that while invoking power of judicial review in matters as to tenders or award of contracts, certain special features should be borne in mind that evaluations of tenders E and awarding of contracts are essentially commercial functions and principles of equity and natural justice stay at a distance in such matters. If the decision relating to award of contract is bona fide and is in public interest, courts will not interfere by exercising powers of judicial review even if a procedural aberration or error in assessment or prejudice to a F tenderer, is made out. Power of judicial review will not be invoked to protect private interest at the cost of public interest, or to decide contractual disputes. 55. In such circumstances referred to above, we set aside that part of the and passed by the High Court by which the G decision of BEST to accept the tender of EVEY was set aside and it was left to the discretion of BEST to undertake a fresh tender process. 56. The Appeal filed by TATA Motors accordingly fails and is hereby dismissed. Whereas the Appeals filed by EVEY and BEST are allowed to the aforesaid extent. H 716 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 57. There shall be no as to costs. 58. Pending application, if any, stands disposed of accordingly. Divya Pandey Appeals disposed of. (Assisted by : Roopanshi Virang, LCRA) B C D E F G H