As regards variable charges, the core question before the tribunal had been as to whether the claimant agreed to supply electricity on fixed charges with fixed rate of foreign currency while using F the alternate fuel. This question was essentially to be determined with reference to the new contract that came into existence with exchange of communications between the parties. The arbitrator precisely decided the matter with reference to, and after analysis of, that evidence. It had neither been a case of the arbitrator not taking into consideration the terms of contract applicable to the G issue at hand nor of any such finding which no fair-minded or reasonable person could have possibly rendered ever. Viewed in the light of core dispute presented to the arbitral tribunal by the parties, the submissions that the arbitral tribunal has not examined H 382 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A the question as to whether the correspondence in question resulted in change of fundamentals of contract, do not make out a case for interference because novation of the terms of contract as regards fuel had not been a matter of dispute at all. The core question was as to how the new terms were to operate. The arbitral tribunal precisely dealt with the same in accordance with B law. [Para 21.1][436-F-H; 437-A-C] 1.6 What has been observed and held in disapproval of interference by the High Court in the item of award pertaining to variable charges more or less apply to the other items too, where the High Court has interfered and has upturned the award. On C every such score, the High Court has rather entered into merits of the matter as if dealing with a regular appeal. It has been a clear case of the High Court travelling beyond the periphery of Section 34 as also Section 37 of the Act. [Para 22][437-D-E] 1.7 The Arbitral Tribunal held that the issue relating to D downrating of capacity was settled between the parties and the parties should not be allowed to reagitate the same, whereas the High Court found shortcomings in the discussions of the arbitral tribunal as regards the meaning and effect of the certificate dated 08.11.2005 and as to whether the claimant could have made any E claim on that basis or not. The High Court even proceeded to analyse the minutes of the meeting. It has clearly been a case of value and worth attached to a particular evidence by arbitral tribunal, which was considered not satisfactory by the High Court; and rejection of the contention of the Government by the arbitral tribunal was found to be erroneous. However, thereafter, the High F Court again observed that it was not a case of re-appreciation of evidence but being a case of no evidence, there had been patent illegality. [Paras 23.3, 24][441-D-F] 1.8 The High Court travelled beyond its jurisdiction under Section 37 and rather than remaining within the confines of G consideration under Section 34 of the Act, entered into the arena which is exclusively within the arbitrator’s domain.