It further notes that these guidelines are H 624 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A indicative in nature and the State/Union Territory Governments may use these as basic framework to develop specific guidelines applicable in the context of their National Parks, Wildlife Sanctuaries, important corridors etc. with a view to minimizing and preferably eliminating any negative impact on Protected Areas. B 40. A list of the activities which are prohibited, regulated and permitted is contained in Annexure-I of the said Guidelines, which reads thus: Sl. Activity Prohibited Regulated Permitted Remarks No. 1. Commercial Y Regulation sill not C mining prohibit the digging of earth for construction or repair of houses for manufacture of country tiles or bricks for housing for personal 2. Felling of trees Y With permission from appropriate authority 3. Setting of saw Y D mills 4. Setting of Y industries causing pollution (Water, Air, Soil., Noise, etc.) 5. Establishment of Y As per approved master hotels and resorts plan, which takes care E of habitats allowing no restriction on movement of wild animals 6. Commercial use of Y For hotels and other firewood business related establishment 7. Drastic change of Y agriculture systems F 8. Commercial use of Y As per approved master natural water plan, which takes care resources including of habitats allowing no ground water restriction on harvesting movement of wild animals. 9. Establishment of Y major hydroelectric G projects 10. Erection of Y Promote underground electrical cable cabling 11. Ongoing Y However, excessive agriculture and expansion of some of horticulture these activities should practices local be regulated as per the communities master plan H IN RE: T.N. GODAVARMAN THIRUMULPAD v. UNION OF 625 INDIA AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 12. Rain Water Y Should be actively A harvesting promoted 13. Fencing of Y premises of hotels and lodges 14. Organic farming Y Should be actively promoted 15. Use of polythene Y B bags by shopkeepers 16. Use of renewable Y Should be actively energy sources promoted 17. Widening of roads Y This should be done with proper EIA and mitigation measures 18. Movement of Y For commercial C vehicular traffic at purpose night 19. Introduction of Y exotic species 20. Use of production Y of any hazardous substances D 21. Undertaking activities related to tourism like over- flying the National Park are by any aircraft, hot-air balloons 22. Protection of hill Y As per the master plan E slopes and river banks 23. Discharge of Y effluents and solid waste in natural water bodies or terrestrial are F 24. Air and vehicular Y pollution 25. Sign board & Y As per the master plan hoardings 26. Adoption of green Y Should be actively technology for all promoted. activities G 41. It is to be noted that this Court in paragraph 54 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) has, in fact, held the said Guidelines to be reasonable and also accepted the view of the Standing Committee of the NBWL that uniform guidelines may not be possible in respect of each sanctuary or National Park for maintaining the ESZs.