39. Failure to accord fair hearing either to the accused or the prosecution violates even minimum standards of due process of law. It is inherent in the concept of due process of law, that condemnation should be rendered only after the trial in which the hearing is a real one, not sham or a mere farce and pretence. Since the fair hearing requires an opportunity to preserve the process, it may be vitiated and violated by an overhasty, stage-managed, tailored and partisan trial. 40. The fair trial for a criminal off ence consists not only in technical observance of the frame and forms of law, but also in recognition and just application of its principles in substance, to fi nd out the truth and prevent miscarriage of justice.” (Emphasis supplied) 14. In the case of Anokhilal vs. State of Madhya Pradesh,6 this Court, after referring to Best Bakery (supra) on the issue, has held in paragraphs 21 to 23 as follows: - “21. In the present case, the Amicus Curiae, was appointed on 19.02.2013, and on the same date, the counsel was called upon to defend the accused at the stage of framing of charges. One can say with certainty that the Amicus Curiae did not have suffi cient time to go through even the basic documents, nor the advantage of any discussion or interaction with the accused, and time to refl ect over the matter. Thus, even before the Amicus Curiae could come to grips of the matter, the charges were framed. 6 (2019) 20 SCC 196 NAVEEN @ AJAY v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 989 [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] 22. The provisions concerned viz. Sections 227 and 228 of the Code contemplate framing of charge upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents submitted herewith, and after ‘hearing the submissions of the accused and the prosecution in that behalf’. If the hearing for the purposes of these provisions is to be meaningful, and not just a routine aff air, the right under the said provisions stood denied to the appellant. 23. In our considered view, the Trial Court on its own, ought to have adjourned the matter for some time so that the Amicus Curiae could have had the advantage of suffi cient time to prepare the matter. The approach adopted by the Trial Court, in our view, may have expedited the conduct of trial, but did not further the cause of justice. Not only were the charges framed the same day as stated above, but the trial itself was conducted within a fortnight thereafter. In the process, the assistance that the appellant was entitled to in the form of legal aid, could not be real and meaningful.” This Court, in Anokhilal (supra), also set aside the conviction and sentenced imposed by the Trial Court and the High Court and directed for de novo trial. This Court also laid down certain norms in matters where the accused is represented by a counsel appointed through legal aid.