For this purpose, the court shall inspect the document, E unless it refers to matters of state. The provision is extracted below: 162. Production of document.- A witness summoned to produce a document shall, if it is in his possession or power, bring it to Court, notwithstanding any objection which there may be to its production or to its admissibility. The validity of any such objection F shall be decided on by the Court. The court, if it sees fit, may inspect the document, unless it refers to matters of State, or take other evidence to enable it to determine on its admissibility. G 111. The claim of public interest immunity allows the State to remove the material from the proceedings on the ground that its disclosure would injure public interest. All three parties to the proceeding, that is, the applicant, the state, and the court cannot refer to or rely on the documents for substantive hearings in the course of the proceedings if the court allows the public interest immunity claim at the discovery stage. H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 675 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] In effect, the public interest immunity claim renders the relevant document A non-existent for the purposes of the proceedings. Public interest immunity substantially realises the objective of protecting the interests of confidentiality and national security. 112. All the three alternatives identified above realise the objective in a real and substantive manner in as much as it furthers non-disclosure. B However, each of the alternative means have a different effect on fundamental rights because they operate in different penumbrae. In a public interest immunity claim, the material is not relied on by both the parties and the court in the course of the substantive hearings. The court removes the material from the proceeding, and the public interest C immunity proceedings are conducted in a closed setting. In a Totten claim, the court at the admission stage itself declares that the issue is non-justiciable if the material on state secrets may have to be disclosed. The court does not undertake any balancing exercise to decide if the injury due to the disclosure of information is heavier than the injury due to non-disclosure. Rather, if the material is, according to the state, related D to a state secret then the applicant is deprived of the remedy of judicial review. Under the closed material procedure, non-disclosable material is relied on by the State and referred to by the court in the course of the substantive hearing. The special advocate would represent the interests of the affected party. However, the special advocate would be precluded E from discussing the evidence with the affected party. It must be noted that special advocates are involved even in public interest immunity claims to represent the affected party in the closed hearing to decide if the relevant information must be disclosed. Thus, the special advocates’ system is a means to counterbalance the effect of the limitation on procedural guarantees of the affected party.