While this question must be decided on a case-by-case H basis, the Court observes generally that, where the evidence was MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 677 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] to a large extent disclosed and the open material played the A predominant role in the determination, it could not be said that the applicant was denied an opportunity effectively to challenge the reasonableness of the Secretary of State’s belief and suspicions about him. In other cases, even where all or most of the underlying evidence remained undisclosed, if the allegations contained in the B open material were sufficiently specific, it should have been possible for the applicant to provide his representatives and the special advocate with information with which to refute them, if such information existed, without his having to know the detail or sources of the evidence which formed the basis of the allegations. An example would be the allegation made against several of C the applicants that they had attended a terrorist training camp at a stated location between stated dates; given the precise nature of the allegation, it would have been possible for the applicant to provide the special advocate with exonerating evidence, for example of an alibi or of an D alternative explanation for his presence there, sufficient to permit the advocate effectively to challenge the allegation. Where, however, the open material consisted purely of general assertions and SIAC’s decision to uphold the certification and maintain the detention was based solely or to a decisive degree on closed material, the procedural requirements of Article 5 § 4 E would not be satisfied.” (emphasis supplied) In view of the above discussion, public interest immunity is perhaps a less restrictive means of the alternative methods listed above. F 114. Having held that there are alternative means which further the purpose of non-disclosure at the disposal of the State, we shall now undertake a comparative analysis of the impact of the alternative means identified (public interest immunity) and the means used (sealed cover) on fundamental rights. In section F, we have already discussed the effect G of the disclosure of material solely to the courts in a sealed cover on the fundamental precepts of procedural fairness and how the courts do not employ any safeguards to protect the procedural rights of the applicant. In the next section, we will be discussing the jurisprudence on public interest immunity. A reference of how the courts have dealt with public interest immunity claims will allow us to analyse if the courts have H 678 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A employed sufficient procedural guarantees to protect the rights of the applicant or have on the contrary been deferential to the claims of the State. This analysis is important because it is only a comparative analysis of how the courts would deal with sealed cover and public interest immunity claims that would allow us to evaluate their relative effect on procedural rights. B H. Jurisprudence on public interest immunity claims H.1 India 115.