A Maradu, on the same set of facts, filed by the respondent no.2- complainant was not maintainable, it may be noted that the respondent no.2 had earlier filed a complaint being no.2/2018 on 03.01.2018 in the Court of JMFC, Maradu under Section 156(3) and Section 200 Cr.PC, making general allegations with regard to the fraudulent sale of the properties belonging to the Archdiocese by the appellant Archbishop, B whereas the instant complaints six in number have been filed by the respondent no.2- complainant in the Trial Court giving specific details about the sale of the properties situated within the jurisdiction of Trial Court at Kakkanad. It is not disputed that the first complaint (C.C. No.2/ 2018) was dismissed on 30.09.2021 by the concerned court at Maradu C without taking cognizance of the complaint as the counsel for the complainant did not appear, whereas in the instant complaints, the summons have been issued by the Trial Court, taking cognizance of the offences under Section 120B, 406, 423 read with Section 34 of IPC on 02.04.2019 and on other dates subsequent thereto, that is prior to the dismissal of the first complaint on 30.09.2021. The respondent no.2 in D the counter filed by him has specifically stated that regarding the first item of property, the complaint was filed before the Court of Maradu (Ernakulam), as the cause of action had arisen within the jurisdiction of Maradu Police Station, whereas with regard to the other properties, seven complaints have been filed before the Court of JMFC, Kakkanad within E whose jurisdiction the properties were situated. It is pertinent to note that there was no adverse passed or cognizance taken by the Court at Maradu and on the contrary the same was dismissed after the Trial Court at Kakkanad issued summons against the appellant and others, taking cognizance of the alleged offences under Section 120B, 406, 423 read with Section 34 of IPC. F 10. It cannot be gainsaid that the cognizance is taken of an offence and not of the offender. As such the phrase “taking cognizance” has nowhere been defined in the Cr.PC, however has been interpreted by this Court to mean “become aware of” or “to take notice of judicially”. In S.K. Sinha, Chief Enforcement Officer Vs. Videocon International G Ltd. and Others1, this Court while explaining the scope of the enquiry under Section 202 Cr.PC, observed as under:- “19. The expression “cognizance” has not been defined in the Code. But the word (cognizance) is of indefinite import. It has no H 1 (2008) 2 SCC 492 CARDINAL MAR GEORGE ALENCHERRY v. STATE OF 1025 KERALA & ANR. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] esoteric or mystic significance in criminal law. It merely means A “become aware of” and when used with reference to a court or a Judge, it connotes “to take notice of judicially”. It indicates the point when a court or a Magistrate takes judicial notice of an offence with a view to initiating proceedings in respect of such offence said to have been committed by someone.