An expenditure of Rs.16.00 lakhs per month was being incurred on the salary payable to the employees. It was also noted that the Respondent No.2 stopped sanctioning and E disbursing loan from the year 2005 and presently only the work of recovery of loans already given is being done. It was also considered that the strength of the employees existing is necessary for carrying out the work of loan recovery. Considering the target of loan recovery fixed for the years F 2009-10, it was felt necessary to motivate the existing staff to give benefit of pay revision to employees to work hard for achieving the recovery target. Considering the financial implications, keeping in view the number of employees it was decided to implement 5th pay to the employees of Respondent No.2. Accordingly, considering its income and considering G all relevant factors; it was decided that the pay revision based on 5th Pay Commission recommendations should be given only to the existing employees and that the revised pay scales should be made applicable from 01.01.2006. After considering the above fact, the Finance Department of the H answering Respondent took decision to approve the revision MAHARASHTRA STATE FINANCIAL CORP. EX- EMPLOYEES 1177 ASSOC. v. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] of pay scale and communicated decision to respondent No.2 A vide Government GR No.SFC-2009 (422/Industries-7) dated 29/03/2010, as per the recommendations made by the Finance Department. Accordingly, Government Resolution dated 20.03.2010 was issued. 16. It is specifically denied that the Government Resolution B dated 29.03.2010 is discriminatory in nature and violets the fundamental rights of the member of the Petitioner Union. It is submitted that the answering Respondent has already taken policy decision on 16.02.2010 not to extend any budgetary support to any public sector Corporation in the State for the purposes of granting pay revision to its employees. C Considering the fact the Respondent No.2 is not a profit making Corporation, the question of pay revision was considered keeping in view the financial implications and the capacity of Respondent No.2 which played development role to bear the additional financial burden on account of such D pay revision. At the same time it was noted that it was also necessary to give existing employees pay revision to motivate them to work hard for recovering the loans already disbursed. The pay revision was made effective from 01.01.2006 again keeping in view the financial implications. It is submitted that the decision taken by the answering Respondent is based on E objective and rational considerations.” 7. In the decisions relied upon by Shri Puranik, the learned Counsel for the respondent - Corporation in the matter of revision of pay scale, the Apex Court has clearly laid down that financial implication is the relevant criteria for fixing F the cut-off date. The other decisions relied upon by Shri Dhole, the learned Counsel for the petitioners are on the question of payment of pension and other benefits. 8. Keeping in view the justification furnished by the respondent nos.1 and 2, we do not find that fixation of cut off date of 29/ G 3/2010 in the present case is arbitrary or irrational.