[ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] Thus, on a plain reading of the above entry it would leave no manner of doubt that all goods and wares made of glass would fall within the defi nition of the said entry or in other words, all goods and wares made of glass would fall within Entry No.IV of the aforesaid notifi cation and thus attract a duty @15 %. The exclusion of plain glass panes, optical lens as indicated therein would fall within the residuary clause attracting 10 % tax. 16. In the aforesaid background, it requires to be examined in the facts that has unfolded in the present case as to whether the tinted glass sheet is to be treated as equivalent to plain glass sheets/panes or not. 17. Tracing the history of the entry can be noticed as under: (i) Glass wares 1.4.48 to 31.3.56 (ii) Glasswares other than 1.4.56 to 19.5.76 Hurricane lantern, chimneys, optical lenses and bottles. (iii) All the goods and wares made of glass but not including plain glass, panes, optical lenses, Hurricane lantern, chimneys, bottles and phials glass beads, clinical syringes, thermometer made of glass. (iv) All the goods and wares made 7.9.91 till date of glass but not including plain glass, panes, opticals lenses, Hurricane lantern, chimneys, bottles and phials glass beads, clinical syringes, thermometer 110 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. and scientifi c apparatus and instruments made of glass. There is no dispute to the fact that earlier the entry was “glassware” alone and the said entry was subsequently amended by adding word “all goods” within its scope and ambit and this widening of the expression would indicate the intention of the legislature to include all goods and wares of glass unless excluded, in other words the intention of the legislature is explicitly clear to include in its ambit any goods and wares made of glass. The meaning of the word “of” also acquires the signifi cance. The intention of the legislature of using this expression “of” would reveal the purpose and it would be the endeavour of the court to put itself in the chair of the legislature and presume that the legislature was reasonable as held by this Court in Mauri Yeast India Private Limited Vs. State of U.P. (2008) SCC 680 wherein the expression “chemicals of all kinds” was interpreted. It is well settled principle that the word used in a statute must take its colour from the object it seeks to achieve and also by considering the words with which it is associated in the context. 18. In the matter of Geep Flashlight Industries Ltd. Vs. Union of India and others (2002) 9 SCC 545, this Court was of the view that canon of construction commands that commodity commonly known in the market would be the basis for determination of its entry. It came to be further held: “5. By a catena of decisions it is settled law that an expression used in a taxing statute for describing a commodity must be given the meaning which is generally given to it by a person in the trade or in the market of commodities and should be interpreted in the sense the person conversant with the subject-matter of the statute and dealing with it would attribute to it.