(ii) After such assessment, the respondent authority has to submit its claims (concerning customs dues/operational debt) in terms of the procedure laid down, in strict compliance of G the time periods prescribed under the IBC, before the adjudicating authority. (iii) In any case, the IRP/RP/liquidator can immediately secure goods from the respondent authority to be dealt with appropriately, in terms of the IBC.” H PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1265 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Similarly, in Duncans Industries Ltd. v. AJ Agrochem39, Section A 16G of the Tea Act, 1953 which required prior consent of the Central Government (for initiation of winding up proceedings) was held to be overridden by the IBC. In a similar manner, it is held that Section 238 of the IBC overrides the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003 despite the latter containing two specific provisions which open with non-obstante B clauses (i.e., Section 173 and 174). The position of law with respect to primacy of the IBC, is identical with the position discussed in Sundaresh Bhatt and Duncan Industries (supra) [refer also: Innoventive Industries (supra), CIT v. Monnet Ispat & Energy Ltd.40, Ghanashyam Mishra & Sons (P) Ltd. v. Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Co. Ltd.41, and Jagmohan Bajaj v. Shivam Fragrances Private Limited42]. C 53. In view of the above discussion, it is held that the reliance on Rainbow Papers (supra) is of no avail to the appellant. In this court’s view, that has to be confined to the facts of that case alone. D. EFFECT OF SECTION 77 OF THE COMPANIESACT D 54. Lastly, the liquidator had urged that without registration of charge, the same was unenforceable under liquidation proceedings. Section 77 of the Companies Act, 2013reads as follows: “77. Duty to register charges, etc.—(1) It shall be the duty of every company creating a charge within or outside India, on E its property or assets or any of its undertakings, whether tangible or otherwise, and situated in or outside India, to register the particulars of the charge signed by the company and the charge-holder together with the instruments, if any, creating such charge in such form, on payment of such fees and in such manner as may be prescribed, with the Registrar F within thirty days of its creation: Provided that the Registrar may, on an application by the company, allow such registration to be made within a period of three hundred days of such creation on payment of such additional fees as may be prescribed: Provided further that if registration is not made G within a period of three hundred days of such creation, the company shall seek extension of time in accordance with 39Duncans Industries Ltd. v. AJ Agrochem, (2019) 9 SCC 725. 40 (2018) 18 SCC 786 41 [2021] 13 SCR 737 42 2018 SCC OnLine NCLAT 413 H 1266 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A section 87: Provided also that any subsequent registration of a charge shall not prejudice any right acquired in respect of any property before the charge is actually registered.