– D Scrutiny Committee is expected to record reasons for granting and rejecting the prayer for issue of caste validity certificates – Thus, the Scrutiny Committee has all the trappings of a quasi-judicial authority. Maharashtra Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, De- E notified Tribes, (Vimukta Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes and Special Backward Category (Regulation of Issuance and Verification of) Caste Certificate Act, 2000 – Maharashtra Scheduled Tribes (Regulation of Issuance and verification of) Certificate Rules, 2003 – Maharashtra Scheduled Castes, De- notified Tribes, (Vimukta Jatis), Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward F Classes and Special Backward Category (Regulation of Issuance and Verification of) Caste Certificate Rules, 2012 –There was a conflict of views expressed in Vijakumar v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. and Anand v. Committee for Scrutiny and Verification of Tribe Claims & Ors. regarding recourse to affinity test – Held: In view of G the fact that the 2000 Act and Rules were not considered, the decision in the case of Vijakumar is not a binding precedent for the proposition that in every case, the Scrutiny Committee is required to take recourse to the affinity test by referring the case to the Vigilance Cell – This Court record similar reasons as held in the case of Anand that affinity test will not always be mandatory and/or conclusive. H 1102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Answering the reference, the Court HELD: 1. The 2000 Act has introduced a two-tier system for the verification of caste claims. In view of the express language used by sub-section (2) of Section 4, the caste certificate issued by the Competent Authority does not conclusively establish the B caste claim of the applicant. The person to whom the caste certificate is granted by the Competent Authority cannot claim that his caste status has been established. The caste certificate issued by Competent Authority becomes conclusive evidence of the caste stated therein only after a detailed enquiry as contemplated by the 2000 Act and rules framed thereunder is C made by the Scrutiny Committee and the certificate is validated. Therefore, when an application made under Section 3 for the grant of a caste certificate is considered by the Competent Authority, very detailed scrutiny of material produced by the applicant is not contemplated. What is contemplated is prima facie satisfaction D of the genuineness of the caste claim and on the basis of such satisfaction that a caste certificate as contemplated by sub-section (1) of Section 4 can be issued. Therefore, sub-section (1) of Section 4 specifically requires the Competent Authority to record reasons for rejecting the application but there is no such requirement incorporated of giving reasons while granting a caste certificate. E However, the Caste Scrutiny Committee is expected to record reasons both for validating and not validating the caste certificate. Sub-rule (6) of Rule 4 of the ST Rules provides that the Competent Authority shall verify the documents produced by the applicant with the original documents and if satisfied with the F correctness of the information, documents and evidence furnished by the applicant, it shall issue a Scheduled Tribe certificate within 15 days from the date of receipt of the application.