The petitioners argued that the matter must be referred to a fi ve-Judge Bench in view of the decisions of this Court in National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India6 and Justice KS Puttaswamy (9J) v. Union of India.7 In NALSA (supra), this Court held that the state must recognize persons who fall outside the male-female binary as ‘third gender persons’ and that they are entitled to all constitutionally guaranteed rights. It also directed the Union and State Governments to grant legal recognition to the self- identifi ed gender of transgender persons, including when they identify as male and female. In Justice KS Puttaswamy (9J) (supra), this Court held that the Constitution protects the right of a person to exercise their sexual orientation. The three-Judge Bench referred the of this Court in Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra) to a larger Bench. The three-Judge Bench also observed that the “ of nature” referred to in Section 377 of the IPC is not a constant but is guided by social morality as opposed to constitutional values, and that a section of the population should not remain in a constant state of fear while exercising their choices. 6. This Court answered the reference in Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India8, holding that Section 377 is unconstitutional to the extent that it criminalizes consensual sexual activities by the LGBTQ community. It held that: (i) Section 377 violated Article 14 because it discriminated between heterosexual persons and non-heterosexual persons, although both groups engage in consensual sexual activities 9; (ii) While Article 14 permits reasonable classifi cation based on intelligible diff erentia, a classifi cation based on an ‘intrinsic and core trait’ is not reasonable; Section 377 classifi ed individuals on the basis of the core trait of ‘sexual orientation’10; (ii) Article 15 prohibits discrimination based on ‘sex’ which includes within its meaning sexual orientation as well11 and Section 377 indirectly discriminated between 6 AIR 2014 SC 1863 7 AIR 2017 SC 4161 8 2018 1 SCC 791 9 Chief Justice Dipak Misra in Navtej Singh Johar 10 Justice Indu Malhotra in Navtej (supra) 11 Justice DY Chandrachud in Navtej (supra) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1241 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] heterosexual persons and the LGBTQ community based on their sexual orientation; and (iii) Section 377 violated Article 19(1)(a) because Section 377 inhibited sexual privacy.12 7. One of us (DY Chandrachud, J.) observed that the right to sexual privacy also captures the right of the LGBTQIA+ community to navigate public places free from State interference. The community does not face discrimination merely based on their private ‘sexual’ activities. It extends to their identity, expression, and existence. The Court declared that the members of the LGBTQIA+ community are entitled to the full range of constitutional rights including the right to choose whom to partner with, the ability to fi nd fulfi lment in sexual intimacies, the benefi t of equal citizenship, and the right not to be subject to discriminatory behaviour.