His opinion that the objective behind the principle of treating an arbitration agreement as a separate agreement is to create a mechanism, wherein, the arbitral agreement survives the Contract so that the disputes falling within the Arbitration Agreement E can be resolved, is correct. But I’m unable to agree with the proposition that is canvassed that since an arbitration agreement is liable to stamp duty, the separability presumption doesn’t take us further in this case. Let me set out the reason for my disinclination to accept such proposition. 81.5 As earlier stated in this opinion, the separability doctrine F protects the arbitration clause even if the validity of the main contract is attacked. Therefore, if an arbitration agreement remains unaffected even if the main contract is null/void on issues of fraud or misrepresentation, it should not logically render an arbitration agreement, void on a technicality/formality, like stamping. The underlying rationale behind the G principle of separability would then be made nugatory. The idea that an arbitration agreement is separate and independent with its own validity requirements, is to ensure that there is no hindrance to the enforceability of an arbitration agreement. This doctrine is also important to reduce circumstances in which the arbitral process may be halted/delayed. In SMS Tea(supra), it was noted that the doctrine of separability can extend H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 481 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] to an unregistered document, but not to an unstamped document as the A bar under Section 35 is absolute. As I have noted above, the bar under Section 35 can be cured and the stamp duty can be collected at a later stage. Thus, NN Global(supra) rightly overruled SMS Tea(supra) on this aspect. Historically, the separability doctrine was introduced in to protect the arbitration clause which, in turn, enabled arbitrators to B adjudicate on the validity of the main contract75. Even though the doctrine of separability and Kompetenz Kompetenz are distinct as noted in NN Global(supra), reconciling the two principles would ensure that an arbitrator can rule on the objections of validity, existence as well as necessary stamping, if required. The doctrine of Kompetenz Kompetenz is discussed in greater detail in the next section. C 82. Turning to the decision in Garware(supra), it appears that the Court in Garware(supra) rejected the concept of severability only by relying on SBP(Supra) when it held: “15. In view of the law laid down by seven-Judge D Bench,[SBP(Supra)] it is difficult to accede to the argument made by the learned counsel on behalf of the respondent that Section 16 makes it clear that an arbitration agreement has an independent existence of its own, and must be applied while deciding an application under Section 11 of the 1996 Act.” E 83. In SBP(Supra), as we have noticed earlier in this opinion, stood legislatively overruled as a judge at the Section 11 stage could conduct detailed adjudication and make a conclusive determination at the pre-referral stage without deferring it to the arbitrator.