iv) The Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator of the Party jointly can nominate not exceeding 100 Members to the General Council of the Central Organisation from among the members of the Party. G v) The General Council of the Central Organisation (Headquarters) shall meet and elect the Chairman of the Central Organisation. vi) The meeting of the General Council of the Central Organisation shall be presided over by the Chairman. In his H 1182 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A absence, one of the members of the General Council may be temporarily nominated to preside over the meeting of the General Council. vii) The General Council Meeting shall be convened once in a year or whenever it is considered necessary by the Co- B ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator by giving 15 days notice in advance of the date of meeting. The quorum for the meeting shall be one-fifth of the total number of members of the General Council. If one-fifth of the members of the General Council request the Co- C ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator to convene the Special Meeting of the General Council, the Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator should do so within 30 days of the receipt of such a requisition. viii) The General Council will be the supreme authority to frame policies and programmes of the Party and for their D implementation. The decision of the General Council is final and binding on all the members of the Party. ix) A General Council will have five years tenure. However, the tenure shall get extended till the new General Council Meeting is convened. E RULE-20: GENERAL SECRETARY As per wishes of the members of the party and the party cadre, PURATCHI THALAIVI Dr.J.JAYALALITHA shall be the eternal General Secretary of the party and no person shall be F elected/ appointed/nominated to that post. The Post of General Secretary stands abolished. RULE 20-A: CO-ORDINATOR AND JOINT CO- ORDINATOR i) The Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator shall be primary G members of the party for a continuous period of five years. ii) The Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator shall be elected by the members of the General Council. iii) The Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator elected as per sub rule (ii) shall hold the post for a period of 5 years. H THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1183 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] iv) The Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator shall discharge/ A perform their duties, obligations and functions and shall exercise their powers as per the Rules and regulations jointly. v) The Co-Ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator of the Party will be responsible for the entire administration of the Party. B vi) The Co-Ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator will constitute the Executive Committee of the Central Organisation consisting of the Co-Ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator, Chairman, Treasurer, Headquarters Secretaries, District Secretaries and the nominated members. C vii) The members of the Central Executive Committee, Treasurer and the Headquarters Secretaries nominated by the Co-Ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator will hold the office during the tenure of the office of the Co-Ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator.