Certain articles were recovered on the strength of confession statement – Ex.P- 2 made by the accused and in to prove such recovery the witnesses who have been examined by the prosecution havedeposed to the following effectand this has also persuaded B us to accept the findings of the High Court. (a) PW-3- Mr. Raghavendra (Panch witness) has deposed as under: “… When Lijo came out the police enquired as to whether the accused has given him any items, for which Lijo admitted C and told that he has given him certain items. Lijo produced the said items before the police. Lijo produced almirah, suitcase, basket and spade. Lijo produced almirah, suitcase, basket and spade. He totally produced 4 baskets…” (b) PW-9 Mr. Sunil Kumar in his evidence has stated that- D “When we went to Kafan’s land, the accused was there. The accused told in Malayalam that we would sell the equipments and Keriyappa understood little bit of Malayalam. He told that rubber roller machine is for sale. Since the price of it was costly, I refused to buy and when E we were returning, he had piled up the equipments in front of the house. He told that he would sell that too. He wrote and showed the price of those equipments as Rs. 2,500/-. I wrote and showed Rs. 2,000/-. The accused agreed for it and sold the equipments. We purchased it. I have purchased 12 spades, one iron rod, and one handsaw, two water drums F wherein one had lid and the other one was not having and pest control spraying machine…” (c) PW-10-Kunjali has stated that- “… Police and Panchas were there when I went to the G station and accused and also there. From there the accused led us to Bheemaneri. I do not remember the name of the person to whose house he took us. I have translated whatever the accused has spoken from Malayalam to Kannada language. One almirah, suitcase, Bank cheque H 424 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A book and pass book, 4-5 baskets and one spade and documents were there in that place and he has identified it and they have been marked as M.O.23-32…” (d) PW-12- Denny C.Thomas in his deposition has stated that- “I have the acquaintance of Lijo. I was in need of water B tank and have informed this matter to Lijo. He informed me that one water tank is for sale. It was an old water tank. Later Lijo took me to the garden land of Jose Kafan and showed the water tank. He charged Rs. 15,000/- but I told I would give Rs. 12,000/-. Lijo agreed for that. All these C happened in the month of December 2011. Later I gave Rs. 12,000/- and purchased the water tank. I gave that to Sebastian as he asked to preserve water for marriage.” 20.1 In fact, accused had sold the rubber rolling machines for a sum of Rs.27,000 in favour of PW-11, which came to be marked as MO 43 and MO 44.