It is operative only for the contingency that if any of the selected candidates does not join then the person from the waiting list may be pushed up and be appointed in the vacancy so caused or if there is some extreme exigency the Government may as a matter of policy decision pick up 636 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. persons in of merit from the waiting list. But the view taken by the High Court that since the vacancies have not been worked out properly, therefore, the candidates from the waiting list were liable to be appointed does not appear to be sound. This practice, may result in depriving those candidates who become eligible for competing for the vacancies available in future. If the waiting list in one examination was to operate as an infi nite stock for appointments, there is a danger that the State Government may resort to the device of not holding an examination for years together and pick up candidates from the waiting list as and when required. The constitutional discipline requires that this Court should not permit such improper exercise of power which may result in creating a vested interest and perpetrate waiting list for the candidates of one examination at the cost of entire set of fresh candidates either from the open or even from service.” This was reiterated by this Court in Surinder Singh & Ors. v. State of Punjab & Anr. (1997) 8 SCC 488: “Candidates in the waiting list have no vested right to be appointed except to the limited extent that when a candidate selected against the existing vacancy does not join for some reason and the waiting list is still operative.” 26. In Rakhi Ray & Ors. v. High Court of Delhi & Ors. (2010) 2 SCC 637, the practice of making appointments on future vacancies from the waiting list was held to be wrong. “In case the vacancies notifi ed stand fi lled up, the process of selection comes to an end. Waiting list, etc. cannot be used as a reservoir, to fi ll up the vacancy which comes into existence after the issuance of notifi cation/advertisement. The unexhausted select list/waiting list becomes meaningless and cannot be pressed in service any more”3. 27. We are referring to the position of law on “waiting list” because one of the arguments of the appellants (in connected appeals) before us is that, since in any case there was a direction in Malik Mazhar-2 for having a “waiting list”, therefore the names of those two appellants ought to have been considered as names from the “waiting list”. In our opinion, this cannot be 3 Para 12 VIVEK KAISTH & ANR v. THE STATE OF HIMACHAL 637 PRADESH & ORS [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] done, as the question would still remain whether selection/appointment can be made on vacancies, which were never advertised, apart from the fact that this would in any case go against the very concept of a ‘waiting list’ that we have explained above.