(supra), after considering the statutory provisions in the Electricity Act, 2003, held that the CERC, SERCs and the learned APTEL are bodies consisting of experts in the field. 129. This Court, in the said case, observed thus: B “120. It could thus be seen that two expert bodies i.e. the CERC and the learned APTEL have concurrently held, after examining the material on record, that the factors of SHR and GCV should be considered as per the Regulations or actuals, whichever is lower. The CERC as well as the State Regulatory bodies, after C extensive consultation with the stakeholders, had specified the SHR norms in respective Tariff Regulations. In addition, insofar as GCV is concerned, the CEA has opined that the margin of 85- 100 kcal/kg for a non-pit head station may be considered as a loss of GCV measured at wagon top till the point of firing of coal in boiler. D 121. In this respect, we may refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Reliance Infrastructure Limited v. State of Maharashtra [(2019) 3 SCC 352]. “38. MERC is an expert body which is entrusted with the duty and function to frame regulations, including the terms and E conditions for the determination of tariff. The Court, while exercising its power of judicial review, can step in where a case of manifest unreasonableness or arbitrariness is made out. Similarly, where the delegate of the legislature has failed to follow statutory procedures or to take into account factors which it is mandated F by the statute to consider or has founded its determination of tariffs on extraneous considerations, the Court in the exercise of its power of judicial review will ensure that the statute is not breached. However, it is no part of the function of the Court to substitute its own determination for a determination which was made by an expert body after due consideration of material circumstances. G 39. In Assn. of Industrial Electricity Users v. State of A.P. [Assn. of Industrial Electricity Users v. State of A.P., (2002) 3 SCC 711] a three-Judge Bench of this Court dealt with the fixation of tariffs and held thus : (SCC p. 717, para 11) H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 231 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) [B. R. GAVAI, J.] “11. We also agree with the High Court [S. Bharat A Kumar v. State of A.P., 2000 SCC OnLine AP 565 : (2000) 6 ALD 217] that the judicial review in a matter with regard to fixation of tariff has not to be as that of an appellate authority in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. All that the High Court has to be satisfied B with is that the Commission has followed the proper procedure and unless it can be demonstrated that its decision is on the face of it arbitrary or illegal or contrary to the Act, the court will not interfere. Fixing a tariff and providing for cross-subsidy is essentially a matter of policy and normally a court would refrain from interfering with a policy decision unless the power C exercised is arbitrary or ex facie bad in law.” xxx xxx xxx 123.