The relevant extracts of the 1958 Circular are as follows:– “6. Terms and conditions of assignment – (i) The assignment of lands shall be free of market value; (ii) Land assigned shall be heritable but not alienable; (iii) Lands assigned shall be brought under cultivation within three years; (iv) No land tax shall be collected for the fi rst three years except for the extent, if any, which has already been brought under cultivation. Water rate shall, however, be charged if the lands are irrigated with Government water; and (v) Cultivation should be by the assignee or the members of his family or with hired labour under the supervision of himself or a member of his family. x-x-x-x 15. Pending assignments:- All assignment proceedings now pending or arising here after shall be disposed of in accordance with these rules.” (Emphasis Applied) Similarly, the relevant part of the 1958 Clarifi cation is to the following eff ect:- 626 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. “7. Pending cases:- (a) lands to which Circular No. 14, dated 8th November, 1954 issued by the erstwhile Hyderabad Government and the other Circulars issued in clarifi cation of it were applicable should be dealt with under those circulars but not under the new rules of assignment Issued in G.O. Ms. No. 1406, Rev, Dt. 25th July, 1958: Provided that the extent of land to be assigned in all such cases shall not exceed the limits of 6 acres of dry or 2-1/2 acres of wet land inclusive of the land already passed (b) Cases in which the right of patta was given to the occupants according to Circular No. 14, and other circulars issued in clarifi cation of it and cases in respect to which there is evidence in Government Records either of application presented by the encroacher for grant of patta or of his possession of the lands should not be treated as pending cases but should be decided under Circular No. 14 and other circulars issued in clarifi cation of it.” (Emphasis Applied) It was, thus, submitted that provisions of 1958 Circular introducing the twin conditions in respect of alienation and cultivation, would not be applicable to the Subject Land on account of the 1958 Clarifi cation which purportedly brought the Subject Land within the purview of the 1954 Circular. 30. Thirdly, Mr. Ahmadi argued that Section 4 of the 1977 Act provided for re-assignment of the land in case of contravention of Section 3 of the 1977 Act instead of resumption as was ed by the revenue authorities in this case. Fourthly, it was submitted that evocation of suo motu revisionary powers through the Second SCN was not permissible as the sale deeds were of 1992 while Second SCN was of 2006, which would violate the temporal aspects as argued by Mr. Gupta, and, thus, the action was ex facie illegal. 31. Learned senior counsel, Mr. Niranjan Reddy assisted by learned counsel Mr. Krishna Dev Jagarlamudi also appeared on behalf of the Appellants.