Any private arrangement which goes contrary to the rules and regulations, governing the SRA scheme cannot be recognized in law.” The writ petition was hence dismissed and SRA was directed to make allotment in accordance with Circular no. 162 dated 23.10.2015. 21. Since the procedure for allotment is at the core of the dispute, it would be necessary for us to examine the relevant legal provisions governing the procedure of allotment. Under DCR-1991, Regulation 33(10), Appendix (IV), Clause 1.8, it is mentioned as follows: ‘1.8 Hutments dwellers in category having a diff erently abled person or female headed households shall be given fi rst preference in allotment of tenements. Thereafter lots shall be drawn for allotment of tenements from the remaining tenements to the other eligible hutment-dwellers before grant of O.C. to rehab Building.’ Even otherwise, the SRA accepted the proposal for implementation of the Slum Rehabilitation Scheme submitted by the Developer under Regulation 33(10) and subsequently issued the Letter of Intent (LoI) dated 16.04.2005. Clause 42 of the said LoI provides as follows: ‘42. That the allotment of rehabilitation tenements to the eligible slum dwellers in the scheme, shall be made by drawing lots in presence of the representative of the Asst. Registrar of societies (SRA) and statement of rehab tenements allotted to the eligible slum families in the rehabilitation building with corresponding tenements No. in rehab composite building and Sr. No. in Annexure-II etc. duly certifi ed by the concerned society of slum dwellers and Asst. Registrar (SRA) shall be submitted before requesting for occupation permission to the rehab. tenements.’ SAYUNKTA SANGARSH SAMITI & ANR v. THE STATE OF 739 MAHARASHTRA [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] The allotment by draw of lots is not an arbitrary of SRA but this is the settled procedure, long continuing and in terms of the law. It is also provided under the Circular No. 162 dated 23.10.2015, that allotment will be done by draw of lots for all the hutment dwellers. 22. The case of the Appellants, based entirely on the Consent Terms executed pursuant to the MoU, had little else to say in its favour. As has rightly been noted by the Bombay High Court, the consent terms are in the nature of a private agreement. The Civil Suit was at the behest of the Developer against individual society members and as we have noted above, SRA was not made a party to these proceedings. The seemingly ingenious, yet unfair and even specious method adopted by the Developer in league with the Appellants to bypass the statutory procedure must be deprecated. Admittedly, there is no provision in law by which the settlement terms entered into by two private players can be accepted and followed in violation of the statutory procedure given in Circular No.162 dated 23.10.2015. We do not agree with the submissions advanced on behalf of the appellant who only seeks to enforce a private arrangement arrived at between the Developer and the appellant in derogation of the procedure laid down by the SRA.