The Balakrishnan Committee specifically dealt with Entry 41 (relating to services) of the State List. Its report notes that Entry 41 is not available to the Union Territories, as (i) the Entry only mentions ‘State’ and not ‘Union Territory’; (ii) Part XIV of the Constitution only refers to services in connection with the affairs of the State and services H in connection with the affairs of the Union; and (iii) administration of the GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 561 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Union Territories is the responsibility of the Union and thus it falls within A the purview of ‘affairs of the Union’. The Report stated: “8.1 PUBLIC SERVICES IN THE DELHI ADMINISTRATION 8.1.2. Entry 41 of the State List mentions “State Public Services: State Public Services Commission”. Obviously, this Entry is not B applicable to Union territories because it mentions only “State” and not “Union territories”. This view is reinforced by the fact that the Constitution divides public services in India into two categories, namely, services in connection with the affairs of the Union and services in connection with the affairs of the State as is clear from the various provisions in Part XIV of the Constitution. C There is no third category of services covering the services of the Union territories. The obvious reason is that the administration of the Union territory is the constitutional responsibility of the Union under Article 239 and as such comes under “affairs of the Union”. Consequently, the public services for the administration of any D Union territory should form part of the public services in connection with the affairs of the Union.” 115. The Balakrishnan Committee opined that the setting up of a Legislative Assembly with a Council of Ministers will not disturb the position discussed above. According to the Report: E “Services 9.3.4. By virtue of the provisions in the Constitution, services in connection with the administration of the Union Territory of Delhi will be part of the services of the Union even after the setting up of a Legislative Assembly with a Council of Ministers. This F constitutional position is unexceptionable and should not be disturbed. There should, however, be adequate delegation of powers to the Lt. Governor in respect of specified categories of services or posts. In performing his functions under such delegated powers the Lt. Governor will have to act in his discretion but there should be a convention of consultation, whenever possible, G with the Chief Minister.” 116. The extracts from the Balakrishnan Committee Report were relied upon by Justice Bhushan in his 2019 split to hold that the Legislative Assembly of NCTD does not have the power to make laws under Entry 41 of List II. H 562 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 117. We do not agree with the reliance on the Balakrishnan Committee Report to rule out the scope of legislative power of NCTD over Entry 41 (services). We reiterate the view expressed in the opinion of the majority in the 2018 Constitution Bench that there is no necessity to refer to the Report to interpret Article 239AA because the authoritatively dealt with the scope of the said Article.