It is further submitted that the direction that no new permanent structure shall be permitted to H IN RE: T.N. GODAVARMAN THIRUMULPAD v. UNION OF 611 INDIA AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] come up for whatsoever purpose within the ESZs would also cause A great hardship. 7. It is further submitted that insofar as the direction in paragraph 56.1 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) is concerned, it mandates that each protected forest, that is, National Park or Wildlife Sanctuary, must have an ESZ of minimum one kilometre measured from the B demarcated boundary of such protected forest in which the activities proscribed and prescribed in the said Guidelines shall be strictly adhered to. Insofar as Jamua Ramgarh Wildlife Sanctuary is concerned, it is directed that the ESZ shall be 500 meters so far as subsisting activities are concerned. C 8. The learned ASG, amicus curiae and Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of various States submitted that in respect of various National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries, already final notifications had been issued, prescribing the boundaries for the ESZs. In some cases, the draft notifications are pending and in some other cases, the proposals for D issuance of draft and final notifications are pending with the Government of India. 9. It is submitted that there cannot be a uniform boundary for all the National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries. It is further submitted that there cannot also be a uniform boundary for a particular National Park E or Wildlife Sanctuary. At times, it may be longer on one side and shorter on the other side depending on various circumstances. 10. It is submitted that the rights of the citizens who are residing in the Protected Areas are settled under the provisions of Sections 18 to 25A of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (hereinafter referred to as “1972 Act”) whereas there is no settlement of rights of citizens residing F in ESZs. The citizens therein continue to reside and are also continuing with their daily avocation like farming etc. It is submitted that various developmental activities like construction of schools, dispensaries, anganwadis, public health centres etc. are required to be undertaken in such areas. Not only that, but if the direction not to make any construction G is continued, the persons residing therein would not be in a position to construct or reconstruct houses on their own land. It is submitted that the procedure prescribed for obtaining the permission of the PCCF is very tedious. If such a direction is issued, the PCCF would be left with no other work but to consider the applications for continuation of such activities. H 612 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 11. It is further submitted that though this Court has observed in paragraph 54 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) that the said Guidelines are reasonable, it has nevertheless issued directions which are in conflict with the said Guidelines. 12. It is further contended that the issue in I.A. No.