“All power is, in Madison’s phrase, “of an encroaching nature”. A Judicial power is not immune against this human weakness. It also must be on guard against encroaching beyond its proper bounds, and not the less so since the only restraint upon it is self- restraint.... Rigorous observance of the difference between limits of power B and wise exercise of power — between questions of authority and questions of prudence — requires the most alert appreciation of this decisive but subtle relationship of two concepts that too easily coalesce. No less does it require a disciplined will to adhere to the difference. It is not easy to stand aloof and allow want of C wisdom to prevail to disregard one’s own strongly held view of what is wise in the conduct of affairs. But it is not the business of this Court to pronounce policy. It must observe a fastidious regard for limitations on its own power, and this precludes the court’s giving effect to its own notions of what is wise or politic. That self-restraint is of the essence in the observance of the judicial D oath, for the Constitution has not authorized the judges to sit in on the wisdom of what Congress and the executive branch do.” 89. In the work “Judicial Activism” in India by SP Sathe, the learned author in the chapter ‘Legitimacy of Judicial Activism’ observes: - E “Legitimacy of Judicial Activism The realist school of jurisprudence exploded the myth that the judges merely declared the pre-existing law or interpreted it and asserted that the judges made the law. It stated that the law was what the courts said it was. This is known as legal scepticism and F was really a reaction to Austin’s definition of law as a command of the political sovereign. According to analytical jurisprudence a court merely found the law or merely interpreted the law. The American realist school or jurisprudence asserted that the judges made law, though interstitially. Jerome Frank, Justice Holmes, G Cardozo, and Llewellyn were the chief exponents of this school. The Indian Supreme Court not only makes law, as understood in the sense of the realist jurisprudence, but actually has started ‘legislating’ exactly in the way in which a legislature legislates. Judicial law-making in the realist sense in what the Court does H 94 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A when it expands the meanings of the words ‘personal liberty’ or ‘due process of law’ or ‘freedom of speech and expression’. When the Court held that a commercial speech (advertisement) was entitled to the protection of freedom of speech and expression, it was judicial law-making in the realist sense. Similarly, the basic structure doctrine or the parameters for reviewing the President’s B action under article 356 or the wider meanings of the words ‘life’, ‘liberty’, and ‘procedure established by law’ in article 21 of the Constitution by the Supreme Court are instances of judicial law- making in the realist sense. When, however, the Court lays down guidelines for inter-country C adoption, against sexual harassment of working women at the workplace, or for abolition of child labour, it is not judicial law- making in the realist sense these are instances of judicial excessivism that fly in the face of the doctrine of separation of powers.