Was any hurt or fear of instant hurt, that was caused in the present case, caused for the end of the commission of the theft? We think not. It seems to us that whatever violence was used for the purpose of dispossessing the persons who were already in possession of the premises in question and had no relation to the commission of theft, although theft was committed at the same time.” (Emphasis supplied) 17. Ordinarily, if violence or hurt is caused at the time of theft, it would be reasonable to infer that violence or hurt was caused for facilitating the commission of the theft or for facilitating the carrying away of the property stolen or for facilitating the attempt to do so. But there may be something in the evidence to indicate that hurt or violence was caused MOHAMMAD WAJID AND ANR. v. STATE OF U.P. 337 AND ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] not for this purpose but for a diff erent purpose. We are of the view that prosecution has blindfoldedly and without understanding the true purport of the off ence of “dacoity” registered the FIR for the off ence punishable under Section 395 of the IPC and proceeded to even prepare charge sheet for the off ence of dacoity. 18. Even if we believe or accept the entire case put up by the fi rst informant, none of the ingredients to constitute the off ence of dacoity are disclosed. Let us once again recapitulate the case of the fi rst informant. The incident is alleged to have occurred at the house of the appellant No. 2. It is the fi rst informant and his brother who are said to have visited one fi ne day the house of the appellant No. 2. At that point of time, the other co-accused are also shown to be present. There is no good or plausible explanation coming from the fi rst informant as to why he was carrying Rs. 2 Lakh in his pocket. The entire case put up by the fi rst informant appears to be fabricated. Let us assume for the time being that the fi rst informant was in fact carrying Rs. 2 Lakh in his pocket and at the time of alleged incident, the amount was forcibly taken away by the accused persons, whether this taking away of Rs. 2 Lakh from the pocket of the fi rst informant would fall within the ambit of the words “for that end” occurring in Section 390 of the IPC. The answer is an emphatic “No”. Even according to the fi rst informant, the dispute was one relating to the agricultural land. The fi rst informant says that he is the lawful owner of the land in question, whereas, according to him, the accused persons are wrongly claiming to be the lawful owners of the land. With a view to settle this dispute, the fi rst informant and his brother are said to have visited the house of the appellant No.