Therefore, in a given set of facts, the Court may presume whereas under Section 113B of the Indian Evidence Act the word used is “shall”. In view of the word “shall”, the Court is left with no other option but to draw the presumption. 20. He would submit that there is intrinsic evidence on record to indicate that the deceased died on account of consumption of poison. He would submit that there was long delay in forwarding the sample of viscera collected during the course of post-mortem to the Forensic Science Laboratory and perhaps on account of delay, the histopathology report is silent in so far as any traces of poison being found in the viscera. BUDDHADEB SAHA & ORS. v. THE STATE OF WEST 337 BENGAL 21. In such circumstances referred to above, Mr. Avishkar Singhvi, the learned counsel prayed that there being no merit in this appeal the same may be dismissed. 22. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned . ANALYSIS 23. Indisputably, the post mortem report is silent in so far as the exact cause of death is concerned. There is no escape from the fact that the viscera report is also silent in so far as any traces of poison being found therein. 24. However, the Trial Court in its has discussed the aforesaid aspect of the matter in a quite satisfactory manner, which reads as under:- “It is the opinion of Modi that in some cases, which had defi nite signs of death from poisoning, the Chemical Examiner failed to detect any poison and in that case the duty of the Judge is to weigh the evidences, the symptoms, post-mortem appearances etc., to reach to the just conclusion. It was also the opinion of Modi that unsuitable samples, incorrect sampling sites, delayed storage, delay in examination of the viscera, use of wrong analytical technique may frustrate or distort proper analysis and the fi nal outcome may be wrong. I have gone through the observations made by Modi & HWV Cox in this regard. I have gone through the observations made by them in respect various poisons and the symptoms. As per the inquest report (Ext-2), the police offi cer had noticed that froth was coming out from the right nostril. The skin color noted by the police offi cer was whitish. During post mortem it was noticed that Rigor Mortis was not present, the eyes were half closed, froth was coming out from the nose and mouth. On opening of the body the Oesophagus, lungs, trachea and bronchial trees were found congested. In the stomach the doctor found food particles and fl uid with pungent smell. On analysis of various cases Modi & Cox had framed a guideline of detection of poison from the symptoms. According to them, white froth may come out from mouth and nose in case of Opium or its alkaloids.