ii) A demand or request for sexual favours. iii) Sexually coloured remarks. iv) Eve-teasing. v) Unsavoury remarks. vi) Jokes causing or likely to cause awkwardness or embarrassment. UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 527 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] vii) Innuendos and taunts. viii) Gender based insults or sexist remarks. ix) Unwelcome sexual overtone in any manner such as over telephone (obnoxious telephone calls) and the like. x) Touching or brushing against any part of the body and the like. xi) Displaying pornographic or other off ensive or derogatory pictures cartoons, pamphlets or sayings. xii) Forcible physical touch or molestation. xiii) Physical confi nement against one’s will and other act likely to violate one’s privacy. xiv) Any other unwelcome physical verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual nature. And includes any act or conduct by a person in authority and belonging to one sex which denies or would deny equal opportunity in pursuit of career development or otherwise making the environment at the work place hostile or intimidating to a person belonging to the other sex, only on the ground of sex. For any further interpretation, elaboration or explanation in the, matter or any of its ingredient thereto, the judgement of Hon’ble Supreme Court or the guidelines of National Commission for Women may be referred to which are being annexed. 7.DUTY OF THE HEAD OF THE UNIT/OTHER RESPONSIBLE PERSONS IN WORK PLACES 1. He shall take all necessary steps at work place to prevent or deter the commission of acts of sexual harassment or the acts outraging/insulting the modesty of a women employee. 2. He shall ensure that women employee is not be treated as sex object. 3. He shall provide for the proper grievance redressal & remedial mechanism in the unit for the purpose. 528 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 4. He would enforce express prohibition of sexual harassment as defi ned above at the work place and get it notifi ed, published and circulated in appropriate ways. 5. He would augment appropriate work condition in respect of work, leisure, health and hygiene to further ensure that there is not hostile environment towards women at work places and no women employee should have reasonable grounds to believe that she is disadvantaged in connection with employment. 6. He will ensure suitable arrangements for prevention of sexual harassment as a result of an act or omission by any third party or outsider and would provide necessary and reasonable assistance to the aff ected person in terms of support and preventive actions. 8. CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS Where such conduct amounts to a specifi c off ence under the Indian Penal Code or under any other law, the head of unit/competent authority shall initiate appropriate action in accordance with law by making a complaint with the appropriate authority. In particular, it should ensure that victims or witnesses are not victimized or discriminated against while dealing with complaints of sexual harassment. The victims of sexual harassment should have the option to seek transfer of the perpetrator or their own transfer.