Moreover, it was contended thattheincident, for which the 2014 FIR was lodged, was of a personal nature and there was no H 1140 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A allegation of the Appellant whatsoever being, in any way, concerned with any organised crime syndicate. It was pointed out that no charge- sheet had been filed against him. 7. Learned counsel drew the Court’s attention to State of Gujarat v Sandip Omprakash Gupta, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1727, dated B 15.12.2022, the relevant being at Paragraphs No. 49, 56 and 57, which affirms State of Maharashtra v Shiva alias Shivaji Ramaji Sonawane, (2015) 14 SCC 272, which stipulates that the defence of “organised crime” could be said to have been constituted by at least one incident of continuation apart from continuing unlawful activity evidenced by more than one chargesheets in the preceding ten years. C 8. Learned counsel also referred to the decision dated 30.05.2022 passed by this Court in SLP (Crl.) No. 1815 of 2022 titled ‘Mohammed Iliyas Mohammed Bilal KapadiyavState of Gujarat’, since reported as 2022 SCC OnLine SC 713, wherein also Section 2(c) of the GCTOC Act was involved and bail was granted on the ground that “only one D charge sheet was filed in respect of an activity which can be said to have been undertaken by the appellant/applicant as a member of an organised crime syndicate on behalf of such syndicate” as opposed to the requirement of “more than one chargesheet” under Section 2(c) of the GCTOC Act. E SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT STATE: 9. Mr S V Raju, learned Additional Solicitor General of India appearing for the State submits that the appellant was in close contact with accused no.1 Jaysukh @ Jayesh Muljibhai Ranpara (Patel) and during interrogation, the co-accused have stated that the Appellant used F to supply information to Jaysukh @ Jayesh Muljibhai Ranpara (Patel) relating to projects of the developers and thus, facilitated the whole exercise of extortion. It was further submitted that the mobile phone(s) seized from the Appellant during the investigation revealed that he was in touch with the organised crime syndicate. It was submitted that the G Impugned did not warrant any interference by this Court. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 10. Our discretion must be exercised judiciously. Guidance is forthcoming from Gudikanti Narasimhulu v Public Prosecutor, (1978) 1 SCC 240: H MUKESHBHAI VALLABHBHAI ABHANGI v. STATE OF 1141 GUJARAT [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] “3. What, then, is “judicial discretion” in this bail context? In A the elegant words of Benjamin Cardozo [ The Nature of the Judicial Process — Yale University Press (1921)]: “The Judge, even when he is free, is still not wholly free. He is not to innovate at pleasure. He is not a knight-errant roaming at will in pursuit of his own ideal of beauty or of B goodness. He is to draw his inspiration from consecrated principles. He is not to yield to spasmodic sentiment, to vague and unregulated benevolence. He is to exercise a discretion informed by tradition, methodized by analogy, disciplined by system, and subordinated to “the primordial necessity of C in the social life”.