ETC. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] as he thinks fit for a term not exceeding 15 days in the whole but if he A has no jurisdiction to try the case or commit it for trial and consider that the detention is unnecessary, on perusal of the entries in the diary, he may release the accused or forward him to the Magistrate having appropriate jurisdiction. The sub-section is appended with a proviso which places an embargo on the power of the Magistrate and authorizes B detention of the accused person beyond the 15 days period, other than in the custody of the police, if he is of the opinion that the circumstances so demand. But, the Magistrate shall not authorize the detention of an accused person in custody for a total period exceeding 90 or 60 days in clause (i) or clause (ii) of proviso (a), respectively. A right accrues to the accused if the investigation is not completed within the period prescribed C in clause (i) or clause (ii) and on expiry of the said period, the accused person shall be released on bail if he is prepared to and furnishes bail for his release. 23. As can be seen from the above, the further detention beyond 24 hours of the accused is subject to authorization by the Magistrate and D the power of the Magistrate to authorize detention of the accused either in police custody or under magisterial custody is circumscribed by the period specified in Section 167 of the CrPC. If the Magistrate is satisfied that continuing custody exceeding 15 days is warranted, he may authorize such detention but in any case the authorized detention cannot exceed a E period of 90 days or 60 days, as the case may be. On the expiry of the stipulated period specified in the proviso to Section 167 (2) of the CrPC, if the prosecution fails to file the chargesheet/final report, the accused person has an indefeasible right to be released on default bail. 24. Section 167, as originally enacted in the Code of Criminal F Procedure, 1898 envisages completion of investigation within 24 hours. But, noticing the difficulty in completing the investigation within the limited time, particularly for complex crimes, the Law Commission of India recommended to increase the time limit for completion of investigation. On the basis of the recommendation in the 41stLaw Commission Report (September, 1969), CrPC was amended through the Act 45 of 1978. G The Proviso (a) containing clauses (i) and (ii) were inserted to Section 167 of the CrPC. With such inclusion, while investigation is still expected to be completed with promptitude, it was additionally provided that only with a Magistrate’s authorization, further detention is permitted, for the period specified in clauses (i) and (ii) under proviso (a). A Magistrate H 936 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A authorizing detention must however record his reasons for extending detention of an accused under sub-section (3) of Section 167. The purpose of the first proviso to Section 167(2) is to impress upon the police officers to expeditiously complete investigation within the prescribed period and prevent laxity.