19. This Court in the case of Hari Shankar Jain (supra)4 held that Standing s have the nature of Special Rules. It is a settled principle of law that only in those cases, where the Special Rules fail to lay down provisions for dealing with certain subjects, can the General Rules be pressed into service. The CCA Rules are General Rules which apply to all Government Servants. When the Standing s for the Department have clearly laid down a procedure to be followed in cases of Disciplinary proceedings under Nos. 38, 39 & 40, there is no reason for the Department to initiate the said proceedings under the CCA Rules. 20. Any modifi cation sought to be made to the service conditions of the respondent can only be done as per the procedure which is given under Section 10 of the Standing s Act, 1946. This Court in the case of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. v. Petroleum Coal Labour Union & Ors. (2015) 6 SCC 494 was deciding the validity of a policy decision taken by ONGC to appoint CISF personnel to security posts. The temporary workmen who were appointed on the said posts were opposing this decision and it was their contention that their services should be regularised instead. This Court observed that the temporary workmen who had completed 240 days in 12 months had acquired a right to be regularised under Clause 2(ii) of the ‘Certifi ed Standing s for Contingent Employees of the Oil and Natural Gas Commission’. Further, that any modifi cation to the service conditions of the temporary workmen could only be done as per Section 10 of the 1946 Act. Replying upon the seminal decision of this Court in Hari Shankar Jain (supra), it reads as under :- “For the Corporation to implement such a provision which aff ects the service conditions of its employees, it is necessary for the Corporation to fi rst modify the Certifi ed Standing s by following the procedure provided under Section 10 of the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Act, 1946 as the same is a special enactment and therefore, prevails over the provisions under the ONGC Act and the Recruitment Rules. The Corporation undisputedly has not made any 4 Paragraph No. 10 106 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. such modifi cation to its Certifi ed Standing s by following the procedure for modifi cation of conditions of service as per Section 10 of the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Act, 1946.” As we have already stated above NFC, Hyderabad has failed to place on record any modifi cation made under Section 10 of the 1946 Act to show that the Standing s certifi ed for NFC-Hyderabad would not be applicable to the respondent. Service conditions of respondents will be governed by the ‘Standing s’ as far as the disciplinary proceedings are concerned. ‘Standing s’ being in the nature of special Rules will override any other general Rule including CCA Rules, 1965. Further, in view of the law laid down in Hari Shankar Jain (supra) the ‘Standing ’ will in any case prevail until modifi ed under Section 10 of the 1946 Act, which has not been done.