5.3 The lock of the outer iron grill was broken open by the villagers. The room of Fuchhan Pandey, where Pritam Tiwari was present was locked from inside. The door of Munna Pandey’s room was opened by the keys brought by Fuchhan Pandey on 01.06.2015 [Ex 1]. 5.4 As per the case of the prosecution, the door of Munna Pandey’s room was opened by the villagers after they snatched the keys from Munna Pandey although he claimed that he did not have the keys to the house on the previous day. As per the prosecution, this raised serious doubts regarding his conduct. It is pertinent to note that this suspicious conduct is not corroborated by the independent witness PW6. Further, the villagers Manoj, Anil and Murrai who allegedly snatched the keys from Munna Pandey were not examined by the prosecution. It is pertinent to note that Munna Pandey did not fl ee from the village overnight or on the next day when the dead body of the victim was recovered. Further this particular circumstance that the Appellant refused to give the keys to the villagers and threatened them with a case of dacoity was not put to him during his 313 statement. This Hon’ble Court has repeatedly held that the circumstances not put to the accused in his 313 examination cannot be relied upon. (Sharad Birdichand Sarda v State of Maharashtra (1984) 4 SCC 116 para 145) 6. Alleged Confession of Pritam Tiwari implicating Munna Pandey cannot be relied upon 6.1 As per the prosecution, right after Pritam Tiwari was found in the house of Fucchan Pandey by the villagers; he confessed to his crime and stated that he along with Munna Pandey committed the off ence 1020 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. against the deceased. However, the said confession was made after he was beaten by the police offi cers and was made in the presence of police offi cers. Due to the bar u/s 26 of the Evidence Act, the said confession cannot be relied upon the Courts. Further this alleged confession is not corroborated by the testimony of the independent witness Vijay Sah (PW6). Pritam Tiwari was also not deposed as a witness in this regard. 7. 313 examination of the Appellant was not conducted in a proper manner 7.1 Many crucial circumstances were not put to the Appellant in his 313 examination, though were considered as incriminating for the purpose of holding the appellant guilty of the off ence. Those are as under:- • The circumstance of PW3 seeing the Appellant lock the grill and the door of his room • The circumstance that the Appellant gave false information to PW3 that the victim had already left after watching TV • The circumstance of the accused refusing to open the door as he did not have the key • The circumstance of the Appellant giving the keys to the villagers after he was assaulted • The circumstance of the alleged extra-judicial confession made by the co-accused Pritam Tiwari implicating the Appellant 7.2 This Hon’ble Court has consistently held that the circumstances not put to the Appellant cannot be relied upon to convict an accused 8.