(8) The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court or the person or institution designated by such Court, before appointing an arbitrator, shall seek a disclosure in writing from the prospective arbitrator in terms of sub-section (1) of section 12, and have due regard to— (a) any qualifi cations required for the arbitrator by the agreement of the parties; and (b) the contents of the disclosure and other considerations as are likely to secure the appointment of an independent and impartial arbitrator. (9) In the case of appointment of sole or third arbitrator in an international commercial arbitration, the Supreme Court or the person or institution designated by that Court] may appoint an arbitrator of a nationality other than the nationalities of the parties where the parties belong to diff erent nationalities. (10) The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, may make such scheme as the said Court may deem appropriate for dealing with matters entrusted by sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or sub-section (6), to it. (11) Where more than one request has been made under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or sub-section (6) to the Chief Justices of diff erent High Courts or their designates, diff erent High Courts or their designates, the High Court or its designate to whom the request has been fi rst made] under the relevant sub-section shall alone be competent IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1195 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [ SANJIV KHANNA, J.] and Conciliation Act, 19964; and an objection as to insuffi cient stamping of the underlying agreement can be examined and decided by the arbitral tribunal. Accordingly, the majority decision of the Constitution Bench in N.N. Global Mercantile (P) Ltd. v. Indo Unique Flame Ltd.5 should be overruled. 2. The authored by Hon’ble the Chief Justice, under the heading ‘D. Indian Stamp Act, 1899’, gives an overall view of the Stamp Act, and the procedures it prescribes. It also refers to Sections 33, 35and 36 of the Stamp Act, which I would like to elaborate on and elucidate. 3. Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act are reproduced for reference: “33. Examination and impounding of instruments.—(1) Every person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence, and every person in charge of a public offi ce, except an offi cer of police, before whom any instrument, chargeable, in his opinion, with duty, is produced or comes in the performance of his to decide on the request. (12) (a) Where the matters referred to in sub-sections (4), (5), (6), (7), (8) and sub- section (10) arise in an international commercial arbitration, the reference to the “Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court” in those sub-sections shall be construed as a reference to the “Supreme Court”; and (b) Where the matters referred to in sub-sections (4), (5), (6), (7), (8) and sub-section (10) arise in any other arbitration, the reference to “the Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court” in those sub-sections shall be construed as a reference to the “High Court” within whose local limits the principal Civil Court referred to in clause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 2 is situate, and where the High Court itself is the Court referred to in that clause, to that High Court.