The words ‘relevant market’, ‘relevant geographical market’, ‘relevant product market’, are all separately defined: E “2(r) “relevant market” means the market which may be determined by the commission with reference to the relevant product market or the relevant geographic market or with reference to both the markets; 2(s) “relevant geographic market” means a market comprising F the area in which the conditions of competition for supply of goods or provision of services or demand of goods or services are distinctly homogenous and can be distinguished from the conditions prevailing in the neighbouring areas; 2(t) “relevant product market” means a market comprising all G those products or services which are regarded as interchangeable or substitutable by the consumer, by reason of characteristics of the products or services, their prices and intended use;” 58. Section 3 prohibits anti-competitive agreements. They are declared void. H 860 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 59. We are, in the main, concerned in this case, with Section 4. Section 4 prohibits abuse of dominant position. Section 4 reads as follows: “4. (1) No enterprise or group shall abuse its dominant position. (2) There shall be an abuse of dominant position under sub-section (1), if an enterprise or a group.—- B (a) directly or indirectly, imposes unfair or discriminatory— (i) condition in purchase or sale of goods or service; or (ii) price in purchase or sale (including predatory price) of goods or service. C Explanation.— For the purposes of this clause, the unfair or discriminatory condition in purchase or sale of goods or service referred to in sub-clause (i) and unfair or discriminatory price in purchase or sale of goods (including predatory price) or service referred to in sub-clause (ii) shall not include such discriminatory D condition or price which may be adopted to meet the competition; or (b) limits or restricts— (i) production of goods or provision of services or market therefor; or (ii) technical or scientific development relating to goods or services to the prejudice of E consumers; or (c) indulges in practice or practices resulting in denial of market access in any manner; or (d) makes conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by other parties of supplementary obligations which, by their nature or F according to commercial usage, have no connection with the subject of such contracts; or (e) uses its dominant position in one relevant market to enter into, or protect, other relevant market. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the expression— G (a) “dominant position” means a position of strength, enjoyed by an enterprise, in the relevant market, in India, which enables it to— (i) operate independently of competitive forces prevailing in the H relevant market; or COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 861 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (ii) affect its competitors or consumers or the relevant market in A its favour. (b) “predatory price” means the sale of goods or provision of services, at a. price which is below the cost, as may be determined by regulations, of production of the goods or provision of services, with a view to reduce competition or eliminate the competitors.