26. Therefore, so far as judicial administration is concerned, in terms of Article 231 of the Constitution, the Gauhati High Court is the High Court, inter alia, for the State of Assam as well as for the State of F Nagaland. PRE-AMENDED SECTION 25, CPC 27. Before proceeding further, we may now refer to the pre- amended section 25 of the Code for the purpose of understanding what was the mischief that the Parliament intended to address by radically G altering its relevant terms resulting in its substantial substitution. Bare perusal of the pre- amended provision clearly reflects that its scope and applicability were rather limited. Unless the State Governments were ad idem, a transfer of a suit, appeal or other proceeding from a Civil Court in one State to a Civil Court in another State was not a permissible H option. That apart, such transfer of a suit, appeal or other proceeding SHAH NEWAZ KHAN v. STATE OF NAGALAND 1001 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] instead of being effected by a judicial act was left to an administrative A act and, that too, only if the two State Governments were in agreement. The Law Commission having recommended an amendment, section 25 of the CPC came to be amended by the Amendment Act 104 of 1976. A contrast of the pre-amended and present version of section 25 is clearly suggestive of the distinctive variance qua the authority to exercise the B power of transfer. At this juncture, the Statement of Objects and Reasons (for brevity ‘the SOR’) for amending section 25 may also be noted: “Clause 12.—Section 25 of the Code empowers the State Government to transfer suits, etc. in certain circumstances from the High Court exercising jurisdiction in the State to another High C Court. This section is very narrow in scope as it provides only for the transfer of suit, appeal or other proceeding pending in a High Court presided over by a Single Judge. Besides, the State Government, does not seem to be an appropriate agency for exercising the power of transfer. Section 25 is, therefore, being substituted by a new section which provides for the transfer to D the Supreme Court the existing power vested with the State Government and to confer on the Supreme Court such wide powers of transfer as it has in criminal cases under Section 406 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. Further, the new section covers transfer of cases from or to the Original Side of a High E Court to or from any other civil court. The new section is thus wider in scope than Section 406 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.” 28. Thus, with the amendment of section 25, a serious impediment in administration of justice by the courts of law was remedied by F conferment of power on this Court to decide on inter-State transfer of any suit, appeal or other proceeding pending in a Civil Court of one State to a Civil Court of another State.