22 lacs with the Court.” D 10. Expressing his difficulty in arranging for funds to deposit Rs. 22,00,000/- (Rupees twenty-two lakh), the appellant had applied before the High Court under section 482 of the Cr. PC seeking extension of time to make the requisite deposit. By an dated 8th February, 2023, the said application was disposed of by the High Court granting extension E of time by 3 (three) days, failing which it was directed that anticipatory bail granted to the appellant shall automatically stand revoked. 11. The appellant is aggrieved by the aforesaid condition [clause(e) of paragraph 9.0. of the impugned and ] imposed by the High Court and is now before us seeking revocation of the same while F urging that the other part of the be maintained. 12. According to counsel for the appellant, the condition imposed is onerous and is not called for having regard to the satisfaction recorded by the High Court in paragraph 8.0. that the appellant has joined investigation and that both the appellant and the builder are ready to G provide any clarification/explanation for the purpose of completion of investigation. It is further contended on behalf of the appellant that he is a victim of a conspiracy hatched by and between the builder and the complainants with the result that he is still unable to enjoy his own property which was required to be redeveloped by the builder within the time stipulated in the relevant agreement. Finally, it has been contended on H 1172 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A behalf of the appellant that having regard to the decision of this Court in Munish Bhasin vs. State (NCT of Delhi)1, the impugned condition imposed for grant of bail requiring deposit of Rs.22,00,000/- (Rupees twenty-two lakh) in the form of FDR in the Trial Court is bad in law and liable to be set aside. B 13. The appeal has been opposed by counsel for the State. According to him, the impugned condition was imposed because the appellant through his counsel had volunteered to keep in deposit Rs. 22,00,000/- (Rupees twenty-two lakh) without prejudice to his rights and contentions. Now that the High Court had proceeded to make its based on such undertaking and also that the appellant had applied for C extension of time which was granted, it is not an appropriate case where this Court should interfere in the exercise of its jurisdiction. 14. Having heard the parties and on perusal of the materials on record, there seems to be little doubt that the appellant had volunteered to deposit Rs. 22,00,000/- (Rupees twenty-two lakh) without prejudice D to his rights and contentions and that he had also applied for extension of time to make such deposit which was also granted; but having failed to arrange for sufficient funds, he is questioning the condition imposed by the High Court for grant of pre-arrest bail. 15. In course of hearing before the High Court, a status report E had been submitted with regard to the progress of investigation.