Previous enmity is a double-edged sword. On one hand, it can provide motive and on the other hand, the possibility of false implication cannot be ruled out. [Para 28][288-D-E] D 1.3 Much prior to lodging of the FIR at 03.15 AM on 4th November 2006 by K, the Police had taken accused No. 11 for medical examination. The memo forwarding accused No. 11 for medical examination to Medical Officer mentions that accused No. 11 had informed the police that at around 08.30 PM, he was assaulted by PW-1. Undisputedly, the prosecution has suppressed E information with regard to the said incident. The prosecution has also suppressed the FIR lodged by PW-1. It is thus clear that the prosecution has attempted to suppress the real genesis of the incident. Taking into consideration this aspect of the matter, coupled with the non-explanation of the injuries sustained by F accused No. 11, accused No. 11 is entitled to benefit of doubt. [Para 29][288-E-G] 1.4 No doubt that in each and every case, delay in lodging the FIR would not be fatal to the prosecution case. It will depend upon facts and circumstances of each case. In the present case, assuming that the incident had taken place at 08.30 PM and the G injured persons were at the Bazar between 10-11 PM, and taking into consideration that the distance between the Bazar to the Police Station is 15 Kms., a delay of four hours in lodging the FIR H 278 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A would cast a serious doubt on the genuineness of the prosecution case. It becomes more glaring since accused No. 11 had, in any case, informed the police about the incident prior to 11.45 PM. The suppression of the FIR lodged by him with respect to the attack on him by PW-1, so also the suppression of the FIR lodged by PW-1 against accused No. 11, adds to the doubt. [Para 30][289- B B-D] 1.5 PWs 2 and 9 are injured witnesses. As such, their presence cannot be disputed. However, in case of proven previous enmity, a possibility of false implication cannot be ruled out. In the instant case, it would be seen that the entire family of accused C No. 12 has been roped in. Though PW-2 has identified and named the accused in her cross-examination, she has stated that, though she recognized the relatives of the accused persons, she does not remember their names. As such, the possibility of implicating the entire family of accused no.12 cannot be ruled out. [Para D 34][291-B-C] 1.6 The names of accused no.8, 9 and 10 are not mentioned in the merg report, which was lodged prior to the lodging of FIR, so also their names are not found in the inquest panchnama and spot panchnama. Taking into consideration the delay in lodging E the FIR, with the circumstance of their names not being mentioned in the contemporaneous documents, the possibility of the said accused being falsely implicated cannot be ruled out.