They also contend that as per Section 4 of the Industrial Purposes Act, the acquired land would vest in the C Government only on publication of the Notice under Section 3(1) and, therefore, a sale transaction prior thereto would not be rendered void. They would argue that the State cannot freeze property rights for a period of six years by issuing a Public Notice under Section 3(2) of the Industrial Purposes Act and forgetting about it thereafter for years D together. Reference is made to the of the Madras High Court in Sri Venkateswara Educational and Charitable Trust Vs. The Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu and others [Writ Appeal No. 1063 of 2012, decided on 17.10.2022], which held that in cases where compensation still needed to be determined for acquisitions made under the Industrial Purposes Act, the new LA Act would apply perforce E and the base date for determining compensation would not be the date on which the Section 3(2) Notice was issued but 01.01.2014, the date on which the new LA Act came into force. 21. It may be noted that, after publication of the Notice under Section 3(1), the appellants are stated to have filed writ petitions before F the Madras High Court in which s of status quo were passed. Those cases are stated to be pending as on date. We are not concerned at this stage with the validity of individual acquisition proceedings initiated under the Industrial Purposes Act. If the validity of such acquisition proceedings is under challenge before the High Court, it is for the parties G to pursue the same and invite an adjudication on merits. Issues pertaining to such individual acquisition proceedings, including quantification of compensation and other aspects based on facts, can be decided in those writ petitions and need not concern us at this stage. Presently, we are only dealing with the challenge to the validity of the Industrial Purposes Act and the Highways Act on the grounds of arbitrariness and breach of H Article 14 of the Constitution and no more. C.S. GOPALAKRISHNAN ETC. v. THE STATE OF TAMIL 953 NADU & OTHERS [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] 22.As regards the issue of the appellants’ locus standi, that very A aspect was considered by a 3-Judge Bench of this Court in Shiv Kumar and another Vs. Union of India and others [(2019) 10 SCC 229]. The question therein was whether subsequent purchasers of acquired land would be entitled to seek invalidation of the acquisition on the ground of delay under Section 24(2) of the new LA Act. The Bench held that a B sale transaction, effected after the Notification under Section 4 of the old LA Act, is void and would be ineffective to transfer the land and such a sale would not clothe the subsequent purchasers with title, whereby they could claim to be in possession. It was observed that it would be profoundly unfair and unjust and against the policy of law to permit such a purchaser to claim resettlement or claim the land back, as envisaged C under the new LA Act.