By the same law, a provision can be made as to the representation in Parliament and in the legislature of the Union H 532 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Territory created by such law. The Constitution Bench in the case of Mangal Singh3 has held that the power under Article 4 is wide enough even to reduce the total members of the Legislative Assembly below the minimum prescribed by clause (1) of Article 170. 18. Firstly, we will deal with the issue of applicability of Article B 170 having the title “Composition of the Legislative Assemblies” to the Union Territory of J & K. Article 170 forms part of Chapter III under the title “The State Legislature”. Chapter III has been incorporated in Part VI of the Constitution which deals with the States. Much emphasis was laid on the violation of the provisions contained in the second Proviso to Clause (3) of Article 170 by the learned counsel appearing for the C petitioners. But we may note here that the said Article does not deal with the legislatures of Union Territory at all. Articles 239A and 239AA which are included in Part VIII of the Constitution are the Articles that deal with the creation of a body to function as legislature and Council of Ministers for certain Union Territories. For the sake of convenience, we D are reproducing Article 239A which reads thus: “239A. Creation of local Legislatures or Council of Ministers or both for certain Union territories— (1) Parliament may by law create [for the Union territory of [Puducherry] — E (a) a body, whether elected or partly nominated and partly elected, to function as a Legislature for the Union territory, or (b) a Council of Ministers, or both with such constitution, powers and functions, in each case, as may be specified in the law. F (2) Any such law as is referred to in clause (1) shall not be deemed to be an amendment of this Constitution for the purposes of article 368 notwithstanding that it contains any provision which amends or has the effect of amending this Constitution.” (emphasis added) G Article 239A as it originally stood provided that Parliament may by law create for the Union Territory of Puducherry a body to function as a Legislature for the Union Territory or a Council of Ministers or both. Such a body to act as a Legislature of the Union Territory covered by Article 239A may be elected or partly nominated and partly elected. H HAJI ABDUL GANI KHAN & ANR. v. UNION OF INDIA & 533 ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] By virtue of Section 13 of the J&K Reorganisation Act, with effect A from 31st October 2019, Article 239A became applicable to the Union Territory of J and K. As noted by clause (2) of Article 239A, the law contemplated by clause (1) of Article 239A shall not be deemed to be an amendment to the Constitution for the purposes of Article 368 notwithstanding that it contains any provision which amends or has the B effect of amending the Constitution.