20 lakhs which 80 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A shall be increased by 25% whenever DA rises by 50%. This recommendation has also been made in accordance with the Report of the 7th CPC, and the purpose of the same is to ensure that the cost of living does not make the gratuity without purpose. Therefore, this recommendation also merits acceptance by the Court. B 105. The third recommendation is to make the recommendations effective from 01.01.2016. This has now been settled by this Court before and has been reiterated in the present as well. The recommendations must come into force from 01.01.2016. Consequentially, those judicial officers who retired after 01.01.2016 must also benefit from the acceptance of the Report. Thus, the Commission has suggested C that the differential gratuity be paid to them subject to the revised maximum limit. This is merely consequential and is accepted by this Court. It is accordingly ed. 106. The final recommendation made by the Commission on the subject of gratuity is that death gratuity be paid on the same lines as the D 7th CPC. Accordingly, the recommendation is accepted as it is in line with the already accepted principles laid down by this Court. IX. Recommendations on Retirement Age 107. No change has been recommended by the Commission to the retirement age of judicial officers. No opinion, therefore, is expressed E on this subject by this Court. X. Recommendations on Financial Assistance in Case of Death 108. The Commission has recommended that where a judicial F officer dies while in service, the family pension and death cum retirement gratuity as per the applicable rules is payable to the spouse/dependent, of the deceased officer. The recommendation of the Commission is in terms of Rule 54 of the CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972. This recommendation is reasonable and in furtherance of the principle of uniformity across services. Therefore, it merits acceptance by this Court. G XI. Recommendations on Assistance to Pensioners 109. The Commission has made some well-considered recommendations on assistance to be given to pensioners and family pensioners. While they may merit acceptance, it is appropriate to consider H them at a later stage as they do not require any change in principles or ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 81 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] amendments to any rules but are merely executive in nature. Therefore, A this Court is of the opinion that the recommendations may be considered at a later stage. XII. Recommendations on Abolition of New Pension Scheme 110. This Court has been apprised of the recommendations made B by the Commission regarding the non-applicability of the New Pension Scheme to judicial officers. However, given the objections raised to this issue by a number of States, the issue may be dealt with separately after hearing the states. Therefore, this recommendation too will be considered at a later stage. C 111. The resultant position on the recommendations is tabulated below for convenience: Recommendation Recommendation of this Court No.