The plaintiff- appellant made a request to the defendant-respondents to G revoke the letter dated January 15, 1993 but the defendant- respondents refused to do so. Therefore, the plaintiff-appellant was completed to file the present suit with prayer for a declaration to the effect that the letter dated January 15, 1993 H 3 (2005) 3 SCC 207 HARYANA URBAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY & ANR. v. 1163 JAGDEEP SINGH [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] in respect of Plot No. 940, Sector 14, Part, Hisar issued by A defendant No.2 is illegal, void and liable to be set aside and he also prayed for consequential relief for permanent injunction restraining the defendants from revoking, reviewing or cancelling the allotment letter issued by the defendants vide Memo No. 21548 dated August 20, 1986 and B from taking any action on the basis of the aforesaid letter. The plaintiff-appellant also sought for temporary injunction directing the defendant-respondents to deliver the possession of the plot. 5. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused C the records. There is no gainsaying that as per condition No.9 of the allotment the price in question was only tentative. But the condition is qualified that in case any award is given by the Land Acquisition Officer the price can be enhanced. Condition No.9 reads as under: D “The above price is tentative to the extent that any enhancement in the cost of land awarded by the competent authority under the Land Acquisition Act shall be payable proportionately as determined by the authority. The additional price determined shall be paid within thirty days of its demand.” E As per this condition enhancement could be made on the cost of the land as per the award by the competent authority under the Land Acquisition Act. But no such award was given by the Land Acquisition authority. In a suit a duty is cast on the defendants to lead evidence to show that increase on the cost F of the land is necessitated because of enhancement of paying higher rate of compensation to the Animal Husbandry Department. But no such evidence was led in the suit. D.W.1 nowhere stated that this enhancement was warranted because Animal Husbandry Department had to be paid compensation G at higher rate for acquisition of this land. It may be that because of decision given by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, it enabled the defendants to claim higher price for allotted plot. In a civil suit all facts have to be pleaded and proved. But in the present case, there is no evidence to substantiate the allegation. It was incumbent on the part of H 1164 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A the Haryana Urban Development Authority to substantiate the same by leading proper evidence that the enhancement was effected on account of increase in the price of acquisition of land. But the statement of DW-1, the only evidence which has been led by the defendant/respondent is significantly silent on this issue. In civil matters, the rights of the parties cannot B be determined just on the basis of any other on questions of fact.