The learned counsel would argue that after the dismissal of the suit filed in the Small Causes Court for non- prosecution, the Plaintiffs filed a fresh suit in the F Civil Court labelling it as one under Section 83 of the TP Act. Later, the Plaintiffs by way of amendment could not have said that the suit is not under Section 83 of the TP Act but the tenancy of the Defendant be terminated and he be directed to hand over the possession of the shop. In other words, it is argued that the Plaintiffs could not have reintroduced G the case of the tenancy and pray for a decree of possession. 24. The learned counsel vehemently submitted that even while permitting the Plaintiffs to ament the suit, the courts below ought to have kept the provisions of IX Rule 9 of the CPC in mind, as the Suit No. 154 of 2009 is not maintainable on the same cause of action. In H 912 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A other words, by way of proposed amendment, the Plaintiffs are trying to reintroduce the cause of action pleaded in the previous suit which stood dismissed for non-prosecution. This according to the learned counsel is not permissible in law. 25. It was further argued that as the suit is one for possession of B the property in question, the same could have been instituted only in the Small Causes Court and not before the Civil Court. 26. The learned counsel placed strong reliance on the decision of this Court in the context of Revajeetu Builders and Developers v. Narayanaswamy & Sons and Others reported in (2009) 10 SCC 84, C to submit that when the proposed amendment constitutionally or fundamentally changes the nature and character of the case then the court should not permit the plaintiffs to amend the plaint. 27. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel appearing for the Appellant Defendant prays that there being merit in his appeal, the same may be allowed and the impugned be set D aside. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT- PLAINTIFFS 28. On the other hand, this appeal has been, vehemently opposed E on behalf of the Original Plaintiffs submitting that no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court while passing the impugned . The learned counsel would submit that the High Court rightly declined to interfere with the passed by the District Court permitting the Plaintiffs to amend the plaint in exercise of its supervisory jurisdiction under Article 227 of the F Constitution. 29. According to the learned counsel appearing for the Plaintiffs, the provisions of IX Rule 9 of the CPC have no application to the facts of the present case. He would submit that for the applicability of IX Rule 9 of the CPC, the cause of action in the second suit G should be the same. However, the cause of action in both the suits are different.