That jurisdiction cannot be taken away by a legislative device that purports to confer power on a 15 (1997) 3 SCC 261 (7 Judge Bench) 16 (2020) 6 SCC 1 (5 Judge Bench) UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. AIR COMMODORE NK 1041 SHARMA (17038) ADM/LGL [SANJAY KAROL J.] tribunal to act illegally by enacting a statute that its illegal acts shall become legal the moment the tribunal chooses to say they are legal. The legality of an act or conclusion is something that exists outside and apart from the decision of an inferior tribunal. It is a part of the law of the land which cannot be fi nally determined or altered by any tribunal of limited jurisdiction. The High Courts and the Supreme Court alone can determine what the law of the land is “vis-à-vis” all other courts and tribunals and they alone can pronounce with authority and fi nality on what is legal and what is not. All that an inferior tribunal can do is to reach a tentative conclusion which is subject to review under Articles 226 and 136. Therefore, the jurisdiction of the High Courts under Article 226 with that of the Supreme Court above them remains to its fullest extent despite Section 105.” This position stood restated, recently, in Union of India v Parashotam Dass17 “26. On the legislature introducing the concept of “Tribunalisation” (one may say that this concept has seen many question marks vis-a- vis diff erent tribunals, though it has also produced some successes), the same was tested in L. Chandra Kumar18 case before a Bench of seven Judges of this Court. Thus, while upholding the principles of “Tribunalisation” under Article 323A or Article 323B, the Bench was unequivocally of the view that decisions of Tribunals would be subject to the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution, and would not be restricted by the 42nd Constitutional Amendment which introduced the aforesaid two Articles. In our view, this should have put the matter to rest, and no Bench of less than seven Judges could have doubted the proposition… Thus, it is, reiterated and clarifi ed that the power of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution is not inhibited, and superintendence and control under Article 227 of the Constitution are somewhat distinct from the powers of judicial review under Article 226 of the Constitution. (Emphasis Supplied) 17 2023 SCC OnLine SC 314(3 Judge Bench) 104 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 22. Thus, it only stands to reason then, that, a Tribunal subject to the High Court’s jurisdiction under Article 226, cannot be permitted by law, to direct the framing of policy by the Government. 23. In view of the above conclusion, the direction of the Tribunal for the Respondent to continue in service till such time of formation of the policy and the respondent being considered thereunder, is also to be considered. In the Armed Forces, the tenure of service is extended for a period of time upon a person taking offi ce of higher rank.