; (vi) all that gives meaning to a man’s life, such as B his tradition, culture, heritage and protection of that heritage in its full measure; and (vii) the right to Privacy. There are certain jurisdictions which have taken this right to include “the right to be forgotten” or the “right not to be remembered”. 84. When the word “life” was understood to mean only physical C existence, the deprivation of the same was generally conceived to be possible only by the State, except in cases where someone committed an offence punishable under the Penal Code. But the moment the right to life under Article 21 was developed into a bouquet of rights and science and technology intruded into all spheres to life, the deprivation of the D right by non-State actors also became possible. Another development that has taken place in the past 3 to 4 decades is that several of the functions of the Government have either been out-sourced to non-State actors or been entrusted to public-private partnerships. This is why, the High Courts and this Court modulated the tests to be applied for finding out the maintainability of an action under Article 226 or Article 32. Once E upon a time, the maintainability of a petition under Article 32/226 depended upon “who the respondent was”. Later, the focus shifted to “the nature of the duties/functions performed” by the respondent, for finding out his amenability to the jurisdiction under Article 226. 85. Life and personal liberty are two different things, even while F being an integral part of a whole and they have different connotations. Question No. 3 is so worded that the focus is not on ‘deprivation of life’ but on (i) ‘deprivation of personal liberty’ and that too by the acts or omissions of another person or private agency; and (ii) the duty of the State to affirmatively protect it. Therefore, we shall, in our discussion, G focus more on two aspects, namely, (i) deprivation of personal liberty by non-State actors; and (ii) the duty of the State. An elaborate exposition of the expression “personal liberty” and its origin in Greek civilization may be found in the of this Court in Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre vs. State of Maharashtra88. Suffice it to say for our purpose H 88 (2011) 1 SCC 694 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 681 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] that in this , this Court identified in paragraph 53 of the Report A that Article 21 guarantees two rights, namely, (i) right to life; and (ii) right to personal liberty. Therefore, because of the manner in which Question No. 3 is framed, we shall try to confine our discussion to personal liberty, though at times both may overlap or get interchanged. 86. The expression “personal liberty” appearing in Article 21 B was held by this Court in A.K. Gopalan (supra) to mean freedom from physical restraint of a person by incarceration or otherwise. However, the understanding of the expression “personal liberty” got enlarged in Kharak Singh vs. State of U.P.89 It was a case where a person who was originally charged for the offence of dacoity and later released for C lack of evidence, was put under surveillance by the Police, and his name included in the history-sheet under the U.P.