Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618] on the scope of judicial review by the court while deciding an application under Sections 8 or 11 of the Arbitration Act, post the amendments by Act 3 of 2016 (with retrospective eff ect from 23-10-2015) and even post the amendments vide Act 33 of 2019 (with eff ect from 9-8-2019), is no longer applicable.” (emphasis supplied) 152. We are of the opinion that the above premise of the Court in Vidya Drolia (supra) is erroneous because the omission of Section 11(6A) has not been notifi ed and, therefore, the said provision continues to remain 116 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. in full force. Since Section 11(6A) continues to remain in force, pending the notifi cation of the Central Government, it is incumbent upon this Court to give true eff ect to the legislative intent. 153. The 2015 Amendment Act has laid down diff erent parameters for judicial review under Section 8 and Section 11. Where Section 8 requires the referral court to look into the prima facie existence of a valid arbitration agreement, Section 11 confi nes the court’s jurisdiction to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement. Although the object and purpose behind both Sections 8 and 11 is to compel parties to abide by their contractual understanding, the scope of power of the referral courts under the said provisions is intended to be diff erent. The same is also evident from the fact that Section 37 of the Arbitration Act allows an appeal from the of an arbitral tribunal refusing to refer the parties to arbitration under Section 8, but not from Section 11. Thus, the 2015 Amendment Act has legislatively overruled the dictum of Patel Engineering (supra) where it was held that Section 8 and Section 11 are complementary in nature. Accordingly, the two provisions cannot be read as laying down a similar standard. 154. The legislature confi ned the scope of reference under Section 11(6A) to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement. The use of the term “examination” in itself connotes that the scope of the power is limited to a prima facie determination. Since the Arbitration Act is a self- contained code, the requirement of “existence” of an arbitration agreement draws eff ect from Section 7 of the Arbitration Act. In Duro Felguera (supra), this Court held that the referral courts only need to consider one aspect to determine the existence of an arbitration agreement – whether the underlying contract contains an arbitration agreement which provides for arbitration pertaining to the disputes which have arisen between the parties to the agreement. Therefore, the scope of examination under Section 11(6A) should be confi ned to the existence of an arbitration agreement on the basis of Section 7. Similarly, the validity of an arbitration agreement, in view of Section 7, should be restricted to the requirement of formal validity such as the requirement that the agreement be in writing. This interpretation also gives true eff ect to the doctrine of competence-competence by leaving the issue of substantive existence and validity of an arbitration agreement to be decided by arbitral tribunal under Section 16.