D In the fitness of things, we deem it necessary to direct the Official Liquidator to issue future notices of sale of assets of companies in liquidation in similar and comprehensive language as the one quoted supra from the Apex Court decision to avoid complications.” E 9. Aggrieved by the common and dated 05.02.2009 so passed by the Division Bench of the High Court, the appellant OL has preferred these appeals. 9.1. Learned Counsel for the appellant has submitted that in true operation of the applicable provisions of law, the appellant cannot be F made liable for the post-liquidation claims filed by respondent No. 1 while disregarding the interest and entitlement of pre-liquidation creditors. It has been argued that the appellant has admitted the pre-liquidation claims and has rightly rejected the post-liquidation claims as per Section 530 of the Companies Act, since the workers/employees were discharged from service. Learned Counsel for the appellant would submit that the G assets and properties of the company in liquidation are deemed to be in the custody of the Court and the appellant has not carried on any business nor utilised water after liquidation of company for gaining profit. 9.2. It has been strenuously argued by the learned counsel that the High Court was not justified in treating post-liquidation liabilities as a H OFFICIAL LIQUIDATOR v. UJJAIN NAGAR PALIKA NIGAM 1097 & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] part of the cost of winding up and thereby, giving such liabilities a priority A over all other liabilities of the company in liquidation, which is not permissible under Sections 529A, 530 and other provisions of the Companies Act. This would also be prejudicial to pre-liquidation creditors, being the workers, statutory creditors and general body of creditors. 9.3. It has also been argued that the respondent No. 1 had never B taken the necessary legal steps for realisation of its dues as claimed in its affidavit of proof of debt and the High Court did not even consider such affidavit before fastening the liability of post-liquidation claim on the appellant. 9.4. Learned Counsel has also submitted that the benefit given to C respondent No. 3 by the High Court should not have been given in view of the terms and conditions of sale of the assets of the company in liquidation. Learned Counsel has vehemently submitted that the tenderers/ bidders had to satisfy themselves about all the relevant aspects concerning the assets, when being sold on “as is where is whatever there is” basis; D and therefore, the purchaser would be deemed to have full knowledge of the defects, encumbrances, and statutory dues before purchasing the assets and properties of the company in liquidation. Learned counsel would emphasise that when the terms and conditions of the sale clearly mentioned that sale of assets would be on “as is where is whatever there is” basis, after having purchased the property on such terms, the E purchaser is not entitled to make any claim as regards diminution in the price on the ground of defect in title or description of the property.