A the first respondent on 19.02.2013. It is relevant at this stage to set out certain portions of the petition. The petition has been filed under Section 79 of the Act read with the statutory framework governing procurement of power through competitive bidding and articles 13 and 17 of the PPA between the parties for compensation due to change in law ‘during the construction period’. After setting out the facts which we do not consider B relevant to advert to, the following is noticed. “5. It is submitted that the following Changes in Law have occurred during the Construction Period of the Project which have caused the Capital Cost of the Project to increase substantially: C a) Increase in Declared price of Land for the Project which includes the land for the Power Station, the Moher, Moher-Amlohri Extension and Chhatrasal captive coal blocks; b) Increase in cost of implementation of the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Plan (“R&R Plan”) for the Moher, Moher-Amlohri Extension and Chhatrasal captive coal blocks; D c) Increase in cost of Geological Reports for the Moher, Moher- Amlohri Extension and Chhatrasal captive coal blocks; d) Increase in cost of compensatory afforestation for the Moher, Moher-Amlohri Extension and Chhatrasal captive coal blocks; E e) Increase in cost of Water Intake system due to an incorrect assessment of conditions in the original report supplied to the bidders at the RFP stage; f) Levy of excise duty on cement and steel used in the Project; and F g) Levy of Customs Duty on mining equipment imported for the Project.” (12) Since, in this case, we are concerned only with two aspects, namely claims under clause(e) and clause(g) we deem it appropriate G only to refer to the pleadings of the first respondent in regard to the same. Increase in cost of Water Intake System “65. As per Clause 1.4(v) of RFP for Sasan UMPP, the Procurers through the Authorized Representative had to provide water intake H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 13 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] study report. WAPCOS (a premier Government of India agency) A was appointed to conduct the water intake study. WAPCOS, as the expert agency identified the water intake pump house location and the pipeline route from the intake pump house to the power plant in its Report. This report was made available to all the bidders before bid submission so that the bidders could factor in the cost B of the water intake system in preparation of their financial bid i.e., the tariff at which power would be supplied to the Procurers. The total estimated cost for the construction of water intake system for the location and route indicated in the report by WAPCOS was estimated to be approximately Rs.92 Crores. The WAPCOS Report along with the estimated cost are annexed herewith and C marked as Annexure P-24 (Colly).” “66. After RPower acquired the Petitioner, WAPCOS was appointed to confirm the technical feasibility as part of detailed engineering exercise. During this process, it was discovered that the water intake location as finalized by WAPCOS before the D bidding was not an appropriate location and does not ensure reliable supply of water to the power plant.