It was further submitted that the process of setting up of a RO requires obtaining of numerous approvals and the same takes a considerable period of time. For instance, even prior to the construction of ROs, the OMCs are required to obtain D approvals from inter alia (1) Petroleum & Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), (2) Town and Country Planning Officers, (3) National Highway Authority of India, (4) District/Divisional Forest Officer/Regional Forest Officer, (5) approvals from the State Cabinet, etc. Furthermore, the OMCs are also required to obtain No-Objection Certificate from the concerned District Magistrate. Such NOC from E the District Magistrate comprises of approvals from various authorities, such as – the fire department, Police Department, PWD, Health and Safety, concerned Municipality and/or any other authority that the District Magistrate may consider necessary. Thereafter, upon construction of the ROs, the OMCs are required to obtain final approvals from inter alia F PESO, National Highway Authority of India, Legal Metrology Department Labour Department and the concerned Municipality. The timelines for some of the aforesaid approvals range over 120 to 240 days. In such circumstances, according to the learned counsel, by making it mandatory to obtain the CTO and CTE for setting up/operating a RO would cause lot of hardship and also delay the setting of ROs. G 12. The learned counsel laid much stress on the fact that the CPCB its vide Office Memorandum dated 07.01.2020 had issued guidelines for setting up of new petroleum pumps in compliance of the passed by the NGT dated 18.01.2019 in O.A. No. 86 of 2019 titled Gyanprakhash @ Pappu Singh v. GoI & Ors. The guidelines are H 224 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A very exhaustive and they take care of the apprehension expressed by the NGT in its impugned . Once these guidelines are scrupulously observed and followed, there is no need thereafter to obtain CTO and/or CTE. 13. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel B appearing for the appellant prayed that there being merit in his appeal, the same may be allowed and the directions issued in para 69(iii) and para 69(iv) of the impugned passed by the NGT, Chennai be set aside. Submissions on behalf of the respondent No. 2 – the original C applicant before the NGT: 14. The learned counsel appearing for the respondent No. 2 (the original applicant) vehemently submitted that no error, not to speak of any error of law, could be said to have been committed by the NGT in issuing the impugned directions. It was submitted that no interference is warranted at the hands of this Court in an appeal filed under Section 22 D of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 (for short, ‘the NGT Act’). According to the learned counsel, an appeal under Section 22 of the NGT Act is restricted to substantial questions of law. There is no substantial question of law involved in the present appeal. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prays that there E being no merit in the present appeal, the same may be dismissed.