Rule 4.— The distribution of the share referred to in Rule 3— (i) among the heirs in the branch of the pre-deceased son shall be so made that his widow (or widows together) and the surviving sons and daughters gets equal portions; and the branch of his predeceased sons gets the same portion; (ii) among the heirs in the branch of the pre-deceased daughter shall be so made that the surviving sons and daughters get equal portions.” 38. In terms of Section 10, the division of property of an intestate among the heirs in Class - I is governed by the four Rules extracted above. They stipulate that (i) the widow or if there is more than one all of them together shall take one share; (ii) the surviving sons and daughters and mother shall each take one share; and (iii) heirs in the branch of each pre-deceased son or each pre-deceased daughter take between them one share. 39. Rule 2 of Section 10 stipulates that “the surviving sons and daughters and the mother of the intestate shall each take one share”. In using the expression “surviving sons and daughters” the HSA 1956 has not made any distinction based on the legitimacy of the child. Parliament, following well-settled principles of interpretation, would be cognizant of the legitimacy granted by the provisions of Section 16 of the HMA 1955 and the widening of the protection by the substitution of the provision in 1976. There is no reason or justifi cation to qualify the provisions of Rule 2 of Section 10 with reference to the legitimacy of the child. Hence in dividing the property of an intestate in terms of Section 10 of the HSA 1956, no distinction can be made on the basis of such a classifi cation, once such a child is deemed 356 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. legitimate under Section 16 of the HMA 1955. Such a construction shall also accord with the provisions of sub-Section 3 of Section 16 of the HMA 1955 which enunciates that the conferment of legitimacy by sub-Section (1) or sub-Section (2) shall not confer on a such a child “any rights in or to the property of any person, other than the parents.” 40. Section 10 of the HSA 1956 provides for the division of “the property of an intestate” among the heirs in Class-I of the Schedule. The expression “property of an intestate’” means property that belongs to the intestate. The Explanation to sub-Section (3) of Section 6 provides for the ascertainment of the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener which is deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition had taken place immediately before his death. That share as ascertained in terms of the Explanation to sub-Section (3) of Section 6 would devolve on the basis of the principles enunciated in Section 8 and has to be distributed among the Class-I heirs in terms of Section 10. Class-I of the Schedule is in the following terms: “Son; daughter; widow; mother; son of a pre-deceased son; daughter of a pre-deceased son; son of a predeceased daughter; daughter of a pre- deceased daughter; widow of a pre-deceased son; son of a predeceased son of a pre-deceased son; daughter of a pre-deceased son of a pre- deceased son; widow of a pre-deceased son of a pre-deceased son; [son of a pre-deceased daughter of a pre-deceased daughter; daughter of a pre-deceased daughter of a pre-deceased daughter; daughter of a pre- deceased son of a pre-deceased daughter; daughter of a pre-deceased daughter of a pre-deceased son].” 41.