The award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties to this contract…..” E (emphasis supplied) 5. It is in the above-referred context that the applicant, being a foreign company, filed the present application under Section 11(6) of the Act before this Court. 6. Submissions : Mr. Ramakrishnan Viraraghavan, learned Senior F Advocate, along with Mr. Shayam D. Nandan, AOR appearing for the applicant, submitted that appointment of the Sole Arbitrator as per the respondent’s letter dated 03.10.2022 would be contrary to Section 12(5) of the Act. For this purpose, he also relied on the of this Court in Perkins Eastman Architects DPC and Another v. HSCC (India) Ltd.6 The objection is simply that the respondent, Union of India, being a G party to the agreement, appointing its own employee, an officer in the Ministry of Law, as the Sole Arbitrator would conflict with the mandate of Section 12(5) of the Act. 6 (2020) 20SCC 760. H 722 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 7. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the respondent, submitted that the in Perkins (supra) would have no application to the facts of the present case. She would point out that the contract in the present case, unlike in Perkins (supra), is in the name of the President of India, and that is a clear point of distinction. The learned ASG also relied on Indian Oil Corporation B Ltd. and ors. v. Raja Transport Pvt. Ltd.7 to contend that once a party enters into an agreement for the appointment of a person as an arbitrator, it cannot simply opt-out of the arbitration clause. In the alternative, the ASG also relied on the decision of this Court inCentral Organisation for Railway Electrification v. ECI-SPIC-SMO-MCML (JV) A joint C venture company8, where appointment of a panel of arbitrators by the Ministry of Railways was held to be valid. She would, therefore, contend that the power to nominate an officer in the Ministry of Law is not in conflict with Section 12(5) of the Act. 8. Analysis : As the objection about appointment of the arbitrator D as per Clause 28 of the Conditions of Tender is based on the statutory prohibition under Section 12(5) of the Act, we will reproduce relevant part of the section for ready reference: “12. Grounds of Challenge:… (1) When a person is approached in connection with his E possible appointment as an arbitrator, he shall disclose in writing any circumstances, –– ... (2)… F (3)… (4)… (5) Notwithstanding any prior agreement to the contrary, any person whose relationship, with the parties or counsel or the subject-matter of the dispute, falls under any of the categories G specified in the Seventh Schedule shall be ineligible to be appointed as an arbitrator: 7 (2009) 8 SCC 520. 8 (2020) 14 SCC 712. H M/S GLOCK ASIA-PACIFIC LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA 723 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] Provided that parties may, subsequent to disputes having A arisen between them, waive the applicability of this sub- section by an express agreement in writing” (emphasis supplied) 9.