5.2. The Board notified the approved criteria to regulate the selection and appointment to the posts of drug inspectors. The same are as under: C D E 5.3. After receipt of application forms for the post of drug inspector F in pursuance of the advertisement, the authorities issued a notification in a local daily on 31st May, 2009, notifying the short-listed candidates. Another notification dated 12th June, 2009 was issued by the Board captioned “Discrepancy noticed in criteria of drug inspector (Health).” By virtue of the said notification, the respondents recast the criteria of G selection as under: H 726 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A B C 5.4. On 8th September, 2009, the Board published the Select List D and recommended sixty-four candidates for appointment as drug inspectors in the Drug and Food Control Organisation of Jammu and Kashmir. The Select List comprised of 42 candidates selected from the open merit category and a total of 22 candidates were selected amongst the other reserved categories out of which 14 names were selected under the RBA category. The Board, on 15th October, 2009, placed the E Select List before the Health and Medical Education Department being the concerned department, for the issuance of appointment s after verifying all original documents. 5.5. On 12th November, 2009, the Office of the Controller, Drug and Food Control Organisation of Jammu and Kashmir, issued F Appointment s, appointing the selected candidates as drug inspectors in the Pay Scale of Rs.9300-34800 and Pay Band of Rs.4,200/-. 5.6. Some candidates who remained unsuccessful in the selection process filed Writ Petition (Service) No. 1685 of 2009 before the Jammu G and Kashmir High Court atJammu, with a prayer to quash the selection of 56 out of the total number selected candidates and to issue a writ in the nature of mandamus commanding the authorities to instead select and appoint the writ petitioners as drug inspectors. The salient grounds on which the selection process was challenged are as under: H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 727 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] a) That the candidates appointed as drug inspectors had acquired A the prescribed qualifications for the post of drug inspector, from universities which were not affiliated with the Pharmacy Council of India. That the eligibility criteria enshrined in the Advertisement Notice dated 5th May, 2008 was recast vide Notification dated 12th June 2009 and the criterion as regards B the obtainment of qualifications from a University recognized and notified by the Central Government, was omitted. The petitioners in the Writ Petition contended that the reason why the qualification was omitted was neither gatherable nor understandable. C b) That the selection carried out by the Selection Committee was not legally sustainable as the quorum of the Selection Committee was not complete as the Chairman of the Board being one of the members of the interview committee which conducted the interview process did not participate in the interview process. Further, the expert member of the Interview D Committee was not from the field of pharmacy.