iii) The learned Single Judge further observed that in case the respondent authorities decide to carry out direction No. (ii) E above, the Board may allow the selected/appointed candidates to continue till the exercise undertaken in compliance with direction No. (ii) was completed and appointment s were issued, as their ouster may result in administrative problems, risk to public health and would lead to the collapse of the entire machinery set up to achieve the objective of the Drugs F and Cosmetics Act. 5.10. Thereafter, nine Letters Patent Appeals were filed before the High Court challenging the dated 18.12.2015 passed by the learned Single Judge. Out of the nine appeals, three LPAs (LPA Nos 277/2015, 278/2015 and 12/2016) were filed by persons who were G selected in the open merit category and made party respondents in at least one of the writ petitions; three LPAs (LPA Nos. 279/2015, 134/ 2016 and 135/2016) were filed by the appellants herein, i.e., persons who were selected in the reserved category and were not made a party to any of the three writ petitions and three LPAs (LPA Nos. 97/2016, 98/2016 and 105/2016) were filed by the Board. H 732 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 5.11. By the impugned dated 29th October, 2021, the Division Bench of the High Court upheld the findings of the learned Single Judge on merits and disposed of the appeals after modifying the directions issued by the learned Single Judge. The relevant observations in the impugned dated 29th October, 2021 are as under: B i) The Division Bench of the High Court upheld the finding of the Single Judge viz the inclusion of Dr. Samina Farhat, Assistant Professor, Department of Pharmacology, Government Medical College, Srinagar, as an expert in the Selection Committee and held that it was expected that she had a fairly good knowledge of Pharmacy. C ii) The Division Bench also held that the final award roll as to the performance of the candidates in viva-voce and the points secured on the basis of merit in the eligibility qualification and the qualification warranting extra weight was not signed by members of the Selection Committee. Further, there was D nothing on record to indicate the assessment of candidates individually made by members of the Selection Committee and their overall merit including the marks awarded in the interview. iii) One of the Judges of the Division Bench, Justice Vinod E Chatterji Koul observed that direction No. (i) issued by the learned Single Judge was contrary to and in conflict with direction No. (ii). That if the learned Single Judge had found the marks awarded in the interview/viva-voce to be not up to the mark and contradictory to the selection criteria, then direction No. (i) ought not to have been issued by the learned F Single Judge as it would also have an impact on prospective candidates and would be contrary to judicial precedent. Direction No. (ii) was modified by the Division Bench to the extent that “appointment of petitioners as directed is to be made” was omitted by the Division Bench.