7 Section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 reads: “9. Courts to try all civil suits unless barred.—The Courts shall (subject to the provisions herein contained) have jurisdiction to try all suits of a civil nature excepting suits of which their cognizance is either expressly or impliedly barred. Explanation I.—A suit in which the right to property or to an offi ce is contested is a suit of a civil nature, notwithstanding that such right may depend entirely on the decision of questions as to religious rites or ceremonies. Explanation II. —For the purposes of this section, it is immaterial whether or not any fees are attached to the offi ce referred to in Explanation I or whether or not such offi ce is attached to a particular place.” 8 Hereinafter the ‘Contract Act’. The relevant portion of Section 28, Indian Contract Act, 1872 reads: “28. Agreements in restraint of legal proceedings, void. —Every agreement, — (a) by which any party thereto is restricted absolutely from enforcing his rights under or in respect of any contract, by the usual legal proceedings in the ordinary tribunals, or which limits the time within which he may thus enforce his rights; or (b) which extinguishes the rights of any party thereto, or discharges any party thereto, from any liability, under or in respect of any contract on the expiry of a specifi ed period so as to restrict any party from enforcing his rights, is void to that extent.” 9 The relevant portion of Section 28, Indian Contract Act, 1872 reads: “Exception 1.—Saving of contract to refer to arbitration dispute that may arise. —This section shall not render illegal a contract, by which two or more persons agree that any dispute which may arise between them in respect of any subject or class of subjects shall be referred to arbitration, and that only the amount awarded in such arbitration shall be recoverable in respect of the dispute so referred. Exception 2.—Saving of contract to refer questions that have already arisen.— Nor shall this section render illegal any contract in writing, by which two or more persons agree to refer to arbitration any question between them which has already arisen, or aff ect any provision of any law in force for the time being as to references to arbitration.” 720 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 7. A ‘contract’ is defi ned under the Contract Act as an agreement enforceable by law.10 Agreement11 is formed when a promise or mutual promises (defi ned in Section 2(b))12 are reciprocated with a consideration (defi ned in Section 2(d))13, and these promises can either be express (when its proposal or acceptance is in words) or implied (when its proposal or acceptance is otherwise than in words).14 An agreement is legally enforceable as a contract if it is formed with the free consent of parties who are competent to contract, for a lawful consideration and lawful object.15 i. Arbitration Agreement is a Contract 8. An arbitration agreement is more specifi cally defi ned in Section 7(1) of the 1996 Act as an “an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defi ned legal relationship, whether contractual or not.” The use of the phrase ‘whether contractual or not’ qualifi es the dispute, not the agreement; an arbitration agreement must always be a contract, but the dispute that is referred to arbitration need not necessarily be contractual, suffi ce it to be arising out of a “defi ned legal relationship”.16 10 Section 2(h) of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 reads: “(h) An agreement enforceable by law is a contract;” 11 Section 2(e), Indian Contract Act 1872 reads: “(e) Every promise and every set of promises, forming the consideration for each other, is an agreement;” 12 Section 2(b), Indian Contract Act 1872 reads: “(b) When the person to whom the proposal is made signifi es his assent thereto, the proposal is said to be accepted.