A sensible law cannot, for instance, permit appointment of an arbitrator who is himself a party to the dispute, or who is employed by (or G similarly dependent on) one party, even if this is what the parties agreed. The Commission hastens to add that Mr. PK Malhotra, the ex officio member of the Law Commission suggested having an exception for the State, and allow State parties to appoint employee arbitrators. The Commission is H of the opinion that, on this issue, there cannot be any M/S GLOCK ASIA-PACIFIC LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA 727 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] distinction between State and non-State parties. The concept A of party autonomy cannot be stretched to a point where it negates the very basis of having impartial and independent adjudicators for resolution of disputes. In fact, when the party appointing an adjudicator is the State, the duty to appoint an impartial and independent adjudicator is that much more B onerous – and the right to natural justice cannot be said to have been waived only on the basis of a “prior” agreement between the parties at the time of the contract and before arising of the disputes.” (emphasis supplied) C 17. Following the recommendation of the Law Commission, sub- section (5) to Section 12 was inserted to the Act with effect from 23.10.2015. As the statutory mandate of Section 12(5) of the Act is to apply “notwithstandingany prior agreement”, Clause 28 of the Agreement (Conditions of Tender) falls foul of Paragraph 1 of the Seventh D Schedule to the Act. 18. In Perkins (supra), this Court held that any person who has an interest in the outcome of the dispute would be ineligible to be an arbitrator. Naturally, such a person should not have the power to appoint a sole arbitrator. The relevant portion of this is as under: E 21. But, in our view that has to be the logical deduction from TRF Ltd. Para 50 of the decision shows that this Court was concerned with the issue, “whether the Managing Director, after becoming ineligible by operation of law, is he still eligible to nominate an arbitrator” The ineligibility referred to therein, was as a result of operation of law, in that F a person having an interest in the dispute or in the outcome or decision thereof, must not only be ineligible to act as an arbitrator but must also not be eligible to appoint anyone else as an arbitrator and that such person cannot and should not have any role in charting out any course to the dispute G resolution by having the power to appoint an arbitrator. The next sentences in the paragraph, further show that cases where both the parties could nominate respective arbitrators of their choice were found to be completely a different situation. The reason is clear that whatever advantage a party H 728 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A may derive by nominating an arbitrator of its choice would get counter-balanced by equal power with the other party.