Interestingly, those who claim title on the basis of the preliminary and final decrees in the partition suit, were initially F prepared to give up their claim to a portion of the property which is in the occupation of those who are before the Executing Court as obstructionists/ claim petitioners. But the claim petitioners have taken a tough stand, exhibiting a willingness to do or die. But insofar as claim of the State Government is concerned, both the decree holders as well as the claim G petitioners stand united in their opposition. Apart from these three sets of main contestants, there are also others including (i) those who are afraid of the potential of the impugned to harm their interest in respect of other properties covered by the decrees in the civil suit; and (ii) an Asset Reconstruction Company to whom the mortgage of one of the properties has been assigned along with the debt. H 330 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 95. For the purpose of easy appreciation, we shall refer to the parties as (i) decree holders and assignees of the decrees; (ii) claim petitioners who were parties before the High Court; (iii) claim petitioners whose impleadment applications were dismissed by High Court; (iv) third parties; and (v) State Government. B Part-III: How do the different parties to the dispute claim title? 96. Persons who challenge the impugned fall under three categories, namely, (i) the assignees of decrees; (ii) claim petitioners whose impleadment applications have been dismissed by the High Court; C and (iii) the State Government. The basis of the claim of the assignees of decrees 97. The parties to the suit, the decree holders and the assignees of the decrees (Cyrus/Gold Stone/Trinity) claim title to the land of extent of about 98 acres in Survey No.172 of Hydernagar primarily on the D basis: (i) that it was the Mathruka property of Khurshid Jah; (ii) that Dildar-Un-Nissa Begum sought partition of this property along with other properties on the basis that it was E inheritable; (iii) that in the and preliminary decree passed on 28.06.1963 the Court had adjudicated that the property was a Matruka property; (iv) that even the proceedings before the Nazim Atiyat and the F Muntakhab issued thereafter confirm the entire village of Hydernagar asInam Altamgha in the name of Khurshid Jah; (v) that Inam Altamgha is hereditary and transferable; (vi) that pursuant to the preliminary decree, Receiver-cum- Commissioner appointed by the Court sought directions from G the Court to the Collector to hand over possession of the land by filing an application in IA No.268 of 1966; (vii) that on 23.02.1967, HEH Nizam (defendant No.156) sold his decretal rights to Cyrus (defendant No.206) by way of a registered sale deed; H M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 331 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] (viii) that on 24.03.1967 Application No.268 of 1966 was allowed A by the High Court directing the Collector to deliver possession to the Receiver; (ix) that on 05.11.1970 the High Court passed an in the application filed by Khasim Nawaz Jung (defendant No.157) and Cyrus (defendant No.206) for partition of the property B into half amongst themselves holding that immediately after allotment of shares, D-157 and 206 may exercise their choice and move the commission to take steps in this regard; (x) that on 15.03.1972, the Receiver-cum-Commissioner filed C a memo before the Court specifically in regard to Item No.38-Hydernagar stating that he has verified the records available in Tehsil Office and the pahani patrikas and found that the patta has been shown in the name of Nawab Himayath Nawaz Jung (Ameer-E-Paigah) in respect of the D lands in Survey Nos.