E 5.6 Therefore, on true interpretation of Section 18 of the Act, 1989, it is specifically observed and held that even in case of termination/ removal of an employee of a recognized institution after holding departmental enquiry/proceedings prior approval of the Director of Education has to be obtained as per first proviso to Section 18 of the F Act, 1989. 6. In view of the above and for the reasons stated hereinabove, the impugned and passed by the Division Bench of the High Court restoring the of termination which as such was without obtaining the prior approval of the Director of Education deserves to be G quashed and set aside and is accordingly quashed and set aside. The of learned Tribunal setting aside the of termination confirmed by the learned Single Judge is hereby restored. Consequently, the appellant shall have to be reinstated in service and considering the fact that the respondent(s) is/are un-aided institution and the of termination was passed as far as back in the year 1998, we direct that H 960 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A the appellant shall be entitled to 50% of the back wages, however, he shall be entitled to all other benefits notionally including the seniority etc., if any. 6.1 Civil appeal No. 100/2023 arising out of the impugned and passed in D.B. Special Appeal Writ No. 1077/2005 is hereby B allowed according to the aforesaid extent. 6.2 Now so far as Civil Appeal No. 101/2023 arising out of the impugned and passed in D.B. Special Appeal Writ No. 826/2011 is concerned, the Division Bench of the High Court has not at all dealt with the said appeal on merits while upholding the of C termination. Therefore, we set aside the passed by the High Court in D.B. Special Appeal Writ No. 826/2011 and remand the matter to the High Court to decide the same afresh in accordance with law and on its own merits. Both the appeals are accordingly allowed to the aforesaid extent and in terms of the above. In the facts and circumstances of the case D there shall be no as to costs. Ankit Gyan Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Pratap Singh, LCRA) E F G H