vs. The Magistrate, Khayelisha and Ors. (2004) 18 BHRC 52 : (2005) 1 BCLR 1 (CC), wherein the South African Constitutional Court had declared the Black Administration Act, 1927 (South Africa) and the Regulations of the Administration and Distribution of the Estates of Deceased Blacks (South D Africa) as ultra vires. It was held by the majority that the rule of male primogeniture as it applied in customary law to the inheritance of property was inconsistent with its Constitution and invalid to the extent that it excluded or hindered women and extra-marital children from inheriting property. The South African Constitutional Court further observed that, the rules of succession in customary law had not been given the space E to adapt and to keep pace with changing societal conditions and values, instead, they had over time become increasingly out of step with the real values and circumstances of the societies they were meant to serve. Thus, the official rules of customary law of succession were no longer universally observed. The South African Constitutional Court, therefore, F held that, the exclusion of women from inheritance on the grounds of gender was a clear violation of the constitutional prohibition against unfair discrimination. (v) In G. Sekar vs. Geetha & Ors. (2009) 6 SCC 99 this Court observed that, in terms of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution of India, G the female heirs, subject to the statutory rule operating in that field, are required to be treated equally to the male heirs. This Court further observed that, gender equality is recognized by the world community in general in the human rights regime. (vi) In this context, it would be useful to refer to the following observations made by Altamas Kabir, C.J. in his supplemental opinion in H 348 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A State of Maharashtra vs. Indian Hotel and Restaurants Association, (2013) 8 SCC 519: “147. Women worldwide are becoming more and more assertive of their rights and want to be free to make their own choices, which is not an entirely uncommon or unreasonable approach. B But it is necessary to work towards a change in mindset of people in general not only by way of laws and other forms of regulations, but also by way of providing suitable amenities for those who want to get out of this trap and to either improve their existing conditions or to begin a new life altogether. Whichever way one looks at it, the matter requires the serious attention of the State C and its authorities, if the dignity of women, as a whole, and respect for them, is to be restored.” (vii) Recently in Secretary, Ministry of Defence vs. Babita Puniya and others, (2020) 7 SCC 469, a struggle for equality of opportunity for women seeking Permanent Commissions (PCs) in the D Indian Army succeeded after a decade and more spent in litigation in which women engaged in Short Service Commissions (SSCs) in the Army sought parity with their male counterparts in obtaining PCs.