F 18. Thereafter, another Bench of three judges in Ahmedabad Electricity Co. Ltd. v. Gujarat Inns (P) Ltd,17 held that in a case of a fresh connection, though the premises are the same, the auction purchasers cannot be held liable to clear the arrears incurred by the previous owners in respect of power supplied to the premises in the G absence of a specific statutory provision in that regard. However, this Court opined that there was a need for reconsideration of the “wide propositions of law” laid down in Isha Marbles (supra). 16 1995 SCC (2) 648 17 (2004) 3 SCC 587 H 658 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 19. In Hyderabad Vanaspathi Ltd v. Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board,18 a three-judge Bench of this Court observed that the terms and conditions of supply notified by the Electricity Boards are statutory in character as they have been framed in exercise of statutory power under Section 49 of the 1948 Act. The mere fact that individual agreements were entered into with every consumer did not make the B agreement contractual in nature. 20. In a series of subsequent decisions of this Court, various two- judge Bench decisions have taken note of specific statutory regulations enabling recovery of dues from subsequent purchasers. In the process, this Court distinguished Isha Marbles (supra), where the Court had no C occasion to consider similar provisions. In Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd v. M/s Paramount Polymers Pvt Ltd,19 this Court was dealing with Clause 21A of the relevant Conditions of Supply, which entitled a licensee to demand payment of outstanding dues from a transferee if they desired a service connection. It was held that Isha D Marbles (supra) cannot be applied to strike down Clause 21A as the Court in that case had no occasion to consider the effect of a similar clause. The matter was remitted back to the High Court for a fresh decision since it had not adjudicated on the implication of Clause 21A of the Conditions of Supply. E 21. In Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited v. DVS Steels and Alloys Private Limited,20 this Court observed that a licensee or an electricity distributor can insist upon fulfilment of statutory rules, regulations or the conditions of supply so long as they are not arbitrary and unreasonable. It was further held that the conditions of supply mandating the clearance of electricity dues of a previous owner F by a new purchaser before electricity supply is restored or a new connection is given to the premises cannot be termed as unreasonable or arbitrary. 22. The position of law as formulated in Paramount Polymers (supra) and Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (supra) G has been consistently followed by this Court in ensuing decisions. Recently, in Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Co. Ltd. v. 18 (1998) 4 SCC 470 19 AIR 2007 SC 2 H 20 (2009) 1 SCC 210 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 659 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Srigdhaa Beverages,21 this Court reiterated the judicial thinking on the A liability of subsequent owners with regard to the electricity dues of the past owners.