Balakrishna Mudaliar vs. M. Satyanarayana Rao and Ors.3 and Shyam Singh vs. Daryao Singh (dead) by LRs and Ors4. It was submitted that such a right is not personal and the same can always C be assigned. In any case, it was not assigned in favour of any third party rather it was by the father-in-law of Veena Gupta in her favour, as he was getting old. It was in the family only. He further submitted that Special Leave Petition bearing SLP(C) No. 5910 of 2014 filed by Rajmani Devi & Ors. against Veena Gupta, respondent no.1 herein challenging the same on the issue of default in payment of rent on the part D of original defendants was dismissed by this Court on 21.02.2014. 9.Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. DISCUSSION 10.The primary issue which requires consideration in the present E appeal is as to whether the vendor can assign the right contained in a sale deed to get the property registered back or the right being personal cannot be assigned. 11.The contents of the documents placed on record would be relevant to appreciate the issue. The relevant clauses in the conditional F sale deed are extracted hereinbelow: - “That the vendors after taking confident of the vendee about the right title of the vendors and possession executed the conditional sale deed on valid consideration of Rs.5,000/ {Rupees five thousands} only and handed over the full right title and possession G to the vendee St. Indira Devi having left no concern with the property. The vendors were out of the purview of Land Calling Act. 3 (1993) 2 SCC 740 4 (2003) 12 SCC 160 H 378 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A That the conditional sale deed is being executed on condition that if the vendors would return the full consideration money to the vendee by July 1984 then the vendee would return the same by means of registered sale deed at the cost of the vendors and the vendors fail to return the consideration money within the stipulated time the vendee would be full owner of the property till then the B vendee would neither execute any deed of conveyance to others with respect to the land would mortgage the land nor would became the guarantor over the land nor would take loan over the land, if it would have been done it would be illegal. The vendee would also neither change the physical feature of the house nor the vendee C would be entitle to pay the rent to the state of Bihar. If the vendors intend to return the consideration money to the vendee within the stipulated period the vendee would execute a sale deed in favour of the vendors (failing which/the vendors would deposit the full consideration money in the court and the right title D of the vendee would be seized and in that case the vendee would bear the cost of the damages. If the vendee would be dispossessed from the afore said land or part thereof on account of some legal complication the vendors and their legal heirs would be liable to pay the full consideration money -A with damages to the vendee.