of NCT Delhi12, wherein this court interpretated the provisions of Medical Termination of Pregnancy Amendment Act 2021 to include single and unmarried women. 25. Learned counsel further emphasized on the need for mechanization and graded implementation of inclusive defi nition of manual scavenger. Examples like Bandicoot13, were provided to illustrate the potential for modern technology. It was noted that many countries have replaced the term “manholes” with “machine holes” emphasizing the signifi cance of change in language. A graded timeline was suggested to completely mechanize the process. Counsel also submitted shortcomings in schemes like Swachh Bharat Mission and NAMASTE as it is only limited to urban local bodies, second it remains silent on mechanization technology deployed by the state authorities. Lastly, some directions were also suggested such as reporting on the surveys for the identifi cation of manual scavengers being done in all districts, issuing identifi cation cards, compliance with rehabilitation requirements and holding meetings of monitoring committees at the State, district and sub-district levels. Additionally, it was proposed that data should be segregated to specify the number of women engaged in manual scavenging. 26. The MAANGANGGO India International, NGO/Trust based in New Delhi, impleaded as intervenor prayed for the issuance of a writ or appropriate measure to direct the Vice Chairman of NITI Aayog (National Institution for Transforming India) to formulate a sustainable and time-bound Comprehensive Policy Action Plan which should include the mandatory adoption of modern technology to fully mechanize sewerage cleaning, with the declaration of manual scavenging in any form as a punishable off ense. It should also address the need for upgrading outdated and hazardous 11 [1978] 3 SCR 207 12 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1321. 13 a robot developed in 2018 110 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. sanitation infrastructure, promoting eco-friendly waste disposal methods, ensuring compulsory free education for the children of manual scavengers, particularly girls, and providing vocational training and fi nancial incentives for the rehabilitation of manual scavengers, with a special focus on women who constitute a signifi cant portion of those aff ected by this practice. Submission on behalf of Respondents 27. This court by dated May 2, 2023, requested the Additional Solicitor General (ASG) to propose a practical method for operationalization of the CMC. The ASG responded to that CMC did not convene for the past three years that these committees were conducted annually and last being on January 8, 2020. However, subsequent meetings could not be held due to COVID pandemic. Meanwhile, the tenure of the committee members, including those representing civil societies, have expired during this period.14 28. Regarding the survey, the ASG emphasized that the responsibility for conducting the survey falls under the mandate of 2013 Act. According to the provisions of this Act, the Chief Executive Offi cer of the municipality or gram panchayat is responsible for overseeing the completion of the survey. Furthermore, in accordance with the 2013 rules, a “District Level Survey Committee” chaired by the District Magistrate is tasked with monitoring and supervising the survey process at the district level.