1996 of 2007 and in that regard the trial Court was directed to record the additional evidence of the defendants and to transmit the same to the High Court along with a report. 27.Indisputably, the case of the respondent herein/the plaintiff is based on prior possession and illegal dispossession by the respondents. G During his cross- examination also PW-1 the respondent herein deposed that he is not claiming a right of ownership in the subject suit. Therefore, the question is how the appellants can claim that such a suit is not maintainable. It is also a fact that after carefully scanning the pleadings and evidence of the defendants, the High Court, as per the impugned , held that what is raised by the defendants to resist the case of H SHIVSHANKARA & ANR. v. H.P. VEDAVYASA CHAR 385 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] the plaintiff / the respondent herein is nothing but a plea that attracts the A principle of “jus tertii”, which in Latin means ‘right of a third party.’ In fact, it is a plea against a claim of interest in property, raised in defence that a third party has a better right than the claimant. In this context, it is relevant to refer to R.F.V. Heuston, Salmond on the Law of Torts 4 (17th Edn.,1977), in which it was observed that no defendant in an B action of trespass can plead the ‘jus tertii’ that the right of possession outstanding in some third person. Obviously, to buttress their contention that the suit is maintainable, based on the contention of the defendants that the right of possession is outstanding in some third person that attract the principal of ‘jus tertii’ and that they, therefore, are not justified in challenging the maintainability of the suit the defendant relied upon the C decision of this Court in Krishna Ram Mahale (Dead), By LRs v. Mrs. Shobha Venkat Rao6. The impugned would reveal that based on the exposition of law in the aforesaid decision and taking note of the factual position, the High Court has come to the conclusion that the challenge made by the defendants regarding the maintainability of D the suit is untenable. In that context, the High Court has also considered the decision of this Court in Nair Service Society Ltd v. Rev. Father K. C. Alexander & Ors.7In the said decision, this Court held that it could not be said that after a period of six months is over, a suit based on prior possession alone, is not possible and it in so far as relevant reads thus: - E “15. We agree as to a part of the reasoning but with respect we cannot subscribe to the view that after the period of 6 months is over a suit based on prior possession alone, is not possible. Section 8 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 does not limit the kinds of suit but only lays down that the procedure F laid down by the Code of Civil Procedure must be followed.