374 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 18. As far as the argument with regard to delay is concerned, the s of this court have clearly held that in such matters, the claim crystallizes upon the issuance of the fi nal bill – which in this case was on 14.12.1992. The contractor’s complaint with respect to payment was fi rst aired to the EE in 1988; the rejection resulted in an appeal before the SE, who never rendered his opinion or decision. Even in 1993, (after the fi nal bill was drawn), the SE’s decision was not given. In the circumstances, the claim before the civil court for the appointment of the arbitrator: made in January, 1995 was within the period of limitation. In Inder Singh Rekhi (supra), it was held that: “It is true that on completion of the work a right to get payment would normally arise but where the fi nal bills as in this case have not been prepared as appears from the record and when the assertion of the claim was made on 28th February, 1983 and there was non- payment, the cause of action arose from that date, that is to say, 28th of February, 1983. It is also true that a party cannot postpone the accrual of cause of action by writing reminders or sending reminders but where the bill had not been fi nally prepared, the claim made by a claimant is the accrual of the cause of action. A dispute arises where there is a claim and a denial and repudiation of the claim. The existence of dispute is essential for appointment of an arbitrator under Section 8 or a reference under Section 20 of the Act. (See Law of Arbitration by R.S. Bachawat, 1st Edition, page 354.) There should be dispute and there can only be a dispute when a claim is asserted by one party and denied by the other on whatever grounds. Mere failure or inaction to pay does not lead to the inference of the existence of dispute. Dispute entails a positive element and assertion in denying, not merely inaction to accede to a claim or a request. Whether in a particular case a dispute has arisen or not has to be found out from the facts and circumstances of the case.” In J.C. Budhraja v. Chairman, Orissa Mining Corporation Ltd. and Another,8 this court again addressed the question of limitation as follows: 8 2008 [2] SCC 444. M/S. S.D. SHINDE TR. PARTNER v. GOVT. OF 375 MAHARASHTRA AND ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “…The Appellant is obviously confusing the limitation for a petition under Section 8(2) of the Arbitration Act, 1940 with the limitation for the claim itself. The limitation for a suit is calculated as on the date of fi ling of the suit. In the case of arbitration, limitation for the claim is to be calculated on the date on which the arbitration is deemed to have commenced. 26. Section 37(3) of the Act provides that for the purpose of the Limitation Act, an arbitration is deemed to have been commenced when one party to the arbitration agreement serves on the other party thereto, a notice requiring the appointment of an arbitrator.