The marginal note to Article 370 and the placement of the provision in Part XXI of the Constitution cannot be used to hold that the provision is temporary for the following reasons: a. Since the Maharaja or his successors did not sign a merger agreement with the Union of India, the State retained residual sovereignty and Article 370 was incorporated in the Indian Constitution as a recognition of the same.35 The reason for 30 Submissions On Behalf Of The Petitioners, Mr Shekhar Naphade. 31 Written Submissions of Mr. Gopal Subramanium, Senior Advocate on behalf of the Petitioner. 32 Submissions on behalf of the petitioners by Senior Advocate Prashanto Chandra Sen. 33 Outline Of Submissions on Behalf Of The Petitioners By Muzaff ar H. Baig, Senior Advocate. 34 Written Submissions of Mr. Gopal Subramanium, Senior Advocate on behalf of the Petitioner. 35 Submissions by Mr Zaff ar Shah, Senior Advocate. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 35 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] placing Article 370 in Part XXI of the Constitution of India was that the Constituent Assembly of India assumed that as and when the Constituent Assembly of the State will be established, it would recommend the abrogation of Article 370, and thereby fully integrate the state into the Union. It cannot be said that by reason of being placed in Chapter XXI of the Constitution of India, Article 370 could have been abrogated at any time by the President. This is apparent also from the fact that the provision was kept out of the purview of Article 368 of the Constitution, and a mechanism for its abrogation was provided in Article 370(3).36 Thus, it was temporary only insofar as the Constituent Assembly was not in place at the time of its incorporation into the Indian Constitution. It was a permanent provision of the Indian Constitution notwithstanding its placement in Chapter XXI of the Constitution and the state was to be governed by two Constitutions37; and b. The word ‘temporary’ in the marginal note, does not refer to the limited duration of time, after which the Article would cease to exist. It implies that unless the specifi c conditions of its repeal, that is, convening of the Constituent Assembly of the State of Jammu and Kashmir cannot be secured, the Article will continue to operate irrespective of the duration of time.38 26. Upon the enactment of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constituent Assembly became functus offi cio and as such, Article 370 became permanent. Absent the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly, Article 370 could not be amended and the Legislative Assembly could not substitute the Constituent Assembly.39 27. Article 370 could only have been repealed by the Constituent Assembly between 1950 and1957. After that, that is after the Constituent Assembly of the State ceased to exist, it can only be amended by way of 36 Submissions by Mr Zaff ar Shah, Senior Advocate. 37 Submissions by Mr Zaff ar Shah, Senior Advocate. 38 Submissions by Mr Zaff ar Shah, Senior Advocate.