(4) If a dealer fails without sufficient cause to furnish any C declaration or any return [as required by proviso to sub- section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 40], the Commissioner may impose upon the dealer by way of penalty, a sum not exceeding two thousand rupees. (5) Where in the case of a dealer the amount of tax - D (a) assessed for any period under section 41 or 50; or (b) reassessed for any period under section 44; exceeds the amount of tax already paid under sub-section (1), (2) or (3) of section 47 by the dealer in respect of such E period by more than twenty five per cent of the amount of tax so paid, the dealer shall be deemed to have failed to pay the tax to the extent of the difference between the amount so assessed or reassessed as aforesaid and the amount paid. (6) [Where under sub-section (5) a dealer is deemed to have F failed to pay the tax to the extent mentioned in the said sub- section, there shall be levied on such dealer a penalty not exceeding oneand one-half times the difference referred to in sub-section (5). ]” XXX XXX XXX G “47. Payment of Tax and Deferred Payment of Tax, etc. (4A) (a) Where a dealer does not pay the amount of tax within the time prescribed for its payment under sub-section (1), (2) or (3), then there shall be paid by such dealer for the period commencing on the date of expiry of the H 494 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A aforesaid prescribed time and ending on the date of payment of the amount of tax, simple interest, at the rate of [eighteen per cent], per annum on the amount of tax not so paid or on any less amount thereof remaining unpaid during such period. B (b)Where the amount of tax assessed or reassessed for any period, under section 41 or section 44, subject to revision if any under section 67, exceeds the amount of tax already paid by a dealer for that period, there shall be paid by such dealer, for the period commencing from the date of expiry of the time prescribed for payment of C tax under sub-section (1), (2) or (3) and ending on date of of assessment, reassessment or, as the case may be, revision, simple interest at the rate of [eighteen per cent] per annum on the amount of tax not so paid or on any less amount thereof remaining unpaid during such D period.” 6.2 On a fair reading of Section 45 of the Act, it can be seen that as per sub-section (2) of Section 45 of the Act, 1969, penalty is leviable if it appears to the Commissioner that a dealer has concealed the particulars of any transaction or deliberately furnished inaccurate E particulars of any transaction liable to tax. In the present case, it cannot be said that the dealer has concealed the particulars of any transaction or deliberately furnished inaccurate particulars of any transaction liable to tax.