It has further been submitted that the case of OL selling the property of a company in liquidation under the s of the Court is altogether different from the case of an individual selling immovable property belonging to F himself. Reliance has been placed on decisions of this Court in United Bank of India (supra), Haryana Financial Corporation v. Rajesh Gupta:(2010) 1 SCC 655; UT Chandigarh Administration and Anr. v. Amerjeet Singh and Ors. : (2009) 4 SCC 660; and Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority v. Raghu Nath Gupta: (2012) 8 SCC 197. G 10. The submissions made on behalf of the appellant have been essentially supported on behalf of respondent No. 2, Steel Authority of India Limited, one of the creditors of the company in liquidation, who has lodged the claim alongwith its subsidiary IISCO Ltd. It has been contended on behalf of respondent No. 2 that the findings of the High H 1098 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Court are not in accord with the law on the point pertaining to ouster clauses in the sale notice clearly stating that the sale of assets of the company in liquidation was on “as is where is whatever there is” basis. It has been argued that the auction purchaser takes the property subject to all defects of title and the doctrine of caveat emptor directly applies to such purchaser. A decision of this Court in the case of Ahmedabad B Municipal Corporation v. Haji Abdul Gafur Haji Hussenbhai: (1971) 1 SCC 757 has been relied upon. 11. Per Contra, learned counsel for respondent No. 1 has submitted that the appellant OL, as a custodian of the property, is liable to pay the post-liquidation claim too as raised by Nigam. C 11.1. Learned Counsel has submitted that the claims raised by respondent No.1 constitute “liquidation expenses”, being the expenses that had to be paid by the appellant OL to maintain the property while being in his custody; and, therefore, the obligation is to be met out of the value realised from the sale of assets of the company. In this regard, D learned counsel for the respondent No. 1 has submitted that in terms of Rule 338 of the Rules of 1959, the expenses incurred by the OL for “preserving, realising or getting in” the assets of the company are required to be paid in priority and the said Rule provides for the of preference thereafter in relation to other costs and expenses payable out of the E assets of the company. 11.2. Learned Counsel has also submitted that preferential payments prescribed in Section 530 of the Companies Act are for payment of specified claims thereunder and that too after payment of costs and expenses of winding up that are properly incurred by the appellant and which are paid in priority. Moreover, the said Section 530 relates to F claims for pre-liquidation period for which, there is a need for prescribing priority but, the said provision has no application for the expenses incurred by OL during post-liquidation period, which are required to be paid in priority.