Pharmaceuticals Ltd. but they are meant for specific treatment for dandruff of D other skin and hair problem. Therefore, the appellant’s contention for treatment as a medicament having homoeopathic ingredients and considered as homoeopathic medicine is required to be accepted for classification under TI 14E of erstwhile tariff and under sub-heading 3003.30 E of the new tariff.” (emphasis supplied) 18. We may usefully summarise the discernible principles from the cited decisions as also the other referred s, so far relevant for the purpose of determination of points arising in this appeal as follows: F 18.1. As regards the question as to whether the product in question, AHAHO, merits classification as ‘medicament’ under Chapter 30 or as ‘cosmetic or toilet preparations’ under Chapter 33, the inquiry shall be directed towards a couple of tests taken together, being the common/ commercial parlance test i.e., how the product is understood commonly, G including by the persons dealing in the same and by the end-users; and the ingredients test i.e., whether the ingredients used in the product are found mentioned in authoritative textbooks [vide Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhavan Ltd. (supra)]. The connotations of common parlance test could further be understood from the case of Alpine Industries (supra), that the primary object of such taxing statute being to raise H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 339 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] revenue and various products being differently classified for that purpose, A the entries are not to be understood in their scientific and technical meaning; rather the terms and expressions used in tariff have to be understood by their popular meaning, that is the meaning attached to them by those dealing with or using the product. Further, as observed in G.C. Jain (supra), the words and expressions, unless defined in the B statute have to be construed in the sense in which persons dealing with them understand i.e., as per trade understanding and usage. Yet further, there is no fixed test or static parameter for correct classification of a product and it essentially depends on the meaning assigned to it by the persons concerned with it. One of the essential factors for determining whether a product falls under Chapter 30 or not is as to whether the C product is understood as a pharmaceutical product in common parlance. However, the quantity of medicament used in a particular product is not a relevant factor because, ordinarily, the extent of use of medical ingredients is very low as a larger use may be harmful for the human body [vide Wockhardt Life Sciences (supra)]. Moreover, as held in D Sharma Chemicals (supra), the mere fact that a product is sold across the counters and not under a doctor’s prescription, does not by itself lead to a conclusion that it is not a medicament; and in Meghdoot (supra), that a product may be medicinal without having been prescribed by a medical practitioner. It is held by this Court in BPL Pharmaceuticals (supra) and reiterated in Meghdoot(supra) that the items which may be E sold under names bearing a cosmetic connotation would nevertheless remain medicines based on the composition.