She stated that Shri Katoch informed her in a subsequent phone call that she made to him that he had issued a verbal reprimand to Shri Dilip Paul. However, a few days after the incident, Shri Dilip Paul called her into his offi ce and asked her whether she had made a complaint against him to Shri Katoch. Smt. X confi rmed to him that she had indeed done so, and to scare him, told him that she had made a written complaint. From that day on, Shri Dilip Paul withdrew all the work that was assigned to her and assigned it to another employee. Thereafter, and for the next three months, Smt. X was made to sit idle in the offi ce. 492 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Point 9: In late August 2010, Smt. X approached IG S.K. Singhal with a written complaint of sexual harassment in the workplace, which also contained an application for her transfer to Ftr Hqr Guwahati. Shri Singhal asked her to separate the two complaints of sexual harassment in the workplace from the transfer request and issued an transferring her to Ftr Hqr Guwahati on 1 September 2011. However, the transfer did not contain directions for the payment of TA/DA and did not provide her any joining time. Point 10: Smt. X has also complained that the now-quashed enquiry into her complaint of sexual harassment in November 2011 did not provide her suffi cient time or opportunity to submit additional documents and produce additional witnesses relating to the past history of the accused. She has also stated that she was not aff orded the right of cross-examination of Shri Paul, or a chance to rebut his alleged false statements. After the completion of the thereafter quashed enquiry, she was not also provided a copy of the enquiry report. In her deposition as well as the written submissions made to the Complaints Committee, she also pleaded that due cognizance be taken of the fact that, as a woman employee of the SSB, she was entirely unaware of that a Complaints Committee mechanism for dealing with complaints of sexual harassment was in place, and that as a complainant, she had the right to submit a request for either her own transfer or the transfer of the defendant. She has also queried whether the promotion of Shri Dilip Paul on 11 September 2012 to the rank of DIG is maintainable when a complaint of sexual harassment in the workplace against him was pending.” 11. While the Central Complaints Committee’s Inquiry was still pending, the Ministry of Home Aff airs i.e., the Competent Authority vide its dated 30.11.2012 annulled the Frontier Level Complaints Committee’s Inquiry Report on the ground that, the Chairperson of the said Frontier Level Complaints Committee was of an equivalent rank as that of the respondent and the same was in violation of the statutory provisions, more particularly the Standing No. 1 of 2006 (Grievances Redressal Mechanism: To Redress Grievances of Women/Sexual Harassment at Work Place) (for short, “the 2006 Standing ”).