Therefore, factors such as the relationship of a non-signatory to a party which is a signatory to the agreement, the commonality of subject-matter and the COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 655 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] composite nature of the transaction weigh in the balance. The group of companies doctrine is essentially intended to facilitate the fulfi lment of a mutually held intent between the parties, where the circumstances indicate that the intent was to bind both signatories and non-signatories. The eff ort is to fi nd the true essence of the business arrangement and to unravel from a layered structure of commercial arrangements, an intent to bind someone who is not formally a signatory but has assumed the obligation to be bound by the actions of a signatory.” (emphasis supplied) 34. The decision in Cheran Properties (supra) holds that the group of companies doctrine is applied to bind a non-signatory party upon a construction of the arbitration agreement, circumstances which exist at the time of entering into the contract, and the performance of the underlying contract. Nevertheless, it must be noted that Cheran Properties (supra) did not apply the group of companies doctrine to make the non-signatory a party to the arbitration agreement. Rather, this Court made the arbitral award binding on a non-signatory under Section 35 on the ground that it was claiming under a party which was a signatory to the arbitration agreement. 35. In Ameet Lalchand Shah v. Rishabh Enterprises,17 a two-Judge Bench of this Court was dealing with an arbitral dispute arising out of four interconnected agreements executed towards a single commercial project. The issue was whether the four agreements were interconnected to refer all the parties to arbitration. In that case, all the parties were not signatories to the main agreement containing the arbitration clause. This Court relied on Chloro Controls (supra) to hold that a non-signatory, which is a party to an interconnected agreement, would be bound by the arbitration clause in the principal agreement. It observed that in view of the composite nature of the transaction, the disputes between the parties to various agreements could be resolved eff ectively by referring all of them to arbitration. 36. Over time, this Court has identifi ed certain additional factors for the invocation of the group of companies doctrine. In Reckitt Benckiser 17 (2018) 15 SCC 678 656 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (India) Private Limited v. Reynders Label Printing India Private Limited,18 a two-Judge Bench of this Court was dealing with an application under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act seeking the appointment of an arbitrator. This Court prima facie observed that the parties belonged to the same group of companies. Subsequently, the issue before this Court was whether there was a clear intention of the parties to bind both the signatory and non-signatory parties based on their participation in the negotiation of the underlying contract. The court held that the non-signatory party, even though a constituent part of the corporate group, did not have “any causal connection with the process of negotiations preceding the agreement or the execution thereof, whatsoever.” Thus, the participation of the non-signatory party in the negotiation and performance of the underlying contract was held to be the key determinant of the intention of the parties to be bound by an arbitration agreement.