The respondents herein, at least during the period from 1988 till the year 2006, were either holders of civil posts under the Union or appointed to the civil services of the Union. 19. This is why the respondents approached the Central D Administrative Tribunal, for the adjudication of their service matter. The respondents did not go either before the Labour Court constituted under the 1947 Act or before the Authorities empowered under other labour welfare legislations, despite Section 28 of the 1985 Act not excluding the jurisdiction of the Industrial Tribunal or the Labour Court. Keeping this in mind, let us now address a more fundamental question. E 20. Primarily, the terms and conditions of service of persons in the civil services of the Union or the State and persons holding civil posts under the Union or the State, are regulated either by the Acts of the appropriate Legislature passed in terms of Article 309 or by the Rules framed in exercise of the power conferred by the proviso to Article F 309 of the Constitution. Therefore, whenever a dispute relating to a service matter, which includes a claim for allowances, is raised before the Administrative Tribunal, the primary duty of the Tribunal is to see what is provided by the relevant Act issued under the main part of Article 309 or the Rules issued under the Proviso to Article 309. G 21. It must be kept in mind that appointment either to a civil post or in the civil services of the Union or the State, is one of a status. It is not an employment governed strictly by a contract of service or solely by labour welfare legislations, but by statute or statutory rules issued under Article 309 or its proviso. H SECURITY PRINTING AND MINTING CORPORATION OF 259 INDIA LTD. v. VIJAY D. KASBE [V. RAMSUBRAMANIAN, J.] 22. In fact, the history of civil service in India is more than a A century old and there were Rules in force, such as the Fundamental Rules and the Supplementary Rules (FRSR) issued way back in the year 1922, with effect from 1.1.1922. Article 313 of the Constitution declares that until other provision is made under the Constitution, all the laws in force immediately before the commencement of the Constitution B and applicable to any public service or post, shall continue in force. This is why the Fundamental Rules of the year 1922 continue to apply even now, to the holders of civil posts and those in the civil services of the Union or the State. 23. It must also be borne in mind that there are three different C categories of employment, if not more, in the country. They are, (i) employment which is statutorily protected under labour welfare legislations, so as to prevent exploitation and unfair labour practices; (ii) employment which falls outside the purview of the labour welfare legislations and hence, governed solely by the terms of the contract; and (iii) employment of persons to civil posts or in the civil services of the D Union or the State.