63. In 2013, the correctness of ADR and PUCL 2003 was doubted before a three judge-bench of this Court in People’s Union for Civil H 204 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Liberties and Another v. Union of India and Another39(PUCL 2013). In this case, the validity of certain rules of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961 to the extent that these provisions violate the secrecy of voting which is fundamental to the free and fair elections. It was put forward that the Constitution bench in Kuldip Nayar created a doubt on ADR and PUCL 2003. The three-judge bench in PUCL B 2013 held that “Kuldip Nayar does not overrule the other two decisions rather it only reaffirms what has already been said by the two aforesaid decisions”. However, the three-judge bench went on to note that: “… there is no contradiction as to the fact that right to vote is neither a fundamental right nor a Constitutional right but a pure C and simple statutory right. The same has been settled in a catena of cases and it is clearly not an issue in dispute in the present case.” 64. While the scope of the right to vote was not before PUCL 2013, but it went on to observe that the right to vote is only a statutory D right. But, the three-judge bench in PUCL 2013 followed ADR and PUCL 2003 to reiterate that “[t]he casting of the vote is a facet of the right of expression of an individual and the said right is provided under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India”, and therefore, a prima facie case existed for the exercise of jurisdiction of this Court under E Article 32. The bench concluded that: “No doubt, the right to vote is a statutory right but it is equally vital to recollect that this statutory right is the essence of democracy. Without this, democracy will fail to thrive. Therefore, even if the right to vote is statutory, the significance attached with the right is massive. Thus, it is necessary to keep in mind these facets while F deciding the issue at hand.” 65. A clarity on the status of the right to vote was given in the in Raj Bala v. State of Haryana and Others.40 Justice Chelameswar and Justice Sapre gave separate concurring opinions. After analysing the previous decisions of this Court, Justice Chelameswar came G to the conclusion that “every citizen has a constitutional right to elect and to be elected to either Parliament or the State legislatures.” Justice Sapre reiterated the view taken in PUCL 2003 that the “right to vote” is a constitutional right but not merely a statutory right. 39 (2013) 10 SCC 1 H 40 (2016) 1 SCC 463 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 205 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 66. What emerges from this detailed discussion is that there has A been a conflicting view on the status of the right to vote. This gives an opportunity for us to authoritatively hold that the right to vote is not just a statutory right.