We have benefit of elucidation in this behalf arising from the of this Court in Alka Shukla v. Life Insurance Corporation of India13. The Court noted the divergence of opinion of courts between B courts across international jurisdictions making a distinction between “accidental means” and “accidental result” while deciding insurance claims. Thus, an unexpected accident and unforeseen consequence or result from a normal or routine activity may constitute an accident but it would not qualify as “accidental means”. Two illustrative examples given C are: (a) a fatal heart attack while dancing would be called “accidental” but would fail to attract insurance cover as not due to “accidental means”; (b) heart attack suffered as a result of over-exertion on being chased by a ferocious dog the death might attract the insurance cover as it was caused by “accidental means”. In the first example it was a normal D activity while in the second it was an unintended activity and not a normal activity. The given type of injury may thus, fall within or outside the policy according to the event which led to the death and it is this particular cause which is required to be examined.14 The accident, thus, per se postulates a mishap or untoward happening, something which is unexpected or unforeseen. E 33. The aforesaid also emphasises the importance of a plain reading of the policy as a guiding principle. A proximate causal relationship between the accident and the body injury is a necessity. 34. If in the aforesaid context, the policy is analysed, the cause arising from a sun stroke cannot, in our view, be included within the F parameters of the ‘Scope of Cover’ in the insurance policy defining when such insurance amount would become payable. 35. Thus, on the second account also we are of the view that the Appellant insurance company is not liable. Conclusion: G 36. We have, thus, no hesitation in concluding that the impugned of the Division Bench of the Patna High Court is clearly unsustainable and is set aside. In fact, the passed by the learned 13(2019) 6 SCC 64 th 14 Colinvaux’s Law of Insurance (11 Edn.) discuses the effect and the impact of the H expresions” violent, external and visible: NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. v. THE CHIEF 325 ELECTORAL OFFICER & ORS. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] Single Judge was predicated on the own admission of Respondent No.1, A which is now sought to be resiled from by giving a slightly different interpretation but then if the claim was not admissible, there was no reason for Respondent No.1 to forward the claim to the Appellant insurance company merely because it was made and with the objective of somehow benefiting Respondent No.2 at the cost of the Appellant. B That being the position, we are quite cognizant of the fact that the amount already stands paid by Respondent No.1 to Respondent No.2 wife in pursuance of the of the learned Single Judge. We do believe that de hors the complexity of any legal issue, Respondent No.2 having enjoyed the benefit for so many years, the stand as taken by Respondent C No.1 qua the liability to pay Respondent No.2, it would not be appropriate to permit Respondent No.1 to recover any amount from Respondent No.2 and that aspect should now stand closed.