In the instant case, after proper appreciation of evidence the D trial court came to the conclusion that the accused had endangered the life of Vijay by driving the jeep on a public road in a rash and negligent manner. The accused dashed the jeep against a pulia first and then against a babul tree. As a result of such accident Vijay Singh, who was travelling in the jeep got injured and died, E and another person Mangilal, who was also in the jeep, received injuries. We are of the opinion that the trial court has not committed any illegality in passing the of conviction and in the appeal preferred by the accused findings of the trial court were affirmed. However, without proper appreciation of the evidence and consideration of gravity of the offence, the learned Single Judge F of the High Court has shown undue sympathy by modifying the conviction to the period already undergone. 7. In our considered opinion, the High Court while passing the impugned [Surendra Singh v. State of M.P., Criminal Revision No. 3 of 2008, decided on 22-8-2012 (MP)] has G completely failed to follow the principles enunciated by this Court in a catena of decisions. Undue sympathy by means of imposing inadequate sentence would do more harm to the justice system to undermine the public confidence in the efficacy of law and the society cannot endure long under serious threats. If the courts do H STATE OF PUNJAB v. DIL BAHADUR 773 [M. R. SHAH, J.] not protect the injured, the injured would then resort to personal A vengeance. Therefore, the duty of any court is to award proper sentence having regard to the nature of the offence and the manner in which it was committed. (See Sevaka Perumal v. State of T.N. [(1991) 3 SCC 471 : 1991 SCC (Cri) 724 : AIR 1991 SC 1463] ) B 8. In Dhananjoy Chatterjee v. State of W.B. [(1994) 2 SCC 220 : 1994 SCC (Cri) 358] this Court held as under: (SCC p. 239, paras 14-15) “14. In recent years, the rising crime rate—particularly violent crime against women has made the criminal sentencing by the C courts a subject of concern. Today there are admitted disparities. Some criminals get very harsh sentences while many receive grossly different sentence for an essentially equivalent crime and a shockingly large number even go unpunished thereby encouraging the criminal and in the ultimate making justice suffer by weakening D the system’s credibility. Of course, it is not possible to lay down any cut and dry formula relating to imposition of sentence but the object of sentencing should be to see that the crime does not go unpunished and the victim of crime as also the society has the satisfaction that justice has been done to it. In imposing sentences, in the absence of specific legislation, Judges must consider variety E of factors and after considering all those factors and taking an overall view of the situation, impose sentence which they consider to be an appropriate one.