3 in the present case and close ally of the Minister with sole purpose to threaten him if in case he decides to file a complaint about the said incident. It is the case on behalf of the appellant that thereafter the appellant without fear narrated the entire incident along with the specific allegations against the Minister C and the other police officials and registered a complaint against the Minister and his men. However, the names of the Minister, against whom the specific allegations were made and his men were not mentioned in the FIR bearing No. 120 of 2020 dated 06.04.2020 for the offences under Sections 365, 143, 144, 147, 149, 324 and 506(2) in the Vartak D Nagar Police Station, Thane. It is the case on behalf of the appellant that the concerned Minister was not named in the FIR as he was the sitting Cabinet Minister in the government of the State. 2.3 That thereafter apprehending and alleging the bias and alleging that the entire investigation has been conducted in sham and casual E manner, and nothing significant was done by the Police, the appellant approached the High Court by way of present writ petition praying for transfer of the investigation of the aforesaid FIRs to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Mumbai or any other agency. It appears that thereafter various interim s came to be passed by the High Court in the writ petition and the investigating agency of the F State was compelled to carry out the investigation. The Police filed the chargesheet initially without naming the concerned Minister namely, Mr. Jitendra Awhad as accused. However, thereafter and during the pendency of the writ petition before the High Court and in view of the constant monitoring of the investigation by the High Court, the Minister Mr. Jitendra G Awhad was added as accused two years after the said incident. That thereafter during the pendency of the writ petition, the learned Trial Court framed the charges against the accused on the basis of the chargesheets already filed, which according to the appellant was for the lesser offences than the actually committed, like, Kidnapping, abducting and causing grievous hurt. That thereafter by the impugned H ANANT THANUR KARMUSE v. THE STATE OF 61 MAHARASHTRA & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] and , the High Court has dismissed the said writ petition seeking A transfer of the investigation to the CBI and/or any other agency by observing that after the investigation, the chargesheet is filed and the High Court prima facie opined that by filing the chargesheet / supplementary chargesheet, the investigating agency has conducted the investigation from all angles and after considering the medical report B and even after collecting the CRD of the Mobile Phone and that once the charges have been framed by the Magistrate / Trial Court and therefore, it can be said that the trial has begun and therefore, thereafter, re- investigation/further investigation is not permissible. By the impugned and , the High Court has dismissed the said writ petition.