The trial court as well as the appellate court after an enquiry have found that the appellant was not juvenile at the time of the incident. Since this plea was raised before this Court as well, this court had asked for a report from the concerned Additional Sessions Judge, Barabanki and consequently a report was fi led on an earlier occasion before this Court, to which we shall refer in a while. However, the last report (dated 28.09.2022) fi led by the Additional Sessions Judge, Barabanki diff ers from the earlier fi ndings, and the claim of the appellant being a juvenile at the time of the commission of crime has been accepted. We shall be referring to this report later. 7. The facts of this case must also be stated here. On 01.12.1995, while the father and brother of the Complainant-Guru Prasad Mishra were irrigating their land, water fl ushed towards the adjacent fi eld belonging to one Gaya Prasad Mishra. The present appellant, who is the son of Gaya Prasad Mishra reported this to his father and shortly thereafter Gaya Prasad Mishra along with his two sons, Gulab Chandra and Pawan Kumar (the present appellant), and one ‘Babadeen’ came to the spot armed with “lathis” and started assaulting the father and brother of the complainant. After hearing the ‘hue and cry’, the complainant along with some village persons reached the spot and he was also assaulted by the accused persons. This incident resulted in grievous injuries on all and ultimately in the death of one Ganga Prasad, brother of the complainant. An FIR as Crime No.86 of 1995 was then fi led in Subeha Police Station in Barabanki District, under Sections 307, 504 and 323 IPC against the four named accused as mentioned above. As the brother of the complainant (Ganga Prasad) died the same day, Section 302 was added in the FIR. 8. Undoubtedly, the appellant belongs to the aggressor group and had attacked the deceased and caused injuries and ultimately the death of one of the injured persons. It is also true that some of the assailants, including the present appellant, were armed with “lathis”. We have placed these facts on record to show the nature of the incident. The accused have committed a heinous crime. Yet they are not hardened criminals. It is also not a premeditated cold-blooded murder. PAWAN KUMAR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 265 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] 9. While having his statement recorded under Section 313 of CrPC the age of the appellant was recorded as 18 years and upon further inquiry the appellant claimed that he was less than 16 years of age at the time of the commission of the off ence, i.e., on 01.12.1995. At the relevant time, Juvenile Justice Act, 1986 was in force where a juvenile in case of a boy, was one who had not completed sixteen years of age. This age however, was increased to eighteen years by the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000 as we shall see later.