[S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the time being in force, the proceeds from the sale of A liquidation assets shall be distributed in the of priority, which is stipulated, and within such period and such manner as may be specified. The consequence of Sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code is that it will override the rights of parties, including the secured creditor, when the said provision B applies. Section 53 of the Code is the complete and comprehensive code which ensures collection of assets and then provides the manner in which the creditors are to be paid. Even the rights of the secured creditor falling Under Section 53 of the Code to enforce, realise, settle, compromise or deal with the secured assets as applicable to the security C interest are diluted and compromised. 70. Clause (a) to Sub-section (1) to Section 53 deals with insolvency resolution process costs and the liquidation costs which are to be paid in full. No grievance or issue can be raised in respect of the said clause. Clause (b) to Sub-section D (1) to Section 53 states that the debts due in the form of workmen’s dues for a period of twenty four months preceding the liquidation commencement date and the debts owed to the secured creditor in the event such secured creditor has relinquished security in the manner set out in Section 52 of E the Code shall rank equally between and amongst the workmen and the secured creditors. The Explanation to Section 53 of the Code states that ‘workmen’s dues’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013. In other words, Explanation to Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 has been incorporated and F applies to the waterfall mechanism as prescribed in Clause (b) to Sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code. What is significant here is that under Clause (b) to Sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code, the workmen’s dues are for the period of twenty-four months preceding the liquidation G commencement date. The liquidation commencement date, as defined in terms of Sub-section (17) to Section 5 of the Code, is much earlier in point of time and need not coincide with the date of winding up. This is in the interest of the workmen. Clause (i) of Explanation to Section 53 of the Code states that where the distribution of proceeds in respect of class of H 1254 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A recipients that rank equally, each of the debts would be paid either in full or would be paid in equal proportion within the same class of recipients, if the proceeds are insufficient to meet the debts in full. Ex facie, the Clause is very just and fair. It is to be noted that the wages and unpaid dues owed to employees other than the workmen fall in Clause (c), which B is below Clause (b) to Sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code.