Sub-section (1) imposes on the Government two duties, namely, (i) the duty of communicating to the detenue the grounds on which the has been made, and (ii) the duty of aff ording him the earliest opportunity of making representation against the to the Government. The fi rst duty is to be performed “as soon as may be”. Quite clearly the period of time predicated by the phrase “as soon as may be” begins to run from the time the detention in pursuance of the detention begins. The question is — what is the span of time, which is designated by the words “as soon as may be”? The observations of Dysant, J. in King’s Old Country, Ltd. v. Liquid Carbonic Can. Corpn., Ltd. [(1942) 2 WWR 603, 606] quoted in Stroud’s Judicial Dictionary 3rd Edn., Vol. 1, p. 200 are apposite. Said the learned Judge, “to do a thing ‘as soon as possible’ means to do it within a reasonable time, with an understanding to do it within the shortest possible time”. Likewise to communicate the grounds ‘as soon as may be may well be said to mean to do so within a reasonable time with an understanding to do it within the shortest possible time. What, however, is to be regarded as a reasonable time or the shortest possible time? The words “as soon as may be” came for consideration before this Court in Ujagar Singh v. State of the Punjab [1951 SCC 170 : (1952) SCR 756] . At pp. 761-62 this Court observed that the expression meant with a “reasonable despatch” and then went on to say that “what was reasonable must depend on the facts of each case and no arbitrary time limit could be set down”. In Keshav Nilakanth Joglekar v. Commissioner of Police, Greater Bombay [ Supreme Court Petition No. 102 of 1956, decided on September 17, 1956] the word “forthwith” occurring in Section 3(3) of the Indian Preventive Detention Act (4 of 1950) came up for consideration. After observing that the word “forthwith” occurring in Section 3(3) of that Act did not mean the same thing as “as soon as may be” used in Section 7 of the same Act and that the former was more peremptory than the latter, this Court observed that the time that was allowed to the authority to communicate the grounds to the detenue and was predicated by the expression “as soon as may be” was what was “reasonably convenient” or “reasonably requisite”. 762 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 20. Again, a three-judge bench in Durga Pada Ghosh vs. State of West Bengal9 while considering the scheme of Article 22 of the Constitution held as under: - “8. The scheme underlying Article 22 of the Constitution highlights the importance attached in our constitutional set-up to the personal freedom of an individual. Sub-articles (1) and (2) refer to the protection against arrest and detention of a person under the ordinary law. Persons arrested or detained under a law providing for preventive detention are dealt with in sub-articles (4) to (7).