Contents of petition.—(1) An election petition— (a) shall contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies; B (b) shall set forth full particulars of any corrupt practice that the petitioner alleges, including as full a statement as possible of the names of the parties alleged to have committed such corrupt practice and the date and place of the commission of each such practice; and C (c) shall be signed by the petitioner and verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) for the verification of pleadings: [Provided that where the petitioner alleges any corrupt practice, the petition shall also be accompanied by an affidavit in the D prescribed form in support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particulars thereof.] (2) Any schedule or annexure to the petition shall also be signed by the petitioner and verified in the same manner as the petition.” E (emphasis added) Now we come to paragraphs 6 and 7 which read thus: “6. The petitioner filed representations to 4th Respondents on 17.11.2016 two representations, 19.11.2016, 20.11.2016, 22.11.2016 F explaining that the 5th Respondent committed electoral misconduct, corrupt practice and bribery to the electorate. The 4th Respondent did not consider the representations. She submitted that the 5th Respondent used Government vehicles for election campaign. The petitioner filed audio and video clippings to prove the allegations made in the representation by electronic mail to the 4th G Respondent. She craves leave of the Court to treat the averments in the above representations has part and parcel of this petition. 7. The petitioner submits that the returned candidate was disqualified to be chosen to fill the said seat that he has committed corrupt practice and the result of the election so far as it concerned H 556 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A to the 5th Respondent has been materially affected by improper acceptance of his nomination, by corrupt practice and non- compliance of by not disclosing the earlier of the election commission for same constituency.” 13.Section 123 of the RP Act of 1951 defines corrupt practices. B In paragraphs 6 and 7, even bare particulars of any of the corrupt practices covered by Section 123 have not been pleaded. What is the nature of corrupt practice is also not described except for making a bald allegation that in the representations mentioned in paragraph 6, the first respondent has set out electoral misconduct, corrupt practice, and bribery on the part of the appellant. Clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 83 C mandates that an election petition must contain a concise statement of material facts. When the allegation is of corrupt practice, the basic facts constituting corrupt practice must be pleaded in to make compliance with Clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 83. In this case, such concise facts are not at all pleaded. Basic facts cannot be pleaded only by stating D that the same find place in the documents relied upon.