Mr. Shubhranshu Padhi, learned counsel who was requested to assist the Court as an amicus curiae on account of absence of the counsel who filed the appeal, submitted that the conviction and sentence of the appellant cannot be legally sustained either under Sections 304B or 498A IPC. The pre-requisites for raising presumption under Section 304B IPC is that soon before the death, the deceased had been subjected to cruelty G or harassment for or in connection with any demand of dowry. The presumption in regard to dowry death can be raised in terms of Section 113B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, ‘IEA’) only if it is shown that soon before death, such woman had been subjected to cruelty or harassment for, or in connection with the demand of dowry. H 514 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 5. If the evidence led by the prosecution is examined, no case for conviction under Section 304B or 498A IPC can possibly be made out as none of the witnesses have stated that there was any harassment or cruelty to the deceased or demand of dowry immediately before her death. The marriage took place in the year 1993, the deceased died on 22.6.1995. None of the family members of the deceased including her B father, maternal grandmother or the maternal uncle have stated anything about the harassment of the deceased immediately before her death in connection with demand of dowry. In fact, the maternal grandmother and two maternal uncles who were living at distance of about one farlang from the village of the deceased were even present at the time of her C cremation. They did not raise any issue either by lodging a complaint to the police or otherwise. In fact, it was admitted by the maternal grandmother and the uncles of the deceased that after the cremation, with the intervention of the panchayat, they had collected all the dowry articles. It was further submitted that intimation was also given to the father of the deceased who in fact was living at a distance of about 290 D kms. However, the cremation could not be delayed on account of waiting for the arrival of the father of the deceased. 6. It was further argued that one material witness, Jagir Singh, who was named by the complainant in the FIR, has not been produced E by the prosecution in evidence. He is the person who according to the complainant is a resident of village Bhogpur Dam, where the deceased used to live in her matrimonial home. He had informed the complainant about the death of his daughter. Why this material witness was withheld by the prosecution? As per the statement of the I.O. Babban Singh, who appeared as PW-6, during investigation the statement of Jagir Singh F was recorded. Once the ingredients of Sections 304B, 498A IPC and Section 113B of IEA are not made out, no presumption of dowry death can be raised. In support of the arguments, reliance was placed on Baijnath v. State of M.P1.