It is lamentable that what is preached by the lawmakers as a body is, at times, seen not to be put in practice by those erring lawmakers and the general feeling is that while stringent laws are enacted for the common man to abide by, it is the infl uential and the mighty that escape the rigours of law by misusing their status and position. 48. Considering the approach that the law requires to adopt in respect of public services/employment, should the approach be diff erent in a scenario of automatic disqualifi cation as per section 8 of the RoP Act? In a case of proved guilt resulting in conviction recorded by a competent court, the presumption of innocence till proved guilty has no place and loses its sway. The fact that the court is approached by a parliamentarian/legislator, by itself, should not be viewed with such importance and indispensability that his status should tilt the scales in his favour. Would it be fair that a convict, no matter how mighty he is and whatever position he holds, gets a preferential treatment as compared to an under-trial? Should the courts go out of the way to stay the conviction or suspend execution of the AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 1013 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] under appeal when no Fundamental or other Constitutional right of the convict would be abrogated if a stay were not granted? To our mind, the answers, as traced through the aforesaid legal and constitutional framework, would unerringly be in the negative. All the courts of law are bound by the preambular promise of the Constitution of India to provide equal treatment to one and all before them if they are similarly placed. Any diff erentiation in approach and outcome ought to stand on solid foundation. 49. The incidents on the occurrence of which a member of Parliament could stand disqualifi ed ‘by the Constitution’ are specifi ed in clauses (a) to (d) of Article 102(1) whereas a disqualifi cation owing to conviction recorded by a competent court of law is a measure ‘under the Constitution’ read with the RoP Act. If a disqualifi cation ‘by the Constitution’ or ‘under the Constitution’ is contrasted with disqualifi cation incurred by a convict to continue as holders of public offi ces or the offi ce of a director of a company ‘by a statute’, to wit, the NGT Act, the Human Rights Act or the Companies Act, or to continue in service either by Article 311 of the Constitution or by the discipline rules of public institutions, for eg., the one in K.C. Sareen (supra) and Balakrishna Dattatarya Kumbhar (supra), there can be no doubt that the standard for staying/suspending the former disqualifi cation (brought about by or under the Constitution) has to be pegged at a level higher than the latter disqualifi cation (brought about by the statute/rule) not only because of the Constitutional scheme but also because of the position of trust and confi dence that a parliamentarian holds.