It held that a non-signatory affi liate or sister or parent company can be a party to an arbitration agreement if there is mutual intention of the signatories and non-signatories to this eff ect. In to determine mutual intention, the Court laid down factors such as direct relationship, direct commonality of subject-matter, and a composite transaction where the performance of multiple agreements is inextricably connected.82 ii. Pursuant to the 2015 Amendment of Section 8, the Court made a composite reference of signatories and non-signatories to arbitration by emphasising that all agreements were executed for a single commercial project,83 but without explicitly referring to the Group of Companies doctrine.84 iii. Subsequently, this Court relied on mutual intention as the test for the doctrine. However, it deviated from Chloro (supra) by prescribing the non-signatory’s causal connection with the negotiation and execution of the contract as factors to determine its mutual intent to arbitrate.85 82 Chloro Controls (supra), paras 72 and 73. This was later followed in Cheran Properties (supra), para 23. 83 Rishabh Enterprises (supra), para 25. 84 Discovery Enterprises (supra), para 28. 85 Reckitt Benckiser (supra), para 12. COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 741 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] iv. In MTNL (supra), the Court summarised the test under the doctrine as being based on the common intention of the parties to bind both signatory and non-signatory members of the group of companies. Such common intention can be inferred from the non-signatory’s involvement in negotiation and performance of the contract (similar to Reckitt Benckiser (supra)), or from its statements that indicate its intention to be a party.86 Simultaneously, the Court also referred to the test in Chloro Controls (supra) for determining mutual intention.87 Lastly, the Court held the doctrine to be applicable when there is a tight group structure or single economic reality, without any reference to the intention of the parties.88 However, the Court ultimately relied on implied or tacit consent by the non-signatory, evidenced by its conduct, to hold that it is a party.89 v. In Discovery (supra), the Court comprehensively reviewed the above cases and ironed out the various tests formulated in them. It held that (a) mutual intent of the parties, (b) relationship of the non-signatory to the signatory, (c) commonality of subject-matter, (d) composite nature of transaction, and (e) performance of the contract, are the factors to determine whether the non-signatory is a party.90 These factors emphasise mutual intention and draw from the tests laid down in Chloro Controls and Reckitt Benckiser but do not include the test of single economic reality as a determinative factor, as held in MTNL (supra). 50. At this juncture, it is necessary to clarify and answer a common question referred for our consideration, i.e., whether the Group of Companies doctrine is anchored in Sections 8 and 45 of the Act. The expression “claiming through or under” employed in Sections 8 and 45 is concerned with instances of succession and derivative rights. Learned Chief Justice has dealt with this aspect in great detail in Part F (i) and (ii) of his opinion 86 MTNL (supra), para 10.5.