The second is that even General Managers were authorised to take a E call, to deviate from the normal rule and resort to Restricted Tender. 46. Admittedly, A-1 was occupying the position of Executive Director, which was above the rank of a General Manager. According to him he had taken a call to go for Restricted Tender, after discussing with the Chairman and Managing Director. The Chairman and Managing Director, in his evidence as PW-28, denied having had any discussion in F this regard. 47. For the purpose of finding out whether A-1 acted or purported to act in the discharge of his official duty, it is enough for us to see whether he could take cover, rightly or wrongly, under any existing policy. Paragraph 4.2.1 of the existing policy extracted above shows that A-1 G at least had an arguable case, in defence of the decision he took to go in for Restricted Tender. Once this is clear, his act, even if alleged to be lacking in bona fides or in pursuance of a conspiracy, would be an act in the discharge of his official duty, making the case come within the parameters of Section 197(1) of the Code. Therefore, the prosecution H 42 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A ought to have obtained previous sanction. The Special Court as well as the High Court did not apply their mind to this aspect. 48. Shri Padmesh Mishra, learned counsel for the respondent placed strong reliance upon the observation contained in paragraph 50 of the decision of this Court in Parkash Singh Badal vs. State of B Punjab10. It reads as follows:- “50.The offence of cheating under Section 420 or for that matter offences relatable to Sections 467, 468, 471 and 120- B can by no stretch of imagination by their very nature be regarded as having been committed by any public servant C while acting or purporting to act in discharge of official duty. In such cases, official status only provides an opportunity for commission of the offence.” 49. On the basis of the above observation, it was contended by the learned counsel for the respondent that any act done by a public servant, which constitutes an offence of cheating, cannot be taken to D have been committed while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of official duty. 50. But the above contention in our opinion is far-fetched. The observations contained in paragraph 50 of the decision in Parkash Singh Badal (supra) are too general in nature and cannot be regarded as the E ratio flowing out of the said case. If by their very nature, the offences under sections 420, 468, 471 and 120B cannot be regarded as having been committed by a public servant while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of official duty, the same logic would apply with much more vigour in the case of offences under the PC Act. Section 197 of F the Code does not carve out any group of offences that will fall outside its purview.