In the process, the trial court failed to appreciate the defence version as spelt out in Ext.96, which E appears to us to be plausible. Reading Ext.96 as it is, this Court found it probable that there could have been provocation at the instance of the victim, who allegedly indulged in spitting on the appellant coupled with verbal abuse, whereafter P.W.2 and later P.W.s 3 and 4 sprang into action, resulting in a scuffle where both parties indulged in inflicting injuries on each other resulting in F an unwanted loss of life. Regrettably, pointed attention of the High Court does not appear to have been drawn to Ext.96 by counsel on behalf of the appellant. [Paras 20 and 21][129-H; 130- A-E] 3. Though there is no specific admission by the appellant G that he had stabbed the victim or the other injured witnesses, reading of the contents of Ext.96 does evince an act of retaliation spurred by sudden provocation resulting in a quarrel as well as a scuffle which ultimately, most unfortunately, cost the victim his life and left some others injured. The appellant too sustained H PREMCHAND v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 121 injuries in the scuffle and there is evidence on record that one of A the injuries was grievous, yet, the criminal law was surprisingly not set in motion to bring to book those responsible for inflicting such injury. It was in a sudden quarrel, which could have been provoked by the victim and P.W.2, that blows followed from each side. Most importantly, the circumstances in which the incident B occurred does clearly negate any suggestion of premeditation in mind. That apart, it cannot be overlooked that while the victim was middle-aged, the appellant was in his late fifties. At the time of the alleged incident, apart from P.W.s 2 and 3, other three persons who were present at the spot were not examined, as per the version of P.W.2. It is indeed improbable that in the presence C of such persons, the appellant wielding a weapon like a knife would come to the spot with an intention to commit the offence of murder overpowering all of them without any sufficient reason or provocation. In this Court’s opinion, the trial court lacked in objectivity by not examining the facts and circumstances as to D whether the situation was such as is likely to reasonably cause an apprehension in the mind of the appellant that there was imminent danger to his body, of either death or grievous hurt being caused to him, if he did not act in private defence. To impute intention to cause death or the intention to cause that particular injury, which proved fatal, in these circumstances seems to be E unreasonable. [Para 23][131-E-H; 132-A-C] 4. The appellant was entitled to the benefit of Exception 4 to section 300, IPC. The appellant could not be convicted for murder of the victim. His conviction for murder and sentence of life imprisonment are liable to be set aside.