The whole premise of the Court in N.N. Global (supra) being that the Arbitration Agreement, F not being exigible to duty and it having a separate existence, the commercial contract in which the Arbitration Agreement is contained, being unstamped, would not impact the Arbitration Agreement, cannot hold good. The reasoning in N.N. Global (supra) in paragraph-32, for disapproving of Garware (supra) in paragraph-22 thereof, that the G Arbitration Clause would be non-existent in law and unenforceable till the stamp duty in adjudicated and paid on the substantive contract, is again on the premise that the Arbitration Agreement is a separate agreement under the Stamp Act, which is not exigible to stamp duty, which we have found is not the case in law. In this regard, we may refer to Article 5 of the Stamp Act: H 344 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A B C D (Emphasis supplied) 62. While the Stamp Act is a fiscal enactment intended to raise revenue, it is a law, which is meant to have teeth. The point of time, at which the stamp duty is to be paid is expressly provided for in Section 17 E of the Stamp Act. There cannot be any gainsaying, that call it a fiscal enactment, it is intended that it is to be implemented with full vigour. The duty of a Court must be to adopt an interpretation which results in the enforcement of the law, rather than allowing the law to be flouted with impunity. Once this principle is borne in mind, the task of the Court F becomes less difficult. The law, as contained in Section 33 read with Section 35 of the Stamp Act, would result in the following conclusions: i. Every person having, by law or consent of parties, the authority to receive evidence, before whom, an instrument is produced, is duty-bound to immediately impound the same. G This is upon his forming the opinion that the instrument is not duly stamped. In a case, where the instrument does not bear any stamp at all, when it is exigible to stamp duty, there can be little difficulty in the person forming the opinion that it is not duly stamped. No doubt, under Section 33(2), in cases of ambiguity, the person shall examine the H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 345 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] instrument to arrive at the liability. Apart from a person A having authority to receive evidence, which, no doubt, would include a court and an Arbitrator, every person In-charge of a Public Office, before whom, such instrument is produced or comes in the performance of his functions, has the duty to impound the unstamped or insufficiently B stamped document, arises. This is no doubt after ‘examining’ the instrument and ascertaining as to whether the instrument was stamped as required when the document was executed or first executed [See Section 33(2)]. One exception in Section 33 is an Officer of the Police.