Is it possible to reserve under Article 16(1)? Detailed reasons have been given earlier, against any reservation under cover of doctrine of reasonable classification. Eradication of poverty which “is not to be exalted or G praised, but is an evil thing which must be fought and stamped out” [ Jawaharlal Nehru, quoted from Dorothy, Norman (Ed.) Nehru] is one of the ideals set out in the Preamble of the Constitution as it postulates to achieve economic justice and exhorts the State under Article 38(2) H 814 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A to “minimise the inequality of income”. All the same, can the State for this purpose reserve posts for the economically backwards in service. Right to equal protection of laws or equality before law in ‘benefits, and burdens’ by operation of law, equally amongst equals and unequally amongst unequals is firmly rooted in the concept of equality B developed by courts in this country and in America. But any reservation or affirmative action on economic criteria or wealth discrimination cannot be upheld under doctrine of reasonable classification. Reservation for backward class seeks to achieve the social purpose of sharing in C services which had been monopolised by few of the forward classes. To bridge the gap, thus created, the affirmative actions have been upheld as the social and educational difference between the two classes furnished reasonable basis for classification. Same cannot be said for rich and poor. Indigence cannot be a rational basis for D classification for public employment.” 4. It is thus discernible that in Indra Sawhney (supra), this court ruled that reservations under Article 16 for backward classes of citizens were limited only to initial appointments, and did not extend to promotions. The rationale for such a conclusion was that reservations in promotions E would have a deleterious effect on the efficiency of services: firstly, they would stifle the spirit to work amongst the reserved candidates, and would amount to creation of a permanent separate category. Secondly, such reservations would generate a feeling of despondence and heartburn among general category candidates. Thirdly, reservations in promotions F would violate the rule of equality. 5. To negate the declaration of the court in Indra Sawhney (supra), Parliamentintroduced an amendment to Article 16 of the Constitution, by inserting clause (4-A) by the 77th Constitutional Amendment Act of 1995. Clause (4-A) reads as follows: G “Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any provision for reservation in matters of promotion to any class or classes of posts in the services under the State in favour of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes which, in the opinion of the State, are not adequately represented in the services under the State.” H RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 815 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Additionally, the Statement of Objects and Reasons for the 77th A Constitutional Amendment Act, 1995, reads as follows: “The Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes have been enjoying the facility of reservation in promotion since 1955.