He submitted that the Scrutiny Committee could not mechanically refer a case to the Vigilance Cell without recording satisfaction that the documents produced by the applicant were not sufficient to validate the casteclaim. 4 (2012) 1 SCC 113 H MAH. ADIWASI THAKUR JAMAT SWARAKSHAN SAMITI v. 1115 THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] 6. He relied upon a decision of the Bombay High Court in the A case of Apoorva d/o Vinay Nichale v. Divisional Committee5. He submitted that if an applicant successfully establishes his caste claim on the basis of documents relating to the pre-Constitution period or documents having probative value or a caste validity certificate granted to his blood relative, it is not necessary to apply the affinity test. In short, B his submission is that the affinity test is not a litmus test. He submitted that the view taken by this Court in the case of Anand4is based on the interpretation of the 2000 Act and the ST Rules. He pointed out that Vijakumar’s3 case has been decided by this Court before the ST Rules came into force. He would urge that there are no reasons recorded in the decision to suggest that the affinity test in every case is mandatory. C The learned counsel pressed into service a decision of this Court in the case of District Collector, Satara & Anr. v. Mangesh Nivrutti Kashid6. He pointed out that this Court clearly stated that Vigilance Cell’s assistance is not required to be taken in every case but only when the Scrutiny Committee is not satisfied with the documents produced by D the applicant. He also pointed out that an applicant who is a member of a Scheduled Tribe and who has been staying in an urban area may not be conversant with the traits, characteristics, ceremonies, and deities of the tribe. Learned senior counsel also relied upon a decision of the Bombay High Court in Writ Petition No.4198 of 2005 dated 1st August 2018, which holds that in view of the decision of this Court in the case of E Anand4, the impugned in the case of Shilpa Vishnu Thakur2 stands impliedly overruled. He would, therefore, submit that the impugned calls for modification and it must be held that the affinity test is not of paramount importance while deciding a caste claim in accordance with the 2000 Act and the ST rules. F 7. Smt. V. Mohna, learned senior counsel appearing in a connected case heavily relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Palghat Jilla Thandan Samudhaya Samrakshna Samithi & Anr. v. State of Kerala7. She submitted that the State Government or Scrutiny Committee cannot hold any enquiry to determine whether or not some particular G community falls within the ST . She submitted that the State Government cannot make an effort to indirectly modify the Third Schedule under the ST as the modification can be carried out only 5 2010 (6) Mh.LJ page 401 6 (2019) 10 SCC 166 7 (1994) 1 SCC 359 H 1116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.