Regarding the appointment of the OL for getting valuation of the assets, the stand of Mr. Divan was that it was not in line with the Code and the Regulations made thereunder. 9. It was further canvassed by learned senior counsel that the Code provides for a mechanism for carrying out valuation of the assets of a Corporate Debtor in form of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as the “CIRP Regulations”), particularly Regulations 278 and 359 thereof, inasmuch as Regulation 27 provides that the RP shall 8 ‘27. Appointment of Professionals.—(1) The resolution professional shall, within seven days of his appointment but not later than forty-seventh day from the insolvency commencement date, appoint two registered valuers to determine the fair value and the liquidation value of the corporate debtor in accordance with Regulation 35. (2) The interim resolution professional or the resolution professional, as the case may be, may appoint any professional, in addition to registered valuers under sub-regulation (1), to assist him in discharge of his duties in conduct of the corporate insolvency resolution process, if he is of the opinion that the services of such professional are required and such services are not available with the corporate debtor. (3) The interim resolution professional or the resolution professional, as the case may be, shall appoint a professional under this regulation on an arm’s length basis following an objective and transparent process: Provided that the following persons shall not be appointed, namely— (a) a relative of the resolution professional; (b) a related party of the corporate debtor; (c) an auditor of the corporate debtor at any time during the period of fi ve years preceding the insolvency commencement date; (d) a partner or director of the insolvency professional entity of which the resolution professional is a partner or director. (4) The invoice for fee and other expenses incurred by a professional appointed under this regulation shall be raised in the name of the professional and be paid directly into the bank account of such professional.’ 9 ‘35. Fair value and Liquidation value.—(1) Fair value and liquidation value shall be determined in the following manner— (a) the two registered valuers appointed under Regulation 27 shall submit to the resolution professional an estimate of the fair value and of the liquidation value computed in accordance with internationally accepted valuation standards, after 682 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. appoint two registered valuers to determine the fair value and liquidation value of the Corporate Debtor whereas Regulation 35 provides that the two valuers shall submit the fair value and liquidation value to the RP after physical verifi cation of the inventory and fi xed assets of the Corporate Debtor and further provides that if the estimates shown by the two valuers are signifi cantly diff erent, or upon a proposal from the CoC, the RP may appoint a third registered valuer for valuation of the assets of the Corporate Debtor.