of call recordings/transcripts and the daily diary of the A appellant, which may be summoned in accordance with law to prove the infidelity of the appellant. Therefore, it seems to us that the respondent is in a position to attempt to make out a case based on such evidence, as to adultery/infidelity on the part of the appellant. B iii. No plea has been raised by the respondent-husband herein as to non-access in to dislodge the presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act. Therefore, no prima-facie case has been made out by the respondent which would justify a direction to conduct a DNA test of Master “X”. C iv. No adverse inference can be raised in the instant case regarding the legitimacy or paternity of Master “X” vis-à- vis the appellant herein, on her declining to subject Master “X” to a paternity test. Further, on the appellant declining to subject Master “X” to a paternity test, no adverse D inference can be drawn as regards the alleged adultery on the part of the appellant herein can be raised. In our view, the allegation of adultery has to be proved by the respondent herein de hors the issue of paternity of Master “X”. 27. In the result, the present appeal is allowed. Consequently, the E impugned of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay dated 22nd November, 2021 and the of the Family Court, Pune dated 12th August, 2021, are set aside. Bearing in mind the facts of the present case, the appeal is allowed with cost of Rs.1 Lakh payable by the respondent to the appellant. The same shall be paid before the Family Court within a period of one month F from today. V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J. 1. While I am entirely in agreement with the opinion well-crafted by my learned sister Hon’ble Mrs. Justice B.V. Nagarathna, I thought G that two aspects of the matter require little more emphasis. Hence a separate but concurring opinion. 2. As we have seen from the narration of facts given by my learned sister Hon’ble Mrs. Justice B.V. Nagarathna – H 726 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A • The marriage of the appellant with the respondent took place on 23.11.2005. • The first child was born on 21.12.2009. • The second child was born on 17.7.2013. B • The respondent-husband claims to have found out the alleged adulterous conduct of the appellant, on 14.9.2016, (3 years after the birth of the second child) when he accidentally stumbled upon the Whatsapp messages in the mobile phone of the appellant. • Then the respondent privately had a DNA test conducted C on the second child, in November 2016, from DNA Labs India, which is said to be an ISO 17025 certified, A2LA and NATA accredited agency. • The respondent then filed a petition for divorce on the ground of adultery, in June 2017. D • During the pendency of the proceedings for divorce, the respondent moved an application in November 2020 seeking a direction to subject the second son to DNA testing at the Government Central Forensic Laboratory.