147 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 83. The next question urged is that the passage of time, has rendered the exclusion of queer couples, the benefi t of SMA, discriminatory. This line of argument, is based on this court’s reasoning that with passage of time, a classifi cation which was once valid, could become irrelevant, and insupportable, thus discriminatory. The fi rst of such decisions was Motor and General Traders v. State of AP75 wherein a provision of the state rent control legislation (which exempted premises constructed after 26.08.195776) was under challenge. The idea was to provide impetus to construction of houses; however, the long passage of time resulted in two classes of tenants, i.e., those residing in older premises, who were covered by the law, and those who lived in premises constructed later. This court held that the continued operation of such exemption, rendered it unconstitutional: “There being no justifi cation for the continuance of the benefi t to a class of persons without any rational basis whatsoever, the evil eff ects fl owing from the impugned exemption have caused more harm to the society than one could anticipate. What was justifi able during a short period has turned out to be a case of hostile discrimination by lapse of nearly a quarter of century. The second answer to the above contention is that mere lapse of time does not lend constitutionality to a provision which is otherwise bad.” 84. Almost identically, in Rattan Arya v. State of T.N.77 the validity of Section 30(ii) of the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent) Control Act, 1960 was under challenge, this court held that the provision which exempted tenants of “residential buildings” paying monthly rent of more than Rs 400 from the protection of the said Rent Control Act, whereas no such restriction was imposed in respect of tenants of “non-residential buildings” under the said Act. This court upheld the challenge, and held that “a provision which was perfectly valid at the commencement of the Act could be challenged later on the ground of unconstitutionality and struck down on that basis. What was once a perfectly valid legislation, 75 1984 (1) SCR 594. 76 Section 32, clause (b) of Andhra Pradesh Buildings (Lease, Rent and Eviction) Control Act, 1954 77 1986 (2) SCR 596 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1475 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] may in course of time, become discriminatory and liable to challenge on the ground of its being violative of Article 14.” The cited by the petitioners, that is Satyawati Sharma v. Union of India78 too dealt with rent legislation which diff erentiated between non-residential and residential buildings, in respect of the remedy of eviction, on ground of bona fi de requirement. 85. In all the s cited by petitioners, the court was able to discern or fi nd that a classifi cation, made at an earlier point in time, had lost its relevance, and operated in a discriminatory manner. In some circumstances, rather than declaring the entire law void, this court “read down” the relevant provision to the extent the statute could be so read.