In law, it is bereft of life. It is ‘not enforceable in law’. In the said sense, it also cannot exist in law. It would be void. The voidness is conflated to unenforceability receives fortification from Section 2(j) of the Contract Act which renders a contract which ceases to be enforceable void. What Section 11(6A) contemplates is a contract and it is not an F agreement which cannot be treated as a contract. This is despite the use of the words ‘arbitration agreement’ in Section 11(6A). In other words, contract must conform to Section 7 of the Act. It must also, needless to say, fulfil the requirements of the Contract Act. [Paras 70 & 71][351-B-F] G 1.2. An agreement which is unstamped or insufficiently stamped is not enforceable, as long as it remains in the said condition. Such an instrument would be void as being not enforceable [See Section 2(g) of the Contract Act]. It would not H 288 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A in the said sense exist in law. It can be “validated” by only the process contemplated in Section 33 and other provisions of the Stamp Act. This necessarily means that the court would not view it as enforceable, and therefore, existing in law. In the sense explained, it would not be found as ‘not void’ and therefore ‘not invalid’. Thus, in the context of the Act, the Stamp Act and the B Contract Act, the opinion of this Court in SMS Tea Estates, in this regard as reiterated in Garware and approved in Vidya Drolia is correct. [Para 74][353-E-G] 2. An instrument, which is exigible to stamp duty, may contain an Arbitration Clause and which is not stamped, cannot C be said to be a contract, which is enforceable in law within the meaning of Section 2(h) of the Contract Act and is not enforceable under Section 2(g) of the Contract Act. An unstamped instrument, when it is required to be stamped, being not a contract and not enforceable in law, cannot, therefore, exist in law. Therefore, D paragraphs-22 and 29 of Garware are approved. To this extent, this Court also approves of Vidya Drolia, insofar as the reasoning in paragraphs-22 and 29 of Garware is approved. [Para 110][374- E-F] 3. The Scheme permits the Court, under Section 11 of the E Act, acting on the basis of the original agreement or on a certified copy. The certified copy must, however, clearly indicate the stamp duty paid as held in SMS Tea Estates. If it does not do so, the Court should not act on such a certified copy. [Para 112][375-A] 4. The provisions of Sections 33 and the bar under Section F 35 of the Stamp Act, applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp duty under Section 3 read with the Schedule to the Stamp Act, would render the Arbitration Agreement contained in such instrument as being non-existent in law unless the instrument is validated under the Stamp Act. [Para 115][375-D-E] G N.N. Global Mercantile Private Limited v. Indo Unique Flame Limited and others (2021) 4 SCC 379 – overruled.