Any specific individual role or act is not material. [See : 2021 SCC OnLine SC 632- C Manjeet Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors., Para 38]. A plain reading of Section 149 IPC (read with Section 141 IPC), makes it clear that no overt act needs to be assigned to a member of an unlawful assembly. “Even if no overt act is imputed to a particular person when the charge is under Section 149 IPC, the presence of D the accused as part of an unlawful assembly is sufficient for conviction”. [See : Yunis alias Kariya v. State of Madhya Pradesh, AIR 2003 SC 539] The entire purpose of criminal trial is to go to the truth of the matter. Once there is satisfaction of the Court that there is evidence E before it that an accused has committed an offence, the court can proceed against such a person. At the stage of summoning an accused, there has to be a prima facie satisfaction of the Court. The evidence which was there before the Court was of an eye witness who has clearly stated before the Court that a crime has been committed, inter alia, by the F revisionist. The Court need not cross-examine this witness. It can stop the trial at that stage itself if such application had been moved under Section 319. The detail examination of the witness and other witnesses is a subject matter of the trial which has to begin afresh. The scope and ambit of Section 319 CrPC has been discussed and dealt with in detail in the Constitution Bench of Hardeep Singh v. State of Punjab G and Others reported in (2014) 3 SCC 92 where it said: “12. Section 319 CrPC springs out of the doctrine judex damnatur cum nocens absolvitur (Judge is condemned when guilty is acquitted) and this doctrine must be used as H 1216 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A a beacon light while explaining the ambit and the spirit underlying the enactment of Section 319 Cr. PC. 13. It is the duty of the court to do justice by punishing the real culprit. Where the investigating agency for any reason does not array one of the real culprits as an accused, the B court is not powerless in calling the said accused to face trial.” 5. In Hardeep Singh (supra), this court further said that the Court only has to see at the state of Section 319, whether a prima facie case is made out although the degree of satisfaction has to be much higher. C “95. At the time of taking cognizance, the court has to see whether a prima facie case is made out to proceed against the accused. Under Section 319 CrPC, though the test of prima facie case is the same, the degree of satisfaction that is required is much stricter. A two-Judge Bench of this Court in Vikas v. State of Rajasthan, held that on the D objective satisfaction of the court a person may be “arrested” or “summoned”, as the circumstances of the case may require, if it appears from the evidence that any such person not being the accused has committed an offence for which such person could be tried together with E the already arraigned accused persons.