It, therefore, appears to be a tutored version. B 18. Robi Pukhan (PW-2), brother of the deceased has also not seen the occurrence.According to him, initially he was standing outside his house. Thereafter, when the accused entered his house, he came inside and by that time Pradip Phukan(the deceased) had escaped through the back door to the house of PW-4 and PW-5 and when he tried to follow Pradip Phukan, he was stopped by the police and the other accused C persons. His version was that he received injuries from the accused after they had assaulted the deceased whereas the other eye-witness PW-1 stated that PW-2 was assaulted along with the deceased. He further states that police came there and took him to the hospital; he received injuries on his head and hand. He has again stated that police D personnel had come along with the accused. Interestingly, there is no injury report on record. The Investigating Officer (PW-7) had specifically stated that despite his best efforts, he could not obtain any medico-legal report of PW-2. Thus, the presence of PW-2 is also doubtful. 19. Jogmaya (PW-3) wife of PW-2 has given a different version E of the incident. According to her, the accused persons chased her husband and assaulted him and then the accused persons took her husband to the Police Stationassaulting him all along. Thereafter, she along with PW-1 came to the Police Station to lodge the FIR. She had also clearly stated that five police personnel of the Chabua Police Station had come to her house with the accused persons and the police witnessed the incident. F In her cross-examination, she admits that she did not enter the house of PW-4 and PW-5 where the deceased was assaulted. She states that police had come to apprehend her husband and the deceased. She further stated that she did not see all the accused and she did not witness the assault on the deceased. G 20. PW-4 and PW-5 are the husband and wife who reside in the neighbourhood of the deceased and it is in their house that the deceased was assaulted. Evidence of PW-4 has been discarded by the Trial Court. With regard to the manner of assault, her evidence is only relevant to the extent that an incident took place in her house and not as to the manner of assault. She, however, states that she remained in her house till 4PM H PULEN PHUKAN & ORS. v. THE STATE OF ASSAM 631 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] along with the dead-body of the deceased till such time police came and A took the dead-body. 21. PW-5 has not stated anything material. 22. PW-6 is the Doctor who conducted the autopsy. 23. PW-7 is the Investigating Officer. B 24. Coming to the legal issues, we first deal with the issue as to whether in the facts and circumstances it was a case of unlawful assembly and further the accused were members of the unlawful assembly with common object is made out or not.