It has, thus, been contended on behalf of the respondent that in the impugned dated 31.01.2018, the Tribunal has rightly set aside D the demands raised by the Department after appreciating the facts and the law applicable to the case inasmuch as, during the relevant period, there was no change in the said Chapter 30; and there was no change in the manufacturing process or ingredients of AHAHO. As such, the product remained a medicament under Chapter 30 of the First Schedule to the E Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 prior to 2012 and even thereafter. Hence, this appeal deserves to be dismissed. Points for determination 10. For what has been noticed hereinabove, the point essentially arising for determination in this case is as to whether the product in F question, AHAHO, merits classification as ‘medicament’ under Chapter 30 or as ‘cosmetic or toilet preparations’ under Chapter 33 of the First Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985; and the interlaced point is as to whether the change in tariff structure by way of amendment brought about in the year 2012 justified a re-look into the classification of the product in question. G 11. As noticed, it remains undeniable that the product in question, AHAHO, was classified as ‘medicament’ under Chapter 30 on at least four different occasions by the Department, including two s passed by the successive Commissioner (Appeals) during 1994-2004; and the said s had attained finality. The respondent, in to support its H 318 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A assertion that AHAHO is a medicament, also placed reliance on the decision of the Tribunal in the case of Bakson Homeo Pharmacy (supra) wherein a similar product marketed in the name of “Sunny Arnica Hair Oil” was held to be medicament, covered under Chapter 30. However, the Department attempted to rely on the amendment of the tariff entries in the year 2012 as its justification for re-examination of the classification B of the product in question. 12. We have closely examined the divergent findings recorded by the Adjudicating Authority and the Tribunal and have also taken note of the competing stands taken by the parties. In to examine the root question as to whether the product in question is classifiable as C ‘medicament’ under Chapter 30 or would fall in the classification of ‘cosmetic or toilet preparations’ under Chapter 33 as also the other question as regards justification for re-examination of the previous classification of the product in question, we may, in the first place, take note of the principles discernible from the cited decisions. D The principles in the cited decisions 13. As regards justification for re-examination of the classification of the product in question, the Adjudicating Authority observed that there were substantial changes in the tariff entries, particularly when Chapter 30 came to be reworded so as to remove the distinction between patent/ E proprietary and generic medicaments and classify them according to whether they are put up in unit containers for retail sale or not; the mention about the Act of 1940 and the various Pharmacopeia came to be deleted; and under Chapter 33, the phrase “Hair oil” became prominent under which, subsidiary headings of “perfumed hair oil” and “others” came to be specified.