H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 895 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] (3) Section 268 of the Code shall apply in relation to a case A involving an offence punishable under this Act subject to the modification that— (a) the reference in sub-section (1) thereof (i) to “the State Government” shall be construed as a reference B to “the Central Government or the State Government.”; (ii) to “ of the State Government” shall be construed as a reference to “ of the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be”; and (b) the reference in sub-section (2) thereof, to ‘the State C Government” shall be construed as a reference to “the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be”. (4) Nothing in section 438 of the Code shall apply in relation to any case involving the arrest of any person accused of having committed an offence punishable under this Act. D (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code, no person accused of an offence punishable under Chapters IV and VI of this Act shall, if in custody, be released on bail or on his own bond unless the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity of being heard on the application for such release: E Provided that such accused person shall not be released on bail or on his own bond if the Court, on a perusal of the case diary or the report made under section 173 of the Code is of the opinion that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against such person is prima facie true. F (6) The restrictions on granting of bail specified in sub- section (5) is in addition to the restrictions under the Code or any other law for the time being in force on granting of bail. (7) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- sections (5) and (6), no bail shall be granted to a person accused G of an offence punishable under this Act, if he is not an Indian citizen and has entered the country unauthorisedly or illegally except in very exceptional circumstances and for reasons to be recorded in writing.” H 896 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 12.Allegations against these two appellants appear, inter-alia, from paragraphs 17.5, 17.9, 17.10, 17.11, 17.15 17.18 and 17.19 of the first supplementary chargesheet. These paragraphs from the chargesheet dated 21st February 2019 are quoted below:- “17.5 During the investigation of this crime it emerged that B the activity of the accused in this was not limited to only creating antagonism between two sections but they were also doing other destructive acts against the country. Accused Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut and Shoma sen had done unlawful and terrorist acts in accordance with a pre-planned plot by and on behalf of the C banned organization C.P.I (Maoist) , a large country wide conspiracy to overthrow through force of violence the constitutionality established democracy and administrative system in the country. It has also emerged that the present crime is also one part of this conspiracy.