During investigation a camera was recovered from the residential quarter of another person, who was a neighbour of that lady doctor. Thereafter, under s of the Battalion Commandant, proceedings were initiated against the original petitioner in respect of commission of an off ence under Section 40 of the B Security Force Act, 1968 (in short, “BSF Act, 1968”), that is for committing an act prejudicial to the good and discipline of the Force (BSF), and record of evidence was prepared. On completion of the record of evidence, the Commandant remanded the original petitioner for trial by a Summary Security Force Court (in short, “SSFC”). The SSFC held its proceedings on 23rd July, 2005 wherein the original petitioner is stated to have pleaded guilty. Based on that, the SSFC dismissed the original petitioner from service. 3. Aggrieved by his dismissal from service, the original petitioner fi led an appeal under Section 117 of the BSF Act, 1968 before the Appellate Authority. In the appeal, the original petitioner refuted the allegations of clicking pictures of the lady doctor while she was taking her bath and claimed that,-- while recording the evidence, the prosecution witnesses were not off ered for cross-examination; there was no evidence forthcoming against the original petitioner in the testimony of prosecution witnesses; the reel of the camera allegedly used in commission of the off ence was not developed; the statement of PW-9 with regard to concealment of the camera in her house by the original petitioner was contradictory to her previous statement where no such allegation was levelled by her; nothing incriminating was recovered from the possession of the original petitioner; the statement of prosecution witnesses indicated that the original petitioner had denied the allegations levelled against him, therefore, there was no reason for making a confessional statement, hence, the same cannot be the sole basis for the punishment. In the alternative, the original petitioner pleaded that he was a young man, aged 31 years, who had diligently discharged his duties for over 11 years without a complaint, therefore, even if the original petitioner UNION OF INDIA & OTHERS v. JOGESHWAR SWAIN 121 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] is found guilty, a lenient view be taken by taking into account that he has old parents and a family dependent on him. 4. The aforesaid statutory appeal of the original petitioner was dismissed by the Director General, BSF, New Delhi. The letter communicating dismissal of the appeal recited that since the original petitioner had pleaded guilty to the charge, the SSFC justifi ably held him guilty and dismissed him from service. 5. Aggrieved by dismissal of his appeal, the original petitioner fi led writ petition before the High Court. FINDINGS OF THE HIGH COURT 6. Before the High Court, the s impugned in the writ petition were questioned on two grounds: (a) that there were procedural infi rmities in conducting the proceedings and recording of evidence; and (b) that the evidence recorded did not inculpate him. With regard to the fi rst ground, it was pointed out that Rule 60 of the B Security Force Rules, 1969 (in short, BSF Rules, 1969”) disqualifi ed an offi cer from serving as a Court if he was the offi cer who convened the Court; or is the Commandant of the accused.