This was necessary, it observed, to prevent the abuse of process of law. 21. There is no doubt that this salutary rule has to be applied and given eff ect to by this Court, if necessary, by overruling any procedural or 1116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. other technical objections. Article 129 is a constitutional power and when exercised in tandem with Article 142, all such objections should give way. The court must ensure full justice between the parties before it.” (Emphasis supplied) 86. This Court in Vidur Impex and Traders Private Limited and Others v. Tosh Apartments Private Limited and Others reported in (2012) 8 SCC 384, while deciding on a similar factual scenario held that the sale transactions conducted in teeth of the injunction passed by the Delhi High Court did not have any legal basis. This Court held as under: “42. … At the cost of repetition, we consider it necessary to mention that Respondent 1 had fi led suit for specifi c performance of agreement dated 13-9-1988 executed by Respondent 2. The appellants and Bhagwati Developers are total strangers to that agreement. They came into the picture only when Respondent 2 entered into a clandestine transaction with the appellants for sale of the suit property and executed the agreements for sale, which were followed by registered sale deeds and the appellants executed agreement for sale in favour of Bhagwati Developers. These transactions were in clear violation of the of injunction passed by the Delhi High Court which had restrained Respondent 2 from alienating the suit property or creating third-party interest. To put it diff erently, the agreements for sale and the sale deeds executed by Respondent 2 in favour of the appellants did not have any legal sanctity. The status of the agreement for sale executed by the appellants in favour of Bhagwati Developers was no diff erent. These transactions did not confer any right upon the appellants or Bhagwati Developers. Therefore, their presence is not at all necessary for adjudication of the question whether Respondents 1 and 2 had entered into a binding agreement and whether Respondent 1 is entitled to a decree of specifi c performance of the said agreement. …. (Emphasis supplied) 87. The decision of Vidur Impex (supra) was relied upon by this Court in the case of Jehal Tanti and Others v. Nageshwar Singh (Dead) THR. LRS. reported in AIR 2013 SC 2235, wherein it was held that: BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1117 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “13. We may also notice Section 23 of the Contract Act, 1872, which lays down that: “23. What considerations and objects are lawful, and what not.—The consideration or object of an agreement is lawful, unless— it is forbidden by law; or is of such a nature that, if permitted, it would defeat the provisions of any law; or is fraudulent; or involves or implies injury to the person or property of another; or the court regards it as immoral, or opposed to public policy.” In each of these cases, the consideration or object of an agreement is unlawful and every agreement executed with such an object or consideration which is unlawful is void.