She also narrated that Mukesh was saying ‘Abrar makes sure that no one is left alive. Kill all of them’ and thereafter G he went upstairs. She continued to lie close to her mother in a state of fright and shock. They left thinking that she was also dead. They were also taking name of one Pramod. Both Abrar and Pramod are from village Noorpur, which is the in-law’s place of Mukesh. They used to regularly come to Mukesh and that she had seen them earlier. When H 934 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A these assailants left after assaulting, her sister Ms Rashmi came down from upstairs only to see that their parents, brother and husband had been murdered. Both the sisters ran outside shrieking and shouting, and after some time, Braj Pal and Mukesh came along with others and they asked what had happened. They came inside and saw the entire place of occurrence and asked Smt Pinky if she had recognised the assailants. B Out of fright both Ms Rashmi and Smt Pinky denied having seen anyone. Thereafter Mukesh called for the vehicle of Ajai alias Ajju and they brought them to the hospital. They were also asking her on the way as to whether she had recognised any one, to which she had denied. She also requested the Investigating Officer that both of them have told the correct C sequence but please keep to himself as there is imminent threat to her life and also to her sister’s life. After narrating the entire story Smt Pinky (PW-1) fell unconscious. Ms Rashmi, the other daughter of the deceased has also given a similar statement to the Investigating Officer, although she was not examined during trial. After recording the said statements, the Investigating Officer completed all the formalities, sent D the dead-bodies for post-mortem, informed the superior authorities, prepared the sight plan, made necessary recoveries from the spot. 6. Smt Pinky (PW-1) suffered the following injuries as per the injury report prepared by Dr Rajeev Sharma(PW- 2) of the Sarvodaya Hospital, Ghaziabad who had examined her at 5.25 AM on the same E day: “INJURIES (i) Amputated little & ring finger at level of proximal crease (R) (ii) Cut lacerated wound on palmar aspect of (R) hand 8 cm. x F 2 cm. red in colour. 2 cm distal to palmar crease. (iii) Cut lacerated wound on front side of forearm (R) 6 cm. x 2 cm. red in colour profusely, bleeding, 5 cm. above wrist joint. G (iv) Cut lacerated wound over face extending from (Lt.) Angle of mouth 5 cm. x 3 cm. (v) Cut lacerated wound over neck 5 cm. x 1 cm. just above upper crease of neck. (vi) Cut lacerated wound at base of index and middle finger on H back side 2 cm. x 1 cm. & 2 cm. x 0.5 cm. respectively. AJAI ALIAS AJJU ETC. ETC. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 935 PRADESH [VIKRAM NATH, J.] (vii) Cut lacerated wound on (L) ear 3 cm.