[2023] 1 S.C.R. 809 809 RAJARAM S/O SRIRAMULU NAIDU (SINCE DECEASED) A THROUGH L.RS. v. MARUTHACHALAM (SINCE DECEASED) THROUGH L.RS. B (Criminal Appeal No. 1978 of 2013) JANUARY 18, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI AND M. M. SUNDRESH, JJ.] C Money Lending – The appellant’s wife subscribed to chit funds (1992 and 1995) with the respondent for which two signed blank cheques were submitted as security – After maturity of the chit funds, appellant and his wife sought release of the subscription amount – However, respondent presented those cheques for encashment D without any intimation to appellant – Said cheques were dishonoured as the appellant had closed the account – Respondent filed two complaint cases u/s 138 of NI Act – Both cases were dismissed by the trial Court – Thereafter, respondent filed suits for recovery of money on the basis of the Promissory Notes –Both the E suits were dismissed – Appeals against the s in the criminal matters were allowed by the High Court and of conviction and sentence was passed – Also, the suits were decreed by the High Court – On appeal, held: Considering the criminal appeals first, the trial court found that Income Tax Returns of the complainant F did not disclose that he lent amount to the accused, and that the declared income was not sufficient to give loan of Rs. 3 lakhs –The standard of proof for rebutting the presumption is that of preponderance of probabilities – Applying this principle, the trial Court had found that the accused had rebutted the presumption on G the basis of the evidence of the defence witnesses and attending circumstances – In the instant case, the defence raised by the appellant satisfies the standard of ‘preponderance of probability’ – High Court was not justified in reversing the of acquittal of the appellant – Insofar as civil appeals are concerned, High Court H 809 810 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A on basis of the evidence on record, relying on the preponderance of probability, came to the conclusion that the plaintiff had the financial ability to lend sum of Rs.3 lakhs – As the appellant’s wife was not examined as witness, the High Court found that the best available evidence was withheld by the defendants/appellants and B as such principle of adverse inference applicable – Therefore, no reason to interfere with the s and the s passed by the High Court in civil appeals. Disposing of the appeals, the Court C HELD: 1. Consider the criminal appeals first, after analyzing all these pieces of evidence, the Trial Court found that the Income Tax Returns of the complainant did not disclose that he lent amount to the accused, and that the declared income was not sufficient to give loan of Rs.3 lakh. Therefore, the case of the D complainant that he had given a loan to the accused from his agricultural income was found to be unbelievable by the Trial Court. The Trial Court found that it was highly doubtful as to whether the complainant had lent an amount of Rs.3 lakh to the accused.