This right being in the nature of a capital asset, any payment(s) made towards the acquisition of the right, whether in lump-sum or in annual instalments dependent on the AGR, would be in the nature of capital disbursement(s). 23.4. This conclusion is also consistent with the view of this Court in Pingle Industries Ltd., wherein by a majority of 2:1 held that the payment, towards acquisition of a long-term lease to win mine stones, though periodic, was neither rent nor royalty but a lump-sum payment in instalments for acquiring a capital asset of enduring benefi t to trade. This Court refused to hold that the periodic payments were towards purchase of stones, but instead opined that the payments were in discharge of a singular original obligation to the jagir. Therefore, it emerges that where the periodic payments are referrable to or have a nexus with the original obligation undertaken by the assessee as consideration for acquisition of a right, the periodic payments would be in the nature of capital expenditure, notwithstanding the fact that they are payable as a percentage of profi ts, gross revenue or sales. 24. Hence, we are of the considered view that in the present case, since the entry fee as well as variable licence fees are traceable to the same source, they would both have to be held to be capital in nature, notwithstanding the fact that the variable licence fee is paid in a staggered manner. We shall consider the case law sought to be relied upon by the learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the respondents-assessees, so as to distinguish the same from the present case. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 465 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 24.1. We shall fi rst advert to the decision of this Court in Jonas Woodhead and Sons. Paragraph 2 of the said , in no unclear terms captures two underlying transactions arising out of the agreement in the said case; the fi rst transaction relating to the know-how and technical information regarding setting up of the plant and the second transaction relating to the services to be rendered to the assessee by the foreign fi rm, the consideration for the second prong being in the nature of royalty. It is in that backdrop that the consolidated payment was apportioned and 25% thereof was held to be in the nature of capital expenditure while 75%, payable on services, was held to be revenue expenditure. Further, it is also relevant to note that in the said case the exercise of apportionment into the aforesaid fractions was carried out by the Madras High Court. Against the of the High Court, the Revenue did not prefer an appeal before this Court on the fi ndings pertaining to apportionment of 75% towards services. What was appealed against by the assessee was with regard to categorisation of 25% of the consolidated expenditure as capital expenditure. The assessee alone was the appellant before this Court. Therefore, the question as to apportionment of 75% towards services, was not considered and decided by this Court in the said case.