26.The submission made by the learned counsel for the appellants that in absence of a fixed date specified in the advertisement and in absence of any provision in the Rules, the certificates produced on the D date of interview should be treated as valid, cannot be accepted. Though, reliance was sought to be placed by the learned counsel for the appellants on Dolly Chhanda v. Chairman, JEE and Others (supra), Ram Kumar Gijroya v. Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board and Another (supra) and Karn Singh Yadav vs. Govt. Of NCT Of Delhi & Ors. E (SLP (C) No. 14948 of 2016) they are hardly of any help to the appellants. In DollyChhanda (supra), this Court while observing that every infraction of rule relating to submission of proof need not necessarily result in rejection of candidature, had emphasized that: “7. The general rule is that while applying for any course of study or a post, a person must possess the eligibility qualification on the F last date fixed for such purpose either in the admission brochure or in the application form as the case may be, unless there is an expressed provision to the contrary. There can be no relaxation in this regard i.e. in the matter of holding the eligibility qualification by the date fixed. This has to be established by producing the G necessary certificates, degrees or marksheets. Similarly, in to avail the benefit of reservation or weightage etc. necessary certificates have to be produced. These are the documents in the nature of proof of holding of particular qualification or percentage of marks secured or entitlement to benefit of reservation..” H SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 633 OTHERS [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] 27.In Ram Kumar Gijroya (Supra), the two Judge Bench of this A Court had found the candidate eligible for selection to the concerned post under the OBC category, though the certificate in that regard was submitted after the last date mentioned in the advertisement, however another two judge Bench of this Court in Karn Singh Yadav (supra)had expressed reservation in that regard, and had referred the matter to the B Three-Judge Bench vide the dated 24.01.2020. The Three-Judge Bench in the said case of Karn Singh Yadav (supra) however relying upon Ram Kumar Gijroya (supra)disposed of the appeal vide the dated 28.09.2022, without noticing the reference made by the two Judge Bench in the said case. Be that as it may, in none of these two cases, was there an issue whether the candidate could have produced the C requisite certificate showing his reserved category, issued after the last date fixed for the submission of the applications mentioned in the advertisement, as has been done in the instant appeals. 28.Further, none of the appellants had raised any such contention in their writ petitions that they had applied on time and the delay in D issuing certificates was on the part of the competent authorities. Admittedly, no such affidavits as contemplated in the circulars dated 09.09.2015 and 08.08.2019 were filed by the appellants either before the competent authority issuing the certificates or before the respective High Court at the time of interview, though indicated in the notice dated E 04.08.2022.