The previous rulings in Bondu Ramaswamy (supra) and Vipulbhai (supra), indicate that even in the case of transitional provisions of the kind that they dealt with – which were enacted as part of the Constitution – the states’ power to amend is limited to bring the existing law inconformity with the new provisions of the Constitution brought into force by the concerned amendment. In those cases, the court was not confronted with the complex situation of the nature that one has to deal with today. The 101st amendment as noted earlier uniquely transformed the indirect taxation regime and revamped the constitutional compact itself in one sense. Gone were the traditional delineations of distribution of legislative power including taxation fi elds which traced their origins to Articles 245 and 246 and also the rules for handling repugnancy which Article 254 had enacted. Instead,what was brought in was an entirely new concept of sourcing common or concurrent power of both the state legislatures and the Union through the newly added provision Article 246A. 91. As held earlier, the change was dramatic and revolutionary and wisely the constitutional amending body which is the Parliament and the ratifying States felt it expedient to ensure that during the transitional period of one year or till the new GST regime was ushered through an enactment, there ought to be fl exibility with the States and Parliament to 192 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. make such changes as the times demanded. In the previous two s, Bondu Ramaswamy (supra) and Vipulbhai (supra), however, there was no question of denuding the powers, the State or conferring new powers on the Parliament and the State but rather creation of new bodies as in the case of Panchayats and Zila Parishads in Bondu Ramaswamy(supra) and imposing new standards in Vipulbhai (supra), in relation to cooperative societies. Then, the existing legal regime was preserved for a limited duration. Yet the court felt that the amendments should not have a lasting impact going beyond the period provided by the savings or transitional provisions as that would have inevitably met with challenges as not being inconformity with the new regime. 92. In the present case, however, Section 19 is seen as a plenary constituent power, subject to other limitations in the Constitution, and also given that by the amendment the legislative entries in the fi elds which are Entry 54 of the State List and Entry 84 of the Central List were substantially changed, this court has to take into account the reality that State’s powers or even Parliament’s power had to be sourced directly from the amendment. 93. There is merit in the argument that although Article 246A in a sense itself comprehends the power to impose tax on goods and services, yet its operationalization could take place only through the recommendations of the GST council. The GST council appears to have been formed in the wake of the 101st amendment, nevertheless, the process of making recommendations had only begun. Therefore, the power to make laws could not have been sourced only to Article 246A.