v. DY. DIRECTOR 543 ENFORCEMENT DIRECTORATE [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a A cognizable offence but constitute only a non-cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a police officer without an of a Magistrate as contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so B absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which no prudent person can ever reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act (under which a C criminal proceeding is instituted) to the institution and continuance of the proceedings and/or where there is a specific provision in the Code or the concerned Act, providing efficacious redress for the grievance of the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with D mala fide and/or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to spite him due to private and personal grudge.” 29. The case of the petitioners does not fall under any of the above categories. The petitioners have also failed to make out any case E of abuse of process of the court at the instance of the respondent authorities. There being enough material to show prima facie involvement of the petitioners in the alleged offence of money laundering, as contemplated under the PMLA the High Court had rightly dismissed the petitions filed by the petitioners. As stated in the statement of objects and reasons of the Act, money laundering poses a serious threat not only F to the financial systems of the countries but also to their integrity and sovereignty. Hence any lenient view in dealing with such offences would be a travesty of justice. 30. Before parting, it may be noted that the petitioners in the SLPs while praying for the main relief of quashing the impugned and G dated 21.02.2019 passed by the High Court, had sought interim relief seeking stay of the entire proceedings and the prosecution complaint no. 12/2018 in ECIR No.JPZO/01/2016 pending before the Special Judge (PMLA cases) Jaipur, without producing the said complaint along with the SLP paper books. The SLPs appear to have been filed on 8th March, H 544 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 2019 declaring that all the defects have been cured, and thereafter on 25.03.2019, by way of an application seeking permission to file additional documents, the petitioners had produced the said Prosecution complaint no.12/2018 on record. Apart from the fact that after filing of the SLPs, no documents could have been filed without the permission of the Court, which in the instant case does not appear to have been sought for by the B petitioners nor granted by the Court, the very practice of not filing the essential and relevant documents, more particularly, the documents in respect of which a relief is sought in the SLPs, is strongly deprecated.