Reformatory, deterrent and punitive aspects of punishment thus play their due part in judicial thinking while determining the question of awarding appropriate sentences. 12. In Shyam Sunder v Puran & Anr8, the accused-appellant F was convicted under Section 304 Part I IPC. The appellate court reduced the sentence to the term of imprisonment already undergone, i.e., six months. However, it enhanced the fine. This court ruled that sentence awarded was inadequate. Proceeding further, it opined that: - “... The court in fixing the punishment for any particular crime should take into consideration the nature of the offence, the circumstances in G which it was committed, the degree of deliberation shown by the offender. The measure of punishment should be proportionate to 5 2009 [15] SCR 712 6 2012 [8] SCR 189 7 1974 (1) SCR 222 H 8 1990 Suppl [1] SCR 662 UGGARSAIN v. THE STATE OF HARYANA & ORS. 81 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the gravity of the offence. The sentence imposed by the High Court A appears to be so grossly and entirely inadequate as to involve a failure of justice. We are of opinion that to meet the ends of justice, the sentence has to be enhanced...”. This court enhanced the sentence to one of rigorous imprisonment for a period of five years. This court has emphasized, in that sentencing depends on the facts, and the adequacy B is determined by factors such as “the nature of crime, the manner in which it is committed, the propensity shown and the brutality reflected” [Ravda Sashikala v State of Andhra Pradesh9]. Other decisions, like: State of M.P.v. Bablu10; Raj Kumar11 and State of Punjab v. Saurabh Bakshi12 too, have stressed the significance and importance of imposing appropriate, “adequate” or “proportionate” punishments. C 13. In the present case, the High Court noted the respective ages of the accused-i.e., Krishan (61 years); Raju (40 years); Parveen (32 years); Sundar (39 years); Sandeep (25 years); Nar Singh (41 years) and Sunder s/o Rajpal (36 years). The court noted that Bramhajit had served in the army. Apart from these, the court noted the relative family D circumstances: the number of children each accused had. It then adopted a uniform rule, i.e., the period of sentence undergone by the accused, as the appropriate sentence. 14. As noted earlier, all the accused were found concurrently guilty under Section 148 IPC; they were armed with different kinds of E implements and weapons, that were capable of inflicting deadly injuries. The postmortem report of Subhash revealed at least six serious head injuries, including fracture and haemorrhage in different places. Pawan, Uggarsain and Sita Ram, others from the complainant party also concededly suffered injuries. Though the High Court was of the opinion F that no explanation was given by the prosecution about the injuries on the accused, their nature does not seem to have been serious. At any rate, the court did not find that sufficient reason to upset the sentence under Section 149 read with Section 304 II IPC.