(13) An application made under this section for appointment of an arbitrator or arbitrators shall be disposed of by the Supreme Court or the High Court or the person or institution designated by such Court, as the case may be, as expeditiously as possible and an endeavour shall be made to dispose of the matter within a period of sixty days from the date of service of notice on the opposite party. (14) For the purpose of determination of the fees of the arbitral tribunal and the manner of its payment to the arbitral tribunal, the High Court may frame such rules as may be necessary, after taking into consideration the rates specifi ed in the Fourth Schedule. Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarifi ed that this sub-section shall not apply to international commercial arbitration and in arbitrations (other than international commercial arbitration) in case where parties have agreed for determination of fees as per the rules of an arbitral institution. 4 For short, “the Arbitration Act”. 5 (2023) 7 SCC 1. 119 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. functions, shall, if it appears to him that such instrument is not duly stamped, impound the same. (2) For that purpose every such person shall examine every instrument so chargeable and so produced or coming before him, in to ascertain whether it is stamped with a stamp of the value and description required by the law in force in India when such instrument was executed or fi rst executed: Provided that— (a) nothing herein contained shall be deemed to require any Magistrate or Judge of a Criminal Court to examine or impound, if he does not think fi t so to do, any instrument coming before him in the course of any proceeding other than a proceeding under Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898); (b) in the case of a Judge of a High Court, the duty of examining and impounding any instrument under this section may be delegated to such offi cer as the Court appoints in this behalf. (3) For the purposes of this section, in cases of doubt,— (a) the State Government may determine what offi ces shall be deemed to be public offi ces; and (b) the State Government may determine who shall be deemed to be persons in charge of public offi ces.” ×× ×× ×× 35.Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible in evidence, etc.— No instrument chargeable with duty shall be admitted in evidence for any purpose by any person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence, or shall be acted upon, registered or authenticated by any such person or by any public offi cer, unless such instruments is duly stamped: Provided that— (a) any such instrument shall be admitted in evidence on payment of the duty with which the same is chargeable or, in the case of an instrument insuffi ciently stamped, of the amount required to make up such duty, IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1197 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [ SANJIV KHANNA, J.]