While referring to Materia Medica, the Adjudicating Authority expressed his reservations about one ingredient (Pilocarpine) and observed that there was no nexus of the said ingredient with Homeopathy. 6.10. While referring to the significance of general rules of C interpretation as regards the Notes attached to the respective Chapters/ Tariff Items in the First Schedule to the Act of 1985, the Adjudicating Authority observed that as per Note 1(e) to Chapter 30, the said Chapter did not cover preparation of the headings of Chapter 3303 to 3307, even if they have therapeutic or prophylactic properties. 6.11. The Adjudicating Authority also referred to the Board D Circular No. 890/10/2009-CX dated 03.06.2009, clarifying its stance that coconut oil packaged in containers up to 200ml had to be classified as “Hair oil” due to the general view of public; and observed that AHAHO packed in bottles of 50ml, 100ml and 200ml, was to be treated as “Hair oil” and the 400ml pack cannot surpass this classification, merely because E it was not fast-moving. 6.12. Hence, the Adjudicating Authority was of the view that the product in question could not be classified under Tariff Item 3003 90 14 or under any item stated in Chapter 30. The Adjudicating Authority further observed that when the intention of the framers of the legislation was to F tax “Hair oil” at a particular rate, any attempt to evade the same would result in disregarding the law. Accordingly, the Adjudicating Authority, by its dated 16.10.2015, confirmed the demand and levied interest and penalty on the respondent, as noticed hereinbefore. 6.13. It may be observed, in all fairness to the learned Adjudicating G Authority, that in his elaborate dated 16.10.2015 (pp. 96-253 of paper-book), several passages from a large number of decisions have also been reproduced, which we have not indicated hereinabove. The relevant of those decisions, as cited on behalf of the parties, shall be referred to and examined at the relevant stage hereafter. H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 307 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Before the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate A Tribunal 7. The assessee’s appeal11 against the aforesaid dated 16.10.2015 was taken up for consideration by the Tribunal along with a bunch of its other appeals involving the same issues but pertaining to different periods of consideration. B 7.1. The respondent-assessee (appellant before the Tribunal) made various submissions, including that the product was made of four homeopathic medicines in coconut oil base with therapeutic use for curing alopecia (loss of hair) and insomnia (lack of sleep) amongst other diseases; that the product was being manufactured under the drug license C issued by the Director, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy, subsequently renewed as a medicament by the Additional Director & Drug Controller (Homeo), Department of Ayush, Government of Telangana; that AHAHO was mentioned at Serial No. 35 of Schedule K to the Rules of 1945, which contains only drugs; that the label clearly listed the ingredients D and composition, indications and contra-indications as also mode of use; that the product was commonly understood as homeopathic medicament by its users as well as dealers; that the issue had squarely been decided in Bakson Homeo Pharmacy (supra); and that there were no such changes, be it in the Act of 1985 or in the ingredients of the product or the manufacturing process, which would warrant a revision of its E classification.