The Courts ought not to sit as courts of appeal but review the decision-making process and examine arbitrariness or mala fi des, if any.6 37. Even in a writ appeal, it is well settled that the Division Bench would ordinarily not interfere with the of a Single Judge unless it suff ers from perversity or error. 38. Hence, having considered the rival submissions, and for the above reasons, we are of the view that the interference of the Division Bench in the of the Single Judge was not warranted. That apart, during the course of the hearing, it has emerged before this Court that the contract is under implementation. Paragraphs 39 and 40 of the affi davit which was fi led before the High Court by BHEL are extracted below: 39. Of the total Project work, 80% of the civil work, 72% of the structural work and 65% of the supply work of the Project in totality has been completed. BTL has completed around 80% of the mechanical 5 Tata Motors Limited vs Brihan Mumbai Electric Supply & Transport Undertaking (BEST) and Others, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 671. 6 Monte Carlo Limited vs National Thermal Power Corporation Limited, (2016) 15 SCC 272. BTL EPC LTD. v. MACAWBER BEEKAY PVT LTD AND 171 OTHERS [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] engineering, supply and work worth about INR 50,00,00,000 so far. 40. Further, 99% of the Engineering for the Wet Ash system has been completed by BTL. Moreover, 50% of the Civil and Structural Works of the Power station, being completed by BHEL, is already in place” 39. At this stage, the High Court has, while setting aside the award of the contract to the appellant, directed that the bid which was submitted by the fi rst respondent shall be considered in terms of the Notice Inviting Tenders. Though during the course of the hearing, the fi rst respondent has made a statement through senior counsel that it would match the bid which was submitted by the appellant, there can be no gainsaying the fact that this will cause insuperable diffi culties in the implementation of the contract since the work under the contract has progressed. While the appellant was placed on notice that this would not create any special equities in its favour, there is apart from the interest of the appellant which is a private entity, the interest of both the Telangana State Power Generation Company Limited and of BHEL, both of which are public entities which have invested funds for the realization of the project involving the setting up of the 5x800 MW thermal power plant. 40. For the above reasons, we allow the appeals and set aside the of the Division Bench of the High Court of Karnataka. The of the Single Judge dismissing the writ petition shall stand restored. There shall be no as to costs. 41. The civil appeals are accordingly allowed. 42. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals allowed. Nidhi Jain