There cannot be a discrimination only on the ground of sex and race. Hence, all Sikkimese women are entitled to the benefit of Section 10 (26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961, as per the Explanation thereto irrespective of whether they marry a Sikkimese or a non-Sikkimese. D 56. Further, pursuant to the merger of Sikkim with India by virtue of which, Sikkim has become one of the States of India and all Sikkim Subjects and all Sikkimese domiciled in the territory of Sikkim have become Indian citizens, there cannot be a discrimination vis-à-vis Sikkimese women marrying a non-Sikkimese individual, whether an Indian citizen E or a foreigner, that too, on or after 1st April, 2008. Such discrimination, is therefore, in violation of the guarantee of equality provided under Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution of India as it is on the basis of sex and race. Hence, the proviso to clause (26AAA) of Section 10 of the I.T. Act, 1961, is a stark example of an unconstitutional sex-based discrimination and is liable to be struck down. F 57. In this context, the judicial dicta and decisions of this Court could be noted as under: a) In Air India vs. Nergesh Meerza, AIR 1981 SC 1829, the question was, whether, a four-year bar on marriage immediately on obtaining employment in Air India, applicable G only to women employees, could be retained as a reasonable provision. This Court held the same to be a sound and salutary provision on the ground that it would “improve the health of the employee” and “she becomes fully mature and there is every chance of such a marriage proving a H success, all things being equal…….”. The said ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 343 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] was delivered in the year 1981 but with the passage of time A and owing to the worldwide movement towards gender justice and elimination of all discrimination against women, acquiring momentum, I am of the considered view that a ban on marriage in respect of a female employee immediately for a period of four years on her being B appointed by the employer is also discriminatory. Hence, this aspect of gender discrimination would require a reconsideration and course correction. This is because choice of marriage as well as exercising an option as to when to marry is a Fundamental Right under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. C However, in the very same case, this Court found the termination of service of a woman employee on her first pregnancy to be shocking as it was an open insult to “Indian womanhood” and hence, the said action was extremely detestable and abhorrent to the notions of a civilised society D and therefore, violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. In fact, this Court observed that the rule could be amended so that termination of the services of an employee on her third pregnancy could be permitted which aspect also, in my view, calls for reconsideration in the absence of any qualifying E parameters.