The court must therefore insist upon the parties to reduce the terms into writing.” The requirement of the petition of compromise being signed by the parties concerned has been considered also in the case of Byram Pestonji Gariwala v. Union Bank of India [(1992) C 1 SCC 31 : AIR 1991 SC 2234] . It appears the attention of learned Judges was not drawn to the aforesaid case of this Court in Gurpreet Singh v. Chatur Bhuj Goel [(1988) 1 SCC 270 : AIR 1988 SC 400]. 11. The present case depicts as to how on February 27, 1991 D the court recorded the alleged agreement and compromise in a casual manner. It need not be impressed that Rule 3 of 23 does not require just a seal of approval from the Court to an alleged agreement or compromise said to have been entered into between the parties. The statute requires the Court E to be first satisfied that the agreement or compromise which has been entered into between the parties is lawful, before accepting the same. Court is expected to apply its judicial mind while examining the terms of the settlement before the suit is disposed of in terms of the agreement arrived at between the parties. It need not be pointed out that once such a petition F of compromise is accepted, it becomes the of the Court and acquires the sanctity of a judicial . 12. On behalf of the respondent a stand was taken that the learned Subordinate Judge by his dated September 20, 1991 could not have recalled the dated February 27, G 1991 and restored the suit to its original number. It cannot be disputed that the respondent can support the of the High Court setting aside dated September 20, 1991 on any other reason than the reason given by the High Court. 13. When the amending Act introduced a proviso along with H an explanation to Rule 3 of 23 saying that where it is PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 73 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] alleged by one party and denied by the other that an A adjustment or satisfaction has been arrived at, “the Court shall decide the question”, the Court before which a petition of compromise is filed and which has recorded such compromise, has to decide the question whether an adjustment or satisfaction had been arrived at on basis of any lawful B agreement. To make the enquiry in respect of validity of the agreement or the compromise more comprehensive, the explanation to the proviso says that an agreement or compromise “which is void or voidable under the Indian Contract Act …” shall not be deemed to be lawful within the meaning of the said Rule. In view of the proviso read with the C explanation, a Court which had entertained the petition of compromise has to examine whether the compromise was void or voidable under the Indian Contract Act. Even Rule 1(m) of 43 has been deleted under which an appeal was maintainable against an recording a compromise.