[2023] 13 S.C.R. 924 : 2023 INSC 914 CASE DETAILS MOHAMED IBRAHIM v. THE CHAIRMAN & MANAGING DIRECTOR & ORS. (Civil Appeal No.6785 of 2023) OCTOBER 16, 2023. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND ARAVIND KUMAR, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: The appellant is aggrieved by a of the High Court, which dismissed his petition, claiming arbitrariness in the declining of his candidature as Assistant Engineer (Electrical) by the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (TANGEDCO Corporation or employer), on the ground that he was colour blind. Service Law – Disability – Colour blindness – After the medical examination, the appellant was informed that he had colour defective vision (colour blindness) – Corporation cancelled appellant’s selection – Appellant’s services were terminated – Propriety: Held: TANGEDCO, has nowhere indicated in express terms, that colour vision defi ciency, in any form or degree, is a bar to employment for AE – The facts of the case demonstrate that the appellant is fi t, in all senses of the term, to discharge the duties attached to the post he applied and was selected for – Yet, he is denied the position, for being “disabled” as he is colour blind – At the same time, he does not fi t the category of PWD under the the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 – The objective material on the record shows that the colour vision impairment is mild – Yet, TANGEDCO’s concerns cannot be characterised as unreasonable – However, TANGEDCO is under an obligation to work under the framework of “reasonable accommodation”, which is defi ned by Section 2 (y) of the 2016 Act – Reasonable accommodation thus, is “appropriate modifi cation and adjustments” that should be taken 924 MOHAMED IBRAHIM v. THE CHAIRMAN & MANAGING 925 DIRECTOR & ORS. by the employer, in the present case, without that duty being imposed with “disproportionate or undue burden” – TANGEDCO- the employer expresses its willingness to accommodate the appellant – However, the post off ered, i.e., Junior Assistant by the employer, is inconsistent with the appellant’s qualifi cation which cannot be off ered to him – The hierarchy of posts in the corporation indicates that the primary inspection responsibilities of technical nature are upon Junior Engineers, who oversee the work of Technical Assistants, and that of Linemen – It is evident that the AE works at a position of overseeing supervisory work of Junior Engineers – This could involve, at the fi eld stage, satisfaction after visual inspection – Suffi cient safeguards (whenever the appellant’s services in that regard are absolutely essential, and he is deployed on some occasions) can be taken, to ensure that he is accompanied by those without any colour vision defi ciencies or impairments – Therefore, TANGEDCO, the respondent corporation, is directed to appoint and continue the appellant in its service, as AE (Electrical) at the appropriate stage of the grade of pay, from the date he was terminated from service, or his appointment was cancelled, and accommodate him in a suitable department, where he can be given appropriate responsibilities.