for the Appellant. Paramjit Singh Patwalia, Nikhil Nayyar, Sr. Advs., Vikram Hegde, Debmalya Ganguli, Anupam Dasadhikari, Ms. Vandana Tiwari, Ms. Simran Singh, Chanchal Kumar Ganguli, Advs. for the Respondents. M/S PAUL RUBBER INDUSTRIES PVT. LTD. v. AMIT 31 CHAND MITRA / OF THE SUPREME COURT ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J. Leave granted. 2. The main point which we have to address in this appeal is as to what extent the Court can take cognizance of a clause relating to purpose for which a lease is granted contained in an unregistered deed of lease for immovable property stipulating its duration for a period of fi ve years. In the under appeal, opinion of a Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court is that such deed cannot be received as evidence of any transaction aff ecting the property over which the lease is executed. On 27.03.2003, a document captioned “Tenancy Agreement” was executed by and between one Sabita Mitra (the landlady, since deceased), now represented before us by her legal heirs being the two respondents and an incorporated company, Paul Rubber Industries Private Limited. The latter is the appellant in this proceeding. In this , we shall refer to the landlady and her legal representatives as the respondents interchangeably and the appellant Paul Rubber Industries Pvt. Ltd. shall be described as defendant. The property in question comprises of approximately 16 cottahs (one cottah is equivalent to approximately 720 sq. ft.) of land situated at Radha Madhab Dutta Garden Lane, within the city of Kolkata. The tenure of the agreement, as stipulated therein was for a period of fi ve years with provision for renewal for further fi ve years. There is stipulation for further renewal for such period and on such terms and conditions as might have been agreed upon by the parties. This is contained in clause 2 of the agreement. But no such renewal was eff ected. First fi ve years of the tenancy stood completed on 31.10.2007, and a letter was sent by the landlady on 07.11.2007 seeking enhancement of rent. It does not appear that the defendant had paid rent thereafter. It had, however, raised a plea that such rent used to be collected on behalf of the landlady on due date, but this was stopped after October 2007. Thereafter, on 06.03.2008, the landlady served a notice requiring the defendant to vacate the subject-premises with eff ect from 31.03.2008. In this letter of 06.03.2008, 32 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. the defendant was addressed as monthly tenant. Default in payment of monthly rent was highlighted in this letter. It was also specifi ed therein that the landlady needed the said premises for her own use and occupation and for business purpose of her family members. This letter is being projected by the respondents as notice for fi fteen days, as per stipulation of Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (herein after “1882 Act”). 3. The tenant had not delivered vacant possession as a result of which the suit, which gives rise to the present appeal, was instituted by the landlady on 04.09.2008 before the Civil Judge, Senior Division at Sealdah, having jurisdiction over the suit property.