We have already held that an arbitration agreement is distinct and independent from D the underlying substantive commercial contract. Once the arbitration agreement is held to have an independent existence, it can be acted upon, irrespective of the alleged invalidity of the commercial contract.” 8. Thereafter, the Bench of three learned Judges in N.N. Global E (supra) noted that the in Garware (supra) was cited with approval by a Bench of three learned Judges in Vidya Drolia and others v. Durga Trading Corporation7. The Court set out paragraphs 146 and 147 of Vidya Drolia (supra) and doubted the correctness of the said view and found it appropriate to refer the findings in paragraphs-22 and 29 of Garware (supra) as affirmed in paragraphs 146 & 147 of F Vidya Drolia (supra) to the Constitution Bench. We deem it appropriate to now refer to the following paragraphs in N.N. Global (supra): “35. The next issue which arises is as to which authority would exercise the power of impounding the instrument under Section 33 read with Section 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, in a case G where the substantive contract contains an arbitration agreement. 36. In an arbitration agreement, the disputes may be referred to arbitration by three modes. H 7 (2021) 2 SCC 1 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 309 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 36.1. The first mode is where the appointment of the arbitrator A takes place by the parties consensually in accordance with the terms of the arbitration agreement, or by a designated arbitral institution, without the intervention of the court. In such a case, the arbitrator/tribunal is obligated by Section 33 of the Stamp Act, 1899 (or the applicable State Act) to impound the instrument, and B direct the parties to pay the requisite stamp duty (and penalty, if any), and obtain an endorsement from the Collector concerned. This would be evident from the provisions of Section 34 of the Stamp Act which provides that “any person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence” is mandated by law to impound the instrument, and direct the parties to pay the C requisite stamp duty. 36.2. The second mode of appointment is where the parties fail to make the appointment in accordance with the arbitration agreement, and an application is filed under Section 11 before the Court to invoke the default power for making the appointment. In such a D case, the High Court, or the Supreme Court, as the case may be, while exercising jurisdiction under Section 11, would impound the substantive contract which is either unstamped or inadequately stamped, and direct the parties to cure the defect before the arbitrator/tribunal can adjudicate upon the contract. E 36.3. The third mode is when an application is filed under Section 8 before a judicial authority for reference of disputes to arbitration, since the subject-matter of the contract is covered by an arbitration agreement. In such a case, the judicial authority will make the reference to arbitration.