15…. As soon as the finding is recorded by the Scrutiny Committee holding that the certificate obtained was false, on its cancellation and confiscation simultaneously, it should be G communicated to the concerned educational institution or the appointing authority by registered post with acknowledgement due with a request to cancel the admission or the appointment. The principal etc. of the educational institution responsible for making the admission or the appointing authority, should H 1046 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A cancel the admission/appointment without any further notice to the candidate and debar the candidate for further study or continue in office in a post.” 16. It has been explicitly stated by this Court that the exercise of verification of community certificate must be completed expeditiously. B In the present case however, as has been mentioned above, there has been an inordinate and unexplained delay of 19 years, an amount of time which cannot be fathomed within the ambit of “reasonable time”. 17. Further, the Respondent committee finally, after years of superannuation of the Appellant submitted its first report, however the C same was struck down by the High Court on grounds of it being violative of principles of natural justice, as the appellant was not given an opportunity to lead his evidence and cross examine the witnesses. Subsequent to this, a fresh enquiry was conducted, and another report was submitted again, however even this report suffers from the same fallacy as the previous report because even here, the Appellant has not D been afforded the opportunity to be heard. 18. The High Court in its findings in the impugned stated that the subsequent report was passed ex-parte because the Appellant, even after receiving notice of the proceedings did not attend the same. The Appellant however claims that he never received notice. A bare E perusal of the material at hand would show that the notice which was to served to the Appellant was in fact served upon one Mr. Sudarshan, and the same has been admitted by the postal department and can be seen in the postal sheet. 19. This fact was brought upon by the Appellant during the review F proceedings, however, the High Court failed to consider such finding and dismissed the review without adverting to the grounds raised therein and thus the suffers from an error apparent. 20. By not allowing the Appellant an opportunity to be heard, the principle of “Audi Alteram Partem”, a principle of natural justice has G also been violated. The Appellant, in proceedings where the genuineness of his belonging to a community is under question, must have a right to be heard, and must be given the right to cross-examine the witnesses, for the nature of the proceedings are not just a question pertaining his employment, but also something that strikes at the core of his being, i.e., his identity. H R SUNDARAM v. THE TAMIL NADU STATE LEVEL 1047 SCRUTINY COMMITTEE [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] CONCLUSION A 21. At this stage we would like to clarify that in cases where employment is based on a fake community certificate the law is settled that post-retirement benefits cannot be granted.