bias, that is, no person should be a judge of their own case. [Paras A 31 and 32][630-H; 631-A-C] 3. The duty to act fairly that is derived from common law is not exhaustively defined in a set of concrete principles. Courts, both in India and abroad, have demonstrated considerable flexibility in the application of the principles of natural justice by B fine tuning them to situational variations. This Court has observed earlier that the concept of natural justice cannot be put into a ‘straitjacket formula’ and that it is incapable of a ‘precise definition’. Courts have undertaken an ends-based reasoning to test if the action violates the common law principle of natural C justice. The party alleging a violation of a principle of natural justice has to prove that the administrative action violated the principles of natural justice and that non compliance with natural justice prejudiced the party. The courts, while assessing prejudice, determine if compliance of the principles of natural justice could have benefitted the party in securing a just outcome. D [Para 42][635-B-D] 4. Reasonableness is a normative concept that is identified by an evaluation of the relevant considerations and balancing them in accordance with their weight. It is value oriented and not purpose oriented. That is why the courts have been more than E open in identifying that the action is unreasonable rather than identifying if the action is reasonable. This is also why the courts while assessing the reasonableness of limitations on fundamental rights have adopted a higher standard of scrutiny in the form of proportionality. The proportionality analysis assesses both the F object and the means utilised, which are pertinent requirements while testing an infringement of fundamental rights. This Court has held that the proportionality standard can be used to assess the validity of administrative action infringing upon fundamental freedoms. The standard of proportionality must be used to assess the reasonableness of the limitation of procedural rights as well. G The courts have to undeniably undertake a balancing exercise while deciding if the limitation on the right is valid. [Paras 49- 51][639-D; 640-B-C, D] 5. On the facts of the case, MIB has denied to disclose even the summary of the reasoning denying security clearance. H 604 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A This has necessarily left MBL with no remedy. The freedom of press which is protected under Article 19(1)(a) has effectively been trumped without providing them with an effective and reasonable avenue to challenge the decision. This infringes upon the core of a right to fair hearing. The appellants have proved that the disclosure of reasons is necessary for them to have a B reasonable hearing. The reply to the show cause notice and the writ petition challenging the validity of the revocation also indicate that the appellants have been constrained in a situation where they are unable to effectively lay a challenge against the decision. MHA disclosed the material forming the opinion for C denying of security clearance solely to the High Court.