Under Section 113 of the Act, the undisclosed income is chargeable to tax at the rate of 60%. B 24. From the above, it becomes manifest that Chapter XIV-B comprehensively takes care of all the aspects relating to the block assessment relating to undisclosed income, which includes Section 156-BA(2) as the charging section and even the rate at which such income is to be taxed is mentioned in Section 113 of the Act. No doubt, Section 4 of the Act is also a charging section which is C made applicable on “total income of previous year”. As per Section 2(45), “total income” means the total amount of income referred to in Section 5, computed in the manner laid down in the Act. Section 5 of the Act enumerates the scope of total income and prescribes, inter alia, that it would include all income which is D received or is deemed to be received in India in any previous year by or on behalf of a person who is a resident. No doubt, undisclosed income referred to in Chapter XIV-B is also an income which was received but not disclosed, therefore, in the first blush, the argument of the Department that undisclosed income referred to E in Chapter XIV-B is also a part of total income and consequently Section 4 becomes the charging section in respect thereof as well. However, a little closer scrutiny leads us to conclude that that is not the position as per the scheme of Chapter XIV-B. In the first place, income referred to in Section 5 talks of total income of any “previous year”. As per Section 2(34) of the Act, “previous year” F means previous year as defined in Section 3. Section 3 lays down that previous year means “the financial year immediately preceding the assessment year”. Undisclosed income referred to in Chapter XIV-B is not relatable to the previous year. On the contrary, it is for the block period which may be 6 years or 10 years, as the G case may be. 25. Consequently, as already mentioned, while analysing the scheme of Chapter XIV-B, such chapter is a complete code in respect of assessments of “undisclosed income”. Not only it defines what is undisclosed income, it also lays down the block H period for which undisclosed income can be taxed. Further, it also K.L. SWAMY v. THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX & 713 ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] lays down the procedure for taxing that income. It is very pertinent A to note at this stage that for this purpose, specific provision in the form of Section 158-BA(2) is inserted making it a charging section. Thus, a diagnostic of Chapter XIV-B of the Act leads to irresistible conclusion that it contains all the provisions starting from charging section till the completion of assessment, by prescribing a special B procedure in relation thereto, making it a complete code by itself. Looking at it from this angle, the character and nature of “undisclosed income” referred to in Chapter XIV-B becomes quite distinct from “total income” referred to in Section 5.