Insofar as the impugned in the second of the above appeals, it is seen that the said dated 15.10.2009 is arising out of the contempt proceedings. Contempt Case No.326 of 2020 was fi led alleging wilful disobedience of the dated 27.08.2002 whereby a direction had been issued to refund the deposit which had been made. In that light, the appellant had sought for a direction, to be compensated. The High Court while disposing of the contempt petition has taken into consideration that there was no adjudication on merits and, therefore, the payment of interest or compensation would not arise. 16. Be that as it may, as rightly contended by the learned counsel for the respondent by placing reliance on the decision of this Court in the case of Prithawi Nath Ram vs. State of Jharkhand & Ors. (2004) 7 SCC 261 relating to the scope of the proceedings in a contempt petition and in a circumstance where subsequently the amount has been refunded and the contempt, if any, to that extent is purged, the ultimate conclusion to dispose of the contempt petition by the High Court, in any event, is justifi ed and we see no error committed so as to interfere. However, insofar as the contention relating to the retention of the money belonging to the appellant in the second of the cases herein subsequent to the expiry of the period indicated in the dated 27.08.2012 passed in W.P. (C) No.2823 of 2010 before the High Court and as to whether such retention has caused loss to the appellant and conversely the benefi t derived from the same by the respondent, if any, and 844 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the manner in which the same is to be compensated or not as also the rate at which it is to be done are matters which would have to be considered in appropriate proceedings and in accordance with law wherein the parties will avail all opportunities to put forth their contentions and place material. Therefore, in a similar manner in which the appellants in the fi rst of the above appeals have availed their remedy, it would be open for the appellant in the second of the above appeals also to avail the remedy before the appropriate forum, in accordance with the law. All contentions of both parties in that regard are left open. 17. The appeals are disposed of in the above terms, without any as to costs. 18. Pending application, if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals disposed of. Divya Pandey