Neither the phrase ‘party to the suit’ nor ‘witness’ is defi ned under the CPC or any other statute on the books. However on this issue, a Constitution Bench of this Court in State of Bombay v. Kathi Kalu Oghad7 held as under- “…“To be a witness” means imparting knowledge in respect of relevant facts, by means of oral statements or statements in writing, by a person who has personal knowledge of the facts to be communicated to a court or to a person holding an enquiry or investigation. A person is said “to be a witness” to a certain state of facts which has to be determined by a court or authority authorised to come to a decision, by testifying to what he has seen, or something he has heard which is capable of being heard and is not hit by the rule excluding hearsay, or giving his opinion, as an expert, in respect of matters in controversy…” A ‘witness’ as defi ned by P. Ramanatha Aiyar’s Advanced Law Lexicon is as under:- 7 AIR 1961 SC 1808 880 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. “One who sees, knows, or vouches for something (a witness to the accident). (1) in person, (2) by oral or written deposition, or (3) by affi davit (the prosecution called its next witness)”. (Black, 7th Edn., 1999) “The term ‘witness’*, in its strict legal sense, means one who gives evidence in a cause before a Court; and in its general sense includes all persons from whose lips testimony is extracted to be used in any judicial proceeding, and so includes deponents and affi ants as well as persons delivering oral testimony before a Court or jury.” 11. The High Court in its considered view stated that a party cannot be equated to a witness. It is recorded in the impugned that various provisions of the CPC lend credence to the diff erence between a party to the suit and a witness in a suit. 12. In advancing its arguments before this court, the Respondents submitted that the phraseology of the Code, employing “the Plaintiff ’s witnesses” and “the Defendant’s witnesses” suggests a clear diff erence between the parties to the suit and the witness produced at their instance - and would submit that the literal rule of interpretation, in the absence of any ambiguity, would be what is required to be followed. 13. This understanding, in our view, implies that the law places a party to a suit and a witness to a suit in watertight compartments and that a plaintiff /defendant, even when testifying to their own cause are not witnesses despite being in the witness box and being subject to the same practices and procedures as any other witness before the court on their behest. 14. This diff erentiation appears to be questionable. Reference may be made to Section 120 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 which states that parties to a civil suit shall be competent witnesses. It reads:- “120. Parties to civil suit, and their wives or husbands.