It is trite law that cancellation of bail can be done in cases A where the granting bail suffers from serious infirmities resulting in miscarriage of justice. If the court granting bail ignores relevant material indicating prima facie involvement of the accused or takes into account irrelevant material, which has no relevance to the question of grant of bail to the accused, the High Court or B the Sessions Court would be justified in cancelling the bail.” 18. The aforesaid view has been reiterated in Supreme Bhiwandi Wada Manor Infrastructure Private Limited v. State of Maharashtra And Another31 19. In Pradeep Ram v. State of Jharkhand And Another32called C upon to deal with a situation where an accused had been bailed out in a criminal case in which new offences were added subsequently and a question arose as to whether it would be necessary to cancel the bail granted earlier for taking the accused in custody, a Division Bench of this Court took pains to examine the view taken by several High Courts D including the High Courts of Rajasthan, Madras, Allahabad and Jammu and Kashmir as also the observations made by this Court in previous decisions on this aspect and held thus :- “31. In view of the foregoing discussions, we arrive at the following conclusions in respect of a circumstance where after grant of bail E to an accused, further cognizable and non-bailable offences are added: 31.1. The accused can surrender and apply for bail for newly added cognizable and non-bailable offences. In event of refusal of bail, the accused can certainly be arrested. F 31.2. The investigating agency can seek from the court under Section 437(5) or 439(2) CrPC for arrest of the accused and his custody. 31.3 [Ed. : Para 31.3 corrected vide Official Letter dated 31-7- 2020.] . The court, in exercise of power under Section 437(5) or G 439(2) CrPC, can direct for taking into custody the accused who has already been granted bail after cancellation of his bail. The court in exercise of power under Section 437(5) as well as Section 31 (2021) 8 SCC 753 32 (2019) 17 SCC 326 H 1130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 439(2) can direct the person who has already been granted bail to be arrested and commit him to custody on addition of graver and non-bailable offences which may not be necessary always with of cancelling of earlier bail. 31.4. In a case where an accused has already been granted bail, B the investigating authority on addition of an offence or offences may not proceed to arrest the ac- cused, but for arresting the accused on such addition of offence or offences it needs to obtain an to arrest the accused from the court which had granted the bail.” C 20. As can be discerned from the observations made in Pradeep Ram (supra), addition of a serious offence can be a circumstance where a Court can direct that the accused be arrested and committed to custody even though an of bail was earlier granted in his favour in respect of the offences with which he was charged when his application for bail was considered and a favourable was passed.