Besides the Councillors who are directly elected through the voters in the ward constituencies, there are Councillors who are nominated by the Administrator. Yet others E are represented as ex officio representatives. Clause (b) of sub-section (3) of Section 3 specifies the persons who shall be represented in a Corporation. Among them are: “(i) ten persons, who are not less than 25 years of age and who have special knowledge or experience in municipal administration, to be nominated by the Administrator”. F The proviso to Section 3(3)(b)(i), however, lays down that “the persons nominated under this sub-clause shall not have the right to vote in the meetings of a Corporation”. 3. Chapter V of the Act deals with procedure and the transaction G of business by a Corporation. Section 72(1) provides that a Corporation shall ordinarily hold at least one meeting in every month for the transaction of business. Section 73 provides that the first meeting of a Corporation after a general election shall be held as early as possible after the 1 “Act” H 584 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A publication of the results of the election under Section 14 and shall be convened by the Administrator. Section 74 provides for the notice of meetings and transaction of business. Section 76(1) stipulates that a Mayor, or in his absence, the Deputy Mayor shall preside over every meeting of the Corporation. Section 77 makes provision for the Presiding Officer at a meeting for the election of Mayor. Clause (a) of Section 77 B provides that at a meeting for the election of a Mayor, the Administrator shall nominate a Councillor who is not a candidate for such an election to preside over the meeting. Section 78 provides for the method of deciding common questions. Section 82 empowers the Corporation to make regulations for the transaction of business at its meetings. C 4. Though the jurisdiction of this Court has been invoked for seeking several reliefs, the point of controversy has narrowed down to two issues. The first issue is whether aldermen, as they are popularly described, who are nominated by the Administrator under Section 3(3)(b)(i) have the right to vote at the first meeting of the Corporation where the Mayor D would be elected. The second issue pertains to the for holding elections, more specifically, whether, as the petitioners assert, the election to the office of the Mayor shall be held first followed by the elections to the Deputy Mayor and other members of the Standing Committee, on which meetings the Mayor would preside. The opposing view point is that all elections would be held simultaneously. E 5. We have heard Dr A M Singhvi, senior counsel, with Mr Shadan Farasat, in support of the petition. Mr Sanjay Jain, Additional Solicitor General, has appeared on behalf of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi. Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General, appears on behalf of the Lt Governor. Mr Ranjit Kumar, senior counsel, appears on behalf of the contesting F candidate for the post of Mayor.