We may hasten to add that the effect of Section 52 is that the right of the successful party in the litigation in regard to that property would not be affected by the alienation, but it does not mean that as against the H 380 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A transferor the transaction is invalid. In the decision in Thomson Press (India) Ltd. v. Nanak Builders and Investors Private Limited1, this Court held the provision of Section 52 pf the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, did not indeed annul the conveyance or the transfer otherwise, but to render it subservient to the rights of the parties to a litigation. B There can be no doubt with respect to the position that the prohibition by application of the principles of the said doctrine would take its effect with the institution of the suit. Be that as it may, we have no hesitation to hold that the High Court was perfectly justified in the circumstances, to come to the conclusion, while considering the application for amendment of the written statement filed at the appellate stage, that C granting the same would have, in effect, necessitated framing of fresh issues and constrained the parties to agitate their rights as if in a de novo trial. We referred to the aforesaid aspects solely to drive home the point that since the subject suit is based only on possessory title viz., on the basis of prior possession the finding and consequential rejection of D the prayer for amendment of written statement to bring in the plea of purchase of the property pending the suit by the deceased second appellant cannot be said to be ground resulting in grave injustice. 17.It is also not inappropriate in this context, to refer to another indisputable position. The materials on record would reveal that before E passing of the and decree the trial Court, afforded several opportunities to the defendants to file additional written statement but they failed not only to file additional written statement but also failed to file any application for amendment of the written statement before the trial court during the pendency of original proceedings before it. It is a fact that the defendants filed an application for amendment of the written F statement before the trial Court when the matter was sent to the trial Court pursuant to the of this Court in CA No. 5201 of 2009 for recording the evidence solely for the purpose of forwarding the same along with a report to the High Court to enable the High Court to dispose of RFA No. 1966 of 2007. So also, it is an indisputable fact that even G while filing an application with prayer to grant permission for amendment of the written statement in RFA No.1996 of 2007 the defendants had not assigned any reasons for delay and no reasonable explanation was given for not filing such an application before the trial Court when the original proceedings were pending before the trial Court.