The review petition being; Civil Review Petition No.4 of 2008 filed by the appellant herein in the said Second Appeal was dismissed by the High Court as per dated 27.03.2008. Hence, these appeals. 2. Heard, Ms. Kiran Suri, learned Senior Counsel for the appellants H and Mr. Rajesh Srivastava, learned counsel for the respondent. BAINI PRASAD (D) THR. LRS. v. DURGA DEVI 289 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] 3. The succinct narration of facts as above would make it A abundantly clear that there are concurrent findings of the Trial Court, the First Appellate Court as also the High Court on the questions of ownership over the land in question viz., land measuring 11 Biswancies, as described above and its encroachment by the original appellant. In the said circumstances, we find absolutely no reason to revisit the factual B findings on the questions of ownership and encroachment based on the settled judicial principle well-established by precedents that concurrent finding of fact does not call for interference in an appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution of India in the absence of any valid ground for interference. (See the decisions in Janak Dulari Devi and Anr. v. Kapildeo Rai and Anr.1, Ram Prakash Sharma v. Babulal2 and C Ghisalal v. Dhapubai3). 4. RSA No.276 of 1996 was filed by the respondent herein/plaintiff, rightly, against the setting aside of the and decree of the trial Court for demolition and handing over the possession of land measuring 11 Biswancies in Khasra No.994/1-A/1 and holding and decreeing that D in lieu of the same she is entitled to a decree of compensation at the market value prevalent at the time of filing of the suit and interest at the rate of 12 % per annum on the assessed amount of Rs.5500/- from the date of filing of the suit till its realization. In this context, it is pertinent to note that as against the of the First Appellate Court confirming E the findings on ownership and encroachment against him and further ing payment of compensation after rejecting his denial of encroachment, the original appellant had neither filed an independent appeal nor a cross appeal. 5. In short, for the foregoing reasons, the scope of consideration F in these appeals is to be confined to thequestion whether the reversal by the High Court of the modification effected by the First Appellate Court warrants interference in exercise of power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. 6. According to the appellants, the respondent herein did not object G and resort to civil remedy against the construction effected on the land in dispute within a reasonable time and, therefore, she is estopped from 1 (2011) 6 SCC 555 2 (2011) 6 SCC 449 3 (2011) 2 SCC 298 H 290 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A claiming recovery of the land in question after demolition of the structure raised thereon. True, that the original appellant had also raised a contention that he had effected the construction on the bona fide belief that he was effecting construction on his own land and therefore, the construction raised by him on the land in question is protected under Section 51 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (hereinafter, ‘the TP Act’).