A b. Article 323-A does not preclude the Union Government from abolishing SATs because it is an enabling provision which confers the Union Government with the power to establish an administrative tribunal at its discretion (upon receiving a request from the relevant State Government in terms of the Administrative Tribunals Act). The legal and factual context of the power to B establish administrative tribunals, the purpose of this power and the intention of the legislature establish that there is no duty to exercise the power conferred by the Administrative Tribunals Act, such that the enabling provision becomes a mandatory provision; C c. The Union Government acted in valid exercise of its powers when it invoked Section 21 of the General Clauses Act read with Section 4(2) of the Administrative Tribunals Act to rescind the notification establishing the OAT because the decision to establish the OAT was an administrative decision and D not a quasi-judicial decision. Moreover, Section 21 of the General Clauses Act is not repugnant to the subject- matter, context and effect of the Administrative Tribunals Act and is in harmony with its scheme and object; d. The notification dated 2 August 2019 by which the OAT E was abolished is not violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. The State Government did not consider any irrelevant or extraneous factors while arriving at the decision to request the Union Government to abolish the OAT. The decision to abolish the OAT is itself not absurd or so unreasonable that no reasonable person would have taken it; F e. The principles of natural justice were not violated because the class of people who were affected by the decision to abolish the OAT did not have a right to be heard. The public at large (or some sections of it) did not have a right to be heard before the policy decision was taken; G f. The Union Government did not become functus officio after establishing the OAT because the doctrine cannot ordinarily be applied in cases where the government is formulating and implementing a policy; H ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 735 UNION OF INDIA g. The notification dated 2 August 2019 is valid though it is A not expressed in the name of the President of India because non- compliance with Article 77 of the Constitution does not invalidate a notification or render it unconstitutional; h. The abolition of the OAT is not violative of the fundamental right of access to justice because the Orissa High B Court will hear cases which were pending before the OAT prior to its abolition; i. The State Government did not take advantage of its own wrong because it stopped filling the vacancies of the OAT only after deciding to abolish it. It did not rely on the vacancies (and C the consequent increase in pendency) created by its inaction to abolish the OAT; and j. The failure of the Union Government to conduct a judicial impact assessment before abolishing the OAT does not vitiate its decision to abolish the OAT because the directions in Rojer D Mathew’s case were of a general nature and did not prohibit the abolition of specific tribunals such as the OAT in the absence of a judicial impact assessment.