If there is any omission to deduct the tax C at source, it may lead to loss of Revenue and hence remedial measures have been provided by incorporating the provision to ensure that tax liability to the said extent would stand shifted to the shoulders of the party who failed to effect deduction, in the form of penalty. On deduction of tax, if there is delay in remitting the amount to Revenue, it has to be satisfied with interest as payable under Section 201(1A) of the Act, D besides the liability to face the prosecution proceedings, if launched in appropriate cases, in terms of Section 276B of the Act. Even the CBDT has taken note of the fact that no penalty is envisaged under Section 271C of the Income Tax Act for non-deduction TDS and no penalty is envisaged under Section 271C for belated E remittance/payment/deposit of the TDS. 8.1 Even otherwise, the words “fails to deduct” occurring in Section 271C(1)(a) cannot be read into “failure to deposit/pay the tax deducted.” 8.2 Therefore, on true interpretation of Section 271C, there shall not be any penalty leviable under Section 271C on mere delay in remittance F of the TDS after deducting the same by the concerned assessee. As observed hereinabove, the consequences on non-payment/belated remittance of the TDS would be under Section 201(1A) and Section 276B of the Act, 1961. 9. In view of the above in all these cases as the respective G assessees remitted the TDS though belatedly and it is not case of non- deduction of the TDS at all they are no liable to pay the penalty under Section 271C of the Income Tax Act. Therefore, any question on applicability of Section 273B of the Act is not required to be considered any further. H 396 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 10. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, all these appeals succeed. Impugned (s) and (s) passed by the High Court are hereby quashed and set aside and the question of law on interpretation of Section 271C of the Income Tax Act is answered in favour of the assessee(s) and against the Revenue and it is specifically observed and held that on mere belated remitting the TDS after deducting B the same by the concerned person/assessee, no penalty shall be leviable under Section 271C of the Income Tax Act. Present appeals are accordingly allowed. No costs. Divya Pandey Appeals allowed. C (Assisted by : Abhishek Pratap Singh and Roopanshi Virang, LCRAs) D E F G H