It is their prerogative to determine the characteristics of their marriage and give meaning to their relationship. These aspects of a marriage vary with each relationship, and it is impossible for this Court to authoritatively state that a particular idea of marriage is the only valid understanding of marriage. This being the case, any attempt to formulate a general and universally applicable defi nition of marriage is fraught with diffi culty. With this qualifi cation, this Court will list some features of marriage that are considered its core components. 102. Marriage is a voluntary union – of the mind, the body, and the soul. Marriage signifi es a deep and abiding commitment to one another and a devotion to the relationship. When two people marry, they intend to be in a life-long relationship. Both the parties to the marriage provide emotional, fi nancial, and spiritual support to the other. Each is an intellectual partner of the other, as also a friend. Love, respect and companionship are said to be the hallmarks of a successful marriage. Marriage is a gateway into the creation of a family through childbearing and childrearing, although it is not a precondition to the creation or existence of a family. The sole purpose of marriage is not to facilitate sexual relations or procreation, although that may be one of the main motivations for entering into a marriage. Marriage has emotional and associational components to it, which cannot be relegated to the background even as the sexual component is foregrounded. Important as they are, sexual relations and procreation alone are not the exclusive foundation for marriage. Although the aspects of marriage discussed in this SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1307 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] paragraph are considered to be core components of marriage, the existence of a valid marriage (by legal, religious, or cultural defi nitions) is not predicated upon the existence of any of these elements. This may be due t o choice or circumstance or even some combination of the two. 103. A married couple may not have biological children because of their age, problems with fertility, or simply because they choose not to. Many couples who choose to have children may do so through assisted reproductive technologies, surrogacy, adoption or other methods which are not traditional. Many married couples may choose not to engage in sexual relations for various reasons. In some marriages, the couple may not reside in the same home or even city, temporarily or permanently. The emotional, fi nancial, or spiritual contribution to a marriage may vary with each couple. While the law identifi es certain conduct or behaviour as grounds for divorce they do not render a marriage void in and of themselves. The marriage continues to be a marriage, even if it is atypical or runs contrary to the notion of an ‘ideal marriage’ that a person may have. This is not only true for the legal conception of marriage, but also of the cultural and social conceptions.