(ii) In case of drugs other than the drugs mentioned in clause H (i), the Chief Controller of Factories shall be intimated by MANGILAL v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 523 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] the fastest means of communication available, details of A drug consignments that are ready for disposal. (iii) The Chief Controller of Factories shall indicate within 15 days of the date of receipt of the communication, the quantities of drugs, if any, that are required by him to supply as samples under Rule 67B. B (iv) Such quantities of drugs, if any, as required by the Chief Controller of Factories under clause (iii) shall be transferred to him and the remaining quantities of drugs shall be destroyed as per the procedure outlined in para 4.1.2. C (v) Destruction shall be by incineration in incinerators fitted with appropriate air pollution control devices, which comply with emission standards. Such incineration may only be done in places where adequate facilities and security arrangements exist. In to ensure that such incineration may not be a health hazard or polluting, consent of the State D Pollution Control Board or Pollution Control Committee, as the case may be, should be obtained. Destruction shall be carried out at the presence of the Members of the Drug Disposal Committee. XXX XXX XXX E 4.4 Certificate of destruction. A certificate of destruction (in triplicate) containing all the relevant data like godown entry number, gross and net weight of the drugs seized, etc., shall be prepared and signed by the chairman and members of the Drug Disposal Committee as per format at F Annexure 3. The original copy shall be pasted in the godown register after making necessary entries to this effect, the duplicate to be retained in the seizure case file and the triplicate copy will be kept by the Drug Disposal Committee. Details of disposal of drugs shall be reported to the Narcotics Control Bureau in the G Monthly Master Reports.” 7. To be noted, the aforesaid notification was in existence at the time of the commission of the offence alleged in the case on hand, stood repealed with effect from 23.12.2022 vide Notification No. G.S.R.899(E). In any case a notification issued in derogation of the powers conferred H 524 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A under sub-section (1) of Section 52A of the NDPS Act can never contradict the main provision, particularly sub-Section (2). However, any guideline issued by way of a notification in consonance with Section 52A of the NDPS Act has to be followed mandatorily. 8. Before any proposed disposal/destruction mandate of Section B 52A of the NPDS Act requires to be duly complied with starting with an application to that effect. A Court should be satisfied with such compliance while deciding the case. The onus is entirely on the prosecution in a given case to satisfy the Court when such an issue arises for consideration. Production of seized material is a factor to establish seizure followed by recovery. One has to remember that the C provisions of the NDPS Act are both stringent and rigorous and therefore the burden heavily lies on the prosecution.