Reliance was placed on the decision of a Constitution Bench of this Court in Commissioner of Customs (Import), Mumbai vs. Dilip Kumar and Company & Ors.9 wherein it was held that any notifi cation or a clause granting an exemption must be interpreted strictly and literally, with any ambiguity resolved in favour of the revenue. f) IIT Patna and NIT Rourkela are institutions incorporated under central statutes, i.e., the Indian Institute of Technology Act, 1961 (“the 1961 Act”, hereafter) and the National Institutes of Technology Act, 2007 (“the 2007 Act”, hereafter), respectively, and they do not carry out any duties or responsibilities akin to Schedule XII of the Constitution; the two educational institutions, therefore, do not fall under the classifi cation of “governmental authority” nor are exempted under the negative list. 5 (2009) 5 SCC 641 6 (2022) SCC OnLine SC 1122 7 (2017) 12 SCC 1 8 (1961) 3 SCR 386 9 (2018) 9 SCC 1 COMMISSIONER, CUSTOMS CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 433 PATNA v. M/S SHAPOORJI PALLONJI AND COMPANY PVT. LTD. & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] g) SPCL has paid service tax through self-assessment. Reliance was placed on ITC Limited vs. Commissioner of Central Excise, Kolkata10 in support of the contention that the of self- assessment being an assessment under the Customs Act, 1962 is appealable and a refund claim is not sustainable unless the assessment itself is set aside. h) Classifi cation of IIT Patna as a “governmental authority” has no bearing on the applicability of service tax to the transaction between SPCL and NBCC. The crux of the argument lies in the specifi c nature of this case: SPCL has delivered its services to NBCC, not directly to IIT Patna. IIT Patna has engaged NBCC as a Project Management Consultant, making SPCL the service provider and NBCC the service recipient in this particular transaction. Consequently, it cannot be contended that SPCL provided services directly to IIT Patna. NBCC lacks the status of a “government, local authority, or governmental authority” under the Exemption Notifi cation, and it has not asserted such a claim. Therefore, the activities and transactions between SPCL and NBCC are subject to service tax and do not qualify for exemption under the Exemption Notifi cation. 12. Learned counsel representing SPCL, supported the impugned and of the Patna High Court and contended that while construction services are classifi ed as taxable under section 65 of the 1994 Act, the Exemption Notifi cation provides an exemption for services rendered to the Government, local authorities, or governmental authorities. IIT Patna, as an institution of national importance, was established by the Parliament under Article 248 of the Constitution, through the 1961 Act. Similarly, NIT Rourkela was established under the 2007 Act. Consequently, IIT Patna and NIT Rourkela should be considered governmental authorities in accordance with clause 2(s)(i) of the Exemption Notifi cation, read in conjunction with the Clarifi cation Notifi cation. In reply to the submission of the appellants that the classifi cation of IIT Patna as a “governmental authority” would not have any bearing on the applicability of service tax to 10 (2019) 17 SCC 46 434 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.