P.W. 2, the driver of Block Pramukh namely Anil Kumar Sahni also proved that Manish Sahni arrived from B.D.O’s vehicle. The accused Jai Shankar Chaudhary and Abhay B Kumar Sahni were already present there. The other accused Ram Babu Sahni and Binod Chaudhary reached there and said “kya dekhte ho goli maaro”. Jai Shankar Chaudhary shot the bullet and thereafter Abhay Kumar shot the other bullet. The Pramukh fell on the ground and the informant C and the witness P.W.2 are said to take him to hospital at Jandaha, from where he was referred to Hajipur Sadar Hospital, but he died on the way. P.W. 3 the wife of deceased is not an eye witness. However, she has testified the death of her husband by accused persons in the manner as stated by witnesses. In addition to these facts, she has also stated that D when her husband won the election, he was given threat for life and she had advised her husband to remain alert. P.W. 5 in his statement-in-chief has proved the date and time of occurrence i.e., 13-08-2018 at 03:00 P.M. He, an eye witness also testifies the prosecution story that the accused Jai E Shankar Chaudhary and Abhay Kumar opened fire over Manish Sahni on the provocation and exhortation by Ram Babu Sahni and Binod Chaudhary. P.W. 6 in his statement- in-chief also proves the date 13-08-2018 and time 03:00 P.M. of the alleged occurrence. He claims to be an eye witness of the occurrence and testifies that Binod Chaudhary and Ram F Babu came by a bike and exhorted Jai Shankar Chaudhary and another person, whom he did not identify. On such exhortation and provocation, Jai Shankar Chaudhary and the other one opened fire over Manish Sahni. P.W. 8 Saroj Kumar Singh also claims to be an eye witness and testifies G the fact that on the instigation of Binod Chaudhary, the accused Jai Shankar Chaudhary opened fire over Manish Sahni and he does not identify the other person, who also shot bullet over Manish Sahni. However, the date of occurrence has been contradicted by PW-8 to be 30.08.2018. The accused Binod Chaudhary whose name reflects in the H OMPRAKASH SAHNI v. JAI SHANKAR CHAUDHARY & 149 ANR. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] evidence repeatedly is not facing the instant trial before court. A The doctor has proved the postmortem report and the injuries thereon are the two entry wounds, one each over left upper chest and over epigastrium alongwith two exit wounds, one each on right sub costal region impugned posterior axillary line and the other over right lumbar region in posterior axillary B line. The two investigating officers who carried out the investigation, have proved genuineness of the investigation process as has been discussed in the preceding paragraphs. The defence could not bring such material or contradictions or any other evidence on record to falsify the facts placed and proved by prosecution. C 41. Hence, on the basis of material and the evidence both oral and documentary, as available on record, this court arrives at conclusion that the prosecution has proved its case against accused Jai Shankar Chaudhary, Abhay Kumar alias Abhay Sahni and Ram Babu Sahni, beyond reasonable doubts D that on exhortation of Ram Babu Sahni, the other two accused Jai Shankar Chaudhary and Abhay Kumar @ Abhay Sahni opened fire over Manish Sahni, causing his death and thereby committing his murder.