(2) It shall be the duty of Secretary to keep and maintain the State C Register of Rural Health Practitioners in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder. (3) The State Register of Rural Health practitioners shall be deemed to be a public document within the meaning of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. (4) Every person on successful completion of the course shall be D eligible for enrollment in the State Register of Rural Health Practitioners on furnishing to the Secretary the proof of such qualification and on payment of such fees as may be prescribed. (5) Every person whose name has been enrolled in the State Register of Rural Health Practitioners shall be entitle to have a E certificate issued by the Authority under the hand and seal of the President and the Secretary and bearing a Registration Number and shall be eligible to practise medicine and Rural Health Care in rural areas of the State of Assam. x x x F 24. Powers and Functions.- The Rural Health Practitioners shall be eligible to practise Medicine and Rural Health Care subject to the following conditions namely. (a) they shall treat only those diseases and carry out those procedures which shall be outlined in the rules; G (b) they shall prescribe only those drugs, which shall be outlined in rules; (c) they shall not carry out any surgical procedure, invasion, investigation or treatment, ‘Medical Termination or; Pregnancy etc. but shall confine themselves to such H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 981 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] medicinal treatment and perform such minor surgery as may A be prescribed. (d) they shall practice only in rural areas as defined in the Act; (e) they may issue illness certificates and death certificates. (f) they shall maintain name, address, age, sex, diagnosis and B treatment records of all patients treated by them; and (g) they shall not be eligible for employment in Hospitals, Nursing Homes and Health establishments located in urban areas as General Duty Physicians involved in patient care in OPD, Emergency and Indoor Services. C 18.1. The Assam Act is an Act to provide for the establishment of a regulatory authority in the State of Assam to regulate and register the Diploma holders in Medicine & Rural Health Care (DMRHC) and their practice of medicine in rural areas and also to regulate opening of Medical Institutes for imparting education and training for the course of Diploma D in Medicine and Rural Health Care (DMRHC). 18.2. Section 3 of the said Act deals with the establishment of the Assam Rural Health Regulatory Authority (in short “the Authority”). The powers and functions of the authority are enumerated in Section 6, inter alia, to include; E (a) to hold, conduct and regulate the examination for the course that is Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care including entrance test for admission into the Medical Institute; (b) to maintain State Register of Rural Health Practitioners; (c) to lay down the norms and standards for the course, F curriculum facilities for instruction, training assessments and examinations for students undergoing the course for Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care and of the Medical Institute; (d) to provide guidelines for admission of the students to the G course.