This is also violative of Article 14 of the Constitution; g. The notification dated 2 August 2019 by which the OAT was abolished is invalid because it is not expressed in the name of the President of India in terms of Article 77 of the Constitution; H 758 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A h. The Constitution does not envisage a transfer of cases from any court to a particular High Court except as specified in Article 228 of the Constitution; i. The State Government is trying to take advantage of its own wrong by failing to fill the vacancies in the OAT and creating B the conditions for the abolition of the OAT. The failure of the State Government to fill the vacancies is also a breach of Article 256 of the Constitution; j. The abolition of the OAT has the effect of enlarging the jurisdiction of the Orissa High Court but Parliament alone has C the power to create or enlarge jurisdiction; k. The real reason for the abolition of the OAT is that officials in Odisha faced charges of contempt before the OAT and sought to avoid these proceedings by having the OAT abolished; l. A judicial impact assessment ought to have been carried out D before abolishing the OAT; m. Once the Union Government established the OAT, it became functus officio; and n. The Union Government ought to have obtained the permission of this Court before issuing the notification dated 2 August E 2019. 16. The submissions urged on behalf of the appellants have been opposed by the Union of India and the State of Odisha. Mr. Balbir Singh, Additional Solicitor General made the following submissions for the Union of India: F a. Section 4(2) of the Administrative Tribunals Act enables the Union Government to establish an SAT upon receiving a request in this behalf from the State Government. Consequently, it is the prerogative of the State Government to establish, continue, or abolish the relevant SAT; G b. Section 21 of the General Clauses Act may be pressed into service to abolish an SAT. Neither the Constitution nor the Administrative Tribunals Act is required to be amended to give the Union Government the power to abolish an SAT; H ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 759 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] c. The fundamental right to justice has not been violated because A the cases pending before the OAT were transferred to the Orissa High Court; 17. Mr. Ashok Kr Parija, learned Advocate General for the State of Odisha supplemented the arguments put forward by the Union of India. He urged that: B a. The Writ Petitions before the Orissa High Court which led to the impugned were not maintainable because the rights of the petitioners were not affected by the abolition of the OAT. Litigants cannot claim a fundamental right to access the OAT; C b. The State Government took a policy decision to abolish the OAT, in light of the low rate of disposal of cases by the OAT.