It is submitted that admittedly out of 531.428 hectares, 261.796 hectares of land out of approved scheme layout has been released and no land has been acquired through mutual negotiations with the land owners. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case, learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High F Court have rightly quashed the scheme, treated it as having been lapsed under Section 54 of the Adhiniyam and have rightly quashed the acquisition proceedings under the LA Act. 4.16 Other learned senior counsel/counsel appearing on behalf of the original writ petitioners have virtually made the same submissions as G made by Shri Punit Jain and therefore, the same are not repeated. All the learned counsel appearing for the original writ petitioners have supported the impugned and passed by the High Court on the lapse of the scheme as well as quashing and setting aside the acquisition proceedings. H INDORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. BURHANI GRIH NIRMAN 105 SAHAKARI SANSTHA MARYADIT SNEH NAGAR [M. R. SHAH, J.] 5. We have heard learned counsel for the respective parties at A length. By the impugned common and , the High Court has quashed Scheme No. 97 framed by the appellant – Indore Development Authority framed in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 50 of the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam, B 1973, as well as the entire acquisition proceedings under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 with respect to the lands covered under Scheme No. 97. From the and passed by the learned Single Judge, confirmed by the Division Bench, it appears that the High Court has set aside the scheme as well as the acquisition proceedings, inter alia, on C the following grounds: (i) That the scheme has lapsed in view of section 54 of the M.P. Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam; (ii) That a substantial portion of the lands forming part of the two schemes 97(2) and 97(4) had been released and D continuing the scheme thereafter and selectively acquiring the lands of the other landonwers (i.e., the respondents herein) is an act of hostile discrimination being in violation of Article 14; and (iii) There was no delegation of the power of the State E Government under Section 5-A to the Commissioner and hence, the decision for acquisition of the land under Section 5A is not by a proper authority. Acquisition is thus vitiated. 6. As regards the finding recorded by the High Court that Scheme No. 97 has lapsed in view of section 54 of the Adhiniyam and in to F consider whether the High Court is justified in quashing the entire scheme on the ground that the same has lapsed under section 54 of the Adhiniyam, the relevant provisions of the Adhiniyam are required to be referred to, which are as under: “50. Preparation of Town Development Schemes. - (1) The Town G and Country Development Authority may, at any time, declare its intention to prepare a town development scheme. (2) Not later than thirty days from the date of such declaration of intention to make a scheme, the Town and Country Development H 106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R.