The High Court seems to have erred in not considering these basic facts while considering the prayer for grant of bail by taking into consideration the well-established judicial pronouncements already noticed hereinabove. That the court framed charges, prima facie discloses the possibility and reasonable suspicion of the accused prima facie culpability. BHAGWAN SINGH v. DILIP KUMAR @ DEEPU @ DEPAK 483 AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] 26. The Courts have placed the liberty of an individual at a high pedestal and extended the protection to such rights whenever and wherever required. In the same breadth, it requires to be noticed that emphasis has also been laid on furnishing reasons for granting while balancing it with the requirement of a fair trialbail even though such reasoning may be brief. 27. In the aforesaid circumstances, we notice that the impugned granting bail is not only bereft of material particulars which would justify grant of bail, but it seems that the High Court has got swayed on the ground of delay and the video having not been recovered during the course of investigation and has given a complete go by to the allegation made in the FIR and statement recorded under Section 161 and 164 of the Cr.P.C. as also the testimony of the prosecutrix before the jurisdictional court. 28. Hence, we are of the considered view, that of the High Court requires to be set aside and accordingly it is set aside. We hereby direct that the accused/respondents shall surrender before the jurisdictional court within two weeks from today failing which they shall be taken into custody We make it clear that they will be at liberty to seek bail after the evidence/ depositions of the remaining witnesses are recorded and in the event of such an application being fi led, the High Court shall consider the same on its own merits and without being infl uenced by any of the observations made hereinabove. We also make it clear that the jurisdictional court shall not be infl uenced by any of the observations made hereinabove and are limited to present proceedings. The appeals are accordingly allowed. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals allowed. Nidhi Jain