C (iv) Immediate and effective steps shall be taken by the authorities/ managements/employers to familiarize members of the ICCs/LCs/ICs with their duties and the manner in which an inquiry ought to be conducted on receiving a complaint of sexual harassment at the workplace, from the point when the complaint is received, till the inquiry is finally concluded and the Report submitted. D (v) The authorities/management/employers shall regularly conduct orientation programmes, workshops, seminars and awareness programmes to upskill members of the ICCs/LCs/ICs and to educate women employees and women’s groups about the provisions of the Act, the Rules and relevant regulations. E (vi) The National Legal Services Authority(NALSA) and the State Legal Services Authorities(SLSAs) shall develop modules to conduct workshops and organize awareness programmes to sensitize authorities/ managements/employers, employees and adolescent groups with the provisions of the Act, which shall be included in their annual calendar. F (vii) The National Judicial Academy and the State Judicial Academies shall include in their annual calendars, orientation programmes, seminars and workshops for capacity building of members of the ICCs/LCs/ICs established in the High Courts and District Courts and for drafting Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to conduct an inquiry under the Act and Rules. G (viii) A copy of this shall be transmitted to the Secretaries of all the Ministries, Government of India who shall ensure implementation of the directions by all the concerned Departments, Statutory Authorities, Institutions, Organisations etc. under the control of the respective Ministries. A copy of the shall also be transmitted to the Chief H 826 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Secretaries of all the States and Union Territories who shall ensure strict compliance of these directions by all the concerned Departments. It shall be the responsibility of the Secretaries of the Ministries, Government of India and the Chief Secretaries of every State/Union Territory to ensure implementation of the directions issued. (ix) The Registry of the Supreme Court of India shall transmit a B copy of this to the Director, National Judicial Academy, Member Secretary, NALSA, Chairperson, Bar Council of India and the Registrar Generals of all the High Courts. The Registry shall also transmit a copy of this to the Medical Council of India, Council of Architecture, Institute of Chartered Accountants, Institute of Company Secretaries C and the Engineering Council of India for implementing the directions issued. (x) Member-Secretary, NALSA is requested to transmit a copy of this to the Member Secretaries of all the State Legal Services Authorities. Similarly, the Registrar Generals of the State High Courts D shall transmit a copy of this to the Directors of the State Judicial Academies and the Principal District Judges/District Judges of their respective States. (xi) The Chairperson, Bar Council of India and the Apex Bodies mentioned in sub-para (ix) above, shall in turn, transmit a copy of this to all the State Bar Councils and the State Level Councils, as E the case may be. 78. The Union of India and all States/UTs are directed to file their affidavits within eight weeks for reporting compliances.