It was concluded that the safeguards provided in the Act of 2002 and the preconditions to be fulfi lled by the authorized offi cer before eff ecting arrest, as contained in Section 19 of the Act of 2002, are equally stringent and of higher standard when compared to the Customs Act, 1962, and such safeguards ensure that the authorized offi cers do not act arbitrarily, by making them accountable for their about the necessity to arrest any person involved in the commission of the off ence of money laundering, even before fi ling of the complaint before the Special Court. It was on this basis that the Bench upheld the validity of Section 19 of the Act of 2002. The Bench further held that once the person is informed of the grounds of arrest, that would be suffi cient compliance with the mandate of Article 22(1) of the Constitution and it is not necessary that a copy of the ECIR be supplied in every case to the person concerned, as such a condition is not mandatory and it is enough if the ED discloses the grounds of arrest to the person concerned at the time of arrest. It was pointed out that when the arrested person is produced before the Court, it would be open to the Court to look into the relevant records presented by the authorized representative of the ED for answering the issue of need for continued detention in connection with the off ence of money laundering. It was, in fact, such stringent safeguards provided under Section 19 of the Act of 2002 that prompted this Court to uphold the twin conditions contained in Section 45 thereof, making it diffi cult to secure bail. 15. This Court had occasion to again consider the provisions of the Act of 2002 in V. Senthil Balaji vs. The State represented by Deputy Director and others2, and more particularly, Section 19 thereof. It was noted that the authorized offi cer is at liberty to arrest the person concerned once he fi nds 2 Criminal Appeal Nos. 2284-2285 of 2023, decided on 07.08.2023 728 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. a reason to believe that he is guilty of an off ence punishable under the Act of 2002, but he must also perform the mandatory duty of recording reasons. It was pointed out that this exercise has to be followed by the information of the grounds of his arrest being served on the arrestee. It was affi rmed that it is the bounden duty of the authorized offi cer to record the reasons for his belief that a person is guilty and needs to be arrested and it was observed that this safeguard is meant to facilitate an element of fairness and accountability. Dealing with the interplay between Section 19 of the Act of 2002 and Section 167 Cr.P.C, this Court observed that the Magistrate is expected to do a balancing act as the investigation is to be completed within 24 hours as a matter of rule and, therefore, it is for the investigating agency to satisfy the Magistrate with adequate material on the need for custody of the accused.