This is an area where the court has been most strict and scrupulous in ensuring observance with the requirements of the law, and even where a requirement of the law is breached in the slightest measure, the court has not hesitated to strike down the of detention or to direct the release of the detenu even though the detention may have been valid till the breach occurred. The court has always regarded personal liberty as the most precious possession of mankind and refused to tolerate illegal detention, regardless of the social cost involved in the release of a possible renegade.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 17. In a diff erent context, we may take note of the decision in Sama Aruna vs. State of Telangana11 where, S.A. Bobde, J. (as the Chief Justice then was) while construing the provisions of the Act, held: “16. There is little doubt that the conduct or activities of the detenu in the past must be taken into account for coming to the conclusion that he is going to engage in or make preparations for engaging in such activities, for many such persons follow a pattern of criminal activities. But the question is how far back? There is no doubt that only activities so far back can be considered as furnish a cause for preventive detention in the present. That is, only those activities so far back in the past which lead to the conclusion that he is likely to engage in or prepare to engage in such activities in the immediate future can be taken into account.” In holding that the of detention therein was grounded on stale grounds, the Court held that: 11 (2018) 12 SCC 150 AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 977 & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] “The detention must be based on a reasonable prognosis of the future behaviour of a person based on his past conduct in light of the surrounding circumstances. The live and proximate link that must exist between the past conduct of a person and the imperative need to detain him must be taken to have been snapped in this case. A detention which is founded on stale incidents, must be regarded as an of punishment for a crime, passed without a trial, though purporting to be an of preventive detention. The essential concept of preventive detention is that the detention of a person is not to punish him for something he has done but to prevent him from doing it.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 18. This was further affi rmed by this Court in Khaja Bilal Ahmed vs. State of Telangana12, where the detention dated 2nd November, 2018 issued under the Act had delved into the history of cases involving the appellant-detenu from the years 2007 - 2016, despite the subjective satisfaction of the Offi cer not being based on such cases. In quashing such an , Hon’ble Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, J. (as the Chief Justice then was) observed: “23. *** If the pending cases were not considered for passing the of detention, it defi es logic as to why they were referred to in the fi rst place in the of detention.