The object of the Administrative Tribunals Act would not stand frustrated if an SAT is created and then abolished. The Union and State Governments may take alternate routes (some of which may have already been in operation, supplementing SATs) towards achieving the same objective. [Para 62][778-F-G] E 5.4. The appellants have also argued that the Union Government’s power to abolish SATs must flow from the same legislation that vests it with the power to establish them. It is their contention that the Union Government does not have the power to abolish SATs because the Administrative Tribunals Act F does not provide for it. This argument fails for the simple reason that the very purpose of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act is to provide for contingencies such as the instant case when the statute in question does not explicitly provide for the power to add to, amend, vary, or rescind a notification (or , rule, or G by-law) which has been issued. Of course, the application of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act is subject to the test laid down in D N Ganguly’s case as well as the other requirements mentioned in the provision itself. If the argument of the appellants were to be accepted, Section 21 of the General Clauses Act would be rendered otiose. It would not apply to any statute which does H ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 739 UNION OF INDIA not explicitly provide for the power to add to, amend, vary, or A rescind notifications, s, rules or bye-laws. On the other hand, if the statute itself conferred the power to add to, amend, vary, or rescind notifications, s, rules or by-laws, there would be no need to rely on Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. This is not a conceivable position because courts must interpret B statutes so as to give effect to their provisions rather than to render them futile. [Para 63, 64][778-H; 779-A-D] 5.5 The appellants submitted that what cannot be done directly cannot be done indirectly. Neither Article 323-A of the Constitution nor the Administrative Tribunals Act prohibit the C abolition of SATs. Hence, it cannot be said that the Union Government is barred from abolishing the SATs “directly” and that it has resorted to Section 21 of the General Clauses Act to evade such a ban and “indirectly” abolish the OAT. The Union Government’s reliance on Section 21 of the General Clauses Act to abolish the OAT is legally permissible. [Para 65][779-D-F] D 5.6 The transfer of cases from the OAT to the Orissa High Court is, properly characterized, a revival of the latter’s jurisdiction. The impugned that the Orissa High Court’s jurisdiction in relation to matters pending before the OAT is not being created or enlarged by the abolition of the OAT. It E previously exercised such jurisdiction and is merely resuming its jurisdiction over the same subject matter. The natural consequence of the Union Government rescinding the notification establishing the OAT would be to restore the status quo ante.