Section 3(3) of the Act, 1988, which specifically provides that the period of temporary release shall not be counted towards the total period of the sentence of a prisoner. E Thereafter, the High-Powered Committee constituted pursuant to the directions issued by this Court directed the convicts/prisoners to be released on temporary parole/emergency parole in the minutes of the meeting held on 12.11.2020 specifically observed that no specific directions for not counting period of special parole towards sentence are required to be made in view of the statutory provisions and the authorities F are directed to decide the issue in accordance with statutory provisions. That thereafter, when the emergency parole has been further extended pursuant to the subsequent s passed by this Court, the minutes/ note of the meeting specifically provides that the period of release pursuant to the decision of the High-Powered Committee shall not be G counted towards the total period of sentence of the prisoner/convict. As such the said note is absolutely in consonance with the statutory provision, namely, Section 3(3) of the Act, 1988. 5. At this stage, it is required to be noted that vires of Section 3(3) of the Act, 1988 was challenged before this Court and by and H 672 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A passed in Avtar Singh (supra), this Court has upheld the vires of Section 3(3) of the Act, 1988. 5.1 Subsequently, in the case of Mohinder Singh (supra), this Court has specifically observed and held that the period of parole shall not be counted towards the total period of sentence. It is observed and held that when a prisoner is on parole his period of release does not B count towards the total period of sentence. 5.2 In the recent decision of this Court in the case of Rohan Dhungat (supra), this Court had an occasion to consider the similar issue/question and after taking into consideration the object and purpose of parole, it is observed and held by this Court that period of release on C parole shall not be counted for the purpose of considering the actual imprisonment and the said period of parole has to be excluded. In the case of Rohan Dhungat (supra), this Court has observed in paragraph 10 as under: - “10. If the submission on behalf of the prisoners that the period of D parole is to be included while considering 14 years of actual imprisonment is accepted, in that case, any prisoner who may be influential may get the parole for number of times as there is no restrictions and it can be granted number of times and if the submission on behalf of the prisoners is accepted, it may defeat the very object and purpose of actual imprisonment. E We are of the firm view that for the purpose of considering actual imprisonment, the period of parole is to be excluded. We are in complete agreement with the view taken by the High Court holding so.” 6. In view of the above and when the petitioner has been convicted F for the offences under Sections 302/34 of IPC and sentenced to undergo life imprisonment, he has to undergo the said sentence actually subject to any rule/policy in respect of remission and the period during which he is released on emergency/interim parole has to be excluded for the purpose of actual imprisonment.