This is because Sikkim has now merged with India and has become one of the States of India. Also, persons domiciled in the erstwhile Kingdom E of Sikkim i.e., prior to 26th April, 1975, the day Sikkim Kingdom merged with India would now become citizens of India. Therefore, the expression “he is not a citizen of any other country” in the proviso to Regulation (3), after the inclusion of the territory of Sikkim as a part of the Indian territory, must now be read, to exclude a citizen of India F ordinarily resident in Sikkim as on 26th April, 1975. This would imply that if an individual from British India or any other part of India after its Independence was domiciled in Sikkim prior to 26th April, 1975 and has become a citizen of India by virtue of Part II of the Constitution and the G Citizenship Act, 1955, enacted by the Parliament and s made thereunder, pursuant to the merger of Sikkim Kingdom with India, such individual ought to now be included in the Register of Sikkim Subjects if not included till date. 68.4. Similarly, the expression “any other country” in Regulation H (4) of the 1961 Regulation must be read to mean “any other ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 357 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] country other than India”. By such an interpretation, a person A domiciled in the territory of Sikkim and who has acquired the citizenship of India may, on an application made to the authority prescribed by the 1961 Rules be registered as a Sikkim Subject, if he is a person whose ancestors were deemed to be Sikkim Subjects. B 68.5. That in to check the influx of foreigners into Sikkim, the Chogyal, in 1961, had promulgated the 1961 Regulation. Under the said Regulation: a) Persons falling under Regulation (3) of the 1961 Regulation were to be entered as ‘Sikkim Subjects’ in the C Register; and b) Persons who were citizens of another country were not to be registered as ‘Sikkim Subjects’ unless they relinquished the citizenship of the other country. However, after the merger of Sikkim Kingdom with India, D the expression “any other country” would not include India as all residents of Sikkim, whether a Sikkim Subject or not are now Indian citizens. But the term ‘Sikkim Subject’ was defined as a person who was born in the territory of Sikkim and was resident therein and all similarly situated persons, E but however, with a caveat that a person shall not be a Sikkim Subject under the 1961 Regulation, unless he made a declaration that he was not a citizen of any other country at the time of inclusion of his name in the Register of Sikkim Subjects. The result of this caveat was that an Indian citizen whose ancestors had settled down in Sikkim for generations, F had to give up his citizenship of India (of which country Sikkim was a protectorate since 1950), for the purpose of registering himself as a Sikkim Subject.