By not complying with these three factors while making the classification, this Court must strike down such a classification. [Paras 44, 45][457-F-G; 458-A-B] 2.4 PROPORTIONALITY TEST The interfering law, i.e. the impugned notification that H creates the classification, does not have a rational nexus to the RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 425 PRADESH object sought to be achieved, and thus, violates the first two A prongs of the proportionality test. Coming to the third and fourth prong of the proportionality test, i.e whether the classification created by the Authority was a necessity to achieve the state aim of compensating those landowners that are either direct residents 46 of the land or the land exists as their primary source of income B and whether such measure was proportional to the object sought to be achieved. For this, it is pertinent to refer to Section 23 of the Act, which provides for matters to be taken into account while determining the compensation. A bare perusal of Section 23 would show that, the grounds for classification as purported by the GNOIDA authority, have already been covered by Section 23 of C the Act. The fifth point of the said Section squarely covers the requirement of compensating for rehabilitation of the affected landowners. In the presence of an already existing provision in the act, the classification created by the GNOIDA authority, must exist in furtherance of the said Section, and not in contrast of. D [Paras 52-54][465-B-D; 466-C-D] 2.5 The classification if allowed to exist, can lead to several Gair-pushtaini landowners who may also need to be rehabilitated, cannot rehabilitate themselves without compensation for the same. This circumstance alone besides being discriminatroy pits E the said classification against Section 23 of the Act, causing an insubordination to the 1894 Act. Such a mischief, if allowed to exist, would not only nullify the purpose of the Act, but also violate the third and fourth principle of the proportionality test, and hence is liable to be struck down. Further, it is also important to note that the classification, even if allowed to exist, does not come F with any safeguards against its potential abuse. As mentioned above, the said notification by way of its classification creates disastrous mischief, and the notification does nothing to remedy such potential abuse. No guidelines for the said classification exist, nor are there any bars placed. If such classification is left G unchecked, it may lead to bad precedence, and disastrous ramifications in the future. This lack of substantive guidelines also violates the fifth prong of the proportionality test. The impugned classification is liable to be struck down as violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. [Paras 55-57][466-D-H] H 426 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A State Of West Bengal Vs. Anwar Ali Sarkar (1952) AIR 75 : [1952] SCR 284; Rustom Cavasjee Cooper (Banks Nationalisation) v. Union of India (1970) 1 SCC 248 : [1970] 3 SCR 530; Navtej Singh Johar & Ors. Vs. Union of India Thr.