You may ask, “why this entry?” I shall show why it is necessary. Take for instance, the BA Degree examination which is conducted by the different universities in India. Now, most provinces B and the Centre, when advertising for candidates, merely say that the candidate should be a graduate of a university. Now, suppose the Madras University says that a candidate at the BA Examination, if he obtained 15% of the total marks shall be deemed to have passed that examination; and suppose the Bihar C University says that a candidate who has obtained 20% of marks shall be deemed to have passed the BA degree examination; and some other university fixes some other standard, then it would be quite a chaotic condition, and the expression that is usually D used, that the candidate should be a graduate, I think, would be meaningless. Similarly, there are certain research institutes, on the results of which so many activities of the Central and Provincial Governments depend. Obviously, you cannot permit the results of these technical and scientific institutes to deteriorate E from the normal standard and yet allow them to be recognised either for the Central purposes, for all- India purposes or the purposes of the State. 132. The intent of our Constitution Framers while introducing Entry 66 of the Union List was thus limited F only to empowering the Union to lay down a uniform standard of higher education throughout the country and not to bereft the State Legislature of its entire power to legislate in relation to “education” and organising its own common entrance examination. G 133. If we consider the ambit of the present Entry 66 of the Union List; no doubt the field of legislation is of very wide import and determination of standards in institutions for higher education. In the federal structure of India, as there are many States, it is for the Union to coordinate H 962 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A between the States to cause them to work in the field of higher education in their respective States as per the standards determined by the Union. Entry 25 in the Concurrent List is available both to the Centre and the States. However, power of the State is subject to the provisions of Entries 63, 64, 65, and 66 of the Union B List; while the State is competent to legislate on the education including technical education, medical education and universities, it should be as per the standards set by the Union. 134. The words “coordination” and “determination of C the standards in higher education” are the preserve of Parliament and are exclusively covered by Entry 66 of the Union List. The word “coordination” means harmonisation with a view to forge a uniform pattern for concerted action. The term “fixing of standards of D institutions for higher education” is for the purpose of harmonising coordination of the various institutions for higher education across the country. Looking at the present distribution of legislative powers between the Union and the States with regard to the field of “education”, that State’s power to legislate in relation to E “education, including technical education, medical education and universities” is analogous to that of the Union.