He is duty bound to always act in a fair manner; not of course, to secure conviction by hook or crook but at the same time, it is his B duty to fearlessly adduce evidence so that those who are guilty do not get away scot free. Unless this is done, it is very likely that the common man will cease to have faith in the very functioning of the State itself. It is therefore, integral to the upholding of the integrity of the State itself that the access to justice which is also comprehended C in the principle that an offence is committed against the State and the State therefore prosecutes the offender is always borne in mind. (16) Every attempt which succeeds at the hands of anyone whereby the efficacy of criminal law is diluted, will remove the very edifice of the rule of law fatally. D (17) It is, therefore, of the utmost importance that in the case in hand, the Special Public Prosecutor who has been appointed will hopefully uphold the highest principles and play the difficult role so that while the innocent are not convicted, the guilty do not escape due punishment. E (18) In the facts of this case, noticing that the Special Public Prosecutor has been appointed only recently and not being unmindful also of his credentials which have been brought to our notice, at this stage we are not persuaded to direct that another person be appointed in his place. However, this is not to be the end of the destiny of this case. Accordingly, we dispose of the petition as follows: F (i) It will be open to the petitioners to approach the Director of Prosecution in case they believe that even the Special Public Prosecutor appointed is not discharging his duties in a fair and impartial manner. G (ii) It is thereupon for the Director(Prosecution) to look into the matter and take appropriate steps. As far as protection to the witness is concerned, it will be open to the petitioners to move the presiding Judge or Special Public Prosecutor or the Superintendent of Police of the concerned H 1110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A District seeking protection in which case needful shall be done in accordance with law. (iii) Needless to say that any observation which we have made in this shall not stand in the way of the Court taking a decision on the basis of the evidence and on B the basis of law applicable. The transfer petition is disposed of accordingly. Nidhi Jain Transfer petition disposed of. (Assisted by : Shashwat Jain, LCRA) C D E F G H