41. (III) What are the guidelines that the competent court must follow while exercising power under Section 319CrPC? 41.1. If the competent court finds evidence or if application under Section 319 CrPC is filed regarding involvement of any F other person in committing the offence based on evidence recorded at any stage in the trial before passing of the on acquittal or sentence, it shall pause the trial at that stage. 41.2. The court shall thereupon first decide the need or otherwise to summon the additional accused and pass s G thereon. 41.3. If the decision of the court is to exercise the power under Section 319 CrPC and summon the accused, such summoning shall be passed before proceeding further with the trial in the main case. H YASHODHAN SINGH & ORS. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 1215 PRADESH & ANR. 41.4. If the summoning of additional accused is passed, A depending on the stage at which it is passed, the court shall also apply its mind to the fact as to whether such summoned accused is to be tried along with the other accused or separately. 41.5. If the decision is for joint trial, the fresh trial shall be commenced only after securing the presence of the summoned B accused. 41.6. If the decision is that the summoned accused can be tried separately, on such being made, there will be no impediment for the court to continue and conclude the trial against the accused who were being proceeded with. C 41.7. If the proceeding paused as in para 41.1 above, is in a case where the accused who were tried are to be acquitted, and the decision is that the summoned accused can be tried afresh separately, there will be no impediment to pass the of acquittal in the main case. D 41.8. If the power is not invoked or exercised in the main trial till its conclusion and if there is a split-up (bifurcated) case, the power under Section 319CrPC can be invoked or exercised only if there is evidence to that effect, pointing to the involvement of the additional accused to be summoned in the split-up (bifurcated) trial. E 41.9. If, after arguments are heard and the case is reserved for the occasion arises for the Court to invoke and exercise the power under Section 319CrPC, the appropriate course for the court is to set it down for re-hearing. 41.10. On setting it down for re-hearing, the above laid down F procedure to decide about summoning; holding of joint trial or otherwise shall be decided and proceeded with accordingly. 41.11. Even in such a case, at that stage, if the decision is to summon additional accused and hold a joint trial the trial shall be conducted afresh and de novo proceedings be held. G 41.12. If, in that circumstance, the decision is to hold a separate trial in case of the summoned accused as indicated earlier: (a) The main case may be decided by pronouncing the conviction and sentence and then proceed afresh against summoned accused.