F 4.3 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective original writ petitioners , as such, are not in a position to dispute that so far as the levy of development charges/fees is concerned, the same is held to be legal in view of the decision of this Court in the case of Malti Kaul (supra). G 4.4 It is submitted that so far as the other charges are concerned, the same are rightly held to be illegal and/or not in accordance with law, in view of Section 15(2-A) of the Act, 1973. It is submitted that only those charges which are enumerated/mentioned in Section 15(2-A) of the Act, 1973 can be recovered/levied. It is submitted that as per Article 265 of the Constitution of India, there cannot be any levy/charges except H MATHURA VRINDAVAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY & 905 ANOTHER v. RAJESH SHARMA AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] in accordance with law. Meaning thereby, unless the law permits, there A cannot be any levy of tax/charges. 4.5 Insofar as reliance placed upon Section 41 of the Act, 1973 on behalf of the State as well as Development Authorities is concerned, it is submitted that in exercise of powers under Section 41 of the Act, 1973, there cannot be any levy and/or no charge/fee can be recovered, if B otherwise the same is not permissible under the Act. It is submitted that the powers under Section 41 of the Act, 1973, as such, are supervisory in nature and the directions can be issued by the State Government upon the concerned Development Authorities to carry out the functions under the Act. It is submitted that Section 41 does not permit the State to issue C s for levy of charges other than mentioned in Section 15(2-A) of the Act, 1973. 4.6 In one of the cases, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original writ petitioner has vehemently submitted that as such though the property in question may be within the limits of the Development D Authorities, however, with respect to the land which is not covered by the development plan, there cannot be any levy of even development charges/fees. 5. We have heard learned counsel for the respective parties at length. E At the outset, it is required to be noted that before the High Court the dispute was with respect to various demand notices by way of external/internal development charges, inspection fee/supervision fee while granting of sanction layout plan, development charges, sub-division charges, stacking charges and impact fee etc. F 6. Insofar as the levy of development fees/charges is concerned, the issue is now not res integra, in view of the direct decision of this Court in the case of Malti Kaul (supra). After taking into consideration the entire scheme and the relevant provisions of the Act, 1973, more particularly Sections 14, 15(2-A), 41 & 59 of the Act, 1973, this Court G has upheld the levy of development charges/fees. Therefore, the issue with respect to levy of development charges/fees is concerned, the same is concluded by this Court in the case of Malti Kaul (supra).