The purpose was to ensure that no judicial authority assigns to itself the power that has been expressly and exclusively bestowed upon the arbitral tribunal. For instance, Article 16 of the Model Law confers upon the arbitral tribunal an exclusive power to rule on its jurisdiction including dealing with objections pertaining to the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement. 71. The Model Law does not regulate or govern all matters related to international commercial arbitration as well as the arbitral process.65 Similarly, Article 5 does not bar the national courts from intervening in 61 Gary Born, The Principle of Judicial Non-Interference in International Arbitration Proceedings’ (2009) 30 University of Pennsylvania Journal of International Law 999, 1002. 62 Gary Born, International Arbitration Law and Practice (3rd ed, 2021) 2361 63 Article II(3), New York Convention 64 Report of the Working Group on International Contract Practices on the work of its seventh session, A/CN.9/246 (New York, 23 January-3 February 1984) 45. 65 Manuel A Gomez, ‘Article 5: Extent of Court Intervention’ in Ilias Bantekas (eds) UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration: A Commentary 89 (2020) 113 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. matters not governed by the Model Law.66 The UNCITRAL Working Group itself identifi ed certain situations not dealt with under the Model Law where the national courts could intervene: “Article 5 would, for example, not exclude court control or assistance in those matters which the Working Group had decided not to deal with in the law (e.g., capacity of parties to conclude arbitration agreement; impact of state immunity; competence of arbitral tribunal to adapt contracts; enforcement by courts of interim measures of protection ed by arbitral tribunal; fi xing of fees or request for deposit, including security for fees or costs; time-limit for enforcement of awards).” 72. This indicates that Article 5 of the Model Law emphasizes on arbitral tribunal being the fi rst instance to determine all issues relating to matters of law or construction as well as issues of jurisdiction and scope of authority.67 It exclusively determines the manner and form of judicial intervention in the arbitration process. National courts can intervene with respect to matters not expressly governed by the Model Law.68 73. Section 5 of the Arbitration Act is based on Article 5 of the Model Law. However, Section 5 also incorporates a non-obstante clause setting out the scope of judicial intervention. It reads as follows: “5. Extent of judicial intervention.- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, in matters governed by this Part, no judicial authority shall intervene except where so provided in this Part.” Two aspects become clear from a comparison of Section 5 of the Arbitration Act with Article 5 of the Model Law: fi rst, Section 5 begins with a non-obstante clause unlike Article 5; and second, it limits the scope of judicial intervention to the extent “so provided” in Part I. 66 Digest of Case Law on the Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (2012) 21 67 Rio Algam v. Sammi Steel Co., Ontario Court of Justice, Canada, 1 March 1991, [1991] O.J.