This sovereignty is recognised by Article 370(3)46; c. The sovereignty of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir is clear also from Article 370(2) which eff ectively states that if any proposal for conferring additional powers to the Union Parliament is mooted once the Constituent Assembly comes into existence, it should be placed before the Constituent Assembly and not before the State government.47 Once the Constituent Assembly ceased to exist, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir assumed sovereignty. The Constitution of the state and the Legislative Assembly of the State created by the Constitution, are permanent.48 The Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir is an independent, perpetual document. Since it was not created by the Constituent Assembly, it was neither subordinate to the Constitution of India, nor to Article 370. It cannot be substituted or repealed by an act of the Union Government49; d. This Court has recognised that internal sovereignty may be divided by a distribution of legislative powers, which is an essential feature of federalism50; and 45 Zaff ar Shah; Written Submissions of Mr. Gopal Subramanium, Senior Advocate on behalf of the Petitioner; Written Submissions of Mr. Dushyant Dave, Senior Advocate; Written Submissions By Shri Dinesh Dwivedi, Senior Advocate. 46 Submissions On Behalf Of The Petitioners, Mr Shekhar Naphade, Senior Advocate. 47 Submissions On Behalf Of The Petitioners, Mr Shekhar Naphade, Senior Advocate. 48 Submissions on behalf of the Petitioners, Mr Shekhar Naphade, Senior Advocate. 49 Written Submissions By Shri Dinesh Dwivedi, Senior Advocate. 50 SR Bommai vs Union of India; para 97 Submissions On Behalf Of The Petitioners, Mr Shekhar Naphade, Senior Advocate. 38 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. e. The sovereignty of the Ruler was recognised in the 1939 Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, and contrary to the Respondents’ argument (that the Ruler’s sovereignty ended after he executed the IoA), the sovereignty continued even after the IoA or the 1949 Declaration.51 Read with other proclamations and the IoA, the Declaration did not take away the Ruler’s sovereignty52. The power of the Union fl owed from the IoA with respect to the three subjects therein. It was later extended to cover all the entries in List I by the Ruler in 1991. In 1991, Section 5 of the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution was modifi ed to end the sovereignty of the Ruler and to adopt the principle of collective sovereignty of the legislature. However, this 1991 Amendment should be viewed in light of the Parliament’s limited power until the enactment of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. 30. CO 272 issued under Article 370(1)(d) is unconstitutional for the following reasons: a. Article 370(1)(d) refers to the modifi cation of the Constitutional provisions and their application to India. However, CO 272 goes beyond mere modifi cation of the provisions of Article 367 and their application to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. It vests the power of a certain kind, meant to be exercised by a certain body, in a completely diff erent body. This is tantamount to changing the fundamental basis of Article 370(3)53 which could have only been done through an amendment of Article 370(3).