Black & White Solicitors, Suhaskumar Kadam, Bhargava V. Desai, Rahul Gupta, Siddhartha Chowdhury, Utkarsh D Vats, Deepanshu, Ms. Bharti Tyagi, J.N. Singh, Saurabh Mishra, Mrs. Sadhna Singh, Abhishek Singh, Ms. Priya Kaushik, Sudarsh Menon, Samarendra Beura, Rajesh Rathore, Ms. Usha Rani Pradhan, Ajai Kumar Bhatia, Chirag M. Shroff, Ms. Pallavi Sharma, Gaurav Agrawal, Amol B. Karande, Mahesh B Karande, Narender Rao Thaneer, Ms. E Jaswanti, Ms. Aaina Varma, Nitin Meshram, Narayan Jambhule, Ritesh Patil, Ranbir Singh Yadav, Abhijit S. Kamble, Hitesh Kumar Sharma, S. K. Rajora, Ms. Niharika Dewivedi, Narender Pal Sharma, Amit Kumar Chawla, Ravish Kumar Goyal, Madhvi S. Sawnt, Advs. for the appearing parties. The of the Court was delivered by F ABHAY S. OKA, J. PRELUDE 1. Pursuant to Article 342 of the Constitution of India, a list of Scheduled Tribes was notified by the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) G , 1950 (for short ‘the ST ’). By an Act of Parliament of 1976, the ST was amended. Part IX of the Third Schedule to the 1976 Act contains a list of notified Scheduled Tribes for the State of Maharashtra. At Entry no.44 in the Maharashtra List, the following castes have been notified as Scheduled Tribes:- H MAH. ADIWASI THAKUR JAMAT SWARAKSHAN SAMITI v. 1109 THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] “Thakur, Thakar, Ka Thakur, Ka Thakar, Ma Thakur, A Ma Thakar”. 2. Various issues concerning the procedure to be followed for the determination of caste claims arose in a large number of cases. In the case of Kumari Madhuri Patil and Another v. Addl. Commissioner, Tribal Development & Others1, this Court noted that it was necessary B to streamline the procedure for issuance of social status certificates, their scrutiny and their approval. The need to lay down procedural guidelines was felt as several cases were noticed where candidates on the basis of false social status certificates obtained admissions to educational institutions which necessarily had the effect of depriving C admissions to genuine candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes. There was no law in force at that time laying down the procedure for the verification of caste status. Therefore, very exhaustive guidelines were laid down in paragraph 13 of the said decision. The relevant part of Paragraph 13 of the said decision reads thus: “13. The admission wrongly gained or appointment wrongly D obtained on the basis of false social status certificate necessarily has the effect of depriving the genuine Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes or OBC candidates as enjoined in the Constitution of the benefits conferred on them by the Constitution. The genuine candidates are also denied admission to educational institutions or E appointments to office or posts under a State for want of social status certificate. The ineligible or spurious persons who falsely gained entry resort to dilatory tactics and create hurdles in completion of the inquiries by the Scrutiny Committee. It is true that the applications for admission to educational institutions are generally made by a parent, since on that date many a time the F student may be a minor.