What Article 14 G propounds is that “all like should be treated alike”. In other words, it implies equal treatment for all equals. Though the legislature is fully empowered to enact laws applicable to a particular class, as in the case at hand in which Section 377 H 9 (2018) 10 SCC 1 RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 455 PRADESH [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] applies to citizens who indulge in carnal intercourse, yet the A classification, including the one made under Section 377 IPC, has to satisfy the twin conditions to the effect that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia and the said differentia must have a rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the provision, that is, Section B 377 IPC. Section 377 has consigned a group of citizens to the margins. It has been destructive of their identities. By imposing the sanctions of the law on consenting adults involved in a sexual relationship, it has lent the authority of the State to perpetuate social stereotypes C and encourage discrimination. Gays, lesbians, bisexuals and transgenders have been relegated to the anguish of closeted identities. Sexual orientation has become a target for exploitation, if not blackmail, in a networked and digital age. The impact of Section 377 has travelled far beyond the punishment of an offence. It has been destructive of an identity D which is crucial to a dignified existence” 37. In the case at hand, it has been held by the Full Bench of the High Court that the classification between Pushtaini and Gair-pushtaini Landowners is based on one class of landowners being sons of the soil, while the other class being mere landowners, who are not directly E attached to the land. Further, the object of this classification, as stated by the full bench of the High Court, is to rehabilitate the original residents, i.e the sons of the soil, who are likely to become landless due to the acquisition of their land. 38. While prima facie, the classification and the object sought to F be achieved through the said classification seems reasonable, however, the devil lies in the details. The justification given by the GNOIDA Authority, and the Full-bench of the High Court assumes that only Pushtaini landowners permanently reside in the subject land or that the subject land is the primary source of income only for Pushtaini landowners, and this assumption has been backed by no empirical data G produced by the authority. 39.While the classification made by Greater Noida has been based on the object of giving fair compensation, however, such a laudable object of the classification would stand breached by the effects of such a classification, creating a dissonance between the object and its effect. H 456 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Many Gair-pushtaini landholders, whose main area of residence or their main source of income is also the subject land, would be subject to great discrimination and injustice, if the same compensation that has been granted to the pushtaini landholders is not extended to them.