This is because courts recognise that the State is best placed to decide if the interest of national security would be served. The court allows due deference to the State to form its opinion but reviews the opinion on limited F grounds of whether there is nexus between the material and the conclusion. The Court cannot second-guess the of the State that the purpose identified would violate India’s national security. It is the executive wing and not the judicial wing that has the knowledge of India’s geo-political relationships to assess G if an action is in the interest of India’s national security. [Para 84][661-E-G; 662-A-B] 8. The respondents by not providing a reasoned denying the renewal of license, not disclosing the relevant H 606 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A material, and by disclosing the material only to the court in a sealed cover have violated the appellant’s right to a fair hearing protected under Article 21 of the Constitution. The respondents were unable to prove that the restrictions on the appellants’ right to a fair hearing were reasonable. Therefore, the of MIB dated 31 January 2022 denying permission for renewal of the B license and the of the Division Bench of the High Court dated 2 March 2022 must be set aside on the ground of the infringement of procedural guarantees. [Para 159][704-G-H; 705- A-B] 9. The note that was submitted by the IB on the alleged C role and activities of JEI-H states that the organisation was banned thrice and all the three bans were revoked. The organisation was banned last in 1992 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1947. This Court had nullified the ban in 1994. Thus, when JEI-H is not a banned organisation, it would be rather D precarious for the State to contend that the links with the organisation would affect the sovereignty and integrity of the nation, the security of the State, friendly relations with Foreign States, or public . Additionally, the only piece of evidence in the file to link MBL to JEI-H is the alleged investment in the shares of MBL by cadres of JEI-H. In the support of this, IB has E submitted a list of shareholders. However, there is no evidence on record to link them to JEI-H. Thus, the allegation that MBL is linked to JEI-H is fallacious, firstly, because JEI-H is not a banned organisation and there is no material to conclude that the investment by JEI-H sympathizers would affect India’s security, F and secondly, even if it is accepted that the investment by JEI-H sympathizers would affect the security of the State, there is no material to prove that the shareholders are sympathizers of JEI- H. In view of the discussion above, the purpose of denying security clearance does not have a legitimate goal or a proper purpose. [Para 168][707-F-H; 708-A-B] G Ex-Armymen’s protection Services Private Limited v. Union of India (2014) 5 SCC 409 : [2014] 3 SCR 359 and Digi Cable Network (India) Private v. Union of India AIR 2019 SC 455 : [2019] 1 SCR 88- explained.