This is the essential purpose, it seems to us, of Section 14B of the EPF Act, and an imposition within its confi nes does not assume criminal prosecution so as to stand proscribed insofar as transfer of establishment from one management/ employer to its successor is concerned.” 29. In Shyam Sundar v State of Haryana (supra), the liability of a partnership firm, based on the agency of every partner for the individual criminal acts of its partners, was negatived: “9. But we are concerned with a criminal liability under penal provision and not a civil liability. The penal provision must be strictly construed in the fi rst place. Secondly, there is no vicarious liability in criminal law unless the statute takes that also within its fold. Section RELIGARE FINVEST LIMITED v. STATE OF NCT OF 215 DELHI & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 10 does not provide for such liability. It does not make all the partners liable for the off ence whether they do business or not.” 30. It is, therefore, noticeable that the criminal liability of a company (a) is recognized where it can be attributable to individual acts of employees, directors or officials of a company or juristic persons (Tesco, Meridian Global Funds, Standard Chartered Bank, and Iridium) (b) recognized even if its conviction results in a term of imprisonment (Meridian, Iridium); (c) cannot be transferred ipso facto, except when it is in the nature of penalty proceeding (McLeod Russel) (d) the legal effect of amalgamation of two companies is the destruction of the corporate existence of the transferor company (in this case, LVB); it ceases to exist. (e) that apart, only defined legal proceedings, are succeeded to by the transferee company, which, in this case, is the DBS Bank32 . 31. As noted earlier, Clause 3 (3) of the scheme in this case, no doubt mentions that legal proceedings would be continued by or against the transferee bank (read DBS Bank). However, it is also important to notice the proviso: “3. Transfer of assets and liabilities and general effect thereof. - (1)-(2) xxxxxxx (3) If on the appointed date, any cause of action, suit, decrees, recovery certifi cates, appeals or other proceedings of whatever nature is pending by or against the transferor bank before any court or tribunal or any other authority (including for the avoidance of doubt, an arbitral tribunal), the same shall not abate, be discontinued or be ill any way prejudicially aff ected, but shall, subject to the other provisions of this Scheme, be prosecuted and enforced by or against the transferee bank: 32 Section 233 (9) of the Companies Act, 2013. 216 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Provided that where a contravention of any of the provision of any statute or of any rule, regulation, direction or made thereunder has been committed by or any proceeding for a criminal off ence has been instituted against, a director or secretary, manager, offi cer or other employee of the transferor bank before the appointed date, such director, secretary, manager, offi cer or other employee shall, without prejudice to the application of section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), be liable to be proceeded against under such law and punished accordingly, as if the transferor bank, being a banking company had not been dissolved.” 32.