It was also alleged that again Vivek had raped her under the threat of video being made viral and was extracting money from her. It was alleged that she was raped 4-5 times in the same hotel and she became weak and sick. Though enquires were made by her father and mother she had not revealed anything out of fear. It was also alleged that on 2nd May, 2021 the marriage of his elder brother’s daughter took place and entire family was busy and at that point of time they forced the minor girl to permit Vivek and his companions to enter the house by putting pressure on her and the jewellery kept for the marriage was taken away by Vivek and his accomplice. It was alleged in this regard an FIR No.142 of 2021 was registered by the mother of minor girl with the Police Station, Raini. It was alleged that during the course of investigation the accused Vivek was interrogated and he confessed to have taken away the jewellery and thereafter they had continued to threaten the minor girl not to disclose about the rape as otherwise they would destroy her entire family. It is stated that on 24th March, 2023, the minor girl had disclosed about the incident of 24.02.2021 after much persuation and as such complainant sought for strict action being taken against the accused persons. 5. After investigation the charge-sheet came to be fi led against Netram and Vivek only. However, the jurisdictional court took cognizance against Deepak @ Dileep Kumar @ Dipu by dated 09.06.2022 for the off ence punishable under Section 376(2)(n), 376DA of the IPC and Section 5/6 of POCSO Act and thereafter the case has been registered and accused has been summoned. It is also pertinent to note at this juncture that taking cognizance by the jurisdictional court against Deepak was challenged before 474 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the High Court which came to be dismissed and same was challenged before this Court and later withdraw the petition. 6. The applications for grant of bail fi led by the respondents in the respective appeals came to be dismissed by the special court vide dated 27.06.2022 and 11.01.2023 by the High Court. In the background of the bail application having been rejected the fi rst respondent in the respective appeals have preferred Criminal Miscellaneous Bail Applications under Section 439 of the Cr.P.C. before the High Court of Judicature of Rajasthan. By impugned dated 06.04.2023 the High Court granted the relief in their favour and enlarged them on bail after taking into consideration the statement of the prosecutrix (victim) recorded during the course of trial and by taking into consideration the possibility of time being consumed for trial. The complainant being aggrieved by the grant of bail has preferred these appeals by special leave. Contentions of the Appellant (for the Complainant) 7. It is contended that off ences alleged against the accused are heinous off ences punishable with minimum sentence for life and attracts minimum sentence of 20 years.