44. The next contention raised on behalf of the appellants is that the motive attributed by the prosecution is a very weak motive. It is submitted that the motive attributed is on account of political enmity due to elections which were held two and half years prior to the date of incident. The motive is specifi cally brought on record in the evidence of Lokendra (PW-1) and Irshad Khan (PW-7). Harpal Singh (PW-10) also deposed about the enmity between the families of Ishwar and Ram Kishan. In any case, the present case is a case of direct evidence. It is a settled law that though motive could be an important aspect in a case based on circumstantial evidence, in the case of direct evidence, the motive would not be that relevant. In this respect, we may gainfully refer to the of this Court in the case of State of Andhra Pradesh v. Bogam Chandraiah and Another8, which reads thus: “11. …..Another failing in the is that the High Court has held that the prosecution has failed to prove adequate motive for the commission of the off ence without bearing in mind the well settled rule that when there is direct evidence of an acceptable nature regarding the 8 (1986) 3 SCC 637 792 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. commission of an off ence the question of motive cannot loom large in the mind of the court. ……” 45. This Court, in the case of Darbara Singh v. State of Punjab9, has observed thus: “15. So far as the issue of motive is concerned, it is a settled legal proposition that motive has great signifi cance in a case involving circumstantial evidence, but where direct evidence is available, which is worth relying upon, motive loses its signifi cance…….” 46. Again in the case of Subodh Nath and Another v. State of Tripura10, this Court has observed thus: “16. …….The learned counsel for the appellants is right that the prosecution has not been able to establish the motive of Appellant 1 to kill the deceased but as there is direct evidence of the accused having committed the off ence, motive becomes irrelevant. Motive becomes relevant as an additional circumstance in a case where the prosecution seeks to prove the guilt by circumstantial evidence only.” 47. Another submission on behalf of the appellants is with regard to faulty investigation. No doubt that there have been certain lacunae in the police investigation. However, the evidence of eye witnesses is consistent, reliable, trustworthy and cogent. Merely because there are certain lacunae in the investigation, it cannot be a ground to disbelieve the testimony of eye-witnesses. In this respect, we may refer to the observations of this Court in the case of Karnel Singh v. State of M.P.11, which read thus: “5. Notwithstanding our unhappiness regarding the nature of investigation, we have to consider whether the evidence on record, even on strict scrutiny, establishes the guilt. In cases of defective investigation the court has to be circumspect in evaluating the evidence but it would not be right in acquitting an accused person solely on account of the defect; to do so would tantamount to playing into the 9 (2012) 10 SCC 476 10 (2013) 4 SCC 122 11 (1995) 5 SCC 518 MADAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 793 [B. R. GAVAI, J.]