72. Pending the decision of the larger Bench, as an interim measure, adoption of the following procedure may subserve the objective of the Tenth Schedule, Symbols as well as Article 179(c). It may also provide some amount of clarity and certainty. H 910 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A a. The investiture of exclusive adjudicatory jurisdiction upon the Speaker to determine the complaints under the Tenth Schedule will entitle the Speaker to rule upon and decide applications questioning their jurisdiction; and b. (i) The Speaker is entitled to rule on applications which require B them to refrain from adjudicating proceedings under the Tenth Schedule on the ground of initiation of a motion for their removal under Article 179(c). A Speaker can examine if the application is bonafide or intended only to evade adjudication; (ii) If the Speaker believes that the motion is well founded, C they may adjourn the proceedings under the Tenth Schedule till the decision for their removal is concluded. On the other hand, if they believe that the motion is not as per the procedure contemplated under the Constitution, read with the relevant rules, they are entitled to reject the plea and D proceed with the hearing; and (iii) The decision of the Speaker, either to adjourn the proceedings under the Tenth Schedule in view of the pending proceedings under Article 179(c) or to proceed with the hearing will be subject to judicial review. As the decision E of the Speaker relates to their jurisdiction, the bar of a quatimet action, as contemplated in Kihoto Hollohan (supra) will not apply. ii. The power of this Court to decide disqualification petitions at the first instance F 73. The petitioners have urged that the Speaker cannot be entrusted with the adjudication of disqualification petitions because is biased and partial as he was appointed with the support of the MLAs against whom disqualification petitions have been filed. They have relied on Rajendra Singh Rana (supra) to argue that this Court should decide the disqualification petitions against the respondents. G 74. Article 191(2) of the Constitution stipulates that an MLA disqualified under the Tenth Schedule shall be disqualified for being a member of the House. Under Paragraph 6 of the Tenth Schedule, the Speaker has the exclusive jurisdiction to decide the question of disqualification. Paragraph 8 empowers the Chairman or Speaker of the H House to make rules on the procedure for deciding any question referred SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 911 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] to in Paragraph 6 including the procedure for any inquiry which may be A made for the purpose of deciding such question. In exercise of the powers conferred under Paragraph 8, the Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly notified the 1986 Rules. 75. Rule 6 of the 1986 Rules lays down the procedure for the filing of disqualification petitions against a member of the House before B the Speaker. Rule 7 provides that the Speaker may either dismiss the petition for non-compliance with the requirements laid down under Rule 6 or proceed to determine the question of disqualification against a member of the House.