The exercise of power must be bona fide G and promote public interest.” 26. “An officer in continuous service for 14 years crossing the efficiency bar and reaching the maximum salary in the scale and with no adverse entries at least for five years immediately before H 14 (1980) 4 SCC 321 CAPTAIN PRAMOD KUMAR BAJAJ v. UNION OF INDIA 45 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] the compulsory retirement cannot be compulsorily retired on the A score that long years ago, his performance had been poor, although his superiors had allowed him to cross the efficiency bar without qualms.” 20. In Ram Ekbal Sharma v. State of Bihar and Another15 it was observed that in to find out whether an of compulsory B retirement is based on any misconduct of the government servant or the said has been made bona fide, without any oblique or extraneous purpose, the veil can be lifted. Following are the pertinent observations made in the said decision: “32. On a consideration of the above decisions the legal C position that now emerges is that even though the of compulsory retirement is couched in innocuous language without making any imputations against the government servant who is directed to be compulsorily retired from service, the court, if challenged, in appropriate cases can D lift veil to find out whether the is based on any misconduct of the government servant concerned or the has been made bona fide and not with any oblique or extraneous purposes. Mere form of the in such case cannot deter the court from delving into the basis of the if the in question is challenged by the concerned government E servant as has been held by this Court in ‘Anoop Jaiswal case’. This being the position the respondent-State cannot defend the of compulsory retirement of the appellant in the instant case on the mere plea that the has been made in accordance with the provisions of Rule 74(b)(ii) of the Bihar Service Code F which prima facie does not make any imputation or does not cast any stigma on the service career of the appellant. But in view of the clear and specific averments made by the respondent-State that the impugned has been made to compulsorily retire the appellant from service under the aforesaid rule as the appellant was found to have committed grave financial irregularities leading G to financial loss to the State, the impugned cannot but be said to have been made by way of punishment. As such, such an is in contravention of Article 311 of the Constitution of India 15 (1990) 3 SCC 504 H 46 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A as well as it is arbitrary as it violates principles of natural justice and the same has not been made bona fide. [emphasis added] 21. In State of Orissa and Others vs. Ram Chandra Das16 this Court observed as follows: - B “It is needless to reiterate that the settled legal position is that the Government is empowered and would be entitled to compulsorily retire a government servant in public interest with a view to improve efficiency of the administration or to weed out the people of doubtful integrity or who are corrupt but sufficient evidence was C not available to take disciplinary action in accordance with the rules so as to inculcate a sense of discipline in the service.