8.1 At the outset, it is required to be noted and it cannot be disputed H that when an accused is released on default bail under proviso to sub- THE STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION V. T. 751 GANGI REDDY @ YERRA GANGI REDDY [M. R. SHAH, J.] section (2) of Section 167 Cr.P.C., he is released on furnishing the bail A bond by him on the failure of the investigating agency to complete the investigation and file the chargesheet within the stipulated time mentioned therein. The proviso to sub-section (2) of Section 167 fixes the outer limit within which the investigation must be completed and if the same is not completed within the period prescribed therein, the accused has a B right to be released on bail if he is prepared to and does furnish bail. Considering proviso to Section 167(2) Cr.P.C., it cannot be disputed that a person released on bail (default bail) is deemed to be released under provisions of Chapter XXXIII of the Cr.P.C., which includes Section 437 and 439 also. The object and purpose of proviso to Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. is to impress upon the need for expeditious investigation within C the prescribed time limit and to prevent laxity in that behalf. The object is to inculcate a sense of its urgency and on default the Magistrate shall release the accused if he is ready and does furnish bail. Thus, it cannot be said that of release on bail under proviso to Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. is an on merits. An accused is released on bail under D proviso to Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. on the failure of the prosecuting agency. Therefore, the deeming fiction under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. cannot be interpreted to the length of converting the of bail not on merits as if passed on merits. Keeping in view the above, the issue involved in the present appeal is required to be considered. E 9. While considering the issue involved, some observations made by this Court in the case of Aslam Babalal Desai (supra) and Abdul Basit Alias Raju and Ors. (supra) are required to be referred to. Speaking for the Bench, Justice A.M. Ahmadi (as he then was) has observed in paragraphs 14 and 15 as under:- F “14. We sum up as under: The provisions of the Code, in particular Sections 57 and 167, manifest the legislative anxiety that once a persons’s liberty has been interfered with by the police arresting him without a court’s or a warrant, the investigation must be carried out with utmost urgency and completed within the maximum period G allowed by the proviso (a) to Section 167(2) of the Code. It must be realised that the said proviso was introduced in the Code by way of enlargement of time for which the arrested accused could be kept in custody. Therefore, the prosecuting agency must realise that if it fails to show a sense of urgency in the investigation of the H 752 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R.