The person who pays the valuable consideration in a sale transaction is irrelevant so long as it is paid. 66. In this context, it would be relevant to refer to the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. Section 2 (d) of the said Act states that when, at the desire of the promisor, the promisee or any other person F has done or abstained from doing, or does or abstains from doing, or promises to do or to abstain from doing, something, such act or abstinence or promise is called a consideration for the promise; Section 2 (c) states that the person making the proposal is called the “promisor”, and the person accepting the proposal is called the “promisee”; Section 2 (a) states that when one person signifies to another his willingness to do or G to abstain from doing anything, with a view to obtaining the assent of that other to such act or abstinence, he is said to make a proposal; Section 2 (b) states that when the person to whom the proposal is made signifies his assent thereto, the proposal is said to be accepted. A proposal, when accepted, becomes a promise; Further, promises which form the H 1344 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A consideration or part of the consideration for each other, are called reciprocal promises vide Section 2 (f) of the said Act. 67. Applying the aforesaid definitions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 to the facts of the present case, it would mean that as between the manufacturer of the automobile, the dealer and the customer, the B manufacturer is the promisor who makes the proposal to recompensate the dealer when pursuant to a warranty clause, the dealer replaces a spare part from out of his own stock or by buying the same from the open market or from the manufacturer of the spare part. Thus, the dealer is the promisee. The occasion to replace the spare part is when the customer brings to the notice of the dealer a defect in a part of the C automobile, pursuant to a warranty which has been given by the manufacturer to the customer. 68. Section 2(d) of the said Act in fact enables the promisee (the dealer) to provide consideration by conferring a benefit on a third party (customer) at the promisor’s (the manufacturer’s) request pursuant to a D warranty between the manufacturer and customer. Thus, a contract could arise even though the promise is for doing or abstaining from doing something for the benefit of a third party. In other words, if the promisee (the dealer) replaces a defective part of an automobile sold to a third party, i.e., the customer, he would receive a credit note from the E manufacturer. This is because the manufacturer would have proposed to the dealer to recompensate the dealer for the above act which proposal would have been accepted by the dealer and, thus, the manufacturer who has made the proposal is the promisor and the dealer who has accepted the proposal is the promisee.