However, we do not wish to rest our decision only on this technical point. Having considered the relevant provisions of law as C well as the decisions of this Court, rendered prior to and post the impugned and dated 2nd January, 2008, we are of the firm opinion that the issue as to whether section 16-B of the HPGST Act is ultra vires any provision of law including the supreme law of the country is no longer res integra. D 36. Instead of burdening our by referring to all decisions on the point, we consider it appropriate to refer to only one decision of this Court (dated 27th February, 2009)in Central Bank of India vs. State of Kerala9 which, of course, came into existence after the decisions challenged in these civil appeals were rendered. This Court E having considered the provisions of the DRT Act and the SARFAESI Act, as it then stood, vis-à-vis section 38-C of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959 and section 26-B of the Kerala General Sales Tax Act, 1963, inter alia, held that: “116.The non obstante clauses contained in Section 34(1) of the DRT Act and Section 35 of the Securitisation Act give F overriding effect to the provisions of those Acts only if there is anything inconsistent contained in any other law or instrument having effect by virtue of any other law. In other words, if there is no provision in the other enactments which are inconsistent with the DRT Act or the Securitisation Act, G the provisions contained in those Acts cannot override other legislations. Section 38-C of the Bombay Act and Section 26- B of the Kerala Act also contain non obstante clauses and give statutory recognition to the priority of the State’s charge over other debts, which was recognised by Indian High Courts H 9 (2009) 4 SCC 94 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. M/S A.J. 791 INFRASTRUCTURES PVT. LTD [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] even before 1950. In other words, these sections and similar A provisions contained in other State legislations not only create first charge on the property of the dealer or any other person liable to pay sales tax, etc. but also give them overriding effect over other laws. *** B 126. While enacting the DRT Act and the Securitisation Act, Parliament was aware of the law laid down by this Court wherein priority of the State dues was recognised. If Parliament intended to create first charge in favour of banks, financial institutions or other secured creditors on the property of the C borrower, then it would have incorporated a provision like Section 529-A of the Companies Act or Section 11(2) of the EPF Act and ensured that notwithstanding series of judicial pronouncements, dues of banks, financial institutions and other secured creditors should have priority over the State’s D statutory first charge in the matter of recovery of the dues of sales tax, etc. However, the fact of the matter is that no such provision has been incorporated in either of these enactments despite conferment of extraordinary power upon the secured creditors to take possession and dispose of the secured assets without the intervention of the court or Tribunal.