13.To protect the interest of the workmen where the secured E creditor does not relinquish its security interest to fall under Section 53 of the Code, Regulation 21A10 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board 1021A. Presumption of security interest.-— (1) A secured creditor shall inform the liquidator of its decision to relinquish its security interest to the liquidation estate or realise its security interest, as the case may be, in Form C or Form D of Schedule II: F Provided that, where a secured creditor does not intimate its decision within thirty days from the liquidation commencement date, the assets covered under the security interest shall be presumed to be part of the liquidation estate. (2) Where a secured creditor proceeds to realise its security interest, it shall pay - (a) as much towards the amount payable under clause (a) and sub-clause (i) of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 53, as it would have shared in case it had relinquished the security interest, to the liquidator within ninety days from the liquidation commencement G date; and (b) the excess of the realised value of the asset, which is subject to security interest, over the amount of his claims admitted, to the liquidator within one hundred and eighty days from the liquidation commencement date: Provided that where the amount payable under this sub-regulation is not certain by the date the amount is payable under this sub-regulation, the secured creditor shall pay the amount, as estimated by the liquidator: H MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 129 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] of India (Liquidation Process) Regulations, 2016 has been enacted, and A it requires that the secured creditor, who opts to realise its security interest as per section 52 of the Code, has to pay as much towards the amount payable under the clause (a) and sub-clause (i) to clause (b) of sub- section (1) to Section 53 of the Code to the liquidator within the time and the manner stipulated therein. The workmen’s dues, even when the B secured creditor opts to proceed under Section 52 of the Code, are therefore protected in terms of sub-clause (b) of sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code. 14. Before we refer to Section 53 of the Code, we would like to take note of Section 30 of the Code, which relates to the submission of C resolution plan, which is required to be examined by the resolution professional in the manner stipulated in sub-section (2) to Section 3011 Provided further that any difference between the amount payable under this sub-regulation and the amount paid under the first proviso shall be made good by the secured creditor or the liquidator, as the case may be, as soon as the amount payable D under this sub-regulation is certain and so informed by the liquidator. (3) Where a secured creditor fails to comply with sub-regulation (2), the asset, which is subject to security interest, shall become part of the liquidation estate.