13. Insofar as the affi davit of doctor V.L. Chandak, admittedly he is the uncle of the appellant with whom the appellant has made certain correspondence about the pain suff ered in his left arm. Though in the affi davit he refers to one Dr. Sham Karwa, an Eye Specialist known to him having suff ered a similar problem because of reaction on administration of vaccine Engerix-B and that he had suff ered for about 2 to 3 months, the same can only be noted as hearsay since neither the affi davit of said Dr. Sham Karwa has been fi led nor is there any material to indicate that the said doctor had taken vaccine and had suff ered similarly. The other instance referred in the affi davit is also to the same aff ect. Therefore though the affi davit of doctors had been PRAKASH BANG v. GLAXO SMITHKLINE 575 PHARMACEUTICALS LTD. & ANR. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] fi led in the instant case, they are not of any evidentiary value whatsoever and the legally trained mind who was representing the respondents would well be aware that an affi davit of such nature did not warrant any cross- examination as the affi davit on the face of it had not indicated anything to establish the case of the appellant. The said doctors, except vaguely stating about the incident have not authentically provided any details based on their medical expertise or on their research on the subject from medical literature or commentaries about the adverse reaction of the vaccine in question nor have they brought on record any authentic material. In the absence of such medical evidence, the Courts on their own will lack the expertise to come to a conclusion, more particularly in a case of the present nature where the cause itself is required to be unravelled. 14. If that be so, in our opinion, we fi nd that the initial burden to be discharged by the appellant has not been discharged to substantiate the allegation which was made in the complaint. As already noted, the affi davit fi led by the family doctor and the uncle of the appellant who is also a doctor, except referring to the fact of the vaccine being administered to the appellant and the appellant complaining of the discomfort subsequent thereto does not bring on record the aspect in medical terms or with reference to any medical records to co-relate that the pain suff ered by the appellant was in fact ‘myositis’ and it was due to the vaccine being administered. The burden was on the appellant more particularly in a circumstance when all the family members had got administered the same vaccination from the same source and the appellant himself did not undergo any diffi culty when the fi rst two doses were administered. In such circumstance the muscle biopsy not being furnished despite being asked to do so by the respondents should be held adversely against the appellant. 15. The next aspect for consideration would be as to whether the non-mentioning of ‘myositis’ being suff ered as an adverse reaction in the literature accompanying the injection or on the ‘vial’ amounts to ‘defi ciency of service’, more particularly when the adverse reaction was minimal only to the extent of 0.02 in one million.