[2023] 16 S.C.R. 484 : 2023 INSC 1053 CASE DETAILS COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER LIMITED THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR (Civil Appeal No.13771 of 2015) DECEMBER 06, 2023 [B. V. NAGARATHNA AND UJJAL BHUYAN, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: All the appeals are by the revenue assailing s of various high courts dismissing its appeals fi led u/s. 260A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 – The core and common issue raised in all the appeals is the recomputation of deduction u/s. 80 IA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 by the assessing offi cer which was set aside by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal and upheld by the High Courts by accepting the contention of the assessee. Income Tax Act, 1961 – s.80-IA – The assessing offi cer accepted the claim of the assessee for deduction u/s. 80-IA of the Income Tax Act, 1961, he, however, did not accept the profi ts and gains of the eligible business computed by the assessee on the ground that those were infl ated by showing supply of power to its own industrial units for captive consumption at the rate of Rs. 3.72 per unit – Assessing offi cer took the view that there was no justifi cation on the part of the assessee to claim electricity charge at the rate of Rs. 3.72 for supply to its own industrial units when the assessee was supplying surplus power to the State Electricity Board at the rate of Rs 2.32 per unit – Finally, the assessing offi cer held that Rs. 2.32 per unit was the market value of electricity and on that basis, reduced the profi ts and gains of the assessee thereby restricting the claim of deduction of the assessee u/s. 80-IA of the Act – Propriety: Held: In the instant case, since electricity from the State Electricity Board to the industrial units of the assessee was inadequate, the assessee 484 COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 485 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR had set up captive power plants to supply electricity to its industrial units – For disposal of the surplus electricity, the assessee could not supply the same to any third-party consumer – Therefore, in terms of the provisions of s.43A of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 the assessee had entered into an agreement with the State Electricity Board as per which, the assessee had supplied the surplus electricity to the State Electricity Board at the rate of Rs. 2.32 per unit determined as per the agreement – Thus, for the assessment year under consideration, the assessee was paid at the rate of Rs. 2.32 per unit for the surplus electricity supplied to the State Electricity Board – It may also be mentioned that the State Electricity Board had supplied power (electricity) to the industrial consumers at the rate of Rs. 3.72 per unit – The price for supply of electricity by the assesse to the State Electricity Board was fi xed at Rs.2.32 per unit as per contract and there was no elbow space for negotiation – Market value of the power supplied by the assessee to its industrial units should be computed by considering the rate at which the State Electricity Board supplied power to the consumers in the open market and not comparing it with the rate of power when sold to a supplier i.e., sold by the assessee to the State Electricity Board as this was not the rate at which an industrial consumer could have purchased power in the open market – Assessee had also computed the profi ts and gains by taking Rs.3.72 as the price of electricity per unit supplied by its captive power plants to its industrial units – Thus, this Court is of the view that the market value of the power supplied by the State Electricity Board to the industrial consumers should be construed to be the market value of electricity – It should not be compared with the rate of power sold to or supplied to the State Electricity Board since the rate of power to a supplier cannot be the market rate of power sold to a consumer in the open market – The State Electricity Board’s rate when it supplies power to the consumers have to be taken as the market value for computing the deduction u/s.