After so holding, this court raised a question D in the last line of para 30 extracted above, as to what is the effect of such non-compliance on the trial. While answering this question, this court found in Suresh Chandra Bahri, that the Court to which the case was committed, noticed this irregularity even at the threshold and hence remanded the matter back to the Magistrate for recording the evidence E of the approver. Thus the defect got cured before trial and hence this court held in paragraph 31 of the decision that eventually no prejudice or disadvantage was shown to have been caused to the accused. 72. Thus, there were two distinguishing features in Suresh Chandra Bahri. The first was that the Chief Judicial Magistrate who F tendered pardon in that case committed the case to the Court of Session for trial (unlike the case on hand) without examining the approver as a witness in the Court. The second distinguishing feature was that the Court to whom the case was committed for trial noticed the defect and hence remanded the case back to the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate. Therefore, this court applied the prejudice test in that case. G 73. But more importantly, what was held in Suresh Chandra Bahri to be vitiated, was the committal . Therefore, it was concluded eventually in Suresh Chandra Bahri that the moment the defect in the committal is cured before trial, the trial does not get vitiated. H 56 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 74. But in cases where a Special Court itself is competent to take cognizance and also empowered to grant pardon, the procedure under Section 306 of the Code gets by-passed, as held by this Court in State through CBI vs. V. Arul Kumar17. An argument was advanced in Arul Kumar (supra) (as seen from paragraph 20 of the Report) that Section 306 of the Code has no application to cases relating to offences under B the PC Act. In support of the said argument, the decision in P.C. Mishra vs. State (CBI)18 was also relied upon. While dealing with the said contention, this Court held in Arul Kumar as follows:- “21. Sub-section (1) of Section 5, while empowering a Special Judge to take cognizance of offence without the accused being C committed to him for trial, only has the effect of waiving the otherwise mandatory requirement of Section 193 of the Code. Section 193 of the Code stipulates that the Court of Session cannot take cognizance of any offence as a court of original jurisdiction unless the case has been committed to it by a Magistrate under D the Code. Thus, embargo of Section 193 of the Code has been lifted. It, however, nowhere provides that the cognizance cannot be taken by the Magistrate at all. There is, thus, an option given to the Special Judge to straightaway take cognizance of the offences and not to have the committal route through a Magistrate. However, normal procedure prescribed under Section 190 of the E Code empowering the Magistrate to take cognizance of such offences, though triable by the Court of Session, is not given a go- by.