D v. Appellant would further contend that respondents being beneficiaries, could not acquire title, by adverse possession, of the waqf property. vi. Reliance was placed on the following s: E a. Chhedi Lal Misra (Dead) Through Lrs. v. Civil Judge, Lucknow and others7; b. K.S. Viswam Iyer (Dead) Through Lrs. v. State Wakf Board, Madras8; and c. Wali Mohammed (Dead) by Lrs. v. Rahmat Bee (Smt) F and others9. 10. Shri P.S. Patwalia, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf of Respondent No.1 in the appeals makes the following submissions: There is no valid waqf created as the waqif never acted G upon it. He never divested himself of the property as required under Mohammedan law pertaining to Shi a Muslims. Under the law, it is mandatory that there must be a change in the character 7 (2007) 4 SCC 632 8 1994 Suppl. (2) SCC 109 H 9 AIR 1999 SC 1136 SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 953 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] of possession of property. No change in mutation records was A made by the waqif. The property remained in the person’s name till his demise on 16.12.1958. Thereafter the property was mutated into the names of his three sons. Reliance is placed on the object of the waqf dated 26.07.1934. There in it is indicated: “The object of the Waqf reads inter alia” B With a view of perpetuating the name of my ancestors and with the object of benefiting my offspring and their offspring and relatives belonging to the family and their offspring, and, in their absence, the Shia Poor, the indigent, the miserable and Syeds-for this purpose under Mohammedan law, in accordance with Act 6 C of 1913, I have by a formal statement (sigha) in accordance with the Sharia put into Waqf (trust) the following property, thereby, excluding it from own estate, and having put into writing this deed of Waqfu’l aulad (Trust for offspring)….” Clause E of Waqf Deed provides inter alia: D “E. In case, God forbid my generation exterminates altogether and none survives there and nor my wife Pakeeza Begum or any other wife remains alive, then in such case the income from the endowed property which will be manage by the members of the committee will be spent for the charitable matters E in TAB A of the Convenience Compilation.” 11. It is further contended that all the property except a small parcel admeasuring hundred bighas, which is the subject matter of the present case has been sold. In fact, the waqif himself sold a portion to one Mr. Manzoor Hasan. Almost 4272 bighas have been sold by the F sons of Akbar Ali Khan. Neither the appellant nor the Waqf Board objected. The Waqf Deed contemplated proceeds of the Waqf Property being used to repay outstanding debts. It was, therefore, not a valid waqf. The Waqf was created on 24.07.1934, at which time, the Mussalman Waqf Validating Act, 1913 was in force. The Act did not provide for registration of the Waqf.