A person who is summoned in exercise of the power F under Section 319 Cr.P.C. cannot hijack the trial so to say and deviate from its focus and take it to a tangent in to bolster his own case in a bid to escape trial. All that is contemplated when a person is summoned to appear is to ascertain that he is the very person who was summoned and if any summoned person fails to appear on the given date. On the G appearance of the summoned person, no procedure of an inquiry or opportunity of being heard is envisaged before been added as an accused to the list of accused already facing trial unless such a summoned person had already been discharged, in which event, an inquiry is contemplated as discussed above. Thus, the contention that a summoned person must be given an opportunity of being heard before being added as an accused H 1220 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A to face the trial is clearly not contemplated under Section 319 Cr.P.C. It is also observed by this Court in Hardeep Singh that such a summoned person can assail a summoning before a superior Court and will also have the right of cross examining the witnesses as well as can let in his defence evidence, if any. B 33. Thus, the lateral entry of a person summoned in exercise of power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. is only to face the trial along with other accused. This, being a salutary provision in to meet the ends of justice, the same cannot be diluted by importing within the scope of Section 319 Cr.P.C. principles of natural justice which in any case would be followed during the trial. C It is well settled that principles of natural justice cannot be applied in strait-jacket formula and they would depend upon the facts of each case and the object and purpose to be achieved under a provision of law. 34. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we do not think that the in Jogendra Yadav calls for any re-consideration and the said D observation in paragraph 9 as extracted supra is relatable only to the facts of the said case. Thus, the principle of hearing a person who is summoned cannot be read into Section 319 Cr.P.C. Such a procedure is not at all contemplated therein. In the circumstances, we do not accept the contentions of the appellants herein. E 35. At this stage, learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the appellants would appear before the Sessions Court on the next date of hearing, i.e., 31.07.2023 and would seek all remedies available to them in law. The submissions of learned senior counsel and learned counsel F for the appellantsare placed on record. Thus, we find no merit in the appeal which is accordingly dismissed. Pending application(s) shall stand disposed of. G Ankit Gyan Appeal dismissed. (Assisted by : Aarsh Choudhary, LCRA) H