The plaintiff eventually ‘appealed to the High Court. The learned Judges observed,— H 660 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A “It is obvious that the scope of Section 157 is quite distinct from that of Section 158. Section 158 appears to contemplate a case in which the Court has materials before it to enable it to proceed to a decision of the suit ..............what Section 158 provides is, that the mere fact of a party making default in the performance of what he was directed to would not lead to the B dismissal of the plaintiff’s suit, if he was the party in default, or the decreeing of the claim against the defendant, if the defendant was the person, who made the default; the words ‘notwithstanding su’ch default’ clearly imply that the Court is to proceed with the disposal of the suit in spite of the default, C upon such materials as are before it. Section 157, on the other hand, speaks of the disposal of the suit, and undoubtedly includes cases in which there might not be any materials before the Court to enable it to pronounce a decision on the merits, for instance, if the event contemplated in Sections 97, 98, 99 Clause (a) and 102 happens, although, if the contingency mentioned in D Section 100, Clause (a) happens, there would be materials before the Court, and a decision on the merits. ............” (Emphasis supplied) 45. We may also look into the Full Bench decision of the Bombay E High Court in the case of Shidramappa Irappa Shivangi (supra) wherein the following was held:- “The general provisions about appearances of parties in III, Rule 1, are that a party can appear in person or by a recognized agent or by a pleader appearing, applying or acting on his behalf. These are made subject to any other express provision of law. F Such an express provision is in V, Rule 1, where the mode of appearance by a defendant is stated to be either (a) in person, or (b) by a pleader duly instructed and able to answer all material questions relating to the suit, or (c) by a pleader accompanied by some person able to answer all such questions. The forms of G summons given in forms Nos. 1 and 2 of appx. B to the first schedule also contain the same instructions. Where, therefore, the defendant does not appear in person and there is none else to instruct his pleader, the only person through whom ha can be said to appear is a pleader who must be duly instructed and able to answer all material questions. It follows, therefore, that if the H PREM KISHORE & ORS. v. BRAHM PRAKASH & ORS. 661 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] pleader is present in Court on any day of hearing but has no A instructions as to how to proceed with the case, there is no appearance of the defendant. Whether a pleader is duly instructed is a question of fact, but if he refuses to take part in the trial on the ground that he has no instructions and then withdraws from the case either after, or without making, an application for adjournment, B all further proceedings against the defendant become ex parte.