Though reliance has been placed on the of this Court reported in Manohar Lal Sharma v. Principal Secretary &Ors. (2014) 9 SCC 516 and Manohar Lal Sharma v. Principal Secretary &Ors. (2014) 9 SCC 614 which decisions purported B to exempt the mining leases which were captive leases operating for the purpose of the power projects including the power projects specifically in question from the purview of its decision, we do not think that that by itself can determine the question as to whether the goods which were imported for the purpose of the captive mining plant was ever exempt. What was exempt has been goods imported for the purpose of the Power C project. In other words, as to whether the goods in question were goods which fell within one entry or the other is in this case a matter which is highly disputed and the premise of the first respondent viz., the OM of the Joint Secretary cannot be treated as being a sound foundation for making such a claim. D (119) The parties indeed contemplated a project to be constructed and operated. The word ‘project’ we find has been used in many clauses in the contract. The word ‘project’ has been defined as follows: “”Project” means the Power Station and the Captive Coal Mine(s) undertaken for design, financing, engineering, procurement, E construction, operation, maintenance, repair, refurbishment, development and insurance by the Seller in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement;” (120) Since the word ‘power station’ has been used in word ‘project’, it is apposite that we advert to the definition of the words F ‘power station’: “Power Station” means the: (a) coal fired power generation facility comprising of any or all the Units; G (b) any associated fuel handling, treatment or storage facilities of the power generation facility referred to above; (c) any water supply, treatment or storage facilities required for the operation of the power generation facility referred to above; (d) the ash disposal system including ash dyke; H 76 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (e) township area for the staff colony; and (f) bay/s for transmission system in the switchyard of the power station, (g) all the other assets, buildings/structures, equipments, plant and machinery, facilities and related assets require for the efficient B and economic operation of the power generation facility; whether completed or at any stage of development and construction or intended to be developed and constructed as per the provisions of this Agreement.” (121) Since the word ‘captive coal mine’ has also been referred C to as part of the definition of the word ‘project’, it is only right that we advert to the definition: “Captive Coal Mine(s) means the captive coal mines as described in Schedule 1A and associated fuel transport system up to the Power Station;” D (122) ‘Project Documents” again has been defined. We may also notice the definition of the words ‘Prudent Utility Practices’: “Project documents Mean a) Construction Contracts; E b) Fuel mining agreements, including the Fuel Transportation Agreement, if any; c) O&M contracts; d) RFP and RFP Project Documents; and F e) any other agreements designated in writing as such, from time to time, jointly by the Procurers and the Seller; “Prudent Utility Practices means the practices, methods and standards that are generally accepted internationally from time to time by electric utilities or coal mining entities for the purpose of G ensuring the safe, efficient and economic design, construction, commissioning, operation and maintenance of coal mines and power generation equipment and mine of the type specified in this Agreement and which practices, methods and standards shall be adjusted as necessary, to take account of: H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 77 LTD. & ORS.