The essence of the idea is that the purchase must be a wholesale purchase and not a retail one. In other words, D the sale must be wholesale and not a retail one in that the price realised may be termed the ‘wholesale cash price’. In that case the appellants before the Privy Council imported at Bombay, very large quantities of lubricating oil of a particular manufacture and mark. They sold it direct to numerous customers, never to dealers. The price they charged E was the same whether a large or small quantity was bought, except that if a consumer contracted to buy from them all his requirements for a year, he was entitled to a discount from 2- 1/2 to 15 per cent according to the quantity bought in the year. No other lubricating oil of a like kind and quality was F sold in Bombay. On the question whether the appellant was bound to pay customs duty on the basis of clause (a) or clause (b) of Section 30 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, the Privy Council held that since the sales were to customers direct, the real value of the goods cannot be ascertained under clause (a) of Section 30and that clause (b) of Section 30 was G applicable. Their Lordships said that in determining the price which is to represent the real value of the goods to be ‘taxed, “the price must be conservative in every respect and free in particular from any loading for any post- importation charges incurred in relation to the goods”. “The price is to be a price H 1 1973 (3) SCC 503 COMMISSIONER OF CENTRAL EXCISE, ALLAHABAD 5 v. M/S J.R. ORGANICS LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] for goods. as they are both at the ‘time’ and ‘place’ of A importation. It is to be a ‘cash price’, that is to say a price free from any augmentation for credit or other advantage allowed to a buyer; it is to be a net price, that is to say it is a price ‘less trade discount’”. Their Lordships, therefore, held that the words the ‘wholesale price’ were used in the section B in contradistinction to a ‘retail price’, and that not only on the round that such is a well recognised meaning of the words but because their association with the words ‘trade discount’ indicates that sales to the trade are those in contemplation, and also because only by attaching that meaning to the word is the ‘wholesale price’ relieved of the loading representing C post- importation expenses which, as a matter of business, must always be charged to the consumer, and which are eliminated.” 8. As is evident in Voltas Ltd. (supra) had cited previous authorities such as ‘Vacuum Oil Company Vs. Secretary of State for India2’ and D ‘Union of India vs. Delhi Cloth and General Mills3’. 9. In view of the clear principle enunciated by this Court which is that the most conservative price is to be taken into account while determining the value of goods, CESTAT approach and conclusions, in the opinion of this Court cannot be faulted.