The second marriage of the appellant-convict was opposed by his son Islamuddin. As the appellant- convict wanted to disown his son, the same was opposed by his two brothers Naushad and Irshad. That is the reason why the appellant-convict was at inimical terms with his own son Islamuddin and his two real brothers Naushad and Irshad. c. There is no good reason to discard the oral evidence of the PW-2 Shanu alias Shahnawaz and PW-4 Soni. d. The courts below rightly believed the two dying declarations to be true and trustworthy. e. To conclude, the learned counsel pointed out that the appellant- convict is a history-sheeter and has tendency to repeatedly indulge in serious crimes. f. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being no merit in the present appeals, the same may be dismissed and the death sentence awarded may be upheld. ORAL EVIDENCE ON RECORD 26. Mohammad Yunus (PW-1) is the fi rst informant. He has deposed that the appellant-convict is his real nephew and also happens to be his son- in-law. In the intervening night of 05/06.08.2014 at about 12.30 am in the night, the appellant set his real brothers, Naushad and Irshad on fi re including his son Islamuddin by pouring highly infl ammable substance on them, while they were sleeping in the room. He has deposed that after setting the deceased persons on fi re, the appellant shut the door from outside. On hearing the cries and shouts of Islamuddin, Naushad and Irshad, his brother Amzad and others including Shafi q and Shanu came running from the neighbourhood and broke upon the door. The injured were thereafter, taken to the Hospital at Najibabad. 27. Shanu alias Shahnawaz was examined as PW-2. Shanu is the younger brother of the appellant-convict. He has deposed that on 05.08.2014, 802 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. late in the evening, he had gone to his old house to meet his brother Naushad. Naushad had returned from Saudi Arabia after a long time. His younger sister Soni (PW-4) had cooked food for them and they all had dinner together. His elder brother (convict) had also come down from his place of living to the ground fl oor. The convict had hatred towards Naushad and Irshad. The convict had solemnised his second marriage at Jaspura town, after his release from jail. After arrival of his second wife, the convict wanted to separate his son Islamuddin. The convict had also assaulted Islamuddin two days before the incident, which was settled by Irshad and Naushad. On 05.08.2014, the second wife of the convict had gone to her parents’ house at Jaspura. Being the elder brother, he asked the convict to take meal along with them. It was around 11.00 in the night. His sister Soni asked the PW-2 to stay back as it was late in the night. Naushad slept in one room. Islamuddin slept in the room on the fl oor on a mattress. When Irshad went to sleep outside the room on the roof, the convict asked Irshad to sleep inside the room as the weather outside was bad.