The controversy is this. (108) The first respondent allegedly imported goods for the purpose of construction of the captive mining plant. It is its case that the goods so E imported were being used for construction of the mining plant which was in turn was utilised for the construction and operation of the ultra mega power plant project. Such goods according to the first respondent was expressly exempted from customs duty by virtue of the notification holding the field. The notifications holding the field it must be understood were the notifications holding the field before the cut off date. The cut F off date admittedly is 21.07.2007. In other words, the said date is the date which is seven days before the bid deadline. The OM which is the premise for the argument has been issued by the Director no doubt with the approval of the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Power. It reads as follows: G “No. 12/20/2009-UMPP Government of India Ministry of Power Shram Shakti Bhawan, Rafi marg, H 68 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A New Delhi, the 17th June, 2011 OFFICE MEMORANDUM Sub: 3960 MW Sasan Ultra Mega Power Project, Distt. Singrauli - Exemption from Custom Duty under project Import - reg. The undersigned is directed to refer to Govt. of Madhya Pradesh’s B letter No. 4468/13/2011/01 dated 24.05.2011 on the subject mentioned above and to say that under Mega Power Policy, the Custom/Excise Duty exemption is given in respect of power equipment only. This issues with the approval of JS (Thermal), Ministry of Power C (A.A. Tazir) Director Shri Mohd. Suleman D Secretary (Energy) Govt. of Madhya Pradesh, Bhopal” (109) It is the contention of the first respondent that when it E imported the goods it had to pay customs duty on the same and it constituted a change in law as the OM issued by the Joint Secretary placing the interpretation constituted a change in interpretation. (110) In other words, in contrast with the law as it stood before the cut off date, by the issuance of the OM by the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Power, a change in interpretation of the law is brought about. F This sufficed to found a claim of change in law within the meaning of Article 13.1.1 (111) The argument of the procurers, on the other hand, is as we have noticed is that the OM cannot be found to be issued by a Governmental instrumentality which can be treated as the final authority G under law for such interpretation. It is for the reason that the notification granting exemption has been issued by the authority under the Customs Act and the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Power is not such an authority. Secondly, it is the contention of the procurers that the matter should have been taken before the appropriate forum by the first H respondent on the basis that in law, actually, the import of goods was HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 69 LTD. & ORS.