Such an opinion would not be on the basis of any independent application of mind of the experts who form the Central Board of the Bank. Moreover, when the Central Government seeks the opinion of the Central H 20 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Board of the Bank to its proposal for demonetisation, the latter would have to be given some time to consider the pros and cons and the impact that it would have on the citizens of India, as bank notes are a species of negotiable instruments and a medium through which goods and services are traded and therefore, they are the lifeline of the economy. The Central Government also B failed to indicate that the demonetised currency had lost the guarantee provided vide sub-section (1) of Section 26 of the Act in the impugned notification. Hence, an Ordinance had to be th issued on 30 December, 2016. Moreover, it is not known whether the Bank had made arrangements for printing sufficient C new notes for exchange of demonetised currency. It is also not known whether the Department of Legal Affairs was consulted in the matter as the procedure of demonetisation involves legal implications. [Para 19.4][223-A-F] 2. (i) According to sub-section (1) of Section 26 of the RBI D Act, every bank note shall be legal tender at any place in India in payment or on account for the amount expressed therein and shall be guaranteed by the Central Government. This provision is subject to sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. (ii) Sub- section (2) of Section 26 of the Act applies only when a proposal for demonetisation is initiated by the Central Board of the RBI E by way of a recommendation being made to the Central Government. The said recommendation can be in respect of any series of bank notes of any denomination which is interpreted to mean any specified series of bank notes of any specified denomination. (iii) The expression any series of bank notes of F any denomination has been given its plain, grammatical meaning, having regard to the context of the provision and not a broad meaning. Thus, the word “any” will mean a specified series or a particular series of bank notes. Similarly, “any” denomination will mean any particular or specified denomination of bank notes. (iv) If the word “any” is not given a plain grammatical meaning G and interpreted to mean “all series of bank notes” of “all denominations”, it would vest with the Central Board of the RBI unguided and unlimited powers which would be ex-facie arbitrary and suffer from the vice of unconstitutionality as this would amount to excessive vesting of powers with the Bank. In to save H the provision from being declared unconstitutional, the meaning VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 21 of the provision is read down to the context of the Central Board A of the RBI initiating a proposal for demonetisation by making a recommendation to the Central Government under subsection (2) of Section 26 of the Act of a particular series of bank note of any denomination.