The idea behind this amendment was that the “law made in this behalf by Parliament” would address the concerns and fear raised by members of the Constituent Assembly that the Executive should not G have the exclusive say in the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners. However, we find that the Act, 1991 does not cover any aspect highlighted in the Constituent Assembly. It is for this reason that this Court needs to lay down certain broader parameters to fill the constitutional/legislative gap. H 216 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A V. The in TN Seshan 101. It would be relevant to quote the following excerpt from the Constitution-bench of this Court in T.N. Seshan, Chief Election Commissioner of India v. Union of India and Others48: “10. The Preamble of our Constitution proclaims that we are a B Democratic Republic. Democracy being the basic feature of our constitutional set-up, there can be no two opinions that free and fair elections to our legislative bodies alone would guarantee the growth of a healthy democracy in the country. In to ensure the purity of the election process it was thought by our Constitution- makers that the responsibility to hold free and fair elections in the C country should be entrusted to an independent body which would be insulated from political and/or executive interference. It is inherent in a democratic set-up that the agency which is entrusted the task of holding elections to the legislatures should be fully insulated so that it can function as an independent agency free D from external pressures from the party in power or executive of the day.” 102. In that case, a petition challenged the validity of “The Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners (Condition of Service) Amendment Ordinance, 1993” (hereinafter called ‘the E Ordinance’) to amend the Act, 1991. While upholding the amendment, the court discussed the role of the election commission being a multi member body and the relation between CEC and other ECs. Some important points highlighted were as follows: “The ECs and the RCs have been assured independence of functioning by providing that they cannot be removed except on F the recommendation of the CEC. Of course, the recommendation for removal must be based on intelligible, and cogent considerations which would have relation to efficient functioning of the Election Commission. That is so because this privilege has been conferred on the CEC to ensure that the ECs as well as the RCs are not at G the mercy of political or executive bosses of the day…. If, therefore, the power were to be exercisable by the CEC as per his whim and caprice, the CEC himself would become an instrument of oppression and would destroy the independence of 48 (1995) 4 SCC 611 H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 217 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] the ECs and the RCs if they are required to function under the A threat of the CEC recommending their removal. It is, therefore, needless to emphasise that the CEC must exercise this power only when there exist valid reasons which are conducive to efficient functioning of the Election Commission.” Held further: B “15.