D. If the debt of the company is resolved then payments would be governed under the resolution plan. If the debts are not B resolved then the assets of the company are to be distributed in terms of Section 53 of the IBC. Permitting two proceedings to continue would therefore defeat either Section 31 or Section 53 of the IBC, as the case may be. E. Mr. Goel submitted that this Court in P. Mohanraj (supra) C considered the position of law as regards the continuation of the criminal proceedings under Section 138 of the NI Act vis-a-vis the proceedings under the IBC and answered the same in para 102 of the . It was pointed out by Mr. Goel that this Court drew a fine distinction between the corporate debtor and natural persons & ultimately held D that while a corporate debtor would be protected from Section 138 proceedings during the period of moratorium, the natural persons would not enjoy such protection and Section 138 proceedings would continue against the natural persons. However, according to Mr. Goel, this Court may E not go in the correctness of such bifurcation as in the case on hand, the proceedings are beyond the period of moratorium. Mr. Goel pointed out that the question framed in para 6 of the decision in P. Mohanraj(supra) is restricted only to the applicability of Section 14 of the IBC to the proceedings under Section 138 of the NI Act. F F. The principal argument of Mr. Goel is that if the IBC proceedings have travelled beyond Section 14, the process would either lead to acceptance of a resolution plan under Section 31 of the IBC or liquidation of the company after determination of the claims under Chapter III of the IBC. G According to Mr. Goel, Section 31 of the IBC is applicable to the present litigation. 21. In such circumstances referred to above, Mr. Goel prays that there being merit in his appeal, the same may be allowed and the appellant may be discharged from the criminal liability under Section 138 of the H NI Act. AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1003 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] THE SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT A (COMPLAINANT) 22. On the other hand, this appeal has been vehemently opposed by Mr. Rajiv Ranjan Dwivedi, the learned counsel appearing for the complainant by submitting that in the case on hand, the criminal proceedings under the NI Act were initiated much before the proceedings B under the IBC came to be initiated. In other words, cognizance was taken by the learned Magistrate upon the complaint filed under Section 138 of the NI Act much before the scheme came to be approved under the IBC. He would submit that the offence alleged to have been committed by the appellant herein prior to the scheme would not get C automatically compounded only as a result of the said scheme. He would further submit that none of the provisions of the IBC bars the continuation of the criminal prosecution initiated against the corporate debtor or its directors or officials.