It has been submitted that the failure to do so has resulted in a situation where the Government was charged by the claimant for variable charges on units sold to third parties. This has resulted in a dual profit to the claimant, for having been H 408 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A held entitled to recover variable costs for 4 MW electricity from the State despite not supplying electricity to it; and also being compensated for both fixed charges and variable charges for 4 MW electricity by such third parties. It has further been submitted that the Arbitral Tribunal relied on the letter dated 19.01.2009 which permitted the claimant to trade 4 MW of electricity to third parties but, failed to observe that this B was in response to a previous communication by the claimant in which, the issue of fixed charges was specifically raised. Thus, the letter dated 19.01.2009 cannot be viewed as acquiescence to payment of variable charges on 4MW power; and the finding of the Arbitral Tribunal in this regard had been perverse. C 10.7. Learned Attorney General has also submitted that the Arbitral Tribunal has again ignored the contractual clauses mandating netting- out while making an award in the sum of Rs. 2.36 crore. It has been argued that clause 15 of the Second Supplementary PPA provided that all the backup energy supplied by the Government during an unscheduled D or forced outage would be netted-out against energy supplied by the power station to the Government in the subsequent billing period in the ratio of one unit of backup power equal to one and quarter of unit of energy supplied. Both parties had construed this to mean that the claimant would be liable to pay charges for the netted-out energy at the prevailing rate in the proximate billing period. The Arbitral Tribunal has failed to E take note of the mandatory nature of netting-out for unscheduled power outages under clause 15 and solely focused on the interpretation of the document dated 18.09.2014. It has been submitted that the determination of rate at Rs. 3.78 per unit was the base rate for calculation of netting- out and could not be construed as waiver of the said provisions of the F contract. Further, the claimant had failed to supply electricity during the relevant billing period which led to a need to determine the base rate. The claimant was liable to pay for 1.25 times the units supplied to consumer by the Government, although the claimant contended that they would only be liable to return 1 unit. In fact, the base rate of Rs. 3.78 was much lower than the last paid rate, which was Rs. 12.57 per unit. In G any event, there was no amendment to exclude netting from the calculation of the rate in terms of clause 23.1 of the PPA and no waiver on the part of the Government. 10.8. Finally, as regards the question of interest, it has been argued that there was no reason for the Arbitral Tribunal to award any interest H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 409 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.]