The High Court had struck down the said provision but this Court held that such penalty imposed under Section 10(3) to protect public revenue and as a deterrent for tax evasion. In view of the above, it cannot be said that levy of C such an additional special road tax would be said to be manifestly unjust or glaringly unconstitutional. It was, in effect, to ensure payment of the chargeable taxes and use of the vehicles as per the terms of the permit. [Paras 44, 45][915-B-D] Repugnancy, if any, with Central enactment: D 3.5. Entry 35 of List III conferred the power on the Parliament as also the State Legislatures to make laws relating to mechanically propelled vehicles of all kinds and also to lay down the principles on which taxes on such vehicles are to be levied. The central enactment i.e. the law made by the Parliament E has not laid down any principles for levy of taxes. The State Legislatures had the power to levy taxes not only under Entries 56 and 57 of List II but also to lay down the principles under Entry 35 of List III. Therefore, no repugnancy of any kind could be alleged or pleaded or proved in the absence of there being any central law laying down principles of levy of tax. In view of F the above, no repugnancy or conflict of the State enactment with the central enactment could be sustained. [Para 46][915-E-G] 3.6. The argument with respect to the 1988 Act containing Section 192A wherein violation of Section 66(1) would constitute a criminal offence punishable with sentence and also fine, as such G the offending section being repugnant to the said provision, cannot be sustained. Under Section 192A a punishment of imprisonment along with fine is provided whereas under the offending section, an additional special road tax is being charged for such a violation of using vehicle without permit or in contravention of the terms of the permit. The offending section was incorporated with a view H THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. GOEL BUS SERVICE 885 KULLU ETC. ETC. to augment more revenue in to construct and maintain the A roads of the state which uses a large chunk of its finances being a state having a completely hilly terrain. The additional special road tax chargeable under Section 3A(3) would be in addition to any sentence or fine imposed under Section 192A. Punishment for offence is with an object to create deterrence and curtailing B such offences as it creates a fear in the mind of offender likely to commit the offence. The same is the object of the additional special road tax to make it work as a deterrent from the transport operators in plying vehicles without permit and in contravention of the terms of the permit. As such there is no repugnancy or any conflict caused by the offending provision with the central C enactment. [Para 47[915-H; 916-A-D] 3.7. The validity of Section 3A(3) has been wrongly held to be ultra vires by the High Court.