49. No doubt, FIR Ex.PW-19/D-3 has indeed been registered at 9:10 PM which evidences rioting in D-Block, Jahangir Puri, but therefrom it does not stand proved that the defence version is correct. It is also true that photographs of the house of Babu Ram show that the door of his house has been broken and brick bats have been thrown towards his house. 50. What has happened is evident. After Babu Ram fi red indiscriminately and shot dead two persons on the street and injured 26 more on the street i.e. street No.300, it was apparent that the crowd retaliated. The site plan Ex.PW-7/A shows that the houses on the streets of D-Block Jahangir Puri have a front of 10’ and a depth of 23’.10”. Jahangir Puri is a resettlement colony where slum dwellers have been relocated. Tiny plots ad measuring 10’ x 23’.10” have been allotted to the rehabilitated slum dwellers by the government. The population density in the colony is extremely heavy. Huge crowds can gather in densely populated areas within seconds. It is apparent that the angry crowd sought vengeance against Babu Ram after Babu Ram had created mayhem in the area. That 16 rounds were fi red by Babu Ram is not disputed by him. By no stretch of imagination can fi ring of 16 rounds be belittled. If a man 390 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. fi res 16 rounds on a crowd causing death of 2 and injuring 26 others, the crowd is bound to retaliate. 51. From the evidence of the witnesses of the prosecution it is apparent that some quarrel regarding eve teasing had taken place on street No.300 involving the families of Satpal and accused Shri Kishan who is the brother-in-law of Babu Ram. Even the defence witnesses have spoken of an ‘eve-teasing incident. The diff erence is, as per the defence witnesses the victim of the eve teasing incident was Seema, the daughter of Shri Kishan and as per the prosecution witnesses the aggressors were the family members of Shri Kishan. There is commonality in the testimony of both sets of witnesses that Babu Ram left street No.300 taking along with him his sister Sushila and Seema. The diff erence in the two versions is regarding the presence of the co-accused. As per the witnesses of the prosecution, some of them have spoken of all co-accused being present at street No.300, with some excluding the presence of co-accused Vijay. It is thus apparent that whatever be the cause of the spat on the public street, Babu Ram retrieved himself safely from the street and reached his house. 52. We have already discounted the defence version, in view of evidence on record, of the crowd following Babu Ram and surrounding his house. We have already held that the evidence establishes indiscriminate fi ring by Babu Ram on the persons in street No.300 and the fact that his house abuts street No.400 evidences that the fi ring was not to scare the crowd which had surrounded the house of Babu Ram.