21. The question as to admissibility of a dying declaration came up before this Court in several cases. In Laxman v. State of Maharashtra, wherein also a question regarding the admissibility of the dying declaration was raised, the Constitution Bench held that the Court must decide that the declarant was in a fi t state of mind to make the declaration, but where the eyewitnesses’ evidence including the evidence of a Magistrate who had recorded the dying declaration to that eff ect was available, mere absence of doctor’s certifi cation as to the fi tness of the declarant’s state of mind, would not ipso facto render the dying declaration unacceptable. It was further held that the evidentiary value of such dying declaration would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each particular case. 22. In para 3 of the said in Laxman case, this Court discussed the juristic theory regarding acceptability of a dying declaration in the following manner: (SCC p. 713) “3. The juristic theory regarding acceptability of a dying declaration is that such declaration is made in extremity, when the party is at the point of death and when every hope of this world is gone, when every motive to falsehood is silenced, and the man is induced by the most powerful consideration to speak only the truth. Notwithstanding the same, great caution must be exercised in considering the weight to be given to this species of evidence on account of the existence of many circumstances which may aff ect their truth. The situation in which a man is on the deathbed is so solemn and serene, is the reason in law to accept the veracity of his statement.” 23. The Constitution Bench in Laxman case also referred to an earlier decision of this Court in Koll Chunilal Savjl v. State of Gujarat wherein it was held that the ultimate test with regard to the admissibility of a dying declaration is whether the dying declaration can be held to be a truthful one and voluntarily given. In the said decision it was also held that before recording the declaration, the offi cer concerned must fi nd that the declarant was in a fi t condition to make the statement. The aforesaid ratio of Koli Chunilal Savji case was affi rmed by the Constitution Bench in Laxman case¹. PARANAGOUDA AND ANOTHER v. THE STATE OF 933 KARNATAKA AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] 24. In Vikas v. State of Maharashtra this Court elaborately discussed the previous relevant decisions governing the legality of dying declaration and observed in para 45 as follows: (SCC pp. 529-30) 45. The Court, referring to earlier case law, summed up principles governing dying declaration as under: (Paniben case, SCC pp. 480- 81, para 18) (i) There is neither rule of law nor of prudence that dying declaration cannot be acted upon without corroboration. (ii) If the court is satisfi ed that the dying declaration is true and voluntary it can base conviction on it, without corroboration.