100 and asked her to get idli. Another major discrepancy surfaces when E it is noticed that in the complaint, she asserted that the appellant ran away from the scene of occurrence but in her deposition, she stated that the appellant was taken to the police station. Thirdly, what she saw and did upon reaching the house after visiting the market is also stated differently in the complaint and in the deposition. The question is as to whether her testimony and the F prosecution case be rejected altogether because of these discrepancies. [Para 16.1][982-B-C] 5. The Trial Court has rightly analysed the matter and has rightly observed that when PW-1, sixty-five years of age, was deposing before the Court from her memory after one year from G the incident, such discrepancies would not result in rejection of her testimony altogether. The relevant features emanating from her assertions in the complaint as also in the statement are that she had gone out to purchase eatables in the morning while leaving the victim child with the appellant; and after coming back, H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 945 found the child dead, with the appellant being with the child. As A to whether she had gone to the market after being given money by the appellant or without taking money, in our view, cannot override entire of her testimony as also the testimonies of other witnesses. Further, the said witness PW-1 seems to have obviously lost the track of facts when she asserted in her B deposition that the appellant was taken to the police station after the incident. It has clearly been established on record that the appellant was arrested in the late afternoon at the bus stand and it has nowhere been shown if she was taken to the police station immediately after the incident. A suggestion made in that regard to the official witness PW-10 has also been specifically denied by C her. The said discrepancy in the version of PW-1 is also of no relevance and the concurrent findings of the two Courts cannot be displaced on that count. Even the version given in the complaint as if PW-1 saw the appellant strangling her child seems to be an overt assertion immediately after the incident. The other D witnesses who had reached the scene of crime including the independent witnesses PW-4 and PW-5 have consistently maintained that the appellant was available with the dead body of the child at the place of, and immediately after, the incident. [Para 16.2][982-D-H; 983-A] E 6. Taking an overall view of the matter, this Court does not find any reason that entire prosecution case be disbelieved and discarded because PW-1 has not projected the case in a consistent manner. Apart from the private witnesses, all the relevant facts have been duly established in the testimonies of the official witnesses too. The discrepancies as noticed in the present case, F at the most, could be said to be of minor contradictions or inconsistencies or embellishments of trivial nature; and are reasonably referable to the reasons recounted by this Court in Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai for which, the minor discrepancies do occur in evidence and excessive importance cannot be G attached to them [Para 16.3][983-B-C] 7.