18 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 3P OS.RCT.RS. 18 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A STATE OF HARYANA & ORS. v. NIRANJAN SINGH & ORS. ETC. (Civil Appeal Nos. 1347-1349 of 2023) B FEBRUARY 24, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND C. T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Land Acquisition: Land acquisition proceedings – Releasing of acquired land – Large chunk of area acquired for development and utilisation of land as residential and commercial area – Major C portion of the land released between the stage of Notification and the award and after the award – Only small plots of land acquired – Writ petition by the land owners challenging the same – Landowners granted liberty to file a representation before the authorities – Representation seeking release of their acquired land D on parity with the similarly situated landowners whose land was released by the State dismissed – However, in writ petitions, the High Court directed release of the land belonging to the land owners from the acquisition – On appeal, held: Action of the appellants in releasing the lands initially in favour of influential persons and, thereafter, on the basis of various s passed by the High Court E which were never challenged demonstrates the arbitrary exercise of powers by the appellants in releasing the acquired lands which as such required for the public purposes – Consideration for future needs and expansion is to be taken into consideration – Except the small portion/plot in question, all other major chunk of the land, F have been released either by the State on its own and/or pursuant to the s passed by the High Court – Land was acquired in the year 1987 but has not been used for the public purpose for which it was acquired – Thus, the High Court rightly quashed the acquisition proceedings and directed its release – However, land which has already been put to use for sewage lines, the land which G is needed for the purpose of widening of the road may not be released and High Court ought not to quash acquisition proceedings in respect of such lands – High Court erred in directing for the release of remaining lands acquired – passed by the High Court set aside. H 18 STATE OF HARYANA & ORS. v. NIRANJAN SINGH & ORS. 19 ETC. Judicial deprecation: Land acquisition proceedings – A Releasing of acquired land – Lands acquired for the utilization and development as residential and commercial area to develop new sectors by the urban development authority – Acquired lands released from time to time during the stages of the acquisition proceedings – Lands released by the State Government initially in B favour of the influential persons and thereafter pursuant to the various s passed by the High Court which were never challenged by the State – Held: Is highly depreciable – It demonstrates the arbitrary exercise of powers by the State in releasing the acquired lands which as such required for public purposes – State Government is guardian of the public interest and C the public – Public interest was required to be considered the paramount interest rather than releasing the lands at initial stage in favour of the influential persons.