There ought to be a provision for contingent claims in the resolution plan, as provided in State Tax Offi cer v. Rainbow Papers Limited4. Thus, if the appeal is dismissed and the award becomes crystallized, the appellant’s claim, if not provided for in the contingent claim, will be rendered nugatory. It was further submitted that the timeline provided under Section 12 of the IBC for completion of CIRP was only directory as per the in Essar Steel5. Since the Adjudicating Authority was yet to approve the resolution plan, respondent No.1 should have included the same as a contingent liability. This was also the view taken by the adjudicating agency. It was thus submitted that there was no cause for NCLAT to interfere with the same. The appellant also sought to contend their lack of awareness about the CIRP. It was urged that the Corporate Debtor did not disclose that the CIRP had been initiated, either during the pendency of the proceedings under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act or in appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act. Had the appellant known of the CIRP, it may not have fi led an application for restoration of the execution petition on 16.11.2019. 12. It was urged that the appellant urged that respondent No.1 could have easily found this information from the Corporate Debtor’s books of accounts. Respondent No.1’s pleas before the Supreme Court: 13. Respondent no.1, on the other hand, contended that the appellant had deemed knowledge of the CIRP as the applicable procedure for inviting 4 2022 SCCOnline SC 1162 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Rainbow Papers’). 5 (supra). M/S. RPS INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. 157 MUKUL KUMAR & ANR. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] claims under the IBC and the IBBI Regulations was followed. Respondent No.1 made sincere eff orts to collate all claims, including fi ling an application under Section 19 of the IBC for procuring the Corporate Debtor’s records, although the same were not made available. The appellant’s belated claim had the potential to open fl oodgates of litigation if the same was allowed. 14. It was urged that there was no need to create an arrangement for contingent claims as the resolution plan had been prepared on the basis of the information memorandum. The plan was comprehensive and took care of the claims of the homebuyers. 15. Finally, it was contended that a recent of this Court in Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. v. Raman Ispat Pvt. Ltd. & Ors.6 had confi ned the dicta in Rainbow Papers7 to the facts of that case alone. At this stage, we may notice that the question of law in the two s was diff erent. Our view: 16. We have examined the aforesaid submissions. The only issue before us is whether the appellant’s claim pertaining to an arbitral award, which is in appeal under Section 37 of the said Act, is liable to be included at a belated stage – i.e. after the resolution plan has been approved by the COC.