To conclude the issue at hand- The freedom to produce documents for either of the two purposes i.e. cross examination of witnesses and/or refreshing the memory would serve its purposes for parties to the suit as well. Additionally, being precluded from eff ectively putting questions to and receiving answers from either party to a suit, with the aid of these documents will put the other at risk of not being able to put forth the complete veracity of their claim- thereby fatally compromising the said proceedings. Therefore, the proposition that the law diff erentiates between a party to a suit and a witness for the purposes of evidence is negated. 10 1984 SCC Online Mad 145 11 2007 SC OnLine Guj 78. 12 See Sadayappan v. State, (2019) 9 SCC 257 (2-Judge Bench) 13 Para 23 of the Impugned 890 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 27. In Purushottam (supra) the Learned Single Judge had observed that it was not open for the trial court to allow the production of documents to confront the party to the suit and it would be a diff erent course if the person being confronted was only a witness to the suit. While Vinayak Dessai (supra) essentially agrees on this point, the diff erence arises with the latter saying that a party and a witness can be equated for the purposes of the two being on the same pedestal while entering evidence. Both the above-stated s diff er with Upper India Couper Paper Mills Co. Ltd. (supra) which says that it is not obligatory to produce advanced copies of documents sought to be introduced for the limited purpose of cross-examination. 28. It is settled law that what is not pleaded cannot be argued, as for the purposes of adjudication, it is necessary for the other party to know the contours of the case it is required to meet. It is equally well settled that the requirement of having to plead a particular argument does not include exhaustively doing so. We may refer to Ram Sarup Gupta v. Bishun Narain Inter College14, wherein it was observed as follows: “6. ... It is well settled that in the absence of pleading, evidence, if any, produced by the parties cannot be considered. It is also equally settled that no party should be permitted to travel beyond its pleading and that all necessary and material facts should be pleaded by the party in support of the case set up by it. The object and purpose of pleading is to enable the adversary party to know the case it has to meet. To have a fair trial it is imperative that the party should settle the essential material facts so that the other party may not be taken by surprise. The pleadings however should receive a liberal construction; no pedantic approach should be adopted to defeat justice on hair-splitting technicalities. Sometimes, pleadings are expressed in words that may not expressly make out a case in accordance with a strict interpretation of the law.