××× ××× ××× ARREST 88. Section 19 of the 2002 Act postulates the manner in which arrest of person involved in money-laundering can be eff ected. Subsection (1) of Section 19 envisages that the Director, Deputy Director, Assistant Director, or any other offi cer authorised in this behalf by the Central Government, if has material in his possession giving rise to reason to believe that any person has been guilty of an off ence punishable under the 2002 Act, he may arrest such person. Besides the power being invested in high- ranking offi cials, Section 19 provides for inbuilt safeguards to be V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 873 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] adhered to by the authorised offi cers, such as of recording reasons for the belief regarding the involvement of person in the off ence of money-laundering. That has to be recorded in writing and while eff ecting arrest of the person, the grounds for such arrest are informed to that person. Further, the authorised offi cer has to forward a copy of the , along with the material in his possession, in a sealed cover to the Adjudicating Authority, who in turn is obliged to preserve the same for the prescribed period as per the Rules. This safeguard is to ensure fairness, objectivity and accountability of the authorised offi cer in forming opinion as recorded in writing regarding the necessity to arrest the person being involved in off ence of money-laundering. Not only that, it is also the obligation of the authorised offi cer to produce the person so arrested before the Special Court or Judicial Magistrate or a Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, within twenty-four hours. This production is also to comply with the requirement of Section 167 of the 1973 Code. There is nothing in Section 19, which is contrary to the requirement of production under Section 167 of the 1973 Code, but being an express statutory requirement under the 2002 Act in terms of Section 19(3), it has to be complied by the authorised offi cer. Section 19, as amended from time to time, reads thus…” (emphasis supplied) 35. In light of the aforesaid discussion, an Authorized Offi cer under the PMLA, 2002 is not duty bound to follow the rigor of Section 41A of the CrPC, 1973 as against the binding conditions under Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002. The above discussion would lead to the conclusion that inasmuch as there is already an exhaustive procedure contemplated under the PMLA, 2002 containing suffi cient safeguards in favour of the person arrested, Section 41A of the CrPC, 1973 has no application at all. 36. The need for the introduction of Section 41A has also been taken note of by the Law Commission in Chapter Five of its 177th Report: “But then it is said that since the conviction rate is very low, the very fact of arrest is a sort of punishment that can be meted out to the 874 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.