Collector...” 18. In the present case, arguendo if the assessee was unaware, D in the first instance regarding the issuance of assessment s against it, at least when the revenue filed a writ petition (W.P. No. 25943/2011) complaining about Canara Bank’s proposal to auction the assessee’s properties, it had impleaded the assessee too. In the pleadings, there was a specific mention about the assessment s, them having become E final, and why those demands had to be given primacy as revenue dues, over and above the bank’s dues. The assessee was served in those writ proceedings; however, it did not dispute the revenue’s contention. This, in the opinion of the court is a telling aspect, as it highlights the assessee’s conduct in deliberately choosing to keep quiet, even when it could have raised a grievance. F 19. Moreover, the assessee also did not dispute that it had not received the copies of assessment s, in those writ proceedings. Further, it did not seek copies of the assessment s, in the representations addressed to the revenue after the second attachment was issued, on 20.02.2018. In these circumstances, the assessee’s G contentions that the attachment s were unenforceable, because the assessment s were not served on it, are untenable. The High Court, with due respect, fell into error, in holding that since the subject matter of the revenue’s writ petition (W.P. No. 25943/2011) was different, the assessee could not be faulted for highlighting that it had not received H THE COMMERCIAL TAX OFFICER & ORS. v. NEERAJA PIPES 937 PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] a copy of the assessment . In fact, the entire premise of that writ A petition was that the assessee owed tax dues, to the extent of ` 5,59,58,758/- and that the bank could not sell the assessee’s properties. 20. In the light of the foregoing discussion, the revenue’s appeal has to succeed. The impugned and are therefore, set aside. As a result, the attachment notice in Form V dated 20.02.2018, is B revived and it is open to the revenue to recover the dues owed, as per the said notice. The present appeal is allowed. There shall be no on costs. Nidhi Jain Appeal allowed. C (Assisted by : Shashwat Jain, LCRA) D E F G H