4 as Vice- Chancellor. The very fi rst para of the press release states that “Kerala Raj Bhavan strongly refutes the claim in some news reports that it was on the direction of Hon’ble Governor that the name of Dr. Gopinath Ravindran was suggested for reappointment as Vice Chancellor, Kannur University. The truth is that the same was initiated by the Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister.” The last part of the report is also relevant. It states that the process of selection of Vice-Chancellor which was set in motion vide Notifi cation dated 27.10.2021 came to an end consequent to the request from the Minister of Higher Education and the opinion of the Advocate General, State of Kerala. 81. The aforestated facts make it abundantly clear that there was no independent application of mind or satisfaction or on the part of the Chancellor and the respondent No. 4 came to be reappointed only at the behest of the State Government. 82. Under the scheme of the Act 1996 and the statutes, the Chancellor plays a very important role. He is not merely a titular head. In the selection of the Vice-Chancellor, he is the sole judge and his opinion is fi nal in all respects. In reappointing the Vice-Chancellor, the main consideration to prevail upon the Chancellor is the interest of the university. 83. The Chancellor was required to discharge his statutory duties in accordance with law and guided by the dictates of his own and not at the behest of anybody else. Law does not recognise any such extra constitutional interference in the exercise of statutory discretion. Any such interference amounts to dictation from political superior and has been condemned by courts on more than one occasions. M. FINAL CONCLUSION 84. It is now well settled that a writ of quo warranto lies if any appointment to a public offi ce is made in breach of the statute or the rules. In the case on hand, we are not concerned with the suitability of the respondent No. 4. The “suitability” of a candidate for appointment to a post is to be judged by the appointing authority and not by the court unless the 434 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. appointment is contrary to the statutory rules/provisions. We have reached to the conclusion that although the notifi cation reappointing the respondent No. 4 to the post of Vice-Chancellor was issued by the Chancellor yet the decision stood vitiated by the infl uence of extraneous considerations or to put it in other words by the unwarranted intervention of the State Government. 85. It is the Chancellor who has been conferred with the competence under the Act 1996 to appoint or reappoint a Vice-Chancellor. No other person even the Pro-Chancellor or any superior authority can interfere with the functioning of the statutory authority and if any decision is taken by a statutory authority at the behest or on a suggestion of a person who has no statutory role to play, the same would be patently illegal.