E 13. Before, we proceed to answer the aforesaid question, we must look into the few relevant provisions of the Act 1986. 14. Section 21(a) of the Act 1986 is titled ‘Jurisdiction of the National Commission’. The same reads thus: F “21. Jurisdiction of the National Commission. - Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the National Commission shall have jurisdiction — (a)to entertain — (i) complaints where the value of the goods or services G and compensation, if any, claimed exceeds rupees one crore; and (ii) appeals against the s of any State Commission;….” 15. Section 23 of the Act 1986 provides for an ‘Appeal’. The same reads thus: H M/S UNIVERSAL SOMPO GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. 1161 SURESH CHAND JAIN AND ANR. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “23. Appeal.-Any person, aggrieved by an made by the A National Commission in exercise of its powers conferred by sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of section 21, may prefer an appeal against such to the Supreme Court within a period of thirty days from the date of the : Provided that the Supreme Court may entertain an appeal B after the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within that period: Provided further that no appeal by a person who is required to pay any amount in terms of an of the National Commission C shall be entertained by the Supreme Court unless that person has deposited in the prescribed manner fifty per cent. of that amount or rupees fifty thousand, whichever is less.” (Emphasis Supplied) 16. The Consumer Protection Act, 1986 stood repealed on D 20.07.2020 (Section 106, the Act 1986) and the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 (for short, ‘the Act 2019’) came into force. In the instant case, the complaints were instituted under the Act 1986.However, we must highlight the relevant provisions of the Act 2019, which are par imateria to the provisions of the Act 1986. E “58. Jurisdiction of National Commission. – (1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the National Commission shall have jurisdiction— (a) to entertain— (i) complaints where the value of the goods or services paid F as consideration exceeds rupees ten crore: Provided that where the Central Government deems it necessary so to do, it may prescribe such other value, as it deems fit; (ii) complaints against unfair contracts, where the value of G goods or services paid as consideration exceeds ten crore rupees; (iii) appeals against the s of any State Commission; (iv) appeals against the s of the Central Authority;…….. Xxx xxx xxx H 1162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 67. Appeal against of National Commission. - Any person, aggrieved by an made by the National Commission in exercise of its powers conferred by sub-clause (i) or (ii) of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 58, may prefer an appeal against such to the Supreme Court within a period of thirty days from the date of the : B Provided that the Supreme Court may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within that period: C Provided further that no appeal by a person who is required to pay any amount in terms of an of the National Commission shall be entertained by the Supreme Court unless that person has deposited fifty per cent.