Accordingly, the trial court held the appellant- convict guilty of the off ence enumerated above and sentenced him to death. 22. The appellant-convict being dissatisfi ed with the and passed by the trial court, challenged the same before the High Court. The High Court dismissed the appeal of the appellant-convict and confi rmed the death sentence imposed by the trial court. 23. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellant-convict is here before this Court with the present appeals. 800 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 24. Mr. Gopal Sankaranarayanan, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant-convict vehemently submitted that: a. The courts below committed a serious error in recording a fi nding that the prosecution has been able to establish its case against the convict beyond reasonable doubt. b. The entire case hinges on circumstantial evidence and none of the circumstances, relied upon by the courts below to hold the appellant- convict guilty of the charges, could be termed as incriminating circumstances. c. The two dying declarations; one of Irshad and the other of Islamuddin could not have been relied upon, as they do not inspire any confi dence and are in confl ict with the ocular version of the two eye- witnesses. d. The manner in which, the dying declarations came to be recorded, speaks for itself. He would submit that the dying declaration should ordinarily be recorded in a question-answer form. The Investigating Offi cer did not even deem fi t to call the Executive Magistrate to record the dying declarations. It was also argued that there is nothing to indicate as regards the condition of the injured persons, while they are said to have made the dying declarations before the Investigating Offi cer. To put it in other words, whether Irshad and Islamuddin were in a fi t condition to speak so as to give dying declarations? It was pointed out by the learned Senior counsel that all the three Medico Legal Case (MLC) reports, which were prepared noted “No BP readable”. Irshad and Naushad had suff ered 95 % burns, whereas, Islamuddin had suff ered 80-90 % burns. e. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned Senior Counsel prayed that there being merit in his appeals, the same may be allowed and the of the High Court and that of the trial court be set aside and the appellant-convict be acquitted of all the charges. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE 25. On the other hand, these appeals were vehemently opposed by Mr. Ardhendumauli Kumar Prashad, the learned AAG, appearing for the State. He submitted thus: IRFAN @ NAKA v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 801 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] a. No error much less an error of law could be said to have been committed by the courts below in holding the appellant-convict guilty of the off ences with which he was charged. b. There was a strong motive for the appellant-convict to commit the crime.