D Since the participation of accused No.1 Varavara Rao, No.2 Vernon Gonsalves, No.3 Arun Ferreira, No.4 Sudha Bharadwaj and other accused in the said conspiracy of the banned organization C.P.I (Maoist) became clear, their residences and those places from where evidence could E possibly be obtained were searched on 28/08/2018. 17.9 It has emerged that accused No.2 Vernon Gonsalves No.3 Arun Ferreira and No.4 Sudha Bharadwaj along with other accused have recruited members for the banned terrorist organization. They are also active members of the said banned organization and have fulfilled the objectives of the banned F organization by doing propaganda and dissemination through the medium of frontal organization with the ideology of the organization. 17.10 Accused No.2 Vernon Gonsalves has been convicted and sentenced by the Hon’ble Court of Session , Nagpur in G C.R.No.10/2007 offence u/s 10,13,16,17,18,20,23,40(2) Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 25(1-B) Arms Act, 6,9(b) Explosives Act, 4(b), 5 Explosive Substances act 120-B, 121- A IPC of A.T.S. Kala Chowky Police Station , Mumbai. He has accordingly served the sentence. Accused Vernon H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 897 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] Gonsalves Unlawful Activities as member of banned A organization have been going on continuously. 17.11 During investigation of the said crime it has emerged that I.A.P.L (Indian Association of People’s Lawyers) is a frontal organization of the banned organization C.P.I (Maoist) and is working according to the organization’s direction and B s and with its economic backing to fulfill the objectives of the banned organization. Accused no.3 Arun Ferreira , No.4 Sudha Bharadwaj and Surendra Gadling are members of the said frontal organization. They along with other accused have made conscious attempts to spread this frontal C organization. By doing various unlawful activities through the medium of this frontal organization they have endangered the stability of the country. 17.15. Thus accused nos. 01 to 04 and other accused are members of the banned terrorist organization CPI (Maoist). D All work related to this organization is done by these accused is an underground manner. It has emerged from the evidence obtained that frontal organization which supposedly promote democratic rights and civil liberties, such as Indian Association of People’s Lawyers (I.A.P.L) , Anuradha Ghandy Memorial Committee (A.G.M.C), Kabir Kala Manch, E Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (P.P.S.C) are set up or similar organizations are infiltrated in as systematic manner and under their cover the work related to the terrorist organization C.P.I (Maoist) is being accomplished is an extremely secret manner. F 17.18. During the Investigation it has emerged that the accused No.01 to 04 in this offence and other accused have worked as part of a pre-planned conspiracy devised by the banned organisation C.P.I. (Maoist), a large, countrywide plot and conspiracy to overthrow by force of violence the democratic G administrative system established under the country’s constitution. It emerged that the organisation C.P.I. (Maoist) and the members of the organisation in this offence have hatched the conspiracy of this offence. H 898 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.