c. Likewise, Section 158B(b) (Clauses c to f) proceeds to excludes other possible permutations. The bottom line being, if F the income is either disclosed or period for disclosure is yet to get over, or assessed or reassessed or gets settled before the settlement commission, or an assessment of undisclosed income has been made already under clause c of section 158C. d. Section 158BB(3) imposed the burden on the assessee to G prove that any undisclosed income had already been disclosed in any return of income filed by the assessee, before the commencement of search or of the requisition, as the case may be. e. In short, assessment on undisclosed income for block period H is an independent assessment from the rest of the assessments PRINCIPAL COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, CENTRAL-3 911 v. ABHISAR BUILDWELL P. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] all of which put together would rest in assessment in total A income. (vii) Section 158BC provides the procedure for block assessment and determine the undisclosed income of the block period in the manner laid down in Section 158BB and the provisions of Section 142, Sub-Sections 2 and 3 of Section B 143, Section 144 and Section 145 of the Act and the AO would proceed to pass an assessment and determine the tax payable u/s 158BC(c) of the Act. In other words, the of assessment on undisclosed income of block period gets passed u/s 158BC(c) of the Act and the manner of computation shall C be in accordance with Section 158BB of the Act. (viii) Section 158BD provides the assessment of undisclosed income of any other person. Section 158BE provides the time limit for competition of block assessment. Section 158BF refers to the inapplicability of the various provisions relating to interest D and penalties, and section 158BG identifies the competent authorities who can pass block assessment s. (v) It is submitted that the scheme under Chapter XIV-B, referred to hereinabove, was in place for about eight years but failed to yield the desired outcome. Therefore, the same came to be E replaced by another scheme by Finance Act, 2003. It is submitted that the salient features of the special procedure introduced in 2003 were as below: (i) The scheme of parallel assessments were given a go-by. There was to be a single assessment of ‘total income’, incorporating undisclosed income found during the search F as well as that found from any other source. (ii) The concept of ‘block period’ was given a go-by. The concept of ‘assessment year’ as the temporal unit was restored. G (iii) Assessment had to be made u/s 153A, not under Sections regularly employed for assessment/reassessment, i.e. Section 143(3)/147. (iv) Assessment u/s 153A was to be mandatory and automatic in a case where search had been conducted. H 912 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A (v) Assessments u/s 153A were to be made for each of the six assessment years preceding the assessment year relevant to the previous year in which the search was conducted.