Failing that, the liability of the appellant to pay does not arise; and g. The impugned decisions will impact the customers of the appellant. 19. As against the above, the fi rst Respondent urged the following submissions: a. The generating station was established to meet the electricity demands of the appellant. After the failure of M/s Enron International, and M/s Dabhol Power Company, the generating station was revived and its assets were transferred to RGPPL, the fi rst Respondent, by virtue of an of the Bombay High Court dated 22.09.2005. NTPC Ltd and GAIL owned 23.5% shares each while the Appellant held 13.51% shares in the fi rst respondent at the time of the take-over; and b. The capacity declaration using RLNG as well as demanding capacity charges based on such declared capacity are in accordance with Clauses 4.3 and 5.2 of the PPA. The PPA contained no clause for termination of the PPA, and was thus valid for 25 years from the Commercial Operation Date.11 As such, the appellant is bound by the PPA as a whole and particularly by Clauses 6.6. and 6.7 which stipulate that even if a dispute is pending, the Appellant is bound to pay 95% of the charges during such pendency, which the Appellant has failed to do. ANALYSIS AND CONCLUSION 20. The issue that arises for consideration is whether the CERC and APTEL were justifi ed in affi xing liability to pay fi xed charges on the 11 “COD”. MSEDCL. v. RATNAGIRI GAS AND POWER PVT. LTD. 771 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] appellant. The dispute primarily turns on the terms of the PPA. For the reasons stated hereafter, we answer the issue in the affi rmative. TERMS OF THE PPA 21. “Declared Capacity” means the capability of the Station to deliver ex-bus electricity in MW declared by the Station in relation to any period of the day, or the whole day, duly taking into account the availability of Gas and liquid fuels.12 22. The Station has to allocate 95% of its capacity to MSEDCL after the COD of respective power blocks/stations. MSEDCL is liable to pay full capacity charges as mentioned in Clause 5.2 and shall be entitled to corresponding incremental power.13 23. Clause 4.3 states as follows: 4.3 Declared Capacity Primary Fuel for RGPPL is LNG/Natural gas and/or RLNG. Normally capacity of the station shall be declared on gas and/ or RLNG for all three power blocks. However, if agreed by MSEDCL, RGPPL shall make arrangements of Liquid fuel(s) for the quantum required by MSEDCL. In such a case the capacity on liquid fuel shall also be taken into account for the purpose of Availability, Declared Capacity and PLF calculations till the time Liquid fuel(s) stock agreed/requisitioned by MSEDCL is available at site.” 24. Clause 5 of the PPA deals with Tariff and states that the Tariff of the Station shall be ascertained based on the restructuring model as approved by the GOI and GOM and IFIs for the revival of the erstwhile Dabhol Power Project and that the Station cannot be compared with other power stations as the fi nancial and technical parameters have been restructured to arrive at a viable and acceptable tariff .