The damage this causes to the former employees of JKSL, as well as the industrial and economic growth of the State, cannot be underestimated. While we are not in a position to G direct or the implementation of the AAIFR plan, we recall the earlier s of this Court which had dismissed the workers unions’ SLP, and the subsequent Review Petitions on 17.08.2017 and 06.03.2018, but with a note that the rehabilitation plan should be implemented. H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 307 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] 101. Given that the earlier s of the Supreme Court have A already held that Respondent No. 1 is not a sick industrial company and that has become final with the dismissal of the Review Petitions, there is no point reverting to SICA any longer. However, we re-emphasize the importance of finding a viable solution to this complex issue. 102. We reiterate the earlier observations made by this Court B regarding implementation of the AAIFR scheme. The objective of the original transfer lease deeds of 2007 that were signed for the purpose of using the land for industrial development should be carried out, subject to altering the usage of the land under the 1959 Rules. 103. However, at the same time, our sympathy for the Appellant C Unions cannot translate into any concrete relief in the context of the dues they seek. We are not appropriately positioned to consider their prayers in this context. Instead, we grant liberty to the Appellant Unions to approach the appropriate government and other forums as permitted by law, to seek their respective dues. We clarify once again that we D have expressed no opinion on the merits of this segment of the controversy. D. CONCLUSION 104. Our final analysis is that the supplementary leases signed between Respondent No. 1 and RIICO are unsustainable. RIICO did E not possess the authority to enter into these agreements, as the land in LIA, Kota remained under the ownership and control of the State Government uninterruptedly from the first lease signed with JKSL, till the present date. Respondent No. 1 was also cognizant of this fact as evinced by it entering into the 7 transfer lease deeds with the Collector, Kota, in 2007, after it stepped into the shoes of JKSL. F 105. The leases with JKSL were executed under the 1959 Rules which remained applicable and there was no authority ever vested in RIICO to have issued the permissions for conversion and sub-division of plots in the LIA, Kota, and for signing the supplementary lease deeds with Respondent No. 1. There is no legal infirmity in the action of the G Appellants in setting aside the decisions taken by RIICO or in directing to cancel the supplementary leases of 2018. Hence, we uphold the cancellation of the supplementary deeds and quashing of the approvals for conversion of land and sub-division of plots. H 308 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 106. This shall, however, not preclude Respondent No.