G 26. On the other hand, while dealing with the intra-court appeals against the so passed by the learned Single Judge, the Division Bench of the High Court, in the first place, took note of the events that transpired on 23.06.2022 in the General Council meeting and notedthe fact that the requisitionwas given by 2190 members and also the fact H 1190 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A that the plaintiffOPS was very much present in the said meeting dated 23.06.2022 wherein, it was announced that the next meeting would be conducted on 11.07.2022. The Division Bench of the High Court, after examining the record and particularly Rule 19(vii) in its Tamil and English versions, took note of its frame whereby the requirement of 15 days’ B notice appears to be referable to the regular meeting of the General Council to be convened once in a year or whenever considered necessary but not in relation to the meeting requisitioned by 1/5th members of the General Council where the only requirement is for the Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator to convene the meeting within 30 days of receipt of the requisition. The High Court observed that it had not been the case of C the plaintiffOPS that they were not knowing about announcement made on the floor of the General Council meeting on 23.06.2022. The Division Bench also referred to an undeniable factsituation that the Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator were at loggerheads and any strict application of Rule 19(vii) was likely to result in a deadlock. The Division Bench further D referred to the past event when the interim General Secretary could not perform the functions because of her incarceration in a criminal case and, therefore, the office bearers convened the meeting on 12.09.2017 based on the requisition made by the members. The Division Bench also took note of the apex position assigned to the General Council in the E byelaws to take all the decisions. Yet further, the Division Benchtook note of the stance of the Joint Co-ordinator – EPS– who had sent a communication to the Election Commission of India stating that the post of Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator had lapsed for the reason that the election in the Executive Committee meeting dated 01.12.2021 was F not ratified in the General Council meeting held on 23.06.2022. The Division Bench observed that when the Joint Co-ordinator had given up his position to continue as such, there was no Joint Co-ordinator in the party. 26.1. As regards the views of the learned Single Judge doubting G the requisition as a manufactured document, the Division Bench pointed out that none of the members who signed the requisition or attended the meeting came forward with any such claim. That apart, the plaintiffs did not make any assertion in the plaint that there was no requisition placed in the meeting nor there was any averment that the requisition letter was H a fabricated document. The Division Bench went on to observe that THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS.