B Submissions by the Learned Counsels for the Parties: 7. The learned Senior Advocate Mr. P. Wilson for the appellant made the following submissions: (i) Section 83(1)(a) the said Act makes it mandatory for all election petitions to contain a concise statement of material C facts on which petitioner relies, however in the present case the respondent-election petitioner has failed to plead the material facts and therefore the Election petition is liable to be dismissed in limine. (ii) Placing reliance on the decision of this Court in case of D Ram Sukh vs. Dinesh Aggarwal1, and in case of Hari Shanker Jain vs. Sonia Gandhi2, he submitted that the material facts would include positive statement of factsas also positive averment of a negative fact, if necessary, and that in absence thereof, the Election petition is liable to be dismissed on that ground alone. E (iii) Relying upon Samant N. Balkrishna &Anr. vs. George Fernandez &Ors.3, he submitted that failure to plead even a single material fact leads to an incomplete cause of action and the statement of claim becomes bad. F (iv) In the instant case, though the respondent-election petitioner has alleged that the appellant has suppressed facts in the Form No. 26 Affidavit, he has failed to state as to which facts were suppressed, and how there was non-compliance of the provisions of the Constitution or of the Act or the rules made thereunder, which had materially affected the G result of the election. (v) The entire Election petition filed by the respondent is based on vague and bald assumptions, presumptions and 1 2009 (10) SCC 541 2 2001 (8) SCC 233 H 3 1969 (3) SCC 238 KANIMOZHI KARUNANIDHI v. A. SANTHANA KUMAR 807 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] conjectures without stating the material facts more A particularly the material facts in support of the ground contained in Section 100(1)(d)(iv) of the said Act. (vi) Lastly,he submitted that though the candidates are required to disclose their status of Income tax, of the assets and liabilities as well as their spouses’ assets and liabilities, if B the columns in this regard are not applicable in the fact situation, it could not amount to suppression of facts. 8. The learned Advocate Mr. Mukesh S. for respondent no. 1 made the following submissions: C (i) The appellant has violated the law laid down by this Court in Union of India vs. Association for Democratic Reforms &Anr.4, wherein the Court had directed the Election Commission to get the details of assets and liabilities of the candidates and their family members, without differentiating the status of citizenship. D (ii) The appellant, in response to the query regarding income tax dues of her spouse, had mentioned “NO”.The appellant had failed to disclose the status of filing of income tax return of her spouse in foreign country, as required to be disclosed in the Form No. 26. The appellant had simply stated in the E said Form that her spouse was a foreign citizen without disclosing the status of filing of income tax return and the income tax reference number provided in Singapore.