6.This Constitution Bench, after hearing the parties, vide the dated 20.09.2022, had deemed it appropriate to formulate another question of law, which reads thus: C “We do believe that another question which would require consideration would be whether the power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India is inhibited in any manner in a scenario where there is an irretrievable breakdown of marriage in the opinion of the Court but one of the parties is not consenting to the terms.” 7.Accordingly, the following substantial questions of law arise for D consideration before us: (i) The scope and ambit of power and jurisdiction of this Court under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India; (ii) Secondly, in view of, and depending upon the findings of E this bench on the first question, whether this Court, while hearing a transfer petition, or in any other proceedings, can exercise power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, in view of the settlement between the parties, and grant a decree of divorce by mutual consent dispensing with the period and the procedure prescribed under Section 13- F B of the Hindu Marriage Act, and also quash and dispose of other/connected proceedings under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 20059, Section 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 197310, or criminal prosecution primarily under Section 498-A and other G provisions of the Indian Penal Code, 186011. If the answer 7 (2002) 1 SCC 1. 8 We are not examining and commenting on the ratio expounded in Pradip Chandra Parija & Others (supra). 9 For short, ‘Domestic Violence Act’. 10 For short, ‘Cr.P.C.’. H 11 For short, ‘I.P.C.’. SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 181 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] to this question is in the affirmative, in which cases and A under what circumstances should this Court exercise jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India is an ancillary issue to be decided; and (iii) The third issue, which is of considerable importance, is whether this Court can grant divorce in exercise of power B under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India when there is complete and irretrievable breakdown of marriage in spite of the other spouse opposing the prayer. Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India. C 8.Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India reads: “142. Enforcement of decrees and s of Supreme Court and s as to discovery, etc.—(1) The Supreme Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction may pass such decree or make such as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it, and any decree so passed or so D made shall be enforceable throughout the territory of India in such manner as may be prescribed by or under any law made by Parliament and, until provision in that behalf is so made, in such manner as the President may by prescribe.” This provision, apparently unique as it does not have any counterpart E in most of the major written constitutions of the world12, has its origin in and is inspired from the age-old concepts of justice, equity, and good conscience.