SOCIETY) v. UNION OF INDIA 1141 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Collector shall then immediately constitute a Medical Board A comprising the Chief District Medical Officer of the district concerned as the Chairman and three expert doctors from the fields of general medicine, cardiology, neurology, nephrology, psychiatry or oncology with experience in critical care and with overall standing in the medical profession of at least twenty years (who were not members of the previous Medical Board of the B hospital). They shall jointly visit the hospital where the patient is admitted and if they concur with the initial decision of the Medical Board of the hospital, they may endorse the certificate to carry out the instructions given in the Advance Directive. 198.4.6. The Board constituted by the Collector must beforehand C ascertain the wishes of the executor if he is in a position to communicate and is capable of understanding the consequences of withdrawal of medical treatment. In the event the executor is incapable of taking decision or develops impaired decision-making capacity, then the consent of the guardian nominated by the executor in the Advance Directive should be obtained regarding D refusal or withdrawal of medical treatment to the executor to the extent of and consistent with the clear instructions given in the Advance Directive. 198.4.7. The Chairman of the Medical Board nominated by the Collector, that is, the Chief District Medical Officer, shall convey the decision of the Board to the jurisdictional JMFC before giving E effect to the decision to withdraw the medical treatment administered to the executor. The JMFC shall visit the patient at the earliest and, after examining all aspects, authorise the implementation of the decision of the Board. 198.4.8. It will be open to the executor to revoke the document at any stage before it is acted upon and implemented. F 198.5. What if permission is refused by the Medical Board? 198.5.1. If permission to withdraw medical treatment is refused by the Medical Board, it would be open to the executor of the Advance Directive or his family members or even the treating doctor or the hospital staff to approach the High Court by way of G writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution. If such application is filed before the High Court, the Chief Justice of the said High Court shall constitute a Division Bench to decide upon grant of approval or to refuse the same. The High Court will be free to constitute an independent committee consisting of three doctors from the fields of general medicine, cardiology, neurology, H 1142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A nephrology, psychiatry or oncology with experience in critical care and with overall standing in the medical profession of at least twenty years. 198.5.2. The High Court shall hear the application expeditiously after affording opportunity to the State counsel. It would be open to the High Court to constitute Medical Board in terms of its B to examine the patient and submit report about the feasibility of acting upon the instructions contained in the Advance Directive.