She thus submitted that although the points under this category could be altered, they should not be B abolished. 24. On the other hand, the Supreme Court Bar Association and others sought to contend that very few actively practicing advocates are able to devote time to writing books or articles. In any case, publications were not a reflection of advocacy skills. This is apart from the fact that C it is often difficult to ascertain whether an article is written by an advocate themselves. It was also contended that it is difficult to objectively determine the quality of such publications. 25. We have considered the aforesaid aspect and find some merit on both sides. We find that the allocation of 15 points for publication is D high, and thus we deem it fit to reduce the available points under this category to 5 points. Most practicing advocates find very little time to write academic articles. In any case, academic publications require a different aptitude. However, given that Senior Advocates are expected to make nuanced and sophisticated submissions, academic knowledge E of the law is an important prerequisite. Thus, we would not like to do away with this criteria, but expand what should fall under this criteria, while reducing the points under this category. 26. We believe that confining these criteria merely to the authorship of academic articles would not be enough. Instead, it must also include teaching assignments or guest courses delivered by advocates at law F schools. This would be a more holistic reflection of the advocate’s ability to contribute to the critical development of the law. It also shows their interest in guiding and helping their peers at the Bar. 27. We can take a cue from our neighboring country Singapore, where Senior Counsel are recognized as an elite group of advocates, G with top tier advocacy skills, professional integrity, and knowledge of law. Senior Counsels have a duty to leading and be an example to the rest of the Bar, especially younger members. They are also required to contribute to academic teaching, writing, and research, and to the process of continuing legal education. H 442 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 28. Here, we would also like to add that the quality of writing by an advocate should be an important factor in allocating points under this category. We leave it to the Permanent Committee to decide on the manner of assigning points under this category, including the possibility of taking external assistance to gauge the quality of publications. This can be through other Senior Advocates or academics. We are conscious B that this would increase the load of the Secretariat assisting the Permanent Committee, but that is inevitable. Criteria under Sl. No. 2 on Account of Various Parameters: 29. This category becomes one of the most important as it C contemplates reported and unreported s, pro bono work, and the domain expertise of an applicant under various branches of law. 30. We deem it fit to enhance the number of points under this category by 10 points, having deducted the same from Sl.