We should also state, that ‘at what point, does the relationship of mutuality end and that of trading begin’ is a diffi cult and vexed question. A host of factors may have to be considered to arrive at a conclusion. ‘Whether or not the persons dealing with each other, is a “mutual club” or carrying on a trading activity or an adventure in the nature of trade’ is largely a question of fact. (Wilcock case, TC p. 132 : KB at pp. 44 and 45. )” (emphasis supplied) 38. In our opinion, unlike the aforesaid surplus amount itself, which is exempt from tax under the doctrine of mutuality, the amount of interest earned by the assessee from the aforenoted four banks will not fall within the ambit of the mutuality principle and will therefore, be exigible to income tax in the hands of the assessee Club. Canara Bank: Before proceeding to consider the submissions advanced at the Bar, it would be useful to discuss Canara Bank Golden Jubilee Staff Welfare Fund vs. Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax, (2009) 308 ITR 202 (Kar), 996 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. (“Canara Bank”) as learned senior counsel, Sri Datar, has relied upon the said of the Division Bench of the High Court of Karnataka authored by one of us, Nagarathna J. In the said case, it was held that interest on investment and dividend on shares is governed by the principle of mutuality and therefore, not taxable, by relying on the decisions in Natraj Finance Corporation, (1988) 169 ITR 732 and Chelmsford Club (2000) 243 ITR 89 and by distinguishing the decision in I.T.I. Employees Death and Superannuation Relief Fund, (1998) 234 ITR 308 (Kar). The aforesaid conclusion was based on the source of fund of the assessee during the two relevant years. It was further observed therein that the source of fund was wholly contributed by the members of the assessee during the relevant assessment years and therefore, the income on the aforesaid two heads was held to be not taxable. The Special Leave Petition fi led against the said was dismissed by this Court by dated 28.07.2009. However, two other High Courts namely, the Bombay High Court and the Madras High Court expressed reservations with respect to the observations in Canara Bank. Speaking through Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was), the Bombay High Court observed in Commissioner of Income Tax vs. Common Effl uent Treatment Plant, (Thane-Belapur) Association, (2010) 328 ITR 362 that the in Canara Bank had struck a divergent note and therefore, the said must be confi ned to the special facts as they occur in that case. The Karnataka High Court, while dealing with the issue in Canara Bank placed a great deal of emphasis on the source of funds of the assessee. The Karnataka High Court clarifi ed that it was making it clear that its conclusion “is based on the source of funds of the assessee during the two relevant years”.