Thus, it can be said that the genuineness and correctness of D copies falling under clause 1 of Section 63 shall be presumed under Section 79 of the Evidence Act. The definition of ‘shall presume’ is defined under Section 4 of the Evidence Act, thus:- “Shall presume”.––Whenever it is directed by this Act that the Court shall presume a fact, it shall regard such fact as E proved, unless and until it is disproved. 13. Section 79 proceeds upon the maxim ‘omnia praesumuntur rite esse acta, i.e., all acts are presumed to be done rightly and regularly. When the acts of official nature went through the process, the presumption arises in favour of the regular performance. F 14. Section 65 of the Evidence Act, in so far as, it is relevant reads thus:- 65. Cases in which secondary evidence relating to documents may be given.––Secondary evidence may be given of the existence, condition, or contents of a document in the following G cases: –– …… (e) when the original is a public document within the meaning of section 74; H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 383 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] (f) when the original is a document of which a certified copy A is permitted by this Act, or by any other law in force in [India] to be given in evidence; 15. In terms of the provisions under Section 79 of the Evidence Act a certified copy of a document allegedly carrying an arbitration clause is produced and that document can be received in evidence for B the purpose of Section 11 (6) of the Act and by virtue of Section 79 of the Evidence Act, the Court shall presume the genuineness of the document which could be accepted as evidence and shall presume the genuineness of the contents of the document unless the presumption is not rebutted by other evidence. Thus, it can be seen that besides C permitting to produce the original document which is primary evidence in terms of Section 62 of the Evidence Act, despite the existence of different kinds of secondary evidence, under paragraph 2 (a) of Scheme framed by the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, only certified copy alone is permitted to be adduced, purposefully, as by virtue of Section 79 D of Evidence Act presumption of genuineness and correctness of the certified copies of the documents mentioned under Section 63 (1) of the Evidence Act shall have to be presumed. In other words, the other modes of production of secondary evidence would not permit the Court to draw the presumption of genuineness and correctness and that is why in paragraph 2(a) of the scheme framed in terms of the provisions under E Section 11 (10) provides only for production of certified copy of the primary evidence to act upon for the purpose of applying for appointment of Arbitrator under Section 11 (6) of the Act, in the alternative of production of the original instrument.