Sareen v. CBI14. That was a case where a bank offi cer having been convicted for an off ence punishable under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and sentenced to a year’s imprisonment with fi ne of Rs.500/-, had carried the conviction and sentence in appeal whereupon execution of the sentence was 12 Criminal Appeal No. 418/2016 ( dated 29th April, 2016) 13 2023 SCC OnLine SC 929 14 (2001) 6 SCC 584 998 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. stayed. However, in view of the conviction which remained operative, the disciplinary authority imposed the punishment of dismissal from service. The dismissed offi cer once again moved the relevant high court but without success. The second dismissing the prayer for stay of conviction was challenged before this Court. Dismissing the civil appeal, this Court ruled that: “11. The legal position, therefore, is this: though the power to suspend an of conviction, apart from the of sentence, is not alien to Section 389(1) of the Code, its exercise should be limited to very exceptional cases. Merely because the convicted person fi les an appeal in challenge of the conviction the court should not suspend the operation of the of conviction. The court has a duty to look at all aspects including the ramifi cations of keeping such conviction in abeyance. It is in the light of the above legal position that we have to examine the question as to what should be the position when a public servant is convicted of an off ence under the PC Act. No doubt when the appellate court admits the appeal fi led in challenge of the conviction and sentence for the off ence under the PC Act, the superior court should normally suspend the sentence of imprisonment until disposal of the appeal, because refusal thereof would render the very appeal otiose unless such appeal could be heard soon after the fi ling of the appeal. But suspension of conviction of the off ence under the PC Act, dehors the sentence of imprisonment as a sequel thereto, is a diff erent matter. *** 13. The above policy can be acknowledged as necessary for the effi cacy and proper functioning of public offi ces. If so, the legal position can be laid down that when conviction is on a corruption charge against a public servant the appellate court or the revisional court should not suspend the of conviction during the pendency of the appeal even if the sentence of imprisonment is suspended. It would be a sublime public policy that the convicted public servant is kept under disability of the conviction in spite of keeping the sentence of imprisonment in abeyance till the disposal of the appeal or revision.” (emphasis supplied) AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 999 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 22. In to understand the manner in which the power under section 389(1) of the Cr. PC could be exercised, reference to the decision of this Court in State of Maharashtra v. Balakrishna Dattatraya Kumbhar15 would not be out of place.