H 136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (5) The court must be very circumspect and act with caution while entertaining any election dispute though not hit by the bar of Article 329(b) but brought to it during the pendency of election proceedings. The court must guard against any attempt at retarding, interrupting, protracting or stalling of the election proceedings. Care has to be taken to see that there is no attempt B to utilise the court’s indulgence by filing a petition outwardly innocuous but essentially a subterfuge or pretext for achieving an ulterior or hidden end. Needless to say that in the very nature of the things the court would act with reluctance and shall not act, except on a clear and strong case for its intervention having been C made out by raising the pleas with particulars and precision and supporting the same by necessary material. 33. These conclusions, however, should not be construed as a summary of our . These have to be read along with the earlier part of our wherein the conclusions have been D elaborately stated with reasons.” 163. We would, therefore, find that the Election Commission of India has been charged with the duty and blessed with extraordinary powers to hold elections to both Parliament and state legislatures from time to time.This is an enormous task.The power it possesses under E Article 324 is plenary. It is only subject to any law which may be made by Parliament or by the State Legislature. Undoubtedly, the Election Commission is duty bound to act in a fair and legal manner. It must observe the provisions of the Constitution and abide by the directions of the Court. The same being done, it can draw upon a nearly infinite reservoir of power. Once the poll is notified,[which again is a call to be taken by F the Election Commission itself, and indeed capable of being misused and the subject of considerable controversy, if bias or subservience to the powersthat be, isbetrayed], it assumes unusual powers. Its writ lies across Governments over the length and breadth of the country. Officers of the Government who come under its charge become subject to the G superintendence of the Commission. The fate of the political parties and its candidates, and therefore, of democracy itself to a great measure is allowed to rest in the hands of the Election Commission. While there may be officers who assist the Commission, vitally important decisions have to be taken by those at the helm of the affairs. It is the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners at whose table H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 137 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] the buck must stop.It is in this scenario, we bear in mind that when a A decision is taken in the process of the holding of the poll, that subject to proceedings which are initiated in courts which conduce to the effective holding of the poll, any proceeding which seeks to bring the election process under a shadow is tabooed.