of Gujarat is satisfi ed that it is necessary so to do” and accordingly exercised the power under sub-sec. (2) of S. 3 and directed the authorised offi cers i.e. the District Magistrate of each District specifi ed in the Schedule and also the three Commissioners of Police in the respective Corporations to exercise within their local limits of jurisdiction, the power conferred by sub-see. (1) of S. 3.It is seen that the dangerous or anti-social activities are legislatively recognised to be prejudicial to the maintenance of public . The enumerated activities hereinbefore referred to are not isolated but being indulged in from time to time adversely aff ecting the public and even tempo. The District Magistrate concerned, being the highest Dist. Offi cer on the spot and the Commissioner of Police in the cities have statutory duty to maintain public . Therefore, with a view to have then eff ectively dealt with, to move swiftly where public is aff ected or apprehended and to take action expeditiously instead of laying information with the Govt. on each occasion and eagerly awaiting action at State Govt. level, the State Govt. having exercised the power under S. 3(2) conferred on the District Magistrate or the Commissioner the power to detention under S. 3(1) when he considers or deems necessary to detain any person involved in any of the dangerous or anti-social activities enumerated herein before, PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 567 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] prejudicially aff ecting or “likely to aff ect the maintenance of public .” The later clause lay emphasis on immediacy and promptitude and the authorised offi cer on the spot is the best Judge to subjectively satisfy from the facts and ground situation and take preventive measure to maintain public . The reliance by Shri Ganesh on the decision of this Court reported in A. K. Roy v. Union of India, AIR 1982 SC 710, para 72 has no application in view of the factual background in this Act. So long as the activities of bootlegger, dangerous person, drug off ender, immoral traffi c off ender and property grabber persist within the local limits of the jurisdiction of the concerned District Magistrate and Commissioners of Police, as the case may be, and being directly responsible to maintain public and to deal with depraved person to prevent antisocial and dangerous activities which aff ects adversely or are likely to aff ect adversely the maintenance of public , the necessity would exist. Therefore, the question of periodical review of delegation does not appear to be warranted.” (Emphasis supplied) 38. Thus from the aforesaid, it could be said that the principal contention canvassed on behalf of the appellant detenu is thoroughly misconceived and deserves to be negatived at the threshold. 39. At the cost of repetition, sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the Act 1986 deals with the delegation of powers by the State Government and provides that if the State Government is satisfi ed having regard to the circumstances prevailing in any area within the local limits of the jurisdiction of a District Magistrate or a Commissioner of Police, it is necessary to empower the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police, as the case may be, to exercise the powers of the State Government to detention of a person as provided by sub-section (1), then the State Government may by an in writing direct that during such period as may be specifi ed in the , the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police may also, if satisfi ed as provided in sub-section (1) exercises the powers of the State Government as conferred by sub-section (1).