There is an intelligible diff erentia in using marriage as an indicator to classify couples in the sense that married couples can easily be distinguished from unmarried couples. However, the diff erentia does not have a rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the CARA Regulations which is to ensure that the best interest of the child is protected. Placing a child in a stable family is undoubtedly in pursuance of a child’s interest. However, the respondents have not placed any data on record to support their claim that only married relationships can provide stability. It is true that separating from a married partner is a cumbersome process when compared to separating from a partner with whom a person is in a live-in relationship. This is because separation from a married partner is regulated by the law while live-in relationships are unregulated by law (other than for the limited purpose of domestic violence). For instance, the law deters a 259 See Anwar Ali Sarkar v. State of West Bengal, 1952 SCR 284 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1395 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] person from securing a divorce immediately by prescribing conditions such as a six-month waiting period after a petition for divorce by mutual consent is fi led.260 Merely because a marriage is regulated by the law, it cannot be assumed that marriage alone or that every marriage accords stability to a relationship. Similarly, it can also not be inferred that couples who are not in a married relationships are not ‘serious’ about the relationship. The stability of the household depends on various factors such as the eff ort and involvement of the partners in establishing and running a household, creating a safe space at home, creating a healthy work-life balance, and a household where mental, physical, and emotional violence is not infl icted on one another. There is no single form of a stable household. There is no material on record to prove the claim that only a married heterosexual couple would be able to provide stability to the child. In fact, this Court has already recognized the pluralistic values of our Constitution which guarantee a right to diff erent forms of association. 305. The Union of India is required to submit cogent material to support its claim that only married partners are able to provide a stable household. However, it has not done so. The Union of India has submitted four studies titled “Child Attention-Defi cit Hyperactivity Dis (ADHD) in same sex parents families in the United States: Prevalence and Comorbidities,”261 “High School graduation rates amongst children of same sex households,”262 “Children in planned lesbian families: stigmatization, psychological adjustment and protective factors,”263 and “Children in three contexts: Family, Education and Social Development.”264 The studies submitted by 260 Section 13(B) (2) of the Hindu Marriage Act 1955; A Constitution bench of this Court in Shilpa Sailesh v. Varun Sreenivasan260 held that this Court in exercise of its powers under Article 142 can dissolve a marriage on its irretrievable breakdown dispensing of the six month cooling period prescribed by law in certain circumstances.