107. The separability presumption has undergone a significant evolution in India. Initially, the Indian courts viewed an arbitration agreement as an integral part of the underlying contract without any existence beyond 108 Ibid. 109 Gary Born (n 62) 403 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1145 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] such contract. For instance, in Union of India v. Kishorilal Gupta,110 the issue before this Court was whether an arbitration clause in the original contract survived after the enactment of a subsequent contract. Justice K Subba Rao (as the learned Chief Justice then was) considered Heyman (supra) but distinguished it on the ground that it only dealt with repudiation, where rights and obligations of parties survive the termination of contract. It was held that in situations where the original contract is superseded by a subsequent contract, the arbitration clause in the original contract will also cease to exist. Justice K Subba Rao, speaking for the majority, held that fi rst, an arbitration clause is a collateral term of a contract as distinguished from its substantive terms, but nonetheless it is an integral part of it; second, the existence of the underlying contract is a necessary condition for the operation of an arbitration clause; third, if the underlying contract was non-est in the sense that it never came legally into existence or was void-ab-initio, the arbitration clause also cannot operate; fourth, if the parties put an end to a validly executed contract and substitute it with a new contract, the arbitration clause of the original contract also perishes with it; and fi fth, in situations such as repudiation, frustration, or breach of contract, only the performance of the contract comes to an end, the arbitration clause persists because the contract continues to exist for the purposes of disputes arising under it. 108. In Damodar Valley Corporation v. K K Kar,111 a two-Judge Bench of this Court held that the plea that a contract is void, illegal, or fraudulent aff ects the entire contract along with the arbitration clause. However, the enactment of the Arbitration Act in 1996 enabled the Indian courts to give eff ect to the separability presumption with greater impetus. Section 16(1)(b), which provides that a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause, renders the decisions in Kishorilal Gupta (supra) and Damodar Valley Corporation (supra) redundant. Consequently, even if the underlying contract is declared null and void, it will not ipso jure result in the invalidity of the arbitration agreement. 110 1959 SCC OnLine SC 6 111 (1974) 1 SCC 141 114 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 109. In Firm Ashok Traders v. Gurumukh Das Saluja,112 the issue before this Court was whether an application under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act moved by a partner of a non-registered fi rm or by a person not shown as a partner in the Register of Firms was maintainable in view of Section 69(3) of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.