7.4 It is submitted that as such the interpretation to the scheme of the SICA, 1985 as given by the High Court would, in fact, render the C provisions of the Act more workable and reasonable. It is further submitted that the fact that an unsecured creditor is permitted to stand outside the scheme, in no manner can cause prejudice to the rehabilitation of a Sick Company. This is also clear from the fact that the period of the scheme is completely independent from the net worth of the Sick D Company turning positive. It is submitted that in the present case, the period of the rehabilitation scheme is to continue till 2013, whereas the very same scheme contemplated the networth of the petitioner company turning positive by 2007-2008 and the loss completely wiped off by 2008- 2009. It is submitted that therefore the petitioner company ceased to be a Sick Industrial Undertaking as per its Balance Sheet of 31.03.2009. E 7.5 It is further submitted that even otherwise, the BIFR had no authority to scale down the debts of an unsecured creditor without their consent. It is submitted that in absence of any provision permitting BIFR to scale down the debts of the unsecured creditor without its consent would be violative of Article 300A of the Constitution. It is submitted F that Article 300A of the Constitution provides that no person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law. It is submitted that money is undoubtedly property and, therefore, the right to a sum of money is also a property. It is submitted that hence, the aforesaid right of the respondent – unsecured creditor to receive the sum of money is a G Constitutional Right and, further, the said Constitutional Right to property can be taken away / deprived only by authority of law. 7.6 It is submitted that the expression ‘law’ in Article 300A would mean a Parliamentary Act or an Act of State Legislature or Statutory having the force of law. It is submitted that while enacting such a law, Parliament cannot be presumed to have taken away a right in property. H MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1049 LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] It is submitted that the provision taking away such right to property has A to be provided explicitly. 7.7 It is further submitted that so far as the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 is concerned, it contains the definition of the term ‘Creditor’ and the same includes an ‘Unsecured Creditor’. It is submitted that therefore, the regime under the SICA, 1985 and the B Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 are completely different. It is submitted that the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 specifically provides for distribution of assets under Section 53. Thus, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 specifically provides for provisions for dealing with ‘Unsecured Creditors’ whereas in the SICA, 1985, there is no C provision to deal with ‘Unsecured Creditors’ without their consent. 7.8 Making above submissions, it is prayed not to interfere with the impugned and passed by the Division Bench of the High Court.