That author yet clarifi es that “This is an essential aspect of the process by which the parties have an opportunity to both, present their case, and hear the reasons for the Tribunal’s decision; not hearing the dissent deprives the parties of an important aspect of this process.” 27. It is, therefore, evident that a dissenting opinion cannot be treated as an award if the majority award is set aside. It might provide useful clues in case there is a procedural issue which becomes critical during the challenge hearings. This court is of the opinion that there is another dimension to the matter. When a majority award is challenged by the aggrieved party, 23 2019 [7] SCR 522 642 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the focus of the court and the aggrieved party is to point out the errors or illegalities in the majority award. The minority award (or dissenting opinion, as the learned authors point out) only embodies the views of the arbitrator disagreeing with the majority. There is no occasion for anyone- such as the party aggrieved by the majority award, or, more crucially, the party who succeeds in the majority award, to challenge the soundness, plausibility, illegality or perversity in the approach or conclusions in the dissenting opinion. That dissenting opinion would not receive the level and standard of scrutiny which the majority award (which is under challenge) is subjected to. Therefore, the so-called conversion of the dissenting opinion, into a tribunal’s fi ndings, [in the event a majority award is set aside] and elevation of that opinion as an award, would, with respect, be inappropriate and improper. 28. In view of the fi ndings recorded earlier, this court is of the opinion that all the appeals have to succeed. Therefore, C. A. No. 4658/2023, C. A. No. 4659/2023; C. A. No. 4660/2023; C. A. No. 4661/2023 and C. A. No. 4662/2023 are allowed; all s of the Delhi High Court, which were the subject matter of challenge in those appeals are set aside. The awards, which were the subject matter of challenge, and to the extent they were set aside, are hereby upheld and restored. The direction in the awards, to the extent they required compounded monthly interest payments, are modifi ed. Instead, the NHAI shall pay uniform interest on the amounts due, on the head concerned, i.e., construction of embankment, to the extent of 12% from the date of award to the date of payment, within eight weeks from today. All the above appeals are allowed in these terms. There shall be no direction to pay costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals allowed. Nidhi Jain