It is the say of learned Amicus that if the MSME certifi cate is obtained prior to the presentation of the plan such disqualifi cation would not be incurred and benefit of the provision would be available. 5. Learned counsel for parties have taken us through Section 29A of the said Code. It has been pointed out that other sub-Clauses except Clauses (c), (g) and (h) which apply to promoters and guarantors are generic in nature. We reproduce the relevant provisions as under: 29A. Persons not eligible to be resolution applicant- (C) at the time of submission of the resolution plan has an account, or an account of a corporate debtor under the management or control of such person or of whom such person is a promoter, classifi ed as non-performing asset in accordance with the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India issued under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) or the guidelines of a fi nancial sector regulator issued under any other law for the time being in force, and at least a period of one year has lapsed from the date of such classifi cation till the date of commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process of the corporate debtor: 1 Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No.43-43A/2021 HARI BABU THOTA 921 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] Provided that the person shall be eligible to submit a resolution plan if such person makes payment of all overdue amounts with interest thereon and charges relating to non-performing asset accounts before submission of resolution plan: Provided further that nothing in this clause shall apply to a resolution applicant where such applicant is a fi nancial entity and is not a related party to the corporate debtor. Explanation I – For the purposes of this proviso, the expression “related party” shall not include a fi nancial entity, regulated by a fi nancial sector regulator, if it is a fi nancial creditor of the corporate debtor and is a related party of the corporate debtor solely on account of conversion or substitution of debt into equity shares or instruments convertible into equity shares or completion of such transactions as may be prescribed, prior to the insolvency commencement date. Explanation II -For the purposes of this clause, where a resolution applicant has an account, or an account of a corporate debtor under the management or control of such person or of whom such person is a promoter, classifi ed as non-performing asset and such account was acquired pursuant to a prior resolution plan approved under this Code, then, the provisions of this clause shall not apply to such resolution applicant for a period of three years from the date of approval of such resolution plan by the Adjudicating Authority under this Code. (g) has been a promoter or in the management or control of a corporate debtor in which a preferential transaction, undervalued transaction, extortionate credit transaction or fraudulent transaction has taken place and in respect of which an has been made by the Adjudicating Authority under this Code: Provided that this clause shall not apply if a preferential transaction, undervalued transaction, extortionate credit transaction or fraudulent transaction has taken place prior to the acquisition of the corporate debtor by the resolution applicant pursuant to a resolution plan approved under this Code or pursuant to a scheme or plan approved by a fi nancial sector regulator or a court, and such resolution applicant has not otherwise contributed to the preferential 922 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.