As highlighted above, Section 16 and Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 indicates that there is an overlap when it comes to the word “existence”. As F Section 16 specifically deals with both existence and validity whereas Section 11 only deals with existence, the former should be given more weight. As such, the doctrine of Kompetenz Kompetenz comes into play as the arbitrator can decide on the validity of an agreement and the referral judge needs to confine his scrutiny to the existence of the G arbitration agreement. However, in SBP(supra) it was generally held that the referral judge should decide on all aspects. If such a view is to be applied for answering the present reference, a mini-trial will have to 75 HM Holtzmann and JE Neuhaus,A Guide to the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration: Legislative History and Commentary (Kluwer Law and Taxation The Hague 1989) 485 H 482 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A be conducted by the referral judge. The question to be asked here is should we then push the Section 11 judge to deal with so many things that he/she left in a situation like Little Alice in the play Alice in Wonderland as described in Praveen Electricals(supra)? 84. In the referral in NN Global(supra),the paragraph 29 B in Garware(supra) was doubted. In the Garware(supra) decision, this Court relied on United India Insurance Co. ltd. v. Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. 76(for short “Hyundai Engg.). The paragraph 29 is extracted below for the discussion to be followed thereafter: C “29. This in Hyundai Engg. case [United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd., (2018) 17 SCC 607: (2019) 2 SCC (Civ) 530] is important in that what was specifically under consideration was an arbitration clause which would get activated only if an insurer admits or accepts liability. Since on facts it was found that the insurer repudiated the claim, D though an arbitration clause did “exist”, so ‘to speak, in the policy, it would not exist in law, as was held in that , when one important fact is introduced, namely, that the insurer has not admitted or accepted liability. Likewise. in the facts of the present case. it is clear that the arbitration clause that is contained in the E sub-contract would not “exist” as a matter of law until the sub- contract is duly stamped, as has been held by us above. The argument that Section 11 (6-A) deals with “existence”, as opposed to Section 8. Section 16 and Section 45, which deal with “validity” of an arbitration agreement is answered by this Court’s understanding of the expression “existence” in Hyundai Engg. F case [United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd., (2018) 17 SCC 607 : (2019) 2 SCC (Civ) 530] . as followed by us.” 84.1. In Hyundai(supra), the issue of stamping was not at all a matter of consideration and the Court decided on the arbitrability of the G dispute and whether it was an excepted matter and in that process, held that the arbitration agreement would not “exist-in-law”, as the arbitration clause was contingent on whether the insurer accepted liability.