(5) For the purposes of this section— (a) information shall be taken to be supplied to a computer if it is supplied thereto in any appropriate form and whether it is so supplied directly or (with or without human intervention) by means C of any appropriate equipment; (b) whether in the course of activities carried on by any official, information is supplied with a view to its being stored or processed for the purposes of those activities by a computer operated otherwise than in the course of those activities, that information, D if duly supplied to that computer, shall be taken to be supplied to it in the course of those activities; (c) a computer output shall be taken to have been produced by a computer whether it was produced by it directly or (with or without human intervention) by means of any appropriate equipment. E Explanation—For the purposes of this section any reference to information being derived from other information shall be a reference to its being derived therefrom by calculation, comparison or any other process.” 30. The petitioner has relied upon the of this court in F Arjun Panditrao Khotkar v Kailash Kushanrao Gorantyal9 which reiterated the dictum in the decision in Anvar P.V. v P.K. Basheer10 requiring mandatory compliance with Section 65B of the IEA. 31. One of the earliest decisions on the provision was of a two judge bench of this Court in State (NCT of Delhi) v Navjot Sandhu11 G where the Court held that Section 65B was only one of the provisions through which secondary evidence by way of electronic record could be 9 2020 (7) SCC 1 10 2014 (10) SCC 473 11 2005 (11) SCC 600 H 1036 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A admitted and that there was no bar on admitting evidence through other provisions. The Court noted that: 150. According to Section 63, “secondary evidence” means and includes, among other things, ‘copies made from the original by mechanical processes which in themselves insure the accuracy B of the copy, and copies compared with such copies’. Section 65 enables secondary evidence of the contents of a document to be adduced if the original is of such a nature as not to be easily movable. It is not in dispute that the information contained in the call records is stored in huge servers which cannot be easily moved and produced in the court. That is what the High Court has also C observed at para 276. Hence, printouts taken from the computers/ servers by mechanical process and certified by a responsible official of the service-providing company can be led in evidence through a witness who can identify the signatures of the certifying officer or otherwise speak of the facts based on his personal knowledge. D Irrespective of the compliance with the requirements of Section 65-B, which is a provision dealing with admissibility of electronic records, there is no bar to adducing secondary evidence under the other provisions of the Evidence Act, namely, Sections 63 and 65.