Exacerbating this situation is that these Rules were not attached to the contract, and so Mr. Heller would have had to search them out himself. 94. The improvidence of the arbitration clause is also clear. The mediation and arbitration processes require US$14,500 in up-front administrative fees. This amount is close to Mr. Heller›s annual income and does not include the potential costs of travel, accommodation, legal representation or lost wages. The costs are disproportionate to the size of an arbitration award that could reasonably have been foreseen when the contract was entered into. The arbitration agreement also designates the law of the Netherlands as the governing law and Amsterdam as the “place” of the arbitration. This gives Mr. Heller and other Uber drivers in Ontario the clear impression that they have little choice but to travel at their own expense to the Netherlands to individually pursue claims against Uber through mandatory mediation and arbitration in Uber›s home jurisdiction. Any representations to the arbitrator, including about the location of the hearing, can only be made after the fees have been paid. 95. The arbitration clause, in eff ect, modifi es every other substantive right in the contract such that all rights that Mr. Heller enjoys are subject to the apparent precondition that he travel to Amsterdam,7 initiate LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 1017 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] an arbitration by paying the required fees and receive an arbitral award that establishes a violation of this right. It is only once these preconditions are met that Mr. Heller can get a court to enforce his substantive rights under the contract. Eff ectively, the arbitration clause makes the substantive rights given by the contract unenforceable by a driver against Uber. No reasonable person who had understood and appreciated the implications of the arbitration clause would have agreed to it. 96. We add that the unconscionability of the arbitration clause can be considered separately from that of the contract as a whole. As explained in Bremer Vulkan Schiff bau und Maschinenfabrik v. South India Shipping Corporation Ltd., [1981] A.C. 909 (H.L. ), an arbitration agreement “constitutes a self-contained contract collateral or ancillary to the [main] agreement” (p. 980; see also p. 998, per Lord Scarman). Further support comes from the severability clause of the Uber Rasier and Uber Portier agreements, and s. 17(2) of the AA.” (Emphasis supplied) 98. Brown J. in his separate but concurring opinion held that such a pre-condition as mentioned in the agreement was opposed to public policy as it impeded the claimant from resolving his dispute eff ectively. The relevant observations are as under: “110. The ground upon which I proceed is that which precludes an ouster of court jurisdiction or, more broadly, which protects the integrity of the justice system. As Lord Atkin stated in Fender v. St. John-Mildmay, [1938] A.C. 1 (H.L. ), at p. 12, ousting the jurisdiction of the courts is harmful in itself and “injurious to public interests” (see also Kain and Yoshida, at pp.