PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1081 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 6. Three facets of Article 330 and Article 332 need to be noticed at the forefront. First, Articles 330(1) and 332(1) contain a mandate which is evident from the use of the expression “seats shall be reserved” for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the House of the People and in the Legislative Assembly of every State. Second, the number of seats required to be reserved is stipulated in clause (2) of Article 330 and clause (3) of Article 332. The same principle is adopted by both these provisions, requiring that the number of seats so reserved shall “as nearly as may be” bear the same proportion to the total number of seats allotted to the State in the House of the People and in the Legislative Assembly, as the case may be, as the proportion of the population of the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes in respect of which seats are so reserved to the total population of the State. The implementation of the constitutional mandate for reserving seats for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the House of the People and in the State Legislative Assemblies is governed by a statutory regime which, it will be necessary to advert to in due course. Third, Articles 330 and 332, do not provide for reservations for any particular Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe. 7. Article 814 of the Constitution provides for the composition of the 4 81. Composition of the House of the People.—(1) Subject to the provisions of article 331, the House of the People shall consist of— (a) not more than fi ve hundred and thirty members chosen by direct election from territorial constituencies in the States, and (b) not more than twenty members to represent the Union territories, chosen in such manner as Parliament may by law provide. (2) For the purposes of sub-clause (a) of clause (1),— (a) there shall be allotted to each State a number of seats in the House of the People in such manner that the ratio between that number and the population of the State is, so far as practicable, the same for all States; and (b) each State shall be divided into territorial constituencies in such manner that the ratio between the population of each constituency and the number of seats allotted to it is, so far as practicable, the same throughout the State: Provided that the provisions of sub-clause (a)of this clause shall not be applicable for the purpose of allotment of seats in the House of the People to any State so long as the population of that State does not exceed six millions. (3) In this article, the expression ―populationǁ means the population as ascertained at the last preceding census of which the relevant fi gures have been published: Provided that the reference in this clause to the last preceding census of which the relevant fi gures have been published shall, until the relevant fi gures for the fi rst census 108 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.