It is then stated therein that the Detenu had committed 9 (nine) off ences in the years 2022-23, and these off ences are again listed out in detail. However, the Commissioner states that the present of detention is based only on 5 (fi ve) out of these 9 (nine) crimes, which are alleged to show that the Detenu’s activities are “prejudicial to the maintenance of public , apart from disturbing peace and tranquillity in the area.” 44. Interestingly, even in paragraph 9 E of his Counter Affi davit, the Commissioner has extracted a portion of the Detention which we have set out in paragraph 3 (supra). The reiteration of considering past criminal history of the Detenu is not without its eff ect, as we shall presently discuss. 45. In Khudiram Das (supra), while examining the ‘history sheet’ of the detenu, this Court had, in express terms,clarifi ed that a generalisation could not be made that the detenu was in the habit of committing those off ences. Merely because the detenu was charged for multiple off ences, it could not be said that he was in the habit of committing such off ences. Further, habituality of committing off ences cannot, in isolation, be taken as a basis of any detention ; rather it has to be tested on the metrics of ‘public ’, as discussed above. Therefore, cases where such habituality has created any ‘public dis’ could qualify as a ground to detention. 46. Although the Commissioner sought to project that he ed detention based on the said 5 (fi ve) FIRs, indication of the past off ences allegedly committed by the Detenu in the Detention having infl uenced his thought process is clear. With the quashing of the of detention dated 4th March, 2021 by the High Court and such direction having attained fi nality, AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 991 & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] it defi es logic why the Commissioner embarked on an elaborate narration of past off ences, which are not relevant to the grounds of the present of detention. This is exactly what this Court in Khaja Bilal Ahmed(supra) deprecated. Also, as noted above, this Court in Shibban Lal Saksena (supra) held that such an would be a bad , the reason being that it could not be said in what manner and to what extent the valid and invalid grounds operated on the mind of the authority concerned and contributed to his subjective satisfaction forming the basis of the . 47. It would not be out of place to examine, at this juncture, whether the Commissioner as the detaining authority formed the requisite satisfaction in the manner required by law, i.e., by drawing inference of a likelihood of the Detenu indulging in prejudicial activities on objective data. Here, we would bear in mind the caution sounded by this Court in Rajesh Gulati vs. Govt. of NCT of Delhi19 that a detaining authority should be free from emotions, beliefs or prejudices while ing detention as well as take note of the and dated 16th August, 2021 of the High Court on the previous writ petition, instituted by the Detenu’s father.