Article 39-A of the Constitution promotes a laudable objective of providing legal aid to needy litigants and obliges the State to make access to justice aff ordable for the less fortunate sections of the society.” Section 438 CrPC : Interpretation 24. The answer to the points for consideration raised herein would emerge from the construction that is aff orded to the expression ‘the High Court or the Court of Session’ in Section 438 of CrPC. It was submitted before us that the use of the defi nite article ‘the’ before High Court and Court of Session must mean that High Court and that Court of Session which exercises territorial jurisdiction over the area where an off ence has been committed. 25. It indeed is a trite rule of statutory interpretation that penal statutes are to be construed strictly. When acts are to be made penal and are to be visited with loss or impairment of life, liberty, or property, it may well be argued that personal liberty requires clear and exact defi nition of the off ence. Furthermore, appropriate care must be taken to adopt an interpretation which 576 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. makes the textual interpretation match the contextual. In this regard, the following contextual aspects may be noted: a. The CrPC explicitly defines the ‘local limits’ and ‘local jurisdiction’ within which the Magistrate may exercise jurisdiction. b. Even though the High Court is defi ned in CrPC, no provision explicitly defi nes its territorial jurisdiction which has to be discerned from the Constitution of India. c. Section 438(1)(iv) of CrPC makes explicit the legislative intent to prevent humiliation of the persons who apprehend arrest, especially in politically motivated or malicious prosecutions or in false cases. d. The mischief that Section 438 of CrPC seeks to remedy is apprehension of wrongful arrest. 26. Therefore, we ought to provide sufficient amplitude to the expression ‘reason to believe that he may be arrested’, and look at the setting in which the words are used and the circumstances under which the law came to be passed to decide whether something implicit is behind the words used which controls the literal meaning of such words. An interpretation giving rise to an absolute bar on the jurisdiction of a Court of Session or a High Court to grant interim anticipatory bail for an off ence committed outside the territorial confi nes of a High Court or Court of Session may lead to an anomalous and unjust consequence for bona fi de applicants who may be victims of wrongful, mala fi de or politically motivated prosecution. 27. Furthermore, the fundamental right to personal liberty and access to justice, which are constitutionally recognised and statutorily preserved through the presence of jurisdiction with superior Courts, would be undermined through such a restrictive interpretation. While construing a statute, constitutional Courts are obliged to render a contextually sensitive construction that preserves and furthers core constitutional values. 28. Reliance in this regard may be placed on the dicta of this Court in Central Inland Water Transport Corporation vs. Brojo Nath Ganguly, (1986) 3 SCC 156: PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS.