150. In arriving at this decision, it is not necessary for the ECI to rely on the test of majority in the legislature alone. In cases such as the D present one, it would be futile to assess which group enjoys a majority in the legislature. Rather, the ECI must look to other tests in to reach a conclusion under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols . The other tests may include an evaluation of the majority in the organisational wings of the political party, an analysis of the provisions of the party constitution, or any other appropriate test. E 151. When this Court decided the petition in Sadiq Ali (supra), the Tenth Schedule did not form a part of the Constitution. There was no way for this Court to have anticipated the complexities that could arise on its inclusion while deciding which test was most appropriate. Regardless, this Court did not hold that the test of majority in the legislature F was exclusively appropriate or even that it was the primary test. It instead found that the test was suited to the facts and circumstances of that case. As noticed in the preceding paragraphs, nothing in the Symbols mandates the use of a particular test to the exclusion of other tests. The ECI must apply a test which is best suited to the unique facts G and circumstances of the case before it. The parties in the dispute before the ECI are free to propose a suitable test and the ECI may either apply one of the tests proposed or fashion a new test, as appropriate. This Court observed in Sadiq Ali (supra) that the test of legislative majority was a relevant test under Paragraph 15 proceedings in that case for two reasons: first, INC was according to the court a democratic organisation, H and numbers matter in such organisations; and second, the total number SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 947 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] of seats secured by the political party in the legislative assembly is a A relevant factor for the recognition of a political party as a State or a National Party. When legislators are disqualified under the Tenth Schedule, the basis of recognition of the political party under the Symbols and correspondingly, one of the reasons for using the test of legislative majority itself becomes diluted. Thus, it is not appropriate to B confine the ECI to the singular test of legislative majority in such situations. 152. In Sadiq Ali (supra), this Court noted that one of the tests considered by the ECI was an assessment of which of the two rival groups adhered to the aims and objects of the party as incorporated in its C constitution. This Court did not have occasion to express its opinion on the validity of this test because it found that the test of majority was relevant to the facts in Sadiq Ali (supra). Since we have left it open to the ECI to apply a test other than that which evaluates which of the groups constitute a majority, it becomes necessary to consider whether the alternatives are viable.