The regulations under the Motor Vehicles Act for registration and prohibition of certain categories of vehicles being driven by persons who have no driving licence, even though those vehicles are not plying on the roads, are designed to ensure the safety F of passengers and goods etc. etc. and for that purpose it is enacted to keep control and check on the vehicles. Legislative power under Entry 35 of List III (Concurrent List) does not bar such a provision. But Entry 57 of List Il is subject to the limitations referred to above, namely, that the power of taxation G thereunder cannot exceed the compensatory nature which must have some nexus with the vehicles using the roads viz. public roads.” 38. The argument by Mr.Bhatnagar, learned amicus that the offending provision contained in Section 3A(3) being repugnant to H 912 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A the central legislation, will have to give way and cannot be sustained. His submission is that the power to impose penalty is given in Section 192 A of the 1988 Act. According to him, Entry 57 of List II being subject to the provisions of Entry 35 of List III under which the 1988 Act has been enacted, Section 192A provides for penalty being imposed on vehicles being used without permit or in contravention of B the provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 66 (providing for necessity for permits). According to him once the central Act contains a penal provision for such a violation of imprisonment as also fine, the State could not have imposed a tax for the same violation. This submission of Shri Bhatnagar can be sustained only if any repugnancy or any C conflict can be established between the State law and the Central law. The provisions under Section 192A are in no way violated or conflicted by imposing an additional special tax for violation of use of vehicles without permit. It can be said to be in addition to the penalty provided in Section 192A of the 1988 Act. This Court, in the case of Sukhpal SinghBal (supra) has already upheld that such imposition D of tax for violation of statutory provisions, is to be treated as a regulatory measure and only to work as a deterrent of the vehicle owners’ violating the law. Such a tax would be regulatory in nature and would only check violations of the statutory provisions. In the case of Sharma Transport Rep. by D.P. Sharma vs. Government E of Andhra Pradesh and Ors. (supra), a similar issue was considered and this Court was of the view that under Entry 35 of List III the permission is to lay down the principles on which the tax may be levied whereas the State had a right to levy such tax. Paras 8 and 11 of the said report dealing with the aforesaid aspect are reproduced hereunder: F “8. This is not a case where the theory of occupied field can be made applicable. The Taxation Act essentially deals with fares charged from passengers and freight collected from them.