Therefore, in such circumstances, registration of First Information Report seems to be essential. BALVIR SINGH v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 821 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Therefore, S.H.O., Police Station Kotdwar is ed that hiving registered First Information Report in the light of application fi led by applicant under section 156(3) Cr.P.C and to conduct investigation. Sd/- Judicial Magistrate” 4. Pursuant to the aforesaid passed by the learned Judicial Magistrate, the First Information Report came to be registered at the Kotdwar Police Station on 09.06.2007 for the off ence punishable under Sections 302, 498A read with Section 34 of the IPC and Sections 3 and 4 respectively of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 (for short, ‘the Act 1961’). The First Information Report reads thus: “Sir, Applicant Virendra Singh, son of late Mohan Singh, resident of Village Mawasa, Patti –Ajmer Pall, Tehsil Kotdwar Garhwal respectfully submits as under:- 1. That the marriage of my daughter Sudha had been solemnized on 12.12.1997 with Balvir Singh, son of late Mahavir Singh, resident of village Ratanpur, Kumbhuchaur, Halqa-Saneh, Kotdwar, Garhwal, from the house of my younger brother located at Uttari Jhandichaur, Police Station Kotdwar and out of the wedlock, one son was born to them. 2. That sometime after marriage, Balvir Singh and Smt. Maheshwari Devi who is the mother of Balvir Singh, in connivance with him, started harassing my daughter in diff erent ways and raising demand of Rupees One lakh cash in dowry. Smt. Maheshwari Devi has been getting pension and also owns landed property. Balvir Singh is a greedy person and under the greed of pension of his mother, he has been harassing my daughter and subjecting her to beatings, not providing food to her, and that the women of the village somehow provided her food by hiding themselves from these people. My daughter wrote letters to us complaining about this fact. When Balvir Singh and his mother came to know about these letters, then they pressurized my daughter for asking back the said letters and we accordingly returned those letters, but letter dated 20.05.04 which has been lodged by us at Police Station, remained with us. In this 822 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. letter also my daughter has put her grievances and harassment that she faced. 3. That on getting knowledge of this incident me, my few relatives, Panch, and Pradhan Ratanpur visited and tried to convince Balvir Singh and his mother not to indulge in such acts so that in future my daughter may stay there properly and I did not lodge any report. However, Maheshwari Devi and Balvir Singh kept on hatching conspiracy for eliminating my daughter Sudha. Once they had made my daughter consumed poison also but my daughter had not told this fact to anyone. 4. That Balvir Singh has been working in a Private Nursing Home in Delhi and he is very well acquainted with medicines. Before committing murder of my daughter, he managed to arrange fake and forged prescription slips, which has been shown to police also, and investigation about these slips & medicines is required.