754 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 5P OS.RCT.RS. 754 [2023] 5 S.C.R. A RAJ KUMAR @ SUMAN v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) (Criminal Appeal No. 1471 of 2023) B MAY 11, 2023 [ABHAY S. OKA AND RAJESH BINDAL, JJ.] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.313 – Power to examine the accused – Law summarized. C Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.313 – Non-compliance of – Omission made while questioning the accused u/s.313, effect of – Appellant was convicted u/ss.302, 307 r/w 120-B, IPC and sentenced accordingly –Held: The only alleged incriminating circumstance against the appellant is in the evidence of PW5, who stated that the appellant was standing with a katta in his hand outside D the premises where the offence took place–However, this was not put to him in his statement u/s.313– Therefore, he had no opportunity to explain the said circumstance which was the only basis of his conviction– Hence, serious prejudice was caused to him – Conviction of the appellant was vitiated – Impugned of E the High Court set aside – Conviction and sentence of the appellant set aside. Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.313(5)– Benefit of – Assistance of Prosecutor and Defence Counsel in preparing relevant questions–Held: While recording the statement F u/s.313, in cases involving large number of prosecution witnesses, Judicial Officers advised to take benefit of s.313(5) which will ensure that the chances of committing errors and omissions are minimized– However, scant attention is paid to this provision – The National and the State Judicial Academies to take a note of this situation. G Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 The law consistently laid down by this Court can be summarized as: (i) It is the duty of the Trial Court to put each material circumstance appearing in the evidence against the accused specifically, distinctively and separately. The material circumstance means the circumstance or the material on the basis H 754 RAJ KUMAR @ SUMAN v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 755 of which the prosecution is seeking his conviction; (ii) The object A of examination of the accused under Section 313 is to enable the accused to explain any circumstance appearing against him in the evidence; (iii) The Court must ordinarily eschew material circumstances not put to the accused from consideration while dealing with the case of the particular accused; (iv) The failure to B put material circumstances to the accused amounts to a serious irregularity. It will vitiate the trial if it is shown to have prejudiced the accused; (v) If any irregularity in putting the material circumstance to the accused does not result in failure of justice, it becomes a curable defect. However, while deciding whether the defect can be cured, one of the considerations will be the C passage of time from the date of the incident; (vi) In case such irregularity is curable, even the appellate court can question the accused on the material circumstance which is not put to him; and (vii) In a given case, the case can be remanded to the Trial Court from the stage of recording the supplementary statement D of the concerned accused under Section 313 of CrPC.