IV. Writ Petition (C) No. 138 of 2022 and SLP (C) No. 3388 of 2022 9. The appellant is one of the directors of a company called M/s C Vimal Oil & Foods Limited. The said company availed of loan facilities from various financial institutions over a period of time. In 2015, the auditor of the respondent bank flagged certain irregularities in the accounts of the company. Based on a special audit, the respondent bank declared the account of the company as NPA on 30 September 2015. Thereafter, D on 05 July 2016, the company’s account was red-flagged by the respondent bank. In the meantime, the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process11 was initiated against the company on 19 December 2017 and the appellant was suspended as Managing Director of the company. Upon suspension, the appellant was not invited to attend the meetings of the JLF. The appellant allegedly learnt that the respondent bank had E classified their account as fraud on 21 February 2018 though without any intimation. Further, based on a letter addressed by the respondent bank to the CBI, an FIR came to be registered against the appellant. The appellant alleges that they acquired knowledge about their account being classified as fraud and registration of the FIR only when a search F was carried out at their residential premises in pursuance of the FIR. The appellant filed a Special Civil Application challenging the actions of the respondent bank, which was dismissed by the Single Judge of the High Court of Gujarat. The Division Bench partly allowed a Letters Patent Appeal by its dated 23 December 2021 by permitting the appellant to address a representation tothe respondent bank but G declined to allowa personal hearing. The appellant/ petitioner has also invoked the writ jurisdiction of this Court by challenging the validity of the Master Directions on Frauds. 11 “CIRP” H 490 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A C. Submissions 10. On behalf of the borrowers, we have heard Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Mr Ranjit Kumar, Mr Dhruv Mehta, Mr Arunabh Chowdhury, Mr Navin Pahwa, Senior Advocates and Mr Suraj Prakash, learned counsel. The counsel submit that the procedure for classification of an B account as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds suffers from illegalities because: a. Under Clauses 8.9.4 and 8.9.5 of the Master Directions on Frauds, no notice is given to the borrowing company or its promoters, and directors including whole-time directors. C They are not given an opportunity to present a defense and even a copy of the final decision is not provided to them. b. The classification of the borrower’s bank accounts as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds carries serious civil consequences. The penal provisions under Clause 8.12 of the Master Directions on Frauds are also applicable to the D promoters, directors, and other whole-time directors. Once a bank account is classified as fraudulent, it carries significant consequences according to the Master Directions on Frauds such as filing of a complaint with the CBI and debarment of the promoters and directors from accessing E institutional finance.