H 976 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 41. But then could it be said that no action has been taken under Section 49B of the 1960 Act with regard to the transfers in question and, therefore, Section 112(3) of the Act, may have no application? We proceed on the basis that, the power exists as for reasons to follow, the appellants will fail on surer foundation. B 42. A contention has been raised that the waqf-alal-aulad in question cannot be treated as a waqf under the Act. It is the case of the first respondent that the Mussalman Waqf Validating Act, 1913 did not provide for registration of the waqf. Though the Mussalman Waqf Act, 1923 was enacted, waqf-alal-aulad was excluded from its operation. Neither the 1936 Act nor the 1960 Act applies and the appellant cannot C claim that the waqf was registered under either enactment. There is no religious or charitable purpose. In view of the specific exclusion in the 1936 Act, it is contended that the Act did not apply to the waqf as the entire income was to go for the benefit of the members of the family of the waqif. D 43. The waqf in question is created by Akbar Ali Khan by deed dated 26.07.1934. It is, no doubt, a waqf-alal-aulad. A waqf-alal-aulad is a waqf under Mohammaden Law. It was the Privy Council which in the case of Abdul Fatah Mohammad Ishak v. Russomy Dhar Chaoudhary22 held that if the charity is illusory or so small, it could not E be treated as a waqf. This led to the passing of the Mussalman Waqf Validating Act, 1913. Sections 3 and 4 of the said enactment reads as follows: “3. It shall be lawful for any person professing the Musalman faith to create Wakf which in all other respects is in according with the provisions of Musalman Law, for the following among F other purposes: - (a) For the maintenance and support wholly or partially of his family, children or descendants and (b) where the person creating a Wakf is a Hanafi Musalman, also G for his own maintenance and support during his life-time or for the payment of his debts out of the rents and profits of the property dedicated. H 22 22 Indian Appeals 76 SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 977 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Provided that the ultimate benefit is in such cases expressly A or impliedly reserved for the poor or for any other purpose recognized by the Musalman Law as a religion, pious or charitable purpose of a permanent character. 4. No such Wakf shall be deemed to be invalid merely because the benefit reserved therein for the poor or other religious, B pious or charitable purposes of a permanent nature is postponed until after the extinction of the family, children or descendants of the person creating the Wakf.” 44. Thereafter, the Mussalman Wakf Act, 1923 came to be passed. It applied to the whole of British India.