In some cases, Baker had claimed that the company was bound by confi dential clauses in agreements with other buyers. Yet, in the contracts where the costs were made available that could have been revealed and all the invoices were admissible as were the copies of contracts. No attempt was made by the Baker which relied largely upon the few invoices which it chose to tender H. J. BAKER AND BROS. INC. v. THE MINERALS AND METALS 295 TRADE CORP. LTD. (MMTC) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] in the arbitration proceedings and the Fertecon prices published from time to time. Interestingly, the tribunal rejected the contract standard, i.e. the Canadian purchaser’s prices on the ground that that was the basis of the contract. The award is bereft of any reasoning why given that Baker was a New York based supplier which sourced its supplies from various parts of the world had agreed to supply in the contracts in question based upon the Canadian prices, and instead, arbitrarily outrightly rejected that standard. 19. The failure to produce the best evidence that Baker possessed in the form of contracts for the balance quantity and the payments received as proof of damage suff ered and the shipping arrangements in question as well as the shipments as billed from time to time with full particulars, in the Division Bench’s opinion, disentitled it to any compensation for the later period given that it was made well aware in April 1992 that the arrangement could not be continued by MMTC. The fi ndings of the Division Bench, therefore, are in accord with law. 20. It is undeniable that the measure of damages, per Section 73 of the Contract Act, is the diff erence between the price at which goods sell at the marketplace on the date of breach, and the contract price. As observed in Murlidhar Chiranjilal where goods are to be bought and sold the “damages has to be calculated as they would naturally arise in the usual course of things from such breach. That means that the respondent had to prove the market rate at Kanpur on the date of breach for similar goods and that would fi x the amount of damages, in case that rate had gone about the contract rate on the date of breach.” We are therefore of opinion that this is not a case of the special type to which the words “which the parties knew, when they made the contract, to be likely to result from the breach of it” appearing in Section 73 of the Contract Act apply. This is an ordinary case of contract between traders which is covered by the words “which naturally arose in the usual course of things from such breach” appearing in Section” In that case, the seller failed to prove the price of goods, on the date of the breach, at the place of delivery; the court refused to award compensation. In the present case, this court holds that the impugned applied the correct principles of law, in partly setting aside the award.