An assessee is to be the owner before anything in his possession can be deemed to be his income. It cannot be said in the case of stolen property that the thief is the G owner thereof. Section 69A was enacted to treat the value of certain items as income by a deeming provision but facts must be found to bring a case within that deeming provision. In the case of a deeming provision the court has to assume an unreal state of things to be real.” H 560 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 45. In Commissioner of Income Tax v. K.I. Pavunny11, a Division Bench was dealing with the case where excise authorities found articles covered by Section 69A in a box. The assessee sought to attribute ownership to another person with whom he was on inimical terms. The High Court of Kerala found that the assessee did not discharge his onus to establish that the articles belonged to someone else. What is of interest B to this Court is the following discussion: “13. …But for the prohibitory law, any article being a property can be owned by a person. Simply because the law prohibits retention of a property that does not mean that such property is without ownership. Even contraband or prohibited articles can be C owned and possessed unlawfully. It is entirely a different thing that the law may not permit the owner of given articles to retain possession of them or the articles may be liable under law to be confiscated.” 46. Appellant places reliance on in Addl. Commissioner D of Income Tax vs. S. Pichaimanickan Chettiar reported in 1984 (147) ITR 251. In the said case, it is noted that Section 69A of the Act was invoked after finding the assessee and one Ameen were found to be in possession of gold at railway station and were convicted under Section 135(b)(ii) of the Customs Act. The Court held against the revenue after E holding as follows: “In this case, the assessee has been convicted only as a carrier by the Chief Presidency Magistrate and not as the owner of the gold. The Chief Presidency Magistrate has specifically observed that the actual owners of the goods or financial magnates are underground. Therefore, merely on the basis of s. 110 of the F Evidence Act, the value of the gold cannot be taken to be his income. Merely because the assessee has kept silent and has not disclosed the name of the owners of the gold, he cannot be assessed under s. 69A of the I.T. Act. Liability to be taxed under s. 69A can arise only if he is shown to be the owner of the goods.” G 47. Both views can be reconciled. No doubt, it may be true that a person may own, contraband or prohibited articles and still be within the embrace of Section 69A. In other words, the illegality of the ownership may not ill square with the requirement of Section 69A that the assessing H 11 (1998) 232 ITR 837 M/s.