Pai H GAJANAND SHARMA v. ADARSH SIKSHA PARISAD SAMITI 957 & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Foundation (supra) the Division Bench of the High Court has considered A few decisions of judicial discipline which were not applicable at all. Judicial discipline also requires that the /decision of this Court should be considered and read thoroughly. As observed hereinabove, the decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) was binding upon the High Court. Therefore, the Division Bench of the High Court has seriously B erred in not following the decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar (supra). 5.2 Now so far as the decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) is concerned, this Court was considering pari materia provisions under the DSE Act. This Court was considering Section 8 of C the DSE Act, which reads as under:- “8. (2) Subject to any rule that may be made in this behalf, no employee of a recognised private school shall be dismissed, removed or reduced in rank nor shall his service be otherwise terminated except with the prior approval of the Director.” D 5.3 Similar is the provision so far as Section 18 of the Act, 1989 is concerned which reads as under: - “18. Removal, dismissal or reduction in rank of employees.- Subject to any rules that may be made in this behalf, no employee of a recognised institution shall be removed, dismissed E or reduced in rank unless he has been given by the management a reasonable opportunity of being heard against the action proposed to be taken; Provided that no final in this regard shall be passed unless prior approval of the Director of Education or an officer authorised by him in this behalf has been obtained.” F 5.4 In the case of Raj Kumar (supra) while dealing with the pari materia provision under the DSE Act and after considering the decision of this Court in the case of T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra), it is specifically observed and held by this Court that in case of a recognized institution, before terminating the services of an employee, prior approval G of the Director of Education is required. Therefore, a contrary view taken by the Larger Bench of the High Court relied upon by the Division Bench of the High Court is not a good law. It is required to be noted that the decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) has been considered by this Court in the case of Marwari Balika Vidyalaya (supra) H 958 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A and also by the Delhi High Court in the case of Mangal Sain Jain (supra). In the case of Marwari Balika Vidyalaya (supra) this Court considered the decision in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) and object and purpose of Section 8 of DSE Act in paragraphs 13 and 14 as under:- “13. In Raj Kumar v. Director of Education [Raj Kumar v. B Director of Education, (2016) 6 SCC 541 : (2016) 2 SCC (L&S) 111] this Court held that Section 8(2) of the Delhi School Education Act, 1973 is a procedural safeguard in favour of employee to ensure that of termination or dismissal is not passed without prior approval of Director of Education to avoid arbitrary or C unreasonable termination/dismissal of employee of even recognised private school.