The effect of insertion of a non-obstante clause into a provision in a legislation, is that the very consideration arising from the provisions sought to be excluded, shall be excluded, vide Madhav Rao Scindia vs. Union of India (1971) 1 SCC 85. D Applying the aforesaid principles to interpret Section 3 of the 2017 Act, it is observed that the non-obstante clause contained in the said provision has the effect of overriding the provisions of the Act as they are not applicable to the provisions and processes under the 2016 Ordinance and the 2017 Act. It is significant to note that the said Section contains a non-obstante clause which reads, “notwithstanding anything E contained in the Act or any other law for the time being in force”. This is rightly so as the demonetisation is not in exercise of the powers under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. However, Section 3 of the 2017 Act goes on to state that the specified bank notes which have ceased to be legal tender, in view of the notification dated 8th November, F 2016 issued under sub-section(2) of Section 26 of the Act, shall cease to impose liabilities on the Bank under Section 34 of the Act and shall cease to have the guarantee of the Central Government under sub- section(1) of Section 26 of the Act. Therefore, while the impugned gazette notification dated 8th November, 2016 hasbeen admittedly issued exercising powers under sub-section(2) of Section 26 of the Act, Section G 3 of the 2017 Act also states that it is notwithstanding anything contained in the Act. If it is so, then the impugned notification could not have been issued invoking sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. The liability could have so ceased, if the power that had been exercised by the Central Government for the issuance of the notification dated 8th November, H 2016 impugned herein, under sub-section(2) of Section 26 of the Act on VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 211 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] the recommendation made by the Central Board of the Bank. That is, A when the initiation of demonetisation or the proposal came from the Central Board of the Bank, leading to the issuance of the notification by the Central Government. Had the measure of demonetisation been carried out by way of enactment of a plenary legislation, then the non- obstante clause could have been employed to exclude the applicability B of the Act. However, having sought to rely on sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Actto issue the Notification, not only is the non-obstante clause misplaced but it also gives rise to a contradiction as to on what basis the Notification dated 8th November, 2016 has been issued. Affidavits and Record of the Case: C 17. It has been observed in the preceding paragraphs that when the proposal to carry out demonetisation originates from the Central Government, irrespective of whether or not the Bank concurs with or endorses such proposal, the Central Government would have to take the legislative route through a plenary legislation and cannot proceed with demonetisation by simply issuing a notification.