D 6.4 In the representation/, it is specifically mentioned that earlier the shed collapsed on 10.06.2007 and thereafter, the shed was reconstructed in the year 2009 and a policy decision was taken pursuant to the directions issued by the Secretary, Agriculture, that at the first instance, all those allottees, who were allotted sheds for E working prior to collapse of sheds on 10.06.2007 were entitled to be allotted shed/space as they existed on the date when the shed collapsed. Thereafter, the allotment has been made as per the principles and guidelines regarding allotment of auction platforms as directed by the Secretary. The guidelines are as under: - F “1. At the first instance, all those allottees, who were allotted sheds for working prior to collapse of shed on 10.06.2007 will be allotted sheds/spaces as they exited as on the date when the shed collapsed. 2. In case after that, there are more spaces available, those G spaces shall be advertised and fresh applications from the bonafide license holders as on the date of inviting the applications or those licensees whose licenses are due for renewal and are pending for renewal with the competent authority as on date of calling applications shall be called, after giving due notice of at least 20 days. H GURJIT SINGH (D) THROUGH LRS v. UNION TERRITORY, 1053 CHANDIGARH & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Once that is done and in case legally bonafide A applications are more than the number of available space, draw of lots will be held in the presence of Chairman, Market Committee, Joint Secretary, Agricultural Marketing Board and applicants who desire to be present. Based on draw of lots further allotment of sites/working B spaces shall be made. 3. These directives shall be followed till such time the Government makes a new rule under the Act and gives new guidelines. Further keeping in view my finding in this case, I am of C the considered opinion that any allotment which has been made to other than the erstwhile allottees who were sitting and doing their business as on 10.06.2007 is not just and valid and needs to be set aside. I direct the Market Committee to issue notice for D cancellation of allotted site/shed to those allotees who were not allottees as on 10.06.2007 and after giving them due opportunity of being heard, may pass appropriate s keeping in view the principle which I have laid down in this .” E 6.5 That thereafter, the allotments have been made in accordance with the guidelines/principles laid down by the Secretary, Agriculture. Under the circumstances, the appellant is not entitled to any preferential treatment and/or allotment dehors observance of principles and guidelines issued by the Secretary regarding allotment of the auction platforms. The appellant is to be treated at par and F equally with other persons doing business in the market and on the auction platform. 6.6 Even as rightly observed by the High Court, to do business in the shop and to carry on business on the auction platform, are both different and distinct.