In the present case, even though, the DNA evidence by way of a report was present, its reliability is not infallible, especially not so in light of the fact that the uncompromised nature of such evidence cannot be established; and other that cogent evidence as can be seen from our D discussion above, is absent almost in its entirety. 67. Unfortunately, the courts below did not go into all the aforesaid aspects and presumptuously assumed the guilt of the appellant and held him to have committed the crime. 68. What prevailed upon the courts below, it appears, was the E testimony of the doctor PW 4 - Dr. Anjali Pimple, who conducted the post-mortem and, “the clinching medical evidence” and “clinching DNA report”. It is on the basis of the said medical evidence that the courts, without recording any findings with regard to the circumstances being unrefuted, convicted the appellant despite there being contradictions, F material in nature, belying the prosecution case and the veracity of the statement of witnesses, so also impeaching their credibility. 69. Further, what weighed with the courts below is more so evident from the findings returned by the High Court, i.e., nature of the alleged crime being indeed one of the heart-breaking, horrific and most depraved kind, prompting the confirmation of the death sentence awarded by the G Trial Court, considering the case to be the rarest of rare. 70. It is true that the unfortunate incident did take place, and the prosecutrix sustained multiple injuries on her body and surely must have 9 (2023) 2 SCC 353 H 180 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A suffered great pain, agony, and trauma. At the tender age of 6, a life for which much was in store in the future was terrifyingly destroyed and extinguished. The parents of the prosecutrix suffered an unfathomable loss; a wound for which there is no remedy. 71. Despite such painful realities being part of this case, we cannot B hold within law, the prosecution to have undergone all necessary lengths and efforts to take the steps necessary for driving home the guilt of the appellant and that of noneelse in the crime. 72. There are, in fact, yawning gaps in the chain of circumstances rendering it far from being established- pointing to the guilt of the C appellant. 73. As already pointed out, there are several irregularities and illegalities on the part of the agencies examining the case. 74. The questions raised in the instant appeals are answered accordingly. D 75. Before parting with the matter, we must take note of the manner in which the investigation into this dastardly crime was undertaken. Numerous lapses blot the entire map. We have already pointed out multiple instances which have led to the chain of circumstances remaining broken, the larger picture emerging therefrom being that the person, whomsoever E they may have been, remains unpunished to this day. 76. Both the crimes committed against the innocent six-year-old child, are unquestionably, malum in se i.e., evil and wrong on their own, without the prohibition of law making it so.