While issuing notice in the appeal vide dated 3rd May 2010, it was directed that status quo shall be maintained. Thereafter, vide dated 5th October 2017, the customs authorities, along with the appellant – IDBI and the Offi cial Liquidator, were permitted to sell the goods subject to deposit of the auction sale proceeds with the Registry of this Court. The sale proceeds vide two demand drafts of Rs. 1,39,34,208/- and Rs. 33,343/- dated 20th January 2023 have been deposited in this Court and converted into a fi xed deposit receipt. The auction proceeds are to be paid as per the outcome of the present appeal. 7. In the context of the present appeal, we would like to reproduce Sections 529A and 530 of the Companies Act, which read as under: “529A. Overriding preferential payments.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act or any other law for the time being in force, in the winding up of a company,— (a) workmen’s dues; and (b) debts due to secured creditors to the extent such debts rank under clause (c) of the proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 529 pari passu with such dues, shall be paid in priority to all other debts. (2) The debts payable under clause (a) and clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall be paid in full, unless the assets are insuffi cient to meet them, in which case they shall abate in equal proportions.” “530. Preferential payments.—(1) In a winding up, subject to the provisions of Section 529-A, there shall be paid in priority to all other debts— (a) all revenues, taxes, cesses and rates due from the company to the Central or a State Government or to a local authority at the relevant 1060 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. date as defi ned in clause (c) of sub-section (8) and having become due and payable within the twelve months next before that date; (b) all wages or salary (including wages payable for time or piece work and salary earned wholly or in part by way of commission) of any employee, in respect of services rendered to the company and due for a period not exceeding four months within the twelve months next before the relevant date, subject to the limit specifi ed in sub- section (2); (c) all accrued holiday remuneration becoming payable to any employee, or in the case of his death to any other person in his right, on the termination of his employment before or by the eff ect of, the winding up or resolution; (d) unless the company is being wound up voluntarily merely for the purposes of reconstruction or of amalgamation with another company, all amounts due, in respect of contributions payable during the twelve months next before the relevant date, by the company as the employer of any persons, under the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948, (34 of 1948), or any other law for the time being in force; (e) unless the company is being wound up voluntarily merely for the purposes of reconstruction or of amalgamation with another company, or unless the company has, at the commencement of the winding up, under such a contract with insurers as is mentioned in Section 14 of the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923, rights capable of being transferred to and vested in the workman, all amounts due in respect of any compensation or liability for compensation under the said Act in respect of the death or disablement of any employee of the company; (f) all sums due to any employee from a provident fund, a pension fund, a gratuity fund or any other fund for the welfare of the employees, maintained by the company; and (g) the expenses of any investigation held in pursuance of Section 235 or 237, in so far as they are payable by the company.