Here however, we have called for the original admission register itself, on the basis of which certificate of H 1108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A birth was issued. The latter is a document specified under Section 94 (2)(a)(i) of the 2015 Act. In the of sequence the age proof is required to be proved as per the aforesaid provision, the date of birth certificate is the first document to be examined for determination of age. Thus, factually the ratio of the said can be distinguished. In the case of Pawan Kumar Gupta (supra), the juvenility claim was B raised for the second time and for this reason it was held that the same plea was not maintainable. A Coordinate Bench in the case of Mohd. Anwar (supra) has observed that belated claims not only prevent proper production and application of the evidence but also undermine the genuineness of the defence. But this authority does not lay down, as an C absolute proposition of law, that belated production of age proof cannot be examined to determine juvenility of an accused. Furthermore, Section 9 (2) of the 2015 Act specifically stipulates that such plea can be raised “at any stage”. The ratio of the case of Surajdeo Mahto (supra) would also not apply in the facts of this case as in this proceeding the Inquiring Judge has gone into the question as to whether the certificates relied D upon by the applicant belonged to him or not and has returned a finding that Niranaram was indeed Narayan. We have also tested this finding and sustain the view of the Inquiring Judge. 37. In the cases of Ramdeo Chauhan (supra), Sanjeev Kumar Gupta -vs- State of Uttar Pradesh and Another [(2019) 12 SCC E 370], Parag Bhati (supra), Manoj (supra), Babloo Pasi -vs- State of Jharkhand and Another [(2008) 13 SCC 133] and Birad Mal Singhvi (supra), different Benches of this Court came to findings as regards reliability of the documents upon applying mind and none of these authorities lay down that the certificate of date of birth by the school F authorities based on admission register of the school will not be acceptable for an inquiry under Section 9(2) of the 2015 Act. On the other hand, in the of priority in the aforesaid provision, the date of birth certificate by the school authority has been given the pre-eminence. Though the heading of the said section reads “presumption and determination of age”, the section itself does not specify that the date of birth certificate G by the school would only lead to presumption. The way the provision thereof has been framed, the documents referred to in the first two sub- clauses of sub-section (2) of Section 94 of the 2015 Act, if established in the of priority, then the dates reflected therein has to be accepted to determine the age of the accused or convict claiming to be a juvenile H on the date of commission of the offence. In the event the document NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1109 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.]