George Poonthottam, relying upon the term ‘eligibility’, contained under Section 10(10) of the Act 1996 in the matter of making reappointment by referring to various legal dictionaries, we do not fi nd much force in the same. 32. Before we part with the , it is only appropriate that the Press release issued by the offi ce of the Chancellor (Honourable Governor) of the University is discussed. On a perusal of Annexure A2 Press Release dated 03.02.2022, it is clear that right from the publication of selection notifi cation dated 01.11.2021 issued on behalf of the selection committee uptill the reappointment are narrated. 33. Be that as it may, it is clearly specifi ed in the Press Release that on 23rd November, 2021, Kerala Raj Bhavan issued a notifi cation re- 396 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. appointing the 4th respondent as the Vice Chancellor of the Kannur University. Other aspects are also dealt with in the Press Release, which we do not propose to traverse through, being unnecessary. 34. Taking into account the factual and legal circumstances deliberated above, we are of the clear and considered opinion that the appellants have not made out any case of jurisdictional error or other legal infi rmities susceptible to be interfered with in the of the learned single Judge.” (Emphasis supplied) 12. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellants (original writ petitioners) are here before this Court with the present appeal. D. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT(S) 13. Mr. Dama Seshadri Naidu and Mr. George Poonthottam, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants made the following submissions: - a. The impugned proceeds on an erroneous assumption that once an appointment to the post of Vice-Chancellor is made through proper channel, the reappointment of the same incumbent to such offi ce upon expiry of the fi rst term can be made bypassing the original procedure prescribed, including the constitution of a Search-cum-Selection Committee as mandated by the University Grants Commission (Minimum Qualifi cations for Appointment of Teachers and other Academic Staff in Universities and Colleges and Measures for the Maintenance of Standards in Higher Education) Regulations, 2018 (for short, ‘the UGC Regulations’). While doing so the High Court has assumed that there is a distinction in procedure for ‘appointment’ and ‘reappointment’, whereas there is no such distinction recognised under the service law jurisprudence. b. If the impugned is to be upheld, then for reappointment as a Vice-Chancellor under the proviso to Section 10(10) of the Kannur University Act, there is no requirement for undertaking the exercise of forming and consulting the Selection Committee DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 397 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] as mandated under the UGC Regulations and as was done during the initial appointment. Going by this rationale, a person can be reappointed, even though there may be better qualifi ed and more deserving candidates eligible and qualifi ed to hold the offi ce. This obviously is not the letter and spirit of the Kannur University Act and the UGC Regulations, which aims at providing the highest standards of education.