Therefore, even the doctors and other personnel within the medical system are subjected to army/IAF discipline and rules and regulations. In these circumstances, Army hospitals and similar facilities cannot be considered as covered by CPA 1986. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 625 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 44. It would be useful to extract the relevant regulation (applicable to Indian army personnel), which is contained in Regulation 173 of the Pension Regulations for the Army, 1973 (hereafter “Army Pension Regulations”): “173. Primary Conditions for the grant of Disability Pension Unless otherwise specifi cally provided a disability pension consisting of service element and disability element may be granted to an individual who is invalided out of service on account of a disability which is attributable to or aggravated by military service in non-battle casualty and is assessed at 20 per cent or over.” 45. Chapter III of the IAF Pension Regulations, 1961, applies to airmen, i.e., non-commissioned personnel and offi cers, such as the appellant, which spells out its application by Rule 101. Rule 111 renders all service, rendered up to the date of discharge of the airman, eligible for counting of pensionary service. Rule 153 reads as follows: “153. Unless otherwise specifi cally provided, a disability pension may be granted to an individual who is invalided from service on account of a disability which is attributable to or aggravated by air force service and is assessed at 20 per cent or over. The question whether a disability is attributable to or aggravated by air force service shall be determined under the regulations in Appendix II” Appendix II deals with the principles to be applied for deciding disability. 46. In Pani Ram vs. Union of India38, this court, while upsetting a decision of the Armed Forces Tribunal rejecting a claim for disability pension, for an army personnel, held, inter alia, on a reading of the Army Pension Regulations that: “18. The perusal thereof will reveal that an individual who is invalided out of service on account of disability, which is attributable or aggravated by Military Service in non-battle casualty and is assessed 20% or more, would be entitled to disability pension. The Respondents are not in a position to point out any Rules or Regulations, which can 38 2021 (9) SCR 1024. 626 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. be said to be inconsistent with Regulation No. 292 or 173, neither has any other Regulation been pointed out, which deals with the terms and conditions of service of ETF.” Further, the court had remarked, poignantly that: “23. As held by this Court, a Right to Equality guaranteed Under Article 14 of the Constitution of India would also apply to a man who has no choice or rather no meaningful choice, but to give his assent to a contract or to sign on the dotted line in a prescribed or standard form or to accept a set of Rules as part of the contract, however unfair, unreasonable and unconscionable a Clause in that contract or form or Rules may be.