meters on 29th March, 2006 and the transaction has attained finality. There was no reason or justification for the respondent to open the transaction which was finally concluded on execution of the lease deed,with no cause of action subsisting filed a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution and that too after three and half years of the E execution of the lease deed on 29th March, 2006. 12. Learned counsel submits that the High Court has committed a serious manifest error in completely overlooking the fact that once the lease deed was executed without demur on 29th March, 2006 and the transaction initiated pursuant to a tender floated by the Authority on F 13thMarch, 1997finally concluded by execution of the lease deed without demur and that being a pure business/commercial transaction entered with the open eyes, there was no justification available to invoke the jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution with a direction to execute the lease deed for the remaining area of land i.e. 9625.50 sq. meters without any consideration and that amounts to amendment in the G instrument which was duly registered and an amendment in the instrument was not permissible in law even under the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution. 13. Learned counsel, on instructions, submits that the land available at the disposal of the Authority is always to be put to commercial use H 504 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A and disposed of in terms of the land disposal rules, but in the peculiar facts of the case, the Authority may consider the claim of the respondent if they are interested for the remaining area of land i.e. 9625.50 sq. meters on the prevalent circle rate if acceptable, only to give a quietus to the dispute which is pending for quite a long time, failing which the only option left with the Authority is to dispose of the area of land admeasuring B 9625.50 sq. meters in accordance with land disposal rules. 14. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent, while supporting the finding recorded by the High Court, submits that once the tender was floated by the appellants for 27887.50 sq. meters and the bid of the respondent @Rs.725/- per sq. meter was the highest in September, 1997 C and accepted by the Authority and the last instalment of 25th August, 2005 was accepted, there was no justification available with the appellant to segregate and sever the land which was put to auction into two parcels and the very execution of the lease deed for 18262.89 sq. meters on 29th March, 2006 and keeping away the remainder of the land and not taking D any action thereof, has compelled the respondent to invoke the jurisdiction of the High Court by filing a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution and the appellant being the public Authority and a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution, it is always expected to act fairly even in the business/commercial transactions and as there was denial of the legitimate right conferred to the respondent and the interests of the E appellants have been fully secured by putting the liability on the respondent to pay interest for the interregnum period and that is the only equitable way in balancing the right and interest of the parties inter se and in the circumstances no error was committed by the High Court which calls for interference of this Court.