Not only that, but the Chandigarh 20(2014) 4 SCC 574 H 674 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Administration is sanctioning plans which, in effect, permit apartmentalization. 163. We may gainfully refer to the following observations made by the Full Bench of the High Court in the case of Dheera Singh (supra), which read thus: “103. The Executive has in the instant case, with reference to B the 1952 Act, failed to live-up to the expectations of the residents as instead of approaching the Ministry concerned with a concrete proposal on data-based information for onward consideration of the Legislature to rejuvenate the 1952 Act and make it more vibrant and alive to the issues in praesentia or in future, it has gone for C ad hoc solutions taking refuge under Section 22 of the Act. Strangely, the amount of penalty or fine fixed by the Legislature in the year 1952 (Sections 8, 13 & 15) has not been got revised even after the expiry of 60 years. 104. The principles governing the powers of delegated legislation are fairly settled. Such a power is exercisable to implement and D achieve the objects of a Statute within the framework of the legislative policy; every delegate is subject to the authority and control of the principal who can always direct, correct or cancel the action of the subordinate legislation; the delegate in the garb of making rules cannot legislate on the fields covered by the Act.” E 164. We are therefore inclined to issue certain directions so as to ensure that the issue regarding apartmentalization is first examined by the Heritage Committee so as to preserve the heritage status of Corbusian Chandigarh. We are also inclined to direct the Chandigarh Administration to take steps for amending the CMP-2031 and the 2017 Rules after the issue has been addressed by the Heritage Committee. However, we F feel that such important issues cannot be left only to the discretion of the Chandigarh Administration. We therefore find it necessary to direct that after the Chandigarh Administration takes decision to amend the provisions, the same shall be placed before the Central Government for its consideration and final decision. We find that for protecting the heritage status of Corbusian Chandigarh, it is necessary that we should exercise G our powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India and issue certain directions. 165. In that view of the matter, we hold that in view of Rule 14 of the 1960 Rules, Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules and the repeal of the 2001 Rules, fragmentation/division/ bifurcation/apartmentalization of a H residential unit in Phase- I of Chandigarh is prohibited. RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 675 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 166. We further issue the following directions: A (i) The Heritage Committee is directed to consider the issue of redensification in Phase-I of the city of Chandigarh; (ii) Needless to state that the Heritage Committee would take into consideration its own recommendations that the northern sectors of Chandigarh “(Corbusian Chandigarh)” B should be preserved in their present form; (iii) The Heritage Committee shall also take into consideration the impact of such redensification on the parking/traffic issues; (iv) After the Heritage Committee considers the issues, the C Chandigarh Administration would consider amending the CMP-2031 and the 2017 Rules insofar as they are applicable to Phase-I in accordance with the recommendations of the Heritage Committee; (v) Such amendments shall be placed before the Central Government, which shall take a decision with regard to D approval of such amendments keeping in view the requirement of maintaining the heritage status of Le Corbusier zone; (vi) Till a final decision as aforesaid is taken by the Central Government: E a. the Chandigarh Administration shall not sanction any plan of a building which ex-facie appears to be a modus operandi to convert a single dwelling unit into three different apartments occupied by three strangers; and b. no Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) or F agreement or settlement amongst co-owners of a residential unit shall be registered nor shall it be enforceable in law for the purpose of bifurcation or division of a single residential unit into floor-wise apartments.