The said legislative Entry pertains to “taxes on goods and passengers carried by road and inland water ways.” The said Entry therefore authorises the State Legislatures to levy, inter-alia, passenger tax. That the incidence of a passenger tax levied on the strength of Entry 56 of List II of the Seventh Schedule, must be on the passengers and not on the vehicles in which passengers are carried or on the owners of such vehicles. That it is open to the Legislature to provide a convenient machinery or method for collection of such tax. Therefore, the tax can be recovered from the owner or operator of the vehicle, only when, such owner or operator can pass on the burden of the tax to the passengers but not otherwise. In this regard, reliance was placed on A.S. Karthikeyan vs. State of Kerala, (1974) 1 SCC 258 with a view to bring out the diff erences between a tax on the income of the operators vis-à-vis passenger tax. That in the present case the incidence of the tax is on the appellants who are the owners of the buses, and not on the passengers. The appellants’ role in the present case cannot be to collect the tax from the passengers and deposit the same with the Respondent Authorities as no fare is collected from the passengers, but to still discharge the tax liability out of their own coff ers. iv. That fundamentally, ‘passenger’ means a person who travels by paying a fare to the owner or operator of the vehicle, vide M/s Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co. vs. The Sales Tax Offi cer, Poona, A.I.R. 1979 SC 343. Therefore, a non-fare paying employee of the operator, or a school-going child of such employee, is not a passenger within the meaning of the constitutional entry. v. That the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 had introduced sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) to Section 2 (aa) of the Act which defi nes 16 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. ‘business’. That the said sub-clauses are brought within the scope of the term ‘business’: a) any trade, commerce, or manufacture, or any adventure or concern in the nature of trade, commerce, or manufacture, whether or not such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern is carried on with a motive to make gain of profi t and whether or not any gain or profi t actually accrues from such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern vide Section 2 (aa) (ii); and, b) any transaction in connection with or incidental or ancillary to such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern vide Section 2 (aa) (iii). That notwithstanding the fact that the scope of the term ‘business’ has been widened, sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) to Section 2 (aa) are to be read in harmony with sub-clause (i) thereof, which provides that ‘business’ includes the business of carrying passengers and goods by motor vehicles. That if ‘business’ is held to mean just any trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern, sub-clause (i) of Section 2 (aa), which specifi es the nature of business, would become redundant.