Since evidence is required to be led before it, the B Executing Court was well-nigh justified in holding the objections to be maintainable at this stage not in the sense that the decree cannot be executed against them but in the sense that a prima facie case had been set up for an enquiry to be conducted, and posting the matter for evidence to be led by the parties. We are sure that upon determination of the questions referred to in Rule 101, the Executing Court would C proceed in the manner mandated by Rule 98. 29. Further, Mr. Chitambaresh is right when he submits that this Court should not entertain the aforesaid appeals against the of the Executing Court without such having been subjected to any challenge by the Appellants before the High Court. In the decision cited by Mr. D Chitambaresh, viz., ITI Ltd. (supra), it was observed that litigants should not be indulged to hop, skip and jump to reach the Supreme Court for no better reason than the remedy is quick and more efficacious. As a matter of practice, the Supreme Court in its discretion does entertain special leave petitions directly from s of tribunals/courts without E the High Court having been approached only in matters where substantial questions of general importance are involved or where a similar issue is pending for its (the Supreme Court’s) consideration. The decision in Columbia Sportswear Company (supra)is to that effect. However, these are cases which are few and far between. The power to grant leave under Article 136 itself being discretionary, this Court would not F allow a party invoking the ‘special leave’ jurisdiction to bypass the remedy available at the level of the High Court without the two situations, as aforesaid, being satisfied. Indeed, this is not one such case. 30. For the foregoing reasons, we find no reason to interfere with the under challenge. It is upheld and the appeals stand dismissed, G without any for costs. 31. It is made clear that the Executing Court shall proceed to deal with the application of the Appellants under Rule 97 of XXI of the CPC together with the objections raised by the Respondents on their own merits and without being influenced by any observation made in H 570 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A this which has been necessitated only for disposal of the present appeals. 32. Having regard to the fact that the Appellants have been deprived of the fruits of the Decree dated 21st October 2000 for over two decades, it would only be just and proper to request the Executing B Court to proceed to decide the contentious issues in accordance with law as early as possible without granting unnecessary adjournments to any of the parties. It would, thus, be eminently desirable if the proceedings are completed within 18 months of receipt of a copy of this and . C 33. In view of the aforesaid , Contempt Petition (C) No. 2091/2018 initiated by the Appellants to punish Mr. Thomas and Mr. Abraham for willful disobedience of the dated 13th October, 2014 passed by this Court in Special Leave Petition (C) No.