Economic/Fiscal Policies – Interference by Courts – Limited scope of judicial review permissible in matters concerning economic F policy decisions – Held [per B.V. Nagarathna, J. ]: The court is not to sit in over the merits of economic or financial policy – The scope of interference by a court is limited to instances where the impugned scheme or legislation in the economic arena has been enacted in violation of any Constitutional or statutory provisions – G The court may not undertake a foray into the merits, demerits, sufficiency or lack thereof, success in realising the objectives etc., of an economic policy, as such an analysis is the prerogative of the Government in consultation with experts in the field. Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 – s.26 – Interpretation of sub-section (2) of s.26 of the Act – Initiation of recommendation to H 12 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A carry out demonetisation – Held [per B.V. Nagarathna, J. ]: Under sub-section (2) of s.26 of the Act, the Central Government would act only on the recommendation made by the Central Board of the RBI, which is the initiator of demonetisation of bank notes. Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 – s.26 – Interpretation of B sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act – Meaning of “any” series of “any” denomination – Held [per B.V. Nagarathna, J. ]: The proposal for demonetisation can emanate either from the Central Government or from the Central Board of the RBI – It is however necessary to contrast the proposal for demonetisation initiated by the Central Government, with that initiated by the Central Board of the RBI – C When the Central Board of the RBI recommends demonetisation, it is only for a particular series of bank notes of a particular denomination as specified in the recommendation made under sub-section (2) of s.26 of the Act – The word “any” in sub-section (2) of s.26 cannot be read to mean “all” – If read as “specified” or D “particular” as against all, it would not suffer from arbitrariness or suffer from unguided discretion being given to the Central Board of the RBI. Demonetisation – Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 – s.26 – Demonetisation initiated by Central Government ought to have been carried out by way of a plenary legislation – Non-applicability of E sub-section (2) of s.26 of the Act – Held [per B.V. Nagarathna, J. ]: The powers of the Central Government being vast, the same have to be exercised only through a plenary legislation or a legislative process rather than by an executive act by the issuance of a notification in the Gazette of India – It is necessary that the F Parliament which consists of the representatives of the People of this country, discusses the matter and thereafter approves and supports the implementation of the scheme of demonetisation. Demonetisation – Principle, “to do a thing a particular way or not at all” – “expression unius est exclusion alterius” – Held G [per B.V. Nagarathna, J.