There is nothing on record which indicates the truth of the appellants’ allegations or even points to a possibility of the truth of such an allegation. It is entirely unsubstantiated and appears to be a last-ditch attempt to sustain their challenge to the abolition of the OAT. In any G event, the averment belies logic. All cases pending before the OAT would be transferred to the Orissa High Court, without exception. This in- cludes contempt petitions. Hence, it would not be possible for officials or others to avoid contempt proceedings as a result of the abolition of the OAT. H 804 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A E. Findings and conclusion 128. In view of the discussion above, we hold that the abolition of the OAT was constitutionally valid for the following reasons: a. The Writ Petitions instituted before the Orissa High Court were maintainable because the appellants claimed that their B constitutional rights had been violated. They were therefore entitled to invoke the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution; b. Article 323-A does not preclude the Union Government from abolishing SATs because it is an enabling provision which confers the Union Government with the power to establish C an administrative tribunal at its discretion (upon receiving a request from the relevant State Government in terms of the Administrative Tribunals Act). The legal and factual context of the power to establish administrative tribunals, the pur- pose of this power and the intention of the legislature estab- D lish that there is no duty to exercise the power conferred by the Administrative Tribunals Act, such that the enabling pro- vision becomes a mandatory provision; c. The Union Government acted in valid exercise of its powers when it invoked Section 21 of the General Clauses Act read E with Section 4(2) of the Administrative Tribunals Act to re- scind the notification establishing the OAT because the de- cision to establish the OAT was an administrative decision and not a quasi-judicial decision. Moreover, Section 21 of the General Clauses Act is not repugnant to the subject-matter, context and effect of the Administrative Tribunals Act and is F in harmony with its scheme and object; d. The notification dated 2 August 2019 by which the OAT was abolished is not violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. The State Government did not consider any irrelevant or extraneous factors while arriving at the decision to request G the Union Government to abolish the OAT. The decision to abolish the OAT is itself not absurd or so unreasonable that no reasonable person would have taken it; e. The principles of natural justice were not violated because the class of people who were affected by the decision to abolish the OAT did not have a right to be heard. The public H ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 805 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] at large (or some sections of it) did not have a right to be A heard before the policy decision was taken; f. The Union Government did not become functus officio after establishing the OAT because the doctrine cannot ordinarily be applied in cases where the government is formulating and implementing a policy; B g. The notification dated 2 August 2019 is valid though it is not expressed in the name of the President of India because non-compliance with Article 77 of the Constitution does not invalidate a notification or render it unconstitutional; h. The abolition of the OAT is not violative of the fundamental C right of access to justice because the Orissa High Court will hear cases which were pending before the OAT prior to its abolition; i.