The court also recorded the F Union’s objection to the grant of such relief; the Union had contended that repeated requests for enhancement was an abuse of the process of the court. 12. On 04.05.2020, the Andhra Pradesh SPCB issued a letter stating that as per its record, based on inspection of Sanvira’s unit, the G latter’s capacity for manufacture of calcinated petroleum coke was 3,30,000 MT per annum and the power generation capacity was 16 MW. On 03.06.2020, the DGFT held a meeting to finalize the quantum of allocation of CPC and RPC pursuant to the public notice dated 17.04.2020. Rain CII’s request for enhanced allocation based on its claim of increased H 146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A capacity was also considered. The minutes of meeting recorded on that day, i.e. 03.06.2020 are as follows: “4. M/s Rain CII Carbon (Vizag) Ltd, SEZ Unit has submitted an application for quantity of 4,88,000 MT of RPC in addition to an application for the DTA unit. It was noted that the CTO B from Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board had been obtained vide their Consent Letter dated 6.3.2020. The Committee noted that since the CTO does not specify the installed capacity as on 9th October 2018, the Committee accordingly decided to not consider the request for allocation of quota. C xxx 6. The Committee examined the SPCB certificates of all the applicants for RPC imports. On examination, Committee observed that the SPCBs have adopted varying conversion rates for calculating the requirement of RPC for D producing CPC. In their CTO certificates, the Committee also noted that consumption requirement is not indicated in SPCB certificates of all the firms. To bring uniformity, the Committee decided to allocate RPC by adopting following criteria: i. The production capacity of the applicant is to be calculated E on annual basis. Wherever, SPCB certificates shows production figures in TPD, the annual production capacity is to be arrived at by multiplying the capacity with 350 days (average operational days for the unit) to bring uniformity. ii. The production capacity for each applicant to be converted F to input/raw material requirement by taking industry average conversion rate i.e. 1:1.36 (as mentioned in the EPCA report). iii. The additional capacity added by the applicants after the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s dated 9.10.2018 is not taken into consideration; G iv. The quota be divided on a proportionate basis as per the following formula:- Quota allocated = Total Quota available for allotment multiplied by the demand of applicant divided by the Total H demand for all applicants M/S. SANVIRA INDUSTRIES v. RAIN CII CARBON (VIZAG) 147 LTD. & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] v. In cases where requested quantity is lower than eligible A quantity, the surplus on their heads are redistributed among others proportionately.” 13. Rain CII challenged the increased allocation to Sanvira, in its writ petition. A learned single judge, after considering the pleadings and submissions of the parties, sought to distinguish the various public notices B issued by the GOI, and was of the opinion that this court’s s did not preclude the allocation of a different quantum as the s were only indicative of the total quantity that could be imported.