It is submitted that therefore once the execution of agreement to sell is admitted and the part sale consideration is received and it was found that the plaintiff was always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract, the learned F trial Court was justified in decreeing the suit for specific performance. 3.4 It is then submitted that even, though not required, the learned trial Court enhanced the sale consideration to do complete justice, which the plaintiff agreed. It is submitted that enhancement of the sale consideration by the learned trial Court could not have been gone against G the plaintiff. 3.5 It is further submitted that even otherwise when while exercising the discretion in favour of the plaintiff to pass a decree for specific performance, the learned trial Court enhanced the amount of sale consideration and directed the plaintiff to pay some more amount H C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 255 KURUP [M. R. SHAH, J.] than the sale consideration mentioned in the agreement to sell, the same A was not required to be interfered with by the High Court. 3.6 It is submitted that as such the High Court has straightway gone and considered Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, without adverting to the findings recorded by the learned trial Court on execution of the agreement to sell; payment of part sale consideration and that the B plaintiff was always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract. 3.7 Making the above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal. 4. The present appeal is opposed by Shri Raghenth Basant, learned C counsel appearing on behalf of the original defendants. 4.1 It is vehemently submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original defendants that as such the agreement to sell was a forced agreement to sell as at the relevant time, defendant no.1 suffered a heart attack and he was in need of money and therefore he was compelled to sell the property in question. It is therefore submitted D and as rightly observed by the High Court, the learned trial Court ought not to have exercised the discretion in favour of the plaintiff, rather ought to have exercised the discretion in favour of the defendants on the ground of equity. 4.2 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original defendants E has submitted that at the time of execution of agreement to sell, the plaintiff paid a meagre amount of Rs. 10,000/- only as advance towards the consideration amount. It is submitted that as the defendants were hard pressed and were in need of immediate money as defendant no.1 suffered a heart attack, it was agreed that the balance consideration to F be paid within six months from the date of agreement to sell. It is submitted that thereafter as the plaintiff did not pay the balance sale consideration within six months, the defendants cleared their liabilities by selling gold ornaments of their family members and therefore thereafter the defendants were not in need of money and therefore there was no cause and/or reason to sell the property in question and thereafter the G agreement to sell was cancelled.