38. What will be the conditions for providing employment are referred to under Section 5 of the Act, 2005. The wage rate is to be D fixed by the Central Government from time to time in terms of Section 6. If an applicant for employment under the Scheme is not provided such employment within fifteen days of receipt of the application seeking employment, he shall be entitled to a daily unemployment allowance in accordance with Section 7. E 39. Chapter IV notifies implementing and monitoring authorities at the central level by Central Employment Guarantee Council and at the State level, by State Employment Guarantee Council as referred to under Sections 10 and 12 of the Act, 2005. 40. After the Act, 2005 came into force, such States which are F notified in the Schedule as referred to under Section 1(3) of the Act, 2005 which includes the State of Tamil Nadu, the same was offered to the educated unemployed youth primarily under the Act, 2005. 41. It has not been disputed that the scheme undertaken by the State of Tamil Nadu under the Act, 2005 isstill in force. G 42. The practice adopted by the Government in the past of which a detailed reference has been made from 1989 onwards and to be more specific, after the introduction of Scheme for providing employment to the educated unemployed youth to work in the village panchayat by dated 2nd September, 1989, it has undergone a change at various stages and forms. H 406 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 43. We cannot afford to lose democracy in our country by permitting the political parties empowered to overrule the wisdom of their political opponents with the use of State machinery. 44. So far as the object behind the scheme is concerned, it appears to be very laudable and at least in the interest of poor unemployed B educated youth by providing them to serve on the wages certified by the Government from time to time by providing employment under the Scheme introduced by the State Government, at least for not less than one hundred days guaranteed in a financial year who volunteered to do unskilled manual work. At the same time, while the policy decision of the Government is always open to judicial reviewon the anvil of Article 14 C of the Constitution and is ordinarily not to be interfered unless that is attached with legal or factual malice of the Government,however, in the instant case, the Division Bench of the High Court has set aside the finding so far as the malice which was imputed by the learned Single Judge in passing dated 8th November, 2011 is concerned. After D going through the records, weare of the view that the dated 8th November, 2011 might have been passed as a policy decision of the Government but the seriatim of facts which have come on recordat least cannot be countenanced by this Court. 45. The question which emerges for our consideration is whether E the dated 8th November, 2011 is untenable in the eyes of law,such employees who were discontinued are eligible for reinstatement and regularization of service?