Though the property in question was private, the Court said that the operation of a town was a public function and that therefore, the private rights of the corporation must be exercised within constitutional limitations. After quoting the decision in G Marsh, K.K. Mathew, J. went on to hold as follows: “95. But how far can this expansion go? Except in very few cases, our Constitution does not, through its own 66 AIR 1956 SC 108 67 (1975) 1 SCC 421 H 68 326 US 501 (1946) KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 669 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] force, set any limitation upon private action. Article 13(2) A provides that no State shall make any law which takes away or abridges the rights guaranteed by Part III. It is the State action of a particular character that is prohibited. Individual invasion of individual right is not, generally speaking, covered by Article 13(2). In other B words, it is against State action that fundamental rights are guaranteed. Wrongful individual acts unsupported by State authority in the shape of laws, customs, or judicial or executive proceeding are not prohibited. Articles 17, 23 and 24 postulate that fundamental rights can be violated by private individuals and that the remedy C under Article 32 may be available against them. But, by and large, unless an act is sanctioned in some way by the State, the action would not be State action. In other words, until some law is passed or some action is taken through officers or agents of the State, there is no action D by the State…” (iv) In People’s Union for Democratic Rights (supra) this Court pointed out that the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 24 is enforceable against everyone, including the contractors. The Court went a step further by holding E that the Union of India, the Delhi Administration and the Delhi Development Authority have a duty to ensure that this Constitutional obligation is obeyed by the contractors. Going further, this Court held that certain fundamental rights such as those found in Articles 17, 23 and 24 are enforceable against the whole world. F (v) S. Rangarajan (supra) was a case where a division Bench of the Madras High Court revoked the ‘U’ certificate issued to a Tamil feature film, on the ground that it offended the reservation policy. The Government of Tamil Nadu supported the decision of the High Court on the ground that several G organizations in Tamil Nadu were agitating that the film should be banned as it hurt the sentiments of people belonging to the reserved categories. After pointing out that this Court was amused and troubled by the stand taken by the State Government, this Court indicated that H 670 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A it is the duty of the State to protect the freedom of expression since it is a liberty granted against the State and that the State cannot plead its inability to handle the hostile audience problem.