[2023] 11 S.C.R. 1 : 2023 INSC 661 CASE DETAILS THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. v. SHARWAN KUMAR KUMAWAT ETC. ETC (Civil Appeal Nos. 1162-1171 of 2016) AUGUST 01, 2023 [A. S. BOPANNA AND M. M. SUNDRESH, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Issue pertains to constitutionality of rr. 4(10) and 7(3) of the Rajasthan Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1986 as regards restriction on grant and renewal of mining leases, and the procedure for grant of lease; whether the High Court misconstrued the issues ignoring the power of the State Government to make Rules in respect of minor minerals u/s. 15 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957; and whether there is a right vested over an application made which is pending seeking lease of a Government land or over the minerals beneath the soil in any type of land. Mines and minerals – Grant of mining leases – Vested right/ preferential rights of certain persons: Held : Applicant cannot have an exclusive right in seeking a grant of license of a mineral unless facilitated by a statute – There is no right vested over an application pending seeking lease of a Government land or minerals over which the Government has a vested right and regulatory control – Mere fi ling of an application ipso facto does not create any right – When a decision is taken by a competent authority in public interest by evolving a better process such as auction, a right, if any, to an applicant seeking lease over a Government land disappears on its own – Rajasthan Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1986 – rr. 4(10) and 7(3). [Para 17] Mines and minerals – Mining leases – Invocation of doctrine of legitimate expectation – On basis of pending application: 1 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Held : Legitimate expectation is a weak and sober right as ordained by a statute – When the Government decides to introduce fair play by way of auction facilitating all eligible persons to contest on equal terms, he is not entitled for a lease merely on the basis of a pending application – Right being not legal, apart from being non-existent, it cannot be enforceable. [Para 19] Mines and minerals – Mining leases – Fundamental right in mining: Held : There is no fundamental right in mining. [Para 18] Mines and minerals – Mining leases – New amended Rules – Legal malice in amendments: Held : Impugned Rules have not been brought forth only to nullify the eff ect of the s – Basis of a can be removed and a decision of the court cannot be treated like a statute, particularly when power is available to act and it is accordingly exercised in public interest – Appellants have duly complied with the s passed – In view thereof, no legal malice in the amendments – Rajasthan Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1986 – rr. 4(10) and 7(3). [Para 21] Rajasthan Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1986 – rr.