52 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 8. Normally, when an Appellate Court exercises appellate jurisdiction, the duty of the Appellate Court is to fi nd out whether the verdict which is under challenge is correct or incorrect in law and on facts. The Appellate Court normally ascertains whether the decision under challenge is legal or illegal. But while dealing with an appeal against acquittal, the Appellate Court cannot examine the impugned only to fi nd out whether the view taken was correct or incorrect. After re-appreciating the oral and documentary evidence, the Appellate Court must fi rst decide whether the Trial Court’s view was a possible view. The Appellate Court cannot overturn acquittal only on the ground that after re-appreciating evidence, it is of the view that the guilt of the accused was established beyond a reasonable doubt. Only by recording such a conclusion an of acquittal cannot be reversed unless the Appellate Court also concludes that it was the only possible conclusion. Thus, the Appellate Court must see whether the view taken by the Trial Court while acquitting an accused can be reasonably taken on the basis of the evidence on record. If the view taken by the Trial Court is a possible view, the Appellate Court cannot interfere with the of acquittal on the ground that another view could have been taken. 9. There is one more aspect of the matter. In many cases, the learned Trial Judge who eventually passes the of acquittal has an occasion to record the oral testimony of all material witnesses. Thus, in such cases, the Trial Court has the additional advantage of closely observing the prosecution witnesses and their demeanour. While deciding about the reliability of the version of prosecution witnesses, their demeanour remains in the back of the mind of the learned Trial Judge. As observed in the commentary by Sarkar on the Law of Evidence, the demeanour of a witness frequently furnishes a clue to the weight of his testimony. This aspect has to be borne in mind while dealing with an appeal against acquittal. 10. Coming back to the facts of the case, after having carefully perused the impugned , we fi nd that there is no discussion about the testimony of eyewitnesses for deciding whether their testimony could be believed. In fact, there are no fi ndings recorded by the High Court after re-appreciating the evidence. There is not even a fi nding to indicate that the High Court considered the question whether the view taken by the Trial Court H. D. SUNDARA & ORS. v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 53 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] was a possible view. Without recording any reasons and without recording any fi nding regarding the role played by the appellants individually and collectively, the High Court has jumped to the conclusion that the guilt of the accused has been established. The does not throw any light on the question who were the authors of the injuries sustained by the deceased and the injured witnesses.