However, in her evidence she has deposed that accused held the ears of the victim and dashed her against the wall. Though, PW-1 claimed that deceased was taken in an auto rickshaw, non-examination of the driver of auto rickshaw would create a doubt in the prosecution theory. Neither the clothes of the accused nor of the victim was sent for chemical analysis. He would also contend that in the event this Court were to affi rm the fi ndings of the courts below, he would pray for sentence being converted to the one under second part of Section 304 of the IPC in as much as the accused had no knowledge that his act is likely to cause death, as such it would be culpable homicide not amounting to murder. 9. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the respondent would support the impugned and has prayed for affi rming the same. He would also contend that the evidence tendered by the prosecution has not been impeached and the prosecution witnesses have stood the test of cross-examination and as such the impugned deserves to be affi rmed. He would further contend that the accused having been in love with the deceased was unable to digest the fact that she had developed intimacy with her neighbour Sudhakar and being dejected the accused had taken the extreme step of eliminating the deceased and the reasons assigned by the High Court while affi rming the and sentence awarded by the Sessions Court would not be required to be interfered with. Hence, he has prayed for rejection of the appeal. 850 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 10. At the outset, it requires to be noticed that while issuing notice of this appeal on 21.11.2016, it was restricted for the purpose of conversion of the off ence. Hence, within this limited sphere this appeal has to be examined, namely, as to whether judgement, and sentence passed by the Sessions Court and affi rmed by the High Court requires to be affi rmed or the sentence is to be converted and punishment to be awarded under Section 304 of IPC and if so, which part of Section 304 IPC? 11. In the aforesaid background, it would be necessary to discern the evidence available on record. The fi nal opinion given by the doctor for the cause of death as evident from exhibit P-9 reads as under: “The deceased would appear to have died of “head injury”. (viscera report enclosed-alcohol in other format was not detected”). 12. The doctor (PW-11) who conducted the post-mortem of the deceased has deposed that he is the author of the report Ex. P-9. He has also deposed that injuries found therein can be infl icted when a person slips and falls on the kitchen slab. He has admitted that two injuries which he had identifi ed had been infl icted a week before, and were in the process of healing. PW-10 who is the doctor at Cauvery Hospital, Trichy and had examined the deceased, has deposed that deceased was conscious when he examined her on 26.06.2010.