6.2. Learned counsel has argued that though the High Court relied on the decision of this Court in Sukanya Holdings (supra) but the same has been doubted and distinguished in various decisions of this Court subsequently. In this regard, learned counsel has referred to various E decisions in which the said decision in Sukanya Holdings was distinguished or clarified; and has particularly referred to the decision in Ameet Lalchand Shah and Ors. v. Rishabh Enterprises and Anr. : (2018) 15 SCC 678 and a 3-Judge Bench decision in the case of Vidya Drolia and Ors. v. Durga Trading Corporation: (2021) 2 SCC 1. Learned counsel would submit that now, the law pertaining to Section 8 F of the Act of 1996 is solely interpreted keeping in view the amendment to it. With reference to the case of Vidya Drolia (supra) learned counsel has submitted that two major principles have been laid down therein: one, that only those cases that are ‘deadwood’ should not be referred to arbitration; and second, that whenever there is doubt, the correct course G is to refer to arbitration. Further placing reliance on ONGC Ltd. v. Discovery Enterprises: (2022) 8 SCC 42 and Intercontinental Hotels v. Waterline Hotels: (2022) 7 SCC 662 he has submitted that unless the issue before the Court patently indicates existence of deadwood, Courts should ensure that arbitration is carried on. Learned counsel would submit that the High Court has adopted a rather restrictive interpretation H GUJARAT COMPOSITE LIMITED v. A INFRASTRUCTURE 125 LIMITED & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] of the Act of 1996 in the impugned, which deserves to be set A aside. 6.3. Learned counsel for appellant has also submitted that the mandate of Act of 1996 would have ensured the completion of proceedings within a year, with a reduced scope of interference in the possible Section 34 proceedings at the instance of either party, but the B matter has remained pending with only framing of issues. Learned counsel would further submit that the licensees are squatting over the property, under a licence agreement dating back to the year 2005, without performing any work and have illegally and unauthorisedly prevented the appellant, who is the owner of the property, from dealing with it. C Learned counsel has underscored the point that the respondent No. 1 has not denied the existence of a dispute, but merely argues that the said disputes cannot be resolved through arbitration due to the involvement of the bank, an argument that cannot withstand legal scrutiny. 7. Per contra, learned counsel forthe contesting respondent has D also referred to the background aspects and various transactions as also the grievance of the plaintiff- respondent No. 1 to submit that the dispute as involved in the suit has rightly not been referred to arbitration. 7.1. Learned counsel for the contesting respondent would submit that the underlying civil suits are spread over various agreements/ E transactions and involve various parties where except the appellant none of the other defendants are parties to the arbitration agreement which is contained only in the main licence agreement dated 07.04.2005.