When the entire family of CW-1 was facing so many storms, it is quite natural for a son to say to her mother (who was old, illiterate, rustic woman having faced immense trauma) that she should not forget to disclose the name of accused persons, in as much as the second occasion of her examination, as ed by the Division Bench of High Court under Section 311 of CrPC, was the last opportunity for her to speak the truth before the Trial Court. 104. We do not fi nd anything unusual in the statement of CW-1, and her ocular evidence appears to be trustworthy and corroborates the dying declaration of her son Rajendra Rai. This conclusion of ours is guided by the basic and well-settled principles of appreciation of evidence, which this Court in the case of Balu Sudam Khalde and Another vs. State of Maharashtra17, has summarized as principles of appreciation of ocular evidence in a criminal case, which we can usefully reproduce hereinafter: 17 2023 SCC OnLine SC 355 HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 459 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] “APPRECIATION OF ORAL EVIDENCE Para 25. The appreciation of ocular evidence is a hard task. There is no fi xed or straight-jacket formula for appreciation of the ocular evidence. The judicially evolved principles for appreciation of ocular evidence in a criminal case can be enumerated as under: I. “I. While appreciating the evidence of a witness, the approach must be whether the evidence of the witness read as a whole appears to have a ring of truth. Once that impression is formed, it is undoubtedly necessary for the Court to scrutinize the evidence more particularly keeping in view the defi ciencies, drawbacks and infi rmities pointed out in the evidence as a whole and evaluate them to fi nd out whether it is against the general tenor of the evidence given by the witness and whether the earlier evaluation of the evidence is shaken as to render it unworthy of belief. II. If the Court before whom the witness gives evidence had the opportunity to form the opinion about the general tenor of evidence given by the witness, the appellate court which had not this benefi t will have to attach due weight to the appreciation of evidence by the Trial Court and unless there are reasons weighty and formidable it would not be proper to reject the evidence on the ground of minor variations or infi rmities in the matter of trivial details. III. When eye-witness is examined at length it is quite possible for him to make some discrepancies. But Courts should bear in mind that it is only when discrepancies in the evidence of a witness are so incompatible with the credibility of his version that the Court is justifi ed in jettisoning his evidence. IV. Minor discrepancies on trivial matters not touching the core of the case, hyper technical approach by taking sentences torn out of context here or there from the evidence, attaching importance to some technical error committed by the investigating offi cer not going to the root of the matter would not ordinarily permit rejection of the evidence as a whole.