According to him, he hid himself when the occurrence happened. Thereafter, he went to the police station, met the Superintendent of Police, and lodged a complaint. He is also a witness to the site plan, Ex. P-16 and the arrest memo, Ex. P-19. Even during his chief-examination, he deposed that he returned with the police personnel to the place of H RANVIR SINGH ETC. ETC. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA 849 PRADESH [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] occurrence around 3.00 to 4.00 p.m., which is again a contra-statement A to the case of the prosecution. In his cross-examination, he admits that what he deposed in its entirety was not found in his statement under Section 161 CrPC recorded as Ex. D-4. He met the Station Officer as directed by the Superintendent of Police. It is his specific case that the statement was recorded at the police station. B 15. This witness found both the deceased and the injured witness in an unconscious state when the police party reached the place of occurrence. The statements of the injured witness, and the deceased were recorded in the hospital at 5.00 p.m. 16. Needless to state that the evidence of this witness strikes at C the very foundation of the prosecution’s version. With his evidence there are three first information reports. P.W.18: 17. P.W.18 is the wife of one of the deceased, Kishori. Like others, she also claims to be an eye witness. After the occurrence, she went to D the police station and lodged the first information report by affixing her thumb impression. She was accompanied by three persons, including her brother-in-law. She also did not know the accused by name. 18. Once again, the aforesaid statement reiterated the factum of multiple first information reports given at different times leading to the E conclusion that it would not be appropriate to place reliance on the official one. P.W.20: 19. The investigating officer is arrayed as P.W.20. His role assumes F significance as it is he who recorded the Dehati Nalishi from the deceased, and converted it into a first information report. He puts up a totally different version. In the chief-examination, he says that he received a phone call from an unknown person. He has also recorded the statement of the deceased Hukum Singh in the hospital, but no one knows about its fate. Though he had stated that he also recorded the statement of P.W.12 G (Hakim Singh), it was not done, as rightly deposed by the said person who was made to depose for the first time only before the Court. Contrary to the first information report, he has stated that the members of the victim’s family were also present. Though, he has allegedly recorded the statement of Hukum Singh, P.W.12 (Hakim Singh), Bhogiram and H 850 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A P.W.18 (Bhaggo Bai), he did not mention the date and time, except with respect to the statement of the deceased Hukum Singh, which appears to be rather strange, giving credence to the contention that either they have been recorded at a different point of time or that there was no statement from Hukum Singh.