Though the notification ex facie may F not specify retrospective application, the effect of superseding the earlier notifications and the proviso introduced to clause 4(ii) would make the impugned notification dated 04.03.2021 ‘retroactive’ insofar as taking away the assured right based on which the petitioners and similarly placed persons have altered G their position and have adjusted the life’s trajectory with the hope of furthering their career in professional education. [Para 44][292- F-G] 1.3 Article 14 of the Constitution can be invoked and contend discrimination only when persons similarly placed are H 246 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A treated differently and in that view the OCI Cardholders being a class by themselves cannot claim parity with the Indian citizens, except for making an attempt to save the limited statutory right bestowed. To that extent certainly the fairness in the procedure adopted has a nexus with the object for which change is made and the application of mind by the Respondent No.1, before B issuing the impugned notification requires examination. [Para 45][293-A-B] 1.4 The right of the OCI Cardholders is a midway right in the absence of dual citizenship. When a statutory right was conferred and such right is being withdrawn through a notification, C the process for withdrawal is required to demonstrate that the action taken is reasonable and has nexus to the purpose. It should not be arbitrary, without basis and exercise of such power cannot be exercised unmindful of consequences merely because it is a sovereign power. Except for the bare statement in the objection D statement, there is no material with regard to the actual exercise undertaken to arrive at a conclusion that the participation of OCI Cardholders in the selection process has denied the opportunity of professional education to the Indian citizens. There are no details made available about the consideration made as to, over the years how many OCI cardholders have succeeded in getting E a seat after competing in the selection process by which there was denial of seats to Indian Citizens though they were similar merit-wise. [Paras 46, 47][293-C-D; 294-B-C] 1.5 It is sought to be pointed out on behalf of the petitioners that the explanation put forth does not indicate the true State of F Affairs in as much as, seats have still remained vacant in the previous years. It is no doubt true that as contended by the learned Additional Solicitor General, the vacancies will remain due to several factors such as reservation of seats, other permutations and combinations as also the preferred and non-preferred G colleges. Be that as it may, the dire need to take away the bestowed right by applying the impugned notification even to young students who technically though are not citizens of this country but were provided certain rights in such manner would not be justified as it does not demonstrate nexus to the object sought to be achieved. Policy decision for the future, certainly is H ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 247 ORS.