A Constitutional Court cannot casually interfere with legislation made by a competent Legislature only by drawing an inference from the pleadings that the challenge to the validity is implicit. The State gets a proper opportunity to defend the legislation only if the State is made aware of the grounds on which the legislation is sought to be H challenged. HAJI ABDUL GANI KHAN & ANR. v. UNION OF INDIA & 531 ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] 15. Though an opportunity was available to the petitioners to A challenge the provisions of the J&K Reorganisation Act, the petitioners have chosen not to do so. We may also note here that the petitioners are also not questioning the 2019 Presidential and the said declaration. Therefore, we will have to proceed on the footing that the 2019 Presidential , the said declaration and the provisions of the J&K Reorganisation B Act are valid. It is in this context that the submissions made across the Bar will have to be appreciated. Findings on the challenges in the Writ Petition 16. The Constitution makes a clear distinction between the States and Union Territories as can be seen from Article 1 and the First Schedule. C Part V of the Constitution deals with the Union. Chapter II of Part V deals with Parliament. Part VI deals with the States. Chapter III of Part VI deals with the State Legislature. Part VIII of the Constitution independently deals with the Union Territories. 17. Article 3 provides that Parliament may by law form new States D and alter the areas, boundaries or names of the existing States. The explanation I provides that in clauses (a) to (e) of Article 3, a “State” includes “Union Territory”. Thus, Explanation I makes it amply clear that the power of Parliament under Clause (a) of Article 3, to make a law to form a new State or to alter a boundary of a State includes a E power to make a law to form a new Union Territory. Explanation II clarifies that the power conferred by clause (a) on Parliament to enact the law to form a new State includes a power to form a Union Territory by uniting parts of any State or Union Territory to any other State or Union Territory. Clause (1) of Article 4 provides that any law made by Parliament as provided in Article 3 shall contain such provisions for the F amendment of the First Schedule (containing the list of States and Union Territories) and Fourth Schedule (containing allocation of seats in the Council of States) as may be necessary for the purposes of giving effect to the provisions of the law. Such a law may also contain such supplemental, incidental and consequential provisions including provisions G as to representation in Parliament and in the Legislature or Legislatures of the State or States affected by such law as Parliament may deem necessary. Clause (2) of Article 4 clarifies that no such law made by Article 3 shall be deemed to be an amendment of the Constitution for the purposes of Article 368.