If a new society (Pei May Chinese High School) is emerged with a separate entity at the same address of Pei May School which is a part of Chinese Tannery Owners’ Association and wish to register under West Bengal Societies Registration Act, 1961 then the Memorandum of Association of Chinese Tannery Owners’ Association is to be amended to that eff ect and to be approved from the Registrar of Societies. But I have not found any of such documents in the records wherein the Chinese Tannery owners’ Association applied for such amendment of their Memorandum of Association. I have not gone through the merits of the criminal proceedings pending in this issue on which the decision to be taken by the competent authority concerned but emphasis is only given on the matter of justifi cation of issuance of certifi cate to Pei May Chinese High School. In my opinion, the application for registration of Pei May Chinese High School under the separate ambit of a registered society i.e. Chinese 312 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Tannery Owners Association, in violation of the provision of the Act and the registration so obtained by suppressing the fact, is liable to be cancelled. Hence, being empowered by Section 22 of the Bengal General Clauses Act, 1899 mentioned in the of the Hon’ble Justice Arijit Banerjee dated 16,07.2015, I am passing this of cancellation of the registration granted under West Bengal Societies Registration Act, 1961 dated in respect of Pei May Chinese High School bearing registration number S/ lL/68216 of 2009-10. Hence forth the very society cannot function as a society registered under West Bengal Societies Registration Act, 1961. This is further to note that this cannot be cited as precedent case unless it is specifi cally directed by the Court of law.” 8. The of the Registrar passed on 19.04.2016 was unsuccessfully assailed before a Single Judge of the High Court in Writ Petition No.391 of 2016 and Writ Petition No.518 of 2016. There was diff erence of opinion between the learned Judges of the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court, in a Letters Patent Appeal fi led by the respondent no.1 and others against the decision of the learned Single Judge sustaining the cancellation . The presiding Judge opined that the Registrar’s decision was correct whereas the companion Judge held that such an issue could not be dealt with by the Registrar as it was not in the nature of procedural review. The companion Judge in her diff ering view observed that since the issue of fraud and forging signatures is already pending before the “Court below,” possibly implying pendency of the civil suit and the criminal proceeding, the decisions in such cases would provide complete relief to the parties. In case the court arrived at a fi nding that the signatures appended to the Memorandum of Association were forged then the Registrar in exercise of his procedural power to review his own registration would be free to take a decision to deregister the society as fraud vitiates everything, and in case the court opines that the complaint does not have any merits then the certifi cate of registration will not be open for scrutiny.