PW-5 has not stated that there was any discussion in his presence between the appellant and the E complainant on the basis of which an inference could have been drawn that there was a demand made for gratification by the appellant. The witness had no knowledge about what transpired between the complainant and the appellant earlier. PW-5 had admittedly no personal knowledge about the purpose for which the cashwas allegedly handed over by the F complainant to the appellant. 17. We may note here that as per the version of the appellant in her statement under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Cr.P.C. ), on 17th April 2000, she was working as an LDC in DVB office. On that day, she was busy with her official duty in a collection drive organized by the department to collect dues from the consumers. G Her explanation is that the complainant was her neighbour and he wanted her assistance to deposit electricity charges. She stated that earlier, she had a transaction of sale and purchase of a car through the complainant. She has also stated that the complainant was a history-sheeter and there were three First Information Reports (FIRs) registered against him. In H 1012 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A this context, PW-5 was questioned in the cross-examination. The relevant answer given by PW-5 reads thus: “I cannot confirm or deny that accused Neeraj Dutta along with her cashier and other staff consisting of four five member had collected Rs.71,000/- in the single delivery point camp held at Jai B Vihar and she along with her staff members were coming in her car and on the way she stopped at the shop of the complainant who was her neighbour to collect the balance sale proceeds of Rs.1 lac of her previous car from the complainant as she had sold the said car through the complainant to M/s. Sagar Motors and this payment was to be received by her through complainant from C M/s. Sagar Motors.” It is pertinent to note here that PW-5 did not confirm the correctness of the suggestion but stated that he was not in a position to deny the same. In fact, PW-7, the investigation officer, deposed that cash of Rs.71,900/- was found in the appellant’s car. This lends support to the D defence that there was a recovery drive conducted by the appellant. Apart from the evidence of PW-5, there is no other evidence that is pressed into service by the prosecution for proving the demand by the appellant. Even taking the statements of PW-5 in the examination-in-chief as correct, it is impossible to even infer that the demand of Rs.10,000/- E was made by the appellant by way of gratification. Every demand made for payment of money is not a demand for gratification. It has to be something more than mere demand for money. 18. There is one more important factual aspect to be noted which creates serious doubt about the prosecution’s case.