A irrebuttable presumption that the notification dated 2 August 2019 was issued by the President. Hence, the appellants’ argument that the notification dated 2 August 2019 is invalid and unconstitutional is specious. 103. Here, it is appropriate to note that the notification dated 4 July 1986 (by which the OAT was established) was also not issued in B the name of the President. However, the appellants seek to preserve the establishment of the OAT by that notification while assailing the notification abolishing the OAT. If the arguments of the appellants were to be accepted, the notification dated 4 July 1986 would be invalid. We are therefore not inclined to entertain the argument that the notification dated 2 August 2019 is invalid and non-est. C 104. We are satisfied that both the notification dated 4 July 1986 and the notification dated 2 August 2019 were, in substance, issued by the President (acting for the Union Government). The notifications were published in the Gazette of India in accordance with law and there is nothing on record to support the suggestion that an authority which is not D empowered to issue the notification has issued it. To the contrary, Section 4 of the Administrative Tribunals Act empowers the Union Government to issue a notification establishing the OAT and as discussed previously, the attendant power to rescind a notification so issued is also available to the Union Government. The issuance of both notifications was an exercise E of the Union Government’s statutory power under the Administrative Tribunals Act. 105. The appellants place reliance on the decision of a Constitution Bench of this Court in Dattatraya Moreshwar Pangarkar v. State of Bombay37 and specifically on the sentence in paragraph 24, which states: F “24. …when the executive decision affects an outsider or is required to be officially notified or to be communicated it should normally be expressed in the form mentioned in Article 166(1) i.e. in the name of the Governor.” 106. The appellants have failed to notice the very next sentence G in paragraph 24, by which this Court accepts the argument that Article 166 is a directory provision: “24. … The learned Attorney General then falls back upon the plea that an omission to make and authenticate an executive H 37 (1952) 1 SCC 372 ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 797 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] decision in the form mentioned in Article 166 does not make the A decision itself illegal, for the provisions of that article, like their counterpart in the Government of India Act, are merely directory and not mandatory … In my opinion, this contention of the learned Attorney General must prevail. 25. It is well settled that generally speaking the provisions of a B statute creating public duties are directory and those conferring private rights are imperative. When the provisions of a statute relate to the performance of a public duty and the case is such that to hold null and void acts done in neglect of this duty would work serious general inconvenience or injustice to persons who C have no control over those entrusted with the duty and at the same time would not promote the main object of the legislature, it has been the practice of the courts to hold such provisions to be directory only, the neglect of them not affecting the validity of the acts done.” D 107.