A bare perusal of Section 23 would show that, the grounds for classification as purported by the GNOIDA authority, have already been C covered by Section 23 of the Act. The fifth point of the said Section squarely covers the requirement of compensating for rehabilitation of the affected landowners. In the presence of an already existing provision in the act, the classification created by the GNOIDA authority, must exist in furtherance of the said Section, and not in contrast of. D 55. The classification, as discussed above, if allowed to exist, can lead to several Gair-pushtaini landowners who may also need to be rehabilitated, cannot rehabilitate themselves without compensation for the same. This circumstance alone besides being discriminatroy pits the said classification against Section 23 of the Act, causing an insubordination E to the 1894 Act. Such a mischief, if allowed to exist, would not only nullify the purpose of the Act, but also violate the third and fourth principle of the proportionality test, and hence is liable to be struck down. 56. Further, it is also important to note that the classification, even if allowed to exist, does not come with any safeguards against its potential F abuse. As mentioned above, the said notification by way of its classification creates disastrous mischief, and the notification does nothing to remedy such potential abuse. No guidelines for the said classification exist, nor are there any bars placed. If such classification is left unchecked, it may lead to bad precedence, and disastrous ramifications in the G future.This lack of substantive guidelines also violates the fifth prong of the proportionality test. 57. On the basis of the abovementioned discussions emerging from the settled principles, Issue no. 2 is answered in affirmative and in favour of the Appellants herein, and the impugned classification is liable H to be struck down as violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 467 PRADESH [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] Whether the classification made by the Full-Bench of the High A Court betweenPushtaini landowners and Gair-pushtaini landowners is in contravention to thelaw laid down by this Hon’ble Court in the case of Nagpur Improvement Trustand another vs. Vithal Rao and others (1973) 1 SCC 500? B 58. In the case of Nagpur Improvement Trust (Supra) this Hon’ble Court was tasked to deal with the question of whether certain provisions the Nagpur Improvement Trust Act, 1936 were in violation of Article 14. Here, the impugned provisions of the said Act allowed the acquisition of lands at rates lower than the rates as prescribed in the Land Acquisition Act. What is relevant to our case, is that the Court, C while deciding this matter, held that the authority, while acquiring land, cannot distinguish between types of owners, as the object of achieving land for public purposes is met with, irrespective of the type of owner whose land is being acquired. The relevant paragraphs from the reads as under:- D “It is now well-settled that the State can make a reasonable classification for the purpose of legislation.