In that ensuring full economic freedom and true emancipation were two enactments, the “Employment of Manual Scavengers and Construction of Dry Latrines (Prohibition) Act, 1993” (hereinafter “Act 1993”) and the “Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act, 2013” (hereinafter “Act 2013”). DR. BALRAM SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 1089 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 3. The present petition is fi led under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, seeking directions to Respondents (Union of India and all the States and Union Territories) to implement provisions, inter alia, of the Act of 1993 and Act of 2013. 4. In the year 1993, a special Commission for Safai Karamchari was established as per the provisions of National Commission for Safai Karamchari Act, 1993 (hereinafter “NCSK Act”) to give its recommendations to Government regarding specifi c programmes for the welfare of Safai Karamcharis. In the same year, India took another signifi cant step by prohibiting the employment of manual scavengers responsible for the daily manual emptying of certain types of dry toilets. Subsequently, the Parliament enacted the Act of 2013 which extended and clarifi ed its scope to include insanitary latrines, ditches and pits. However, the petitioner claims that the respondents have not implemented essential provisions of these statutes. Regrettably, manual scavenging persists despite these legislations. Petitioner prayed that Act of 1993 and 2013 should be implemented in letter and spirit and to do so, it is necessary to impose a blanket ban on manual scavenging, while simultaneously ensuring adequate rehabilitation and employment opportunities for those currently engaged in these practices. 5. This Court previously addressed this subject matter in Safai Karamchari Andolan and Others vs. Union of India & Ors1 and after analyzing the provisions of 2013 Act, issued following directions: “23. We have already noted various provisions of the 2013 Act and also in the light of various s of this Court, we issue the following directions: 23.1. The persons included in the fi nal list of manual scavengers under Sections 11 and 12 of the 2013 Act, shall be rehabilitated as per the provisions of Chapter IV of the 2013 Act, in the following manner, namely: (a) such initial, one-time cash assistance, as may be prescribed; 1 (2014) 11 SCC 224 109 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (b) their children shall be entitled to scholarship as per the relevant scheme of the Central Government or the State Government or the local authorities, as the case may be; (c) they shall be allotted a residential plot and fi nancial assistance for house construction, or a ready-built house with fi nancial assistance, subject to eligibility and willingness of the manual scavenger as per the provisions of the relevant scheme; (d) at least one member of their family shall be given, subject to eligibility and willingness, training in livelihood skill and shall be paid a monthly stipend during such period; (e) at least one adult member of their family shall be given, subject to eligibility and willingness, subsidy and concessional loan for taking up an alternative occupation on sustainable basis, as per the provisions of the relevant scheme; (f) shall be provided such other legal and programmatic assistance, as the Central Government or State Government may notify in this behalf.