Thus, to our mind the findings of the courts below in relation to the factum of the inter se dispute cannot be said to be not borne from the material on record or incorrect appreciation of evidence led by the prosecution. C 10. The next question which arises for consideration is as to who committed the crime, and in what manner. The courts below have concurrently, fully appreciating the testimony of PW-1, found the accused to have committed the same by using different weapons referred to supra. D 11. Elaborating further, having perused the testimony of PW-1 we notice him to have deposed that on the fateful day, i.e, 13.08.2004 both he and the deceased had met at a place known as Terdal where the deceased handed him a sum of Rs.50,000/- which he had withdrawn from the Grameen Bank Sasalatti branch. The deceased, after purchasing E fodder started returning on his bicycle to the Kaltippi Village (Place of his residence). This witness along with a pillion rider, Ashok Mareguddi (PW-19), started following him. On the way, around 2.45 p.m. the witness found all the accused (Nos.1 to 8), who had been hiding in the jali kanti trees, running towards the deceased. Accused Nos.2 and 8 started abusing that ‘found satya Sulemagane Ninnanu Kondu Hakut teve’ (You F son of a whore, we will kill you). Noticing them, the deceased leaving his bicycle started running away from the spot with all the accused chasing him. Thereafter, accused No.8 Parappa @ Gulappa threw chilli powder on the face of the deceased; accused Nos.1 and 2 gave blows with jambia/jambe on the left side of the neck and chest of the deceased; G accused Nos.3 to 7 gave blows with button knives on various parts of the body, which led to the death of the deceased on the spot. Soon accused fled away towards Golabhavi village. The witness cried for help when Shasappa Reddi (PW-7), Pandappa Sidareddi PW-8), Shrishail (PW-11) and Ramappa (PW-12) arrived at the spot. Also, adjacent land owners, namely, Lakawwa Siddapur (PW-9) and Sushilawwa (PW-13) H RAVASAHEB @ RAVASAHEBGOUDA ETC. v. STATE OF 973 KARNATAKA [SANJAY KAROL J.] arrived. He got a complaint drafted through an Advocate, namely A Hanamant Bhimappa Reddi (PW- 24) and being illiterate, affixed his thumb impression, and lodged report with the police. 12. Here only, we may record that the presence of the accused on the spot is not disputed by anyone of them. This we may say so not only from the line of their cross-examination of the witnesses but also as B we would notice hereinafter, to have come on record through the testimonies of the witnesses, who despite not having supported the prosecution on the issue of the accused having assaulted the deceased, have supported on this count. Perusal of cross-examination part of the testimony of PW-1 unrefutedly reveals all the accused hiding in bushes C at the spot. This witness, despite being cross-examined extensively, is consistent in his testimony to the effect that the accused caught hold of the deceased and inflicted serious injuries upon his person.