[(4) The provisions of this section shall not apply in relation to any co-operative bank other than a primary agricultural credit society or a primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank. Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-section,- (a) “co-operative bank” and “primary agricultural credit society” shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949); (b) “primary co-operative agricultural and rural development bank” means a society having its area of operation confi ned to a taluk and the principal object of which is to provide for long-term credit for agricultural and rural development activities. 336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. ii) The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (BR ACT, 1949): The relevant provisions of the BR Act, 1949 are extracted as under. Section 3 of the said Act as it stood at the relevant point of time reads as follows: 3. Act to apply to certain co-operative societies in certain cases.— Nothing in this Act shall apply to— (a) a primary agricultural credit society; or (b) a co-operative land mortgage bank; and (c) any other co-operative society, except in the manner and to the extent specifi ed in Part V. X X X 5. Interpretation.— In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, X X X (b) “banking” means the accepting, for the purpose of lending or investment, of deposits of money from the public, repayable on demand or otherwise, and withdrawal by cheque, draft, or otherwise; (c) “banking company” means any company which transacts the business of banking in India. Explanation.—Any company which is engaged in the manufacture of goods or carries on any trade and which accepts deposits of money from the public merely for the purpose of fi nancing its business as such manufacturer or trader shall not be deemed to transact the business of banking within the meaning of this clause; X X X 22. Licensing of banking companies.—(1) Save as hereinafter provided, no company shall carry on banking business in India unless it holds a licence issued in that behalf by the Reserve Bank and any such licence may be issued subject to such conditions as the Reserve Bank may think fi t to impose. KSCARDB v. THE ASSESSING OFFICER, TRIVANDRUM 337 AND ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (2) Every banking company in existence on the commencement of this Act, before the expiry of six months from such commencement, and every other company before commencing banking business in India, shall apply in writing to the Reserve Bank for a licence under this section: Provided that in the case of a banking company in existence on the commencement of this Act, nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to prohibit the company from carrying on banking business until it is granted a licence in pursuance of this section or is by notice in writing informed by the Reserve Bank that a licence cannot be granted to it: Provided further that the Reserve Bank shall not give a notice as aforesaid to a banking company in existence on the commencement of this Act before the expiry of the three years referred to in sub-section (1) of section 11 or of such further period as the Reserve Bank may under that sub-section think fi t to allow.