Additionally, while the property of the corporate debtor may also change hands upon resolution or liquidation, such property also continues to exist, either as property of the corporate debtor, or in G the hands of the purchaser. 17.2. However, even after commencement of CIRP or after its successful resolution or liquidation, the corporate debtor, along with its property, would be susceptible to investigations or proceedings related to criminal offences H AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1025 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] committed by it prior to the commencement of a CIRP, A leading to the imposition of certain liabilities and restrictions on the corporate debtor and its properties even after they were lawfully acquired by a resolution applicant or a successful bidder, respectively. Liability where a Resolution Plan has been approved B 17.3. It was brought to the Committee that this had created apprehension amongst potential resolution applicants, who did not want to take on the liability for any offences committed prior to commencement of CIRP. In one case, JSW Steel had specifically sought certain reliefs and C concessions, within an annexure to the resolution plan it had submitted for approval of the adjudicating authority. [SBI v. Bhushan Steel Ltd., 2018 SCC OnLine NCLT 32305, para 83(i)] Without relief from imposition of the such liability, the Committee noted that in the long run, potential D resolution applicants could be disincentivised from proposing a resolution plan. The Committee was also concerned that resolution plans could be priced lower on an average, even where the corporate debtor did not commit any offence and was not subject to investigation, due to adverse selection by resolution applicants who might E be apprehensive that they might be held liable for offences that they have not been able to detect due to information asymmetry. Thus, the threat of liability falling on bona fide persons who acquire the legal entity, could substantially lower the chances of its successful takeover by potential F resolution applicants. 17.4. This could have substantially hampered the Code’s goal of value maximisation, and lowered recoveries to creditors, including financial institutions who take recourse to the Code for resolution of the NPAs on their balance sheet. At the same time, the Committee was also conscious G that authorities are duty-bound to penalise the commission of any offence, especially in cases involving substantial public interest. Thus, two competing concerns need to be balanced. Xxx xxx xxx H 1026 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 17.6. Given this, the Committee felt that a distinction must be drawn between the corporate debtor which may have committed offences under the control of its previous management, prior to the CIRP, and the corporate debtor that is resolved, and taken over by an unconnected resolution applicant. While the corporate debtor’s actions B prior to the commencement of the CIRP must be investigated and penalised, the liability must be affixed only upon those who were responsible for the corporate debtor’s actions in this period. However, the new management of the corporate debtor, which has nothing C to do with such past offences, should not be penalised for the actions of the erstwhile management of the corporate debtor, unless they themselves were involved in the commission of the offence, or were related parties, promoters or other persons in management and control of the corporate debtor at the time of or any time following D the commission of the offence, and could acquire the corporate debtor, notwithstanding the prohibition under Section 29-A.