Arbitration may depend upon the agreement of the parties, but it is also a system built on law, which relies upon that law to make it effective both nationally and internationally. C National Courts could exist without arbitration, but arbitration could not exist without the courts. The real issue is to define the point at which this reliance of arbitration on the national courts begins and at which it ends.” [Emphasis supplied] D 3. The supervisory role of Courts under the Arbitration Act, 1996 can be broadly categorized into three parts i.e., pre-commencement of arbitral proceedings, during the arbitral proceedings and at the post- arbitration stage. Section 8 and Section 11 in Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996, and Section 45 in Part II of the Arbitration Act, 1996 E specifically deal with the role of Courts before the initiation of arbitration proceedings. Section 8 deals with the “Power to refer parties to arbitration” where there is an arbitration agreement; it provides for a mandatory reference to arbitration, unless the Court is prima facie satisfied that no valid arbitration agreement exists. Section 11(6), on the other hand, provides for “Appointment of Arbitrators” when parties F fail to mutually agree on the name of an arbitrator or appoint an arbitrator in terms of the arbitration agreement. Section 45 refers to the “Power of judicial authority to refer parties to arbitration” in Part II of the Arbitration Act, 1996. 4. Here in this reference, the extent of judicial intervention before G the commencement of arbitral proceedings is being tested. It raises important issues of delays in the enforcement of arbitration agreements, subject to payment of stamp duty and whether an arbitration agreement 2 Alan Redfern and Martin Hunter, Redfern and Hunter on International Arbitration (6th Edition, 2015, Oxford University Press), Chapter 7, Paragraph 7.03 H 426 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A would be non-existent, invalid/void, or unenforceable in law, if the underlying instrument is not stamped/insufficiently stamped, as per the relevant Stamp Act. 5. The moot question in this reference is whether the statutory bar under Section 35 titled “Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible B in Evidence” of the Stamp Act, 1899 would be attracted when an arbitration agreement is produced under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act, 1996. As a corollary, this reference also tests the scopeand natureof the Court’s intervention specifically at the stage of appointment of arbitrator under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996. The conundrum over the scope of judicial review and the validity/enforceability of the C unstamped/insufficiently stamped arbitration agreement contained in an underlying contract is expected to be resolved in this reference. B. Reference to the Constitution Bench 6. A 3-judge bench in M/S N.N. Global Mercantile Private Limited v M/S Indo Unique Flame Limited and others3 (for short D “NN Global”) by doubting the reasoning in Paragraphs 146 and 147 of a coordinate bench of this Court in Vidya Drolia and others v Durga Trading Corporation4 (for short “Vidya Drolia”) considered it appropriate for the issue to be examined by a Bench of five judges.