Once prosecution is lodged, the presumption is that there was mens rea on the part of the assessee to conceal the income by a smoke screen and thereby to evade tax. The Settlement Commission will have to examine the application by lifting the veil to see as to whether there has been an intention to evade tax and then arrive at a conclusion and in the absence of such an exercise being undertaken by the Commission, the intention behind Section 245H (1) would become otiose. iii. The Division Bench noted that as per the provision of Section 245D then prevalent, the Settlement Commission on receipt of an application fi led under Section 245C had to call for a report from the Commissioner and on the basis of the material contained in such report and having regard to the nature and circumstances of the case or the complexity of the investigation involved therein, the Settlement Commission was empowered to reject or allow the application to be proceeded with, within the prescribed period and it is in this background that the granting of immunity from prosecution ought to have been scrutinised by the Settlement Commission and the Single Judge in the instant case found that the same was not done, hence, the matter was rightly remanded. 2.14. Aggrieved by the dated 06.07.2012 in Writ Appeal No. 2458 of 2010, the appellant has preferred the instant Civil Appeal. Submissions: 3. We have heard learned senior counsel Sri Shyam Divan, appearing on behalf of the appellant-assessee and learned Additional Solicitor General, KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. COMMISSIONER OF 13 INCOME TAX BANGALORE [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Sri Balbir Singh, appearing on behalf of the respondents-Revenue and perused the materials placed on record. 3.1. Sri Shyam Divan at the outset submitted that the of the learned Single Judge of the High Court, as affi rmed by the Division Bench by the impugned , proceeds on a misdirection in law, in light of the facts of the case and therefore, the same is liable to be set aside by this Court. It was further submitted as follows: i. That when, in the present case, the Settlement Commission rendered a positive fi nding that the appellant had extended cooperation and had made a true and full disclosure and thereafter, in exercise of power under Section 245H, the Commission granted immunity from prosecution and penalty to the appellant, the High Court ought not to have interfered with the decision of the Settlement Commission. That the Settlement Commission is the sole judge of the adequacy of and the nature of evidence placed before it and so long as there was cogent material and explanation which was furnished by the appellant-assessee, the High Court ought not to have interfered. ii. That the High Court ought to have appreciated that the Assessing Offi cer may make all kinds of additions and make claims of evasion of tax by an assessee. However, the of the Assessing Offi cer is by no means the last word.