The right to silence, often regarded as the very converse of ‘speech,’ is also implicit in the freedom of speech under Article 19(1)(a), as recognised in Bijoe Emmanuel vs. State of Kerala, F (1986) 3 SCC 615 (“Bijoe Emmanuel”). 16. ‘Hate Speech’: 16.1. The various nuances of what has come to be termed as ‘hate speech’ could be discussed with reference to s of this Court as under: G Learned counsel appearing for the petitioner, Sri Kaleeswaram Raj submitted that, the contention of the petitioners in these cases is that the right to free speech which is a right against the State would also bring within its fold, a duty vis-à-vis not only the State but other citizens H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 745 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] also in the matter of exercising the said freedom. In other A words, what is sought to be addressed in these cases is what are the components or elements of the fundamental right of free speech and whether there could be limits on the right to free speech de hors Article 19(2) of the Constitution, with a view to check, what has ubiquitously B come to be known as ‘hate speech’ or ‘disparaging speech’. By this I do not restrict the scope of consideration in the instant cases only to speech made by public functionaries, but the same shall also extend to speech by ordinary citizens, especially on social media. C 16.2. This Court, in Pravasi Bhalai Sangathan vs. Union of India, (2014) 11 SC 477(“Pravasi Bhalai Sangathan”) speaking through Dr. B.S. Chauhan, J., has dealt with ‘hate speech’ as having an innate relationship with the idea of discrimination. That the impact of such speech is not measured by its abusive value alone, but rather by how D successfully and systematically it marginalises people. The definition of ‘hate speech’ as propounded by this Court in the aforesaid case, is extracted hereinunder: “Hate speech is an effort to marginalise individuals based on their membership in a group. Using E expression that exposes the group to hatred, hate speech seeks to delegitimise group members in the eyes of the majority, reducing their social standing and acceptance within society. Hate speech, therefore rises beyond causing F distress to individual group members. It can have a societal impact. Hate speech lays the groundwork for later, broad attacks on [the] vulnerable that can range from discrimination, to ostracism, segregation, deportation, violence and, in the most extreme cases, to genocide. Hate speech also impacts a protected G group’s ability to respond to the substantive ideas under debate, thereby placing a serious barrier to their full participation in our democracy.” (Emphasis by me) H 746 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A This Court referred to the of the Supreme Court of Canada in Saskatchewan Human Rights Commission vs.William Whatcott, 2013 SCC 11 (“Saskatchewan”)(Canada) wherein it was held that human rights obligations form the basis for the control of publication of “hate speeches.” The Canadian Supreme B Court further declared that the repugnancy of the ideas being expressed is not sufficient to justify restricting the expression, and whether or not the author of the expression intended to incite hatred or discriminatory treatment, is irrelevant.