Similarly, proponents of vegetarianism may argue that slaughtering animals is not necessary as human beings can survive H without animal protein. In our opinion, we should not take up this THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. 469 UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] balancing exercise which has societal impact in discharge of our judicial A duties. This kind of exercise ought to be left for the legislature to decide upon. 32.We shall now turn to the petitioners’ case assailing the legality of the State Amendments by invoking the “Doctrine of Pith and Substance”. On that count, their submission is based on two principles. B First, it has been urged that even after the Amendment, the performance of these sports continue to inflict pain and injury on the participating bulls and secondly, it was found by this Court in A. Nagaraja (supra), that these sports are in violation of the aforesaid provisions of the 1960 Act at the time when the three State Amendments were not enacted. On the C face of it, learned counsel appearing for the petitioners argued, that the Amendment Acts does not in any way provide remedial measures which could have rendered the three sports cured of the legal failing as is postulated in the said provisions. According to the petitioners, these Acts seek to only introduce the Jallikattu, Kambala and Bullock Cart Race as permissible activities within the provisions of the 1960 Act. Even if certain D sports by their names are included within the ambit of permissible activity, the provisions of Sections 3, 11(1) (a) and (m) of the 1960 Act are not rendered otiose. The other point raised by the petitioners is that the subject of Jallikattu does not come within the ambit of Entry 17 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India and hence the E State Assemblies lacked the legislative competence to enact the Amendment Acts. Presidential assent would not cure the said incompetency, it is urged by the petitioners. We have found no flaw in the process of obtaining Presidential assent having regard to the provisions of Article 254(2) of the Constitution of India. F 33. The “Doctrine of Pith and Substance” has been explained in the well-known text, “Principles of Statutory Interpretation” by G.P. Singh. We quote below the extract from 14th Edition of that text:- “The question whether the Legislature has kept itself within the jurisdiction assigned to it or has encroached upon a G forbidden filed is determined by finding out the true nature and character or pith and substance of the legislation which may be different from its consequential effects. If the pith and substance of the legislation is covered by an entry within the permitted jurisdiction of the Legislature any incidental encroachment in the rival field is to disregarded. There is a H 470 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A presumption of constitutionality of statutes and hence, prior to determining whether there is any repugnancy between a Central Act and a State Act, it has to determined whether both Acts relate to the same entry in List III, and whether there is a ‘direct’ and ‘irreconcilable’ conflict between the two, applying the doctrine of ‘pith and substance’.