& D Board, Dharwad, whose decision will be fi nal and binding on the consumer and the Board.” 16. Clause 11 is titled, “Settlement of Disputes”. Clause 11.1 stipulates that all disputes or diff erences that may arise between the parties pertaining to the meaning of any provision in the agreement or in connection with it, would be resolved by mutual discussion. However, if mutual discussions fail, Clause 11.2 postulates that all such disputes which have arisen between the Board and the consumer pertaining to the meaning of the provisions of the agreements would be resolved by referring the matter to the Chief Engineer whose decision would be fi nal and binding. SOLARIS CHEM TECH INDUSTRIES LTD v. ASSISTANT 469 EXECUTIVE ENGINEER KARNATAKA URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD 17. Bearing in mind the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 19963, we are of the view that Clause 11 does not constitute an arbitration agreement. The expression “arbitration agreement” is defi ned by Section 2(b) to mean an agreement referred to in Section 7. Section 7 is extracted below: “7. Arbitration agreement.—(1) In this Part, “arbitration agreement” means an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defi ned legal relationship, whether contractual or not. (2) An arbitration agreement may be in the form of an arbitration clause in a contract or in the form of a separate agreement. (3) An arbitration agreement shall be in writing. (4) An arbitration agreement is in writing if it is contained in— (a) a document signed by the parties; (b) an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication including communication through electronic means which provide a record of the agreement; or (c) an exchange of statements of claim and defence in which the existence of the agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by the other. (5) The reference in a contract to a document containing an arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement if the contract is in writing and the reference is such as to make that arbitration clause part of the contract.” 18. Sub-section (1) of Section 7 indicates that an arbitration agreement is an agreement by parties to submit to arbitration “all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defi ned legal relationship, whether contractual or not”. It is well settled that in determining whether there is an arbitration agreement, the terms of the contract between the parties must be read as a whole. The 1996 Act does 3 “The 1996 Act”/ “The Act” 470 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. not prescribe a certain form of an arbitration agreement. The use or the absence of the word ‘arbitration’ is not conclusive and the intention of the parties to resolve the disputes through arbitration should be clear from the terms of the clause. In Jagdish Chander vs Ramesh Chander, the Court summarised the relevant factors for determining whether an agreement is an arbitration agreement within the meaning of S. 7 of the 1996 Act.