When the accused while in custody makes such statement before the two independent witnesses (panch-witnesses) H 7 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1400 BOBY v. STATE OF KERALA [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 351 the exact statement or rather the exact words uttered by the A accused should be incorporated in the first part of the panchnama that the investigating officer may draw in accordance with law. This first part of the panchnama for the purpose of Section 27 of the Evidence Act is always drawn at the police station in the presence of the independent witnesses so as to lend credence B that a particular statement was made by the accused expressing his willingness on his own free will and volition to point out the place where the weapon of offence or any other article used in the commission of the offence had been hidden. Once the first part of the panchnama is completed thereafter the police party along with the accused and the two independent witnesses (panch- C witnesses) would proceed to the particular place as may be led by the accused. If from that particular place anything like the weapon of offence or blood stained clothes or any other article is discovered then that part of the entire process would form the second part of the panchnama. This is how the law expects the D investigating officer to draw the discovery panchnama as contemplated under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. If we read the entire oral evidence of the investigating officer then it is clear that the same is deficient in all the aforesaid relevant aspects of the matter.” E 26. This Court has elaborately considered as to how the law expects the IO to draw the discovery panchnama as contemplated under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. In the present case, leave aside the recovery panchnama being in accordance with the aforesaid requirement, there is no statement of Boby (accused No. 3/appellant herein) recorded under F Section 27 of the Evidence Act. We are, therefore, of the considered view that the prosecution has failed to prove the circumstance that the dead body of the deceased was recovered at the instance of Boby (accused No. 3/appellant herein). 27. Another circumstance on which the High Court relied was G that the recovery of ornaments was at the instance of Boby (accused No. 3/appellant herein). We find that both the trial court and the High Court have patently erred in relying on such recovery. The trial court found that there was enough material to show that the alleged recovery memo was a fabricated document and the alleged recovery as per Ext. P-14 is farce. However, the trial court still relied on the said recovery to H 352 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A convict the accused. In our view, the finding of the trial court in this regard is totally perverse which has been confirmed by the High Court. 28. Insofar as Shibu @ Shibu Singh (accused No. 1) is concerned, the additional circumstance sought to be relied on by the trial court and the High Court is the alleged recovery of the spade.