In the present case, admittedly, the tariff incorporated in PPA between the D generating company and the distribution licensee is the tariff fixed by the State Regulatory Commission in exercise of its statutory powers. In such a situation it is not possible to hold that the tariff agreed by and between the parties, though finds mention in a contractual context, is the result of an act of volition of the parties which can, in no case, be altered except E by mutual consent. Rather, it is a determination made in the exercise of statutory powers which got incorporated in a mutual agreement between the two parties involved. ********** *********** This Court in Solar Power Company India Pvt. Ltd (Supra) F further observed that: 35. This Court should be specially careful in dealing with matters of exercise of inherent powers when the interest of consumers is at stake. The interest of consumers, as an objective, can be clearly ascertained from the Act. The G Preamble of the Act mentions “protecting interest of consumers” andSection61 (d) requires that the interests of the consumers are to be safeguarded when the appropriate Commission specifies the terms and conditions for determination of tariff. Under Section 64 read with Section H 706 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 62, determination of tariff is to be made only after considering all suggestions and objections received from the public. Hence, the generic tariff once determined under the statute with notice to the public can be amended only by following the same procedure. Therefore, the approach of this Court ought to be cautious and guarded when the decision has its bearing on B the consumers. 36. Regulation 85 provides for extension of time. It may be seen that the same is available only in two specified situations - (i) for extension of time prescribed by the Regulations, and (ii) extension of time prescribed by the Commission in its C for doing any act. The control period is not something prescribed by the Commission under the Conduct of Business Regulations. The control period is also not an by the Commission for doing any act. Commissioning of a project is the act to be performed in terms of the obligation under the D PPA and that is between the producer and the purchaser viz. Respondent 1 and appellant. Hence, the Commission cannot extend the time stipulated under the PPA for doing any act contemplated under the agreement in exercise of its powers under Regulation 85. Therefore, there cannot be an extension of the control period under the inherent powers of the E Commission. 37. The Commission being a creature of statute cannot assume to itself any powers which are not otherwise conferred on it. In other words, under the guise of exercising its inherent power, as we have already noticed above, the Commission cannot F take recourse to exercise of a power, procedure for which is otherwise specifically provided under the Act.” 53. The concurring view expressed by Banumathi J, crucially held that: “Sanctity of power purchase agreement G 22.