If the Magistrate after taking cognizance of the offence, is of the opinion that there are sufficient grounds for proceeding he will issue the process to the accused for appearance as per the procedure and mode specified under Section 204 of the Code. Process to the accused D under Section 204 falls under Chapter XVI of the Code and is issued post the cognizance and inquiry/investigation/evidence recorded in a private complaint in terms of Section 202 of the Code. 26. In Ramdev Food Products Private Limited (supra), examining whether discretion of the Magistrate to call for a report under E Section 202 instead of directing investigation under Section 156(3) is controlled by any defined parameters,it was held thus: “22. Thus, we answer the first question by holding that: 22.1. The direction under Section 156(3) is to be issued, only after application of mind by the Magistrate. When the Magistrate does F not take cognizance and does not find it necessary to postpone the issuance of process and finds a case made out to proceed forthwith, direction under the said provision is issued. In other words, where on account of credibility of information available, or weighing the interest of justice it is considered appropriate to G straightaway direct investigation, such a direction is issued. 22.2. The cases where Magistrate takes cognizance and postpones issuance of process are cases where the Magistrate has yet to determine “existence of sufficient ground to proceed”. Category of cases falling under para 120.6 in Lalita Kumari [Lalita H KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 167 AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] Kumari v. State of U.P., (2014) 2 SCC 1 : (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) A 524] may fall under Section 202. 22.3. Subject to these broad guidelines available from the scheme of the Code, exercise of discretion by the Magistrate is guided by interest of justice from case to case.” B Explaining the nature of cases to be dealt with under Section 202 of the Code, the observes, are those cases where the material available is not clear to proceed further. The Magistrate, though in seisin of the matter having taken cognizance, has to decide whether there is any ground to proceed further. Further, Section 202 not only refers to an inquiry but also to an investigation. Thus, in such cases, the Police cannot C on its own exercise the power of arrest in course of making its report in pursuance of the direction under Section 202 of the Code. 27. In this Court in Priyanka Srivastava(supra)referred to the nature of power exercised by the Magistrate under Section 156(3) of the Code and after referring to several earlier s held that the D direction for registration of an FIR should not be issued in a routine manner. The Magistrate is required to apply his mind and exercise his discretion in a judicious manner. If the Magistrate finds that the allegations made before him disclose commission of a cognizable offence, he can forward the complaint to the Police for investigation under Section 156 E and thereby save valuable time of the Magistrate from being wasted in inquiry as it is primarily the duty of the Police to investigate.