On 31.05.2021, the applicant informed the respondent that the PBG will not be extended any further. The respondent immediately invoked the PBG for INR 9,64,42,738/-, citing Clauses 11 and 18(c) ofSchedule II of theAcceptance of Tender. These clauses, which provide for Guarantee and Warranty, are as follows: C “Clause 11. Guarantee/Warranty: 40,000 rounds for pistol and ors. 18 months from the date of acceptance of EQPT/ Stores in good condition at consignee location in India. Clause 18(c) Warranty: the supplier furnishes his warranty that the goods supplied under the contract on you, on use of the incorporate all recent improvement in design and material. D The supplier shall for the warranty the goods supplied under this contract shall have no defect arising from design, material of workmanship or from any act or commission or the supplier normal use of the supplied goods in the condition obtained in the country of final destination. Warranty shall remain valid E up to 40,000 rounds of pistol and 18 months from other items from the date of acceptance of stores. The consignee shall promptly notify the supplier in writing of any claim arising under this warranty. Upon receipt of such notice the supplier having been notified failed to remedy the defects within the warranty period prescribed in this clause, the purchaser may F proceed to take such a medial action as may be necessary at the suppliers risk and expense and without prejudice to any other rights which the purchaser may have under the contract. The manufacturer will be required by the indenter on actual price basis. Warranty support will include installation and G commissioning of equipment free of charge. Operational training of the users personal free of cost at the site of installation and repair of the equipment when necessary free of cost during the warranty period.” 4. The applicant issued a notice invoking arbitration on 20.07.2022, H and nominated a retired Judge of the High Court of Delhi as the Sole M/S GLOCK ASIA-PACIFIC LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA 721 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] Arbitrator. The respondent was called upon to accept the nomination A within 15 days. Replying to the notice invoking Arbitration, the respondent by a letter dated 03.10.2022, stated that the nomination was contrary to Clause 28 of the Conditions of Tender, as per which disputes are to be referred to arbitration by an officer in the Ministry of Law, appointed by the Secretary of Ministry of Home Affairs. Clause 28 is as under: B “28. ARBITRATION In the event of any question, dispute or difference arising under these conditions or any special conditions of contract, or in connection with this contract (except as to any matters the decision of which is specially provided for by these or the C special conditions) the same shall be referred to the sole arbitration of an officer in the Min. of Law, appointed to be the arbitrator by the Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs. It will be no objection that the arbitrator is a Government Servant that he had to deal with the matters to which the D contract relates or that in the course of his duties as a Government servant he has expressed views on all or any of the matters in dispute or difference.