E 3.11 It is further submitted that while considering the revision application, the High Court has not properly appreciated and/or considered that the summoning was vitiated because of the failure to consider the question as to whether the application discloses the commission of the offences alleged or the ingredients F of the offences. Reliance has been placed on the decisions of this Court in the case of Mohammed Ibrahim and Ors. Vs. State of Bilar and Anr., (2009) 8 SCC 751 (Paras 13-14, 21); Sunil Bharti Mittal Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation, (2015) 4 SCC 609 (Para 48); and Mehmood Ul Rehman Vs. Khazir G Mohammad Tunda and Ors., (2015) 12 SCC 420 (Para 20). 3.12 Making above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeals. 4. While opposing the present appeals, Shri Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel and Shri C.U. Singh, learned senior counsel have made H the following submissions:- SHRI SUKHBIR SINGH BADAL v. BALWANT SINGH KHERA 927 AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.1 That in the facts and circumstances of the case and considering A the material on record and/or evidence recorded during the course of the inquiry under Section 202 Cr.P.C. and therefore, when the learned Trial Court was satisfied that a prima facie case is made out against the accused for the offences under Sections 420, 465, 466, 467, 468, 471 read with 120B IPC, neither the learned Trial B Court has committed any error in summoning the accused to face the trial for the aforesaid offences nor the Hon’ble High Court has committed any error in disposing the revision application. 4.2 It is submitted that as such the impugned passed by the High Court is just within the parameters of the limitation of the C High Court while exercising the powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. and thereafter when the Hon’ble High Court has dismissed the revision application and has refused to quash the summoning and the criminal proceedings while exercising the limited jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C., the same may not be interfered with by this Court. D 4.3 It is further submitted by Shri Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original complainant that the case is a serious one of fraud, forgery and cheating committed by the accused – appellants herein in to obtain the registration of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal), as a political party. It is E submitted that the witnesses have stated that a fabricated document presenting it as the Party’s “Memorandum” or “Rules and Regulations” was submitted to the Election Commission of India in to project compliance with Section 29-A of the Act, 1951 and thereby, obtained registration and its benefits. F 4.4 It is submitted that as per the witnesses examined during the course of inquiry, Shri Parkash Singh Badal had issued instructions to the concerned persons to file such document. 4.5 It is submitted that the petitioners- appellants herein Shri Parkash Singh Badal had submitted a different Constitution before G the Gurdwara Election Commission (GEC), which was in conformity with the Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925 to seek election to the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC).