316. Clause (3) of Article 370 empowered the President to declare by a public notifi cation that the Article itself “shall cease to be operative” or would only be “operative with such exceptions and modifi cations” as may be specifi ed and with eff ect from the date as specifi ed. The proviso to clause (3), however, required the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State “referred to in clause (2)”. The proviso specifi ed that the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly “shall be necessary before the President issues such a notifi cation”. Clause (3) contains a non-obstante provision which overrides all the earlier provisions of clauses (1) and (2). 317. Several salient features emerge from Article 370, read as a whole. These features (apart from the marginal note which has been discussed earlier) must be noticed at this stage: a. Article 370 incorporated two non-obstante clauses. The fi rst non- obstante clause in clause (1) operates with respect to the entirety of the Constitution (“notwithstanding anything in this Constitution”). The second non-obstante clause prefaces clause (3) and its eff ect is to override the earlier provisions of the Article (“notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions of this Article”). The eff ect of the non-obstante provision in clause (1) is that sub-clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) which follow would govern the State of Jammu and Kashmir untrammelled by any of the provisions of the Constitution. The eff ect of the non-obstante provision in clause (3) is that the Presidential power to abrogate Article 370 either in its entirety by declaring that it shall cease to be operative or to specify that it would be operative only with such exceptions and modifi cations from a date that would be specifi ed, overrides all the previous provisions contained in the Article, including the non-obstante clause in Clause 1. The plain consequence is that once the President exercises the power conferred by clause (3), the IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 193 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] restrictions which are imposed in clauses (1) and (2) would cease to govern the State; b. Clause (1) of Article 370 specifi es: i. a specifi c provision of the Constitution which shall not apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir (Article 238); ii. two specifi c provisions of the Constitution which shall apply to the State (Article 1 and Article 370 itself); iii. limitations on the power of Parliament to enact laws for the State on matters which fall in the Union and Concurrent Lists of the Seventh Schedule; iv. the requirement of consultation for one set of matters (those relatable to the IoA) and of concurrence of the State Government for the other set of matters(matters not relatable to the IoA); and v. the Presidential power to apply other provisions of the Constitution to the State subject to exceptions and modifi cations with the condition of consultation for matters falling in the ambit of sub-clause (b)(i) and concurrence for all other matters.