In Black’s Law Dictionary, (5th edn. at p. 1401) the meaning of the word ‘vest’ is given as : “to give an immediate, fi xed right of present or future enjoyment; to accrue to; to be fi xed; to take eff ect; to clothe with possession; to deliver full possession of land or of an estate; to give seisin; to enfeoff ”. In Stroud’s Judicial Dictionary, (4th edn., Vol. 5 at p. 2938), the word ‘vested’ was defi ned in several senses. At p. 2940 in item 12 it is stated thus “as to the interest acquired by public bodies, created for a particular purpose, in works such as embankments which are ‘vested’ in them by statute”, see Port of London Authority v. Canvey Island Commissioners [(1932) 1 Ch 446] in which it was held that the statutory vesting was to construct the sea wall against inundation or damages etc. and did not acquire fee simple. Item 4 at p. 2939, the word ‘vest’, in the absence of a context, is usually taken to mean “vest in interest rather than vest in possession”. In item 8 to ‘vest’, “generally means to give the property in”. Thus the word ‘vest’ bears variable colour taking its content from the context in which it came to be used.” (Emphasis supplied) 33. In Municipal Corpn. of Greater Bombay v. Hindustan Petroleum Corpn.,18 it was observed that the term ‘vesting’ is capable of bearing the meaning of limited vesting, in title as well as possession, and is referrable to the context and situation within which it operates. The above would suggest that the word ‘vest’ has variable meaning and the mere use of the word ‘vest’ in a statute does not confer absolute title over the subject matter. 34. Further, the term ‘vesting’ is also used in other contexts such as the Indian Succession Act, 1925 wherein S. 211 vests the deceased’s estate in the administrator or executor, although neither become the owner of the said property but merely hold the same until it is distributed among the 18 (2001) 8 SCC 143 718 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. lawful successor(s). The term ‘vests’ in S. 109A of the Companies Act 1956 is therefore required to be interpreted in these logical lines. 35. In the context of the facts of the present case, S. 109A of the Companies Act (pari materia to S. 72 of the Companies Act, 2013) provides for vesting of shares/debentures of a share/debenture holder unto his nominee ‘in the event of his death’. Similarly, Bye-law 9.11.1 under the Depositories Act, 1996 provides for ‘vesting’ of the securities unto the nominee on the death of the benefi cial owner. Applying the law laid down in the aforenoted decisions of this Court, the use of the word ‘vest’ does not by itself, confer ownership of the shares/securities in question, to the nominee. The vesting of the shares/securities in the nominee under the Companies Act, 1956 and the Depositories Act, 1996 is only for a limited purpose, i.e., to enable the Company to deal with the securities thereof, in the immediate aftermath of the shareholder’s death and to avoid uncertainty as to the holder of the securities, which could hamper the smooth functioning of the aff airs of the company.