Further, in Dr. Manjit Kaur Monga’s case, the deposits were retained by the appellants for about 12 to 15 years whereas in the case of the respondent, the deposits were illegally retained and utilized by the appellants for 29 to 34 years. Thus, according to the learned H 1120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A counsel, the award of compound interest to the respondent does not call for any interference. 9.3. Learned senior counsel has further cited the decision in Wallersteiner v. Moir (No. 2): (1975) Q.B. 373 to highlight the principles therein that compound interest (i.e. interest with yearly rests B in case no other frequency of rests is specified) should be awarded under the equitable jurisdiction of the Court where the wrongdoer utilizes the money retained for business purpose and thereby making the profit thereon. Equally, it should be presumed that the wronged person would have made the most beneficial use of the money, had it not been deprived of it. It was further held that the ‘justification for charging compound C interest normally lies in the fact that profits earned in trade would likely be used as working capital for earning further profits’ and that the ‘application of this rule is not confined to cases in which a trustee or agent has misapplied trust funds or a principal’s property, nor is it confined to trustees and agents.’ D 9.3.1. In regard to the principles surrounding and governing the award of compound interest, learned senior counsel has also made elaborate reference to the decision of this Court in the case of Indian Council for Enviro-Legal Action v. Union of India and Ors. : (2011) 8 SCC 161. E 9.4. Learned senior counsel has further contended that the argument on behalf of the appellants that the compound interest could only be awarded if provided for in the statute remains baseless inasmuch as the Act of 1986 provides for an award for compensating the consumer for any loss or injury including punitive damages; and there are no fetters on the way in which such an award may be expressed. According to the F learned counsel, this view has been affirmed by this Court in Dr. Monga’s case, wherein an award expressed in terms of compound interest has been held to be falling within the definition of “compensation.” Secondly, this Court has held that ‘the inherent powers in the Court and principles of justice and equity are sufficient to enable an G directing payment of compound interest; rather, the power to compound interest as part of restitution cannot be disputed, otherwise there could never be restitution.’ 9.5. Learned senior counsel for the respondent has further contended that reliance on behalf of the appellants on certain decisions H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1121 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] of this Court awarding simple interest was wholly misplaced for the A noteworthy distinction in the facts of all such cases and the present case that such cases dealt with delayed possession of flats by the builder as opposed to denial of possession altogether.