Judicial intervention in these matters would be at the expense of causing violence to the delicate separation of powers between the Legislature, the Executive and the Judiciary. The cases at hand appear F to be supported with reference to an aspirational ideal as against any vacuum which is disclosed. A debatably better model of selection of the Commissioner cannot form the foundation for this Court to make a foray into the working of constitutional provisions. Article 324(2) contemplates clear procedure for appointment of a Chief Election Commissioner and G the Election Commissioners.Till a law is made, providing otherwise,the Founding Fathers have laid down that the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners shall be by the President. Indisputably, the Constitution of India follows the Westminster model of Government. The powers of the President, it is well-settled, is to be exercised on the advice of the Council of Ministers. H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 33 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] The President is only the formal Head of the State. The power under A Article 324(2) was always understood to be exercised by the President, acting on the aid and advise of the Council of Ministers. Article 77 provides for the conduct of the business of the Government of India. Rules have been laid down thereunder. The learned Attorney General does not dispute that under the Rules, as laid down, the appointment of the Chief Election B Commissioner and the Election Commissioners is a matter which need not engage the attention of the Council of Ministers. The Rules instead provide that it is the Prime Minister, who is empowered to decide upon the person to be appointed as the Chief Election Commissioner or the Election Commissioner. In other words, the President exercises the power under Article 324(2) andhe proceeds to appoint a person as a Chief C Election Commissioner or an Election Commissioner, acting on the advice of the Prime Minister. The contention is, it is this system, which has been in place for the last more than seven decades. There is no room for confusion. A long array of Chief Election Commissioners and the Election Commissioners have been appointed by resorting to the legitimate method D contemplated under Article 324(2). It is further contended that there exists no identifiable wrong or trigger point to warrant any judicial interference. It is pointed out that elections have been held and voting rights ensured to millions of eligible voters. Nearly 68 per cent polling took place. The Election Commission of India, it is contended, has entered into various agreements under the auspices of the United Nations under E which the Election Commission of India shares its expertise and lends its competent services for the conduct of elections in various other countries. This is not a case where the petitioners have been able to demonstrate that the independence of the Chief Election Commissioner or the Election Commissioner is under threat. The Election Commission F is regulated in the discharge of its functions by law in every manner.