A Civil Judges (Jr Div) by conducting a separate Limited Competitive Examination for them to be promoted to the position of Civil Judges (Sr Div).32 It may be noted that there is no rule for the participation of Civil Judge (Jr. Div.) in the Limited Competitive Examination to be recruited as District Judge. B 68. As regards the relaxed norms which could apply for the 1st ACP, it is noted that the SNJPC has recommended that the scrutiny for the grant of First ACP will be limited to ascertaining whether there is anything positively adverse such as there is any poor/unsatisfactory performance or there being an adverse report of serious nature leading to the inference that the officer is unfit to have the benefit of the 1st C ACP. A similar provision already exists in Rule 3(5) of the Maharashtra Judicial Services Rules, 2008. This Rule prescribes that for the 1st ACP, the ACR rating required is only ‘Average’ and for the 2nd ACP, the Judicial Officer needs to be rated ‘Good’ for five continuous years. Such a rule is only an illustration. High Courts may devise other methods for D these relaxed norms. 69. It is thus directed that the grant of 1st ACP to Civil Judge (Jr Div) be given on the basis of relaxed norms which may be devised by the High Courts, with reference to the suggestions of the Commission. X. Delay in Grant of ACP (Recommendation 44.15(ii)) E 70. A perusal of the Commission’s Report at para 19.4 and 19.5 shows that, in many states, the grant of ACP scale is delayed. The Commission found that in certain jurisdictions, even after completion of more than 10 years of service, ACP was not granted to Civil Judges (Jr Div) and Civil Judges (Sr Div). This is unpardonable. Stagnation of careers F of judicial officers due to administrative delays causes loss of morale and enthusiasm in vital stages of their careers, where they are entitled to be considered for career progression. 71. The SNJPC’s finding that the lack of timely preparation and scrutiny of ACR is the primary reason behind delay is concerning. ACRs G are bound to be done in a timely manner and without delay so as to ensure that the whole judicial system is functioning in an efficient manner. Accordingly, the High Courts may be directed to ensure that the delay in making ACRs is avoided in the future. 32Rule 5, Maharashtra Judicial Service Rules, 2008. H ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 67 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] 72. Separately, to avoid this delay in the future, the Commission A suggested that the process of grant of ACP should be initiated 3 months in advance from the date on which the judicial officers will be completing 5/10 years and the financial benefits should be paid to the judicial officer within a period of 6 months after the judicial officer steps into the 6th/ 11th year of Service. Therefore, the Commission recommended that if B grant of ACP is delayed for every year, one additional increment shall be granted for every year of delay subject to the adjustment with the ACP arrears.