H 210 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A ground and facts of the case to justify exercise of the power. The bench observed that the concept of justice varies depending upon the interest of the party. The Hon’ble judges held that “it is questionable as to whether the relief sought…on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage is available…”. Thus, in this case, the did not give any firm opinion and finding on the questions that we have answered B with reference to the jurisdiction and power of this Court under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India. 38. In Neelam Kumar v. Dayarani60, reference was made to Satish Sitole v. Ganga,61 wherein the marriage was dissolved in exercise of the power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India on the ground C of its irretrievable breakdown, but the submission was not accepted in Neelam Kumar (supra) on the reason that there was nothing to indicate that the respondent was, in any way, responsible for the breakdown of marriage. It was observed that in Vishnu Dutt Sharma v. Manju Sharma62, this Court has held that irretrievable breakdown of marriage D is not a ground for divorce under the Hindu Marriage Act. However, Vishnu Dutt Sharma (supra) did not determinatively enunciate on the jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India. The in Neelam Kumar (supra) acknowledges that in Satish Sitole (supra), this Court did exercise jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India to dissolve the marriage, as it was in the interest of the parties. E In the facts of Neelam Kumar (supra), the bench was not inclined to accede to the request of granting divorce in exercise of the power conferred by Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India. 39. The in Savitri Pandey v. Prem Chandra Pandey63 refers to an earlier decision of this Court in Jorden Diengdeh v. S.S. F Chopra64, in which the two judges’ bench had suggested a complete reform of the law of marriage and for a uniform law applicable to all, irrespective of religion and caste, as well as the need to introduce irretrievable breakdown of marriage as a ground for divorce. Jorden Diengdeh (supra) observes that no purpose would be served by G continuing a marriage that has completely and signally broken down, but the legislature has not thought it proper to provide for the said ground. 60 (2010) 13 SCC 298. 61 (2008) 7 SCC 734. 62 (2009) 6 SCC 379. 63 (2002) 2 SCC 73. H 64 (1985) 3 SCC 62. SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 211 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] This Court in Savitri Pandey (supra) held that there could be cases A where on facts, the marriage has become dead on account of contributory acts of commission and omission by the parties, as in the case of V. Bhagat (supra). At the same time, the bench felt that the sanctity of marriage cannot be left at the whims of one of the annoying parties.