Clause 3 reads thus: “CLAUSE-3: SECURITY DEPOSIT FOR PERFORMANCE: 3.1 The Security Deposit shall comprise of following: (i) Performance Security Deposit/Performance Guarantee to be furnished by the Contractor at the time of Award of Work. (ii) Retention Money/Security Deposit to be recovered from Interim bills of the Contractor. 3.2 The Contractor within 28 (Twenty Eight) days from the date of issue of Letter of Acceptance, shall furnish a Performance security deposit of 10% (Ten percent) of the Contract Price for due performance of contract, in any one of the following forms: (a) Demand draft on any Nationalized/scheduled Bank of India in the name of Employer; or FDR/CDR in the manner as specifi ed in Section-I. (b) Bank Guarantee from an Indian Nationalized/Scheduled Bank of India or a foreign bank through its branch located in India acceptable to Employer in the prescribed proforma.” 982 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 67. Thereafter our attention was drawn to Clause 4 which provides for refund of security deposit. Clause 4 reads thus: “CLAUSE-4: REFUND OF SECURITY DEPOSIT: The Security Deposit less any amount due shall, on demand, be returned to the contractor after 14 days of expiry of Defects Liability Period (referred in Clause 43 hereof). No interest on the amount of Security Deposit shall be paid to the Contractor at the time of release of Security Deposit as stated above.” 68. We are of the view that Clauses 3 and 4 respectively as above relating to security deposit for performance and refund of the same has no nexus at all with the pre-deposit amount of 7% as stipulated in Clause 55 of the GCC. Such vague and ambiguous condition of 7% pre-deposit of the total claim makes the same more vulnerable to arbitrariness thereby violating Article 14 of the Constitution. Even otherwise, as explained in ICOMM Tele Limited (supra) if the claim of the petitioner herein is ultimately found to be frivolous the arbitral tribunal can always award costs in accordance with Section 31A of the Act 1996, which reads thus: “31A. Regime for costs.— (1) In relation to any arbitration proceeding or a proceeding under any of the provisions of this Act pertaining to the arbitration, the Court or arbitral tribunal, notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall have the discretion to determine— (a) whether costs are payable by one party to another; (b) the amount of such costs; and (c) when such costs are to be paid. Explanation.—For the purpose of this sub-section, “costs” means reasonable costs relating to— (i) the fees and expenses of the arbitrators, Courts and witnesses; (ii) legal fees and expenses; (iii) any administration fees of the institution supervising the arbitration; and LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 983 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (iv) any other expenses incurred in connection with the arbitral or Court proceedings and the arbitral award. (2) If the Court or arbitral tribunal decides to make an as to payment of costs,- (a) the general rule is that the unsuccessful party shall be ed to pay the costs of the successful party; or (b) the Court or arbitral tribunal may make a diff erent for reasons to be recorded in writing.