However, for making arrest in terms of Section 41(1)(b) or (g), the legal requirements and mandate is reflected in the expression ‘reasonable B complaint’ or ‘credible information’. 16. Further there is a distinction between Section 154 and 157 as the latter provision postulates a higher requirement than under Section 154 of the Code. Under Section 157(1) of the Code, a Police officer can foreclose the investigation if it appears to him that there is no sufficient C ground to investigate. The requirement of Section 157(1) for the Police officer to start investigation is that he has “reason to suspect the commission of an offence”. Therefore, the Police officer is not liable to launch investigation in every FIR which is mandatorily registered on receiving information relating to commission of a cognizable offence. When the Police officer forecloses investigation in terms of clauses (a) D and (b) of the proviso to Section 157(1), he must submit a report to the Magistrate. Here, the Magistrate can direct the Police to investigate, or if he thinks fit, hold an inquiry. Where a Police officer, in a given case, proceeds to investigate the matter, then he files the final report under Section 173 of the Code. The noticeable feature of the scheme is that E the Magistrate is kept in the picture at all stages of investigation, but he is not authorised to interfere with the actual investigation or to direct the Police how the investigation should be conducted. 17. Having said so, the Constitutional Bench in Lalita Kumari (supra), nevertheless, felt it was necessary by judicial interpretation to F carve out another layer of protection vide preliminary inquiry by police. In certain instances, a preliminary inquiry may be justified owing to the genesis and novelty of crimes. The category of cases in which preliminary inquiry may be made, purely as illustration were indicated as matters relating to: (a) matrimonial/family disputes; (b) commercial offences; (c) medical negligence cases; (d) corruption cases; or (e) cases where G there is abnormal delay/laches in initiating criminal prosecution, for example, over three months delay in reporting the matter without satisfactorily explaining the reasons for the delay. The categorisation indicated being illustrative is not exhaustive of the cases that may warrant preliminary inquiry. Preliminary inquiry, when held, should be conducted H 162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A without causing delay and in a time bound manner. Reasons leading to the inquiry, causes and delay are to be mandatorily and meticulously recorded in the General Dairy entry. Lalita Kumari (supra)initially held that the preliminary inquiry must be completed within 7 days, which period was felt to be unrealistic in some cases and accordingly clause (vii) of the dated 12th November, 2012 was modified vide B dated 05th March 2014 in the following terms:- “……we modify clause (vii) of paragraph 111 of our dated 12th November, 2013, in the following manner: “(vii) While ensuring and protecting the rights of the accused C and the complainant, a preliminary inquiry should be made time bound and in any case it should not exceed fifteen days generally and in exceptional cases, by giving adequate reasons, six weeks’ time is provided.