However, they can identify themselves as Rural Health Practitioners or RHP. 18.5. Section 21 of the Assam Act states that no person whose name is not enrolled or has been cancelled or removed from the State Register of Rural Health Practitioner shall practise Medicine and Rural B Health Care at any place whether urban or rural in the State of Assam. The powers and functions of Rural Health Practitioners are delineated in Section 24 which clearly states that they can practice subject to the following conditions namely: (a) to treat only those diseases and carry out only those C procedures which are outlined in the rules; (b) to prescribe only those drugs, which are outlined in the rules; (c) not to carry out any surgical procedure, invasion, investigation or treatment, Medical Termination of Pregnancy etc. but confine themselves to such medicinal D treatment and perform such minor surgery as may be prescribed. (d) to practise only in rural areas as defined in the Assam Act; (e) to issue only illness certificates and death certificates; (f) they shall maintain name, address, age, sex, diagnosis and E treatment records of all patients treated by them; (g) not to be employed in Hospitals, Nursing Homes and Health establishments located in urban areas as General Duty Physicians involved in patient care in OPD, Emergency and Indoor Services. F 18.6. Section 22 of the Assam Act empowers the State Government to make rules, while Regulations could be made by the Authority with the previous approval of the State Government, as per Section 23 of the Act. 18.7. The Regulations of Assam Rural Health Regulatory Authority, G 2005, regarding admission into Diploma in Medical and Rural Health Care course in Medical Institutes of the State were framed under which minimum standards for Medical Institutes offering Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care were prescribed under which the subjects to be taught were as under: H 984 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “3. SUBJECTS TO BE TAUGHT: (a) Anatomy (b) Physiology & Biochemistry (c) Community Medicine (d) Pathology & Microbiology B (e) Pharmacology (f) Medicine and Paediatrics (g) Surgery and Orthopaedics (h) Obstetrics and Gynaecology C (i) Eye & ENT (j) Basics of Radiology and Imaging (k) Basics of Forensic and State Medicine (l) Basics of Human Genetics (m) Basics of Dentistry.” D 18.8. Regulation 3 of the 2005 Regulations prescribes the curriculum for the course of Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care in the subjects referred to above. Annexure I to the regulations deals with the lists of diseases that can be treated by a Diploma holder in Medicine and Rural Health Care including the procedures that can be E carried out, whereas, Annexure II lists the drugs that can be prescribed by such a diploma holder. The same read as under: “ANNEXURE-1 DISEASES THAT CAN BE TREATED BY A DIPLOMATE OF MEDICINE AND RURAL HEALTH CARE F Acute bacterial infections febrile illnesses, diarrhoea, dysentery, viral infections, malaria, amoebiasis, giardiasis, worm infestations, gastroenteritis, cholera, typhoid fever, vitamin deficiencies, iron deficiency anaemia, malnutrition, upper respiratory infections, actuate bronchitis, bronchial asthma, hypertension, heart failure, in ischemic heart disease, peptic ulcer, acute gastritis, viral hepatitis, G urinary tract infection, common skin infections, scabies, leprosy, first aid in poisoning and trauma, snake bite and animal bite.