See, Abdulla Kabir v. Md. Nasiruddin, (1989) 2 SCC H 1056 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A ARGUMENTS 3. Learned counsel for the State submitted that the record of rights in the case in hand was finalised way back in the year 1962. The land at that time was not in occupation of anyone rather wild bushes were existing on the land. No objection was raised by the land owners. B The appeal was filed in the year 1990, which was disposed of on 1.3.1990. Since it was claimed that the land was stitiban plot, it was observed that claim could be raised with the GAD. Accordingly, the entry in the name of the appellant was not possible. After passing of the aforesaid , the respondents kept quiet. A civil suit came to be filed in the year 2003 for declaration. It was pleaded therein that 0.601 decimal of the land C was in possession of the Reserve Bank of India (for short, ‘RBI’) where the staff quarters had been constructed. It was on account of the allotment thereof by the GAD. However, finally the relief sought in the suit was that the plaintiffs therein who are the respondents herein, had become the owners by way of adverse possession of the land, as mentioned in D Schedule ‘B’ attached to the Suit and further a declaration was sought that they are owners in possession of the land as mentioned in the Schedule ‘A’ and their possession needs to be protected. This included the land which was admittedly allotted to the Reserve Bank of India and on which staff quarters had already been constructed. The aforesaid suit was dismissed as withdrawn by the respondents on 28.7.2007. E Permission was sought to file a fresh suit. However, the same was specifically declined by the court. 4. Thereafter, the respondents filed a writ petition before the High Court in 2008 praying for a direction to the respondents therein to record the land in the name of the writ petitioners, which was transferred to the F Reserve Bank of India. It was 0.518 decimals which was allotted to Reserve Bank of India and 0.083 decimals which was allotted to someone else from plot no. 1506 and 1507 (P), respectively of Mauza Jaidev Vihar. A direction was also sought that in terms of the dated 1.3.1990 passed by the Settlement Officer, the claim of the petitioner for allotment G of an equal alternative land be considered. The land already in possession of the writ petitioners forming part of plot no. 1474 (P) Mauza Jaidev Vihar be considered and allotted in exchange. While filing the writ petition, 361. The expression ‘Raiyat’ is defined as an individual who acquires land primarily for purposes of cultivation under Section 3(3)(d) of the Orissa Government Land Settlement H Act, 1962 and Section 2(26) of the Orissa Land Reforms Act, 1960. STATE OF ORISSA & ANR. v. LAXMI NARAYAN DAS (DEAD) 1057 THR. LRS & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] the writ petitioners were silent about the civil suit filed by them praying A for a similar relief, which was dismissed as withdrawn without liberty to file a fresh suit, what to talk of writ petition.