We had also explained to you that do not complain about the decision taken by Haji Iqbal. But after abusing you, you did not agree. Now about 10 lakh rupees will be spent on our jail and court. What will your father give you? Then all the people sitting in the car SALIB @ SHALU @ SALIM v. STATE OF U.P. AND ORS. 67 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J. ] got down and surrounded me. Rashid Pradhan Mahmudpur said either withdraw the complaint now or give Rs 10 lakh. Otherwise you will definitely die. Your family will also die with you. That’s why Aslam alias Shubha resident of Shahpur Gada took out a pistol from his pocket and pointed at me and said that you have heard, give us at least 10 lakh rupees. Otherwise withdraw the case. Otherwise, you know that nothing will be known about you. And tell your family not to testify against us. Otherwise everyone be ready to die. Seeing the pistol, me and my daughter started running away in fear. Even our voice could not come out. Rao Atif of Raipur said where will she go after running away. And how long will it run? Will either take a decision or give Rs. 10 lakh or die. The person standing nearby, Salib alias Salu s/o Dilshad, resident of Kunja Grant Vikas Nagar, Dehradun, who is also the nephew and son-in-law of Iqbal alias Bala, was repeatedly saying that surround her in the car. Either she will decide or give money or she will die today itself. Only then Salman’s son Latif of village Mirzapur whom I already knew. He came on his bike and stopped near us and asked what happened…..So Suleman Kabaadi said that it has been a long time now, people have started coming and going. Saying this, people sat in the car and ran towards Shahpur Gada. I sat here on the road. I could not understand anything. I told all these things to Salman’s son Latif, Mr. Khursid, Farooq, Maharaj who belong to my family. These people threaten me by talking to my family members over the phone to get a decision in the case against Iqbal alias Bala and his family. Sir I am very worried please help me. Here is my statement. Sir, the persons whose names I have told you used to visit Iqbal alias Bala’s house, that is why I know them from before. …” 12. With the recording of the further statement referred to above, the investigating agency added Sections 147, 148, 149, 195A, 386 and 504 of the IPC. 13. We may also refer to one police statement of so-called eye witness namely Salman. The statement reads thus:- 68 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. “Statement Eyewitness…Salman s/o Latife resident of Kalyav police station Mirzapur district Saharanpur told on being asked that 11.06.2022 morning around 7.00 am he was going from his home Mirzapur to Shahpur Gada for some work, then on the way I saw that our own village some people are standing around Mrs. Husna on the road.