The ExpertHeritage Committee has recommended that the northern sectors of Chandigarh (Corbusian in Chandigarh) F should be preserved in their present form as far as possible. Specifically it has been recommended that no further enhancement should be given in FAR. Therefore the concept of redensification in general will go against the heritage of the city. As for as re- development of some G specific pockets is concerned, that can be done keeping proper perspective in mind. General redensification is not recommended. The expert committee has taken a serious note of the relaxations in FARs and building controls already given earlier and has recommended that they should be revoked. H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 633 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] ii) An accurate audit of existing residential plots will reveal A that many plots are inhabited by joint families, multi-generation families, have been internally divided and rented out and have legal disputes of ownership etc. Further there is a vast majority of residents who chose to live in Chandigarh due to the sub- urban character of the city and B want to live in the present sort of system without the arrangement of group housing or apartment configurations. The present representationists typically belong to this class. All these properties will not be available for redevelopment into apartment configurations irrespective of what is proposed in the master plan. C iii) Increasing density and especially housing density is an extremely important task and challenge for the planners and administrators of the city. It is something which cannot be left to the vagaries of market to determine the impact of density on the city and its infrastructure. Individual D developments of apartments in plots will result in increase in density in the areas of the city that are most profitable to the developers rather than where these housing units are required. iv) The introduction of apartment rules will most essentially E create apartments in the higher cost bracket of saleable units and is unlikely to create any low income or mid income housing. The demand in the city is for lower income and middle income housing rather than housing for the rich and affluent. A situation like this will predictably lead to proliferation of slums required to service the higher density F of highest income group people. v) Location of the redevelopment will also be an adhoc situation depending on individual owners’ prerogative rather than a formulated or predictable distribution of apartment units in the city. City planners, therefore, will have no advance G knowledge where and in what number the population density will increase. The planning for support and supply infrastructure, therefore, will also not be able to anticipate growth. This is, therefore, the least desirable and surely the most inefficient and expensive way to add infrastructure to the city. H 634 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A vi) There is a strong possibility that the introduction of the apartment rules will lead to a further increase in real estate prices.