The rule making power of the state must be exercised consistent with the fundamental right of the cinema C hall owner to carry on a legitimate occupation, trade, or business within the meaning of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. 21. The majority opinion of a nine judge bench of this Court in Mafatlal Industries Ltd. v. Union of India3 was authored by Jeevan Reddy, J. who held that the High Court must have regard to legislative intent while exercising its jurisdiction under Article 226: D “108 (i). While the jurisdiction of the High Courts under Article 226 — and of this Court under Article 32 — cannot be circumscribed by the provisions of the said enactments, they will certainly have due regard to the legislative intent evidenced by the provisions of the said Acts and would exercise their jurisdiction E consistent with the provisions of the Act … This is for the reason that the power under Article 226 has to be exercised to effectuate the rule of law and not for abrogating it.” 22. The legislature’s omission of a provision requiring the cinema owner to allow eatables and beverages to be brought from outside is F significant. In the absence of a specific mandate in the 1975 Rules (or any other applicable law) in this regard, the High Court was not justified in issuing a direction prohibiting theatre owners from disallowing food and beverages to be brought in by persons entering a movie theatre who enter it for viewing a film. The High Court has erred in the exercise of its writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. The exercise of G its jurisdiction was not consistent with the provisions of the enactments regulating movie theatres. 23. The cinema hall is a private property of the owner of the hall. The owner of the hall is entitled to stipulate terms and conditions so long H 3 (1997) 5 SCC 536 K C CINEMA (CORRECT NAME K C THEATRE) v. STATE OF JAMMU 585 AND KASHMIR [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] as they are not contrary to public interest, safety and welfare. Like with A any other business, the proprietor or the management is entitled to determine the business model that is to be followed and to give effect to their own conceptions of the economic viability of a particular business model. The owner of a cinema hall is entitled to determine whether she will set up or engage an entity for setting up counters for the sale of food B and beverages and to regulate the terms on which such sale should take place. A prohibition on carrying food and beverages from outside into the precincts of the movie hall is not contrary to public interest, safety or welfare. 24. Of late, multiplexes or movie halls are not operated or envisaged C solely as places where movies are screened. A more accurate characterization of a movie hall is as an entertainment centre or as an entertainment bundle. The sale of different kinds of food and beverages forms a portion of the entire package of entertainment available at the cinema hall.