- Until the House or Houses of the Legislature of a State specifi ed in Part B of the First Schedule has or have been duly constituted and summoned to meet for the fi rst session under the provisions of this Constitution, the body or authority functioning immediately before the commencement of this Constitution as the Legislature of the corresponding Indian State shall exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred by the provisions of this Constitution on the House or Houses of the Legislature of the State so specifi ed.” 233 Repealed Art. 386 read as: “386. Council of Ministers for States in Part B of the First Schedule. - Such persons as the Rajpramukh of a State specifi ed in Part B of the First Schedule may appoint in that IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 181 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 293. Article 387 contained provisions for the determination of the population for the purposes of holding elections under the Constitution for a period of three years from the commencement of the Constitution under s of the President234. Article 388 made provisions for the fi lling up of casual vacancies in the provisional Parliament and provisional Legislatures of the States. 294. Article 389 incorporated provisions in regard to Bills which were pending in the Legislature of the Dominion of India or in the Legislature of any Province or Indian State so that they could be taken up by the corresponding Legislature235. 295. Article 390 contained provisions in regard to money which had been received and raised for expenditure which was incurred between the commencement of the Constitution and the 31st day of March 1950236. behalf shall become members of the Council of Ministers of such Rajpramukh under the Constitution, and until appointments are so made, all persons holding offi ce as Ministers for the corresponding Indian State immediately before the commencement of this Constitution shall on such commencement become, and shall continue to hold offi ce as, members of the Council of Ministers of such Rajpramukh under the Constitution.” 234 Repealed Art. 387 read as: “387. Special provision as to determination of population for the purposes of certain elections.- For the purposes of elections held under any of the provisions of this Constitution during a period of three years from the commencement of this Constitution, the population of India or of any part thereof may, notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, be determined in such manner as the President may by direct, and diff erent provisions may be made for diff erent States and for diff erent purposes by such .” 235 Repealed Art. 389 read as: “389. – Provision as to Bills pending in the Dominion Legislature and in the Legislatures of Provinces and Indian States. – A Bill which immediately before the commencement of this Constitution was pending in the Legislature of the Dominion of India or in the Legislature of any Province or Indian State may, subject to any provision to the contrary which may be included in rules made by Parliament or the Legislature of the corresponding State under the Constitution, be continued in Parliament or the Legislature of the corresponding State, as the case may be, as if the proceedings taken with reference to the Bill in the Legislature of the Dominion of India or in the Legislature of the Province or Indian State had been taken in Parliament or in the Legislature of the corresponding State.” 236 Repealed Art.