From the above, the legal position appears to be this: the accused must be apprised of incriminating evidence and materials brought in by the prosecution against him to enable him to explain and respond to such evidence and material. Failure in not drawing the attention of the accused to the incriminating evidence and inculpatory materials brought in by prosecution specifi cally, distinctly and separately may not by itself render the trial against the accused void and bad in law; fi rstly, if having regard to all the questions put to him, he was aff orded an opportunity to explain what he wanted to say in respect of prosecution case against him and secondly, such omission has not caused prejudice to him resulting in failure of justice. The burden is on the accused to establish that by not apprising him of the incriminating evidence and 22 (2012) 2 SCC 648 410 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the inculpatory materials that had come in the prosecution evidence against him, a prejudice has been caused resulting in miscarriage of justice.” (Emphasis supplied) 41.In Nar Singh16, this Court had the occasion to review a series of decisions and summarise the law as to the courses available whenever a plea is raised before an appellate court that there has been a failure in putting certain incriminating circumstances to the accused while recording his statement under Section 313 CrPC. In that context, it was observed: “ 30. Whenever a plea of omission to put a question to the accused on vital piece of evidence is raised in the appellate court, courses available to the appellate court can be briefl y summarised as under: 30.1 Whenever a plea of non-compliance of Section 313 CrPC is raised, it is within the powers of the appellate court to examine and further examine the convict or the counsel appearing for the accused and the said answers shall be taken into consideration for deciding the matter. If the accused is unable to off er the appellate court any reasonable explanation of such circumstance, the court may assume that the accused has no acceptable explanation to off er. 30.2 In the facts and circumstances of the case, if the appellate court comes to the conclusion that no prejudice was caused or no failure of justice was occasioned, the appellate court will hear and decide the matter upon merits. 30.3 If the appellate court is of the opinion that non-compliance with the provisions of Section 313 CrPC has occasioned or is likely to have occasioned prejudice to the accused, the appellate court may direct retrial from the stage of recording the statements of the accused from the point where the irregularity occurred, that is, from the stage of questioning the accused under Section 313 CrPC and the trial Judge may be directed to examine the accused afresh and defence witness, if any, and dispose of the matter afresh. 30.4 The appellate court may decline to remit the matter to the trial court for retrial on account of long time already spent in the trial of the SUNIL v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 411 [MANOJ MISRA, J.]