Act, an agreement of sale, whether with possession or without possession, is not a conveyance. Section 54 of the T.P. Act enacts that sale of immovable property can be made only by a registered instrument and an agreement of sale does not create any interest or charge on its subject-matter.” (Emphasis supplied) 19. The decision stand considered in G.T. Girish v. Y. Subba Raju7, and relied upon in Ghanshyam Sarda v. J.K. Jute Mills Co. Ltd.8, without any change. This principle was recently restated in Munishamappa v M.Rama Reddy & Ors.9 20. It be observed that now, in many states, amendments were brought in whereby agreements of sale acknowledging delivery of possession are charged with the same duty as leviable on conveyance. 21. Now the question arises if we can retrospectively read the Explanation added vide M.P. Act 22 of 1990 so as to apply to an agreement to sell executed on 04.02.1988. 22. A Two-Judge bench of this Court10 while culling out the principles on the role of a clarifi cation/explanation to a statute and how the same is identifi ed and distinguished from a substantive amendment, observed that 7 (2022) 12 SCC 321 8 (2017) 1 SCC 599 9 Civil Appeal No. 10327 Of 2011 10 2023 SCC OnLine SC 640 VIJAY v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 303 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] only because a provision is described as a clarifi cation or explanation, the Court is not bound by the said statement, but must analyze the nature of the amendment so as to conclude whether it is, indeed, a clarifi catory or declaratory provision or whether it is a substantive amendment which is intended to change the law and which would apply prospectively. 23. The mere description of a provision as an “Explanation” or “clarifi cation” does not determine its actual eff ect.On this aspect, this Court in Virtual Soft Systems Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, Delhi11 observed as follows: “Even if the statute does contain a statement to the eff ect that the amendment is declaratory or clarifi catory, that is not the end of the matter. The Court will not regard itself as being bound by the said statement in the statute itself, but will proceed to analyse the nature of the amendment and then conclude whether it is in reality a clarifi catory or declaratory provision or whether it is an amendment which is intended to change the law and which applies to future periods.” 24. In Govind Das v. ITO12,this Court has observed that: “11. Now it is a well-settled rule of interpretation hallowed by time and sanctifi ed by judicial decisions that, unless the terms of a statute expressly so provide or necessarily require it, retrospective operation should not be given to a statute so as to take away or impair an existing right or create a new obligation or impose a new liability otherwise than as regards matters of procedure. The general rule, as stated by Halsbury in Vol. 36 of the Laws of England (3rd Edn.)