Mehta Case. The EPCA recommended that the total import requirement of RPC was 1.4 million tonnes per annum(“MTPA”) and Sanvira’s capacity was taken as 2,00,000 MTPA. The EPCA report stated inter alia as follows: “A.1.1 Calciners D This industry imports different grades of pet coke and then upgrades this produce to produce calcined pet coke through removal of moisture, volatile matter and by changing the crystalline structure. The pet coke is used as a feedstock in the manufacturing process and not as a fuel. The calcined E pet coke is sold to the aluminium industry for feedstock in smelting process. These are 28 calciners in the country, of which 6 are port based and entirely dependent on imported raw pet coke. These 6 calciners, manufacture 72 percent of the calcined pet coke F produced in the country. The 6 companies are as follows: 1. Rain CII Carbon, plant based in Vizag, Andhra Pradesh. 2. Sanvira Industries, plant based in Vizag, Andhra G Pradesh 3. Goa Carbon, with plants in Goa, Paradeep (Orissa) and Bilaspur (Chattisgarh). 4. Kalinga Calciners Pvt. Ltd., plant based in Paradeep (Orissa) H M/S. SANVIRA INDUSTRIES v. RAIN CII CARBON (VIZAG) 139 LTD. & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 5. India Carbon Ltd., plant based in Budge Budge, West A Bengal 6. Petro Carbon N Chemicals Pvt. Ltd. Plant in Haldia, West Bengal. The industry cannot use domestic pet coke as that grade called B anode grade – is not readily available. The structure of the pet coke in India is different therefore, import becomes essential. The industry also provided EPCA with details of the quantity required by the industry (see Annexure 1). C According to this estimation, the 6 industries, with combined production capacity of 1.17 million tonnes require 1.36 million tonnes of imported petcoke to produce 1 million tonnes of calcined pet coke annually. The industry has also informed EPCA that it meets S0 , NOx 2 D and particulate emission standards, as stipulated by CPCB. A.1.2 EPCA Recommendation on Calciner Industry. The Calciner industry should be allowed to import pet coke as its industry uses it for feedstock and not for fuel. This import is required as anode grade petcoke is not available in E sufficient quantities in the country.” 4. On 09.10.2018, based on the EPCA report, this court made an directing that RPC import cannot exceed 1.4 MMTPA and that it could be used as feedstock for producing CPC. The figure of 1.4 MMTPA was based on the production capacity of calciners given by each one of F them. This became the basis of an by this court dated 09.10.2018. As a consequence, on the same day, a notification2 was issued by DGFT amending the foreign trade policy in relation to the import of RPC. The amendment allowed the import of RPC for cement, calcium carbide, gasification, limekiln and graphite industries for use as feedstock or in G the manufacturing process on an actual user basis. The regulation and monitoring of these imports were to be supervised on the basis of guidelines issued by the MoEF on 10.09.2018.