F 8... the NGT has not dealt with the substantive grounds of challenge in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction. Constitution of an expert committee does not absolve the NGT of its duty to adjudicate. The adjudicatory function of the NGT cannot be assigned to committees, even expert committees. The decision has to be that G of the NGT. The NGT has been constituted as an expert adjudicatory authority under an Act of Parliament. The discharge of its functions cannot be obviated by tasking committees to carry out a function which vests in the tribunal.” H SINGRAULI SUPER THERMAL POWER STATION v. 453 ASHWANI KUMAR DUBEY & ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 13. Furthermore, in Kantha Vibhag (supra), this Court had A criticized the practice of delegation of core adjudication to the joint committee: 15. It is first important to differentiate expert committees which are set by the courts/tribunals from those set up by the Government in exercise of executive powers or under a particular statute. The B latter are set up due to their technical expertise in a given area, and their reports are, subject to judicially observed restraints, open to judicial review before courts when decisions are taken solely based upon them. The precedents of this court unanimously note that courts should be circumspect in rejecting the opinion of these C committees, unless they find their decision to be manifestly arbitrary or mala fide. On the other hand, courts/tribunals themselves set up expert committees on occasion. These committees are set up because the fact- finding exercise in many matters can be complex, technical and time-consuming, and may often require the committees to conduct field visits. These committees are set D up with specific terms of reference outlining their mandate, and their reports have to conform to the mandate. Once these committees submit their final reports to the court/tribunal, it is open to the parties to object to them, which is then adjudicated upon. The role of these expert committees does not substitute the E adjudicatory role of the court or tribunal. The role of an expert committee appointed by an adjudicatory forum is only to assist it in the exercise of adjudicatory functions by providing them better data and factual clarity, which is also open to challenge by all concerned parties. Allowing for objections to be raised and considered makes the process fair and participatory for all F stakeholders. 16. Sections 14 and Section 15 entrust adjudicatory functions to the NGT. The NGT is a specialized body comprising of judicial and expert members. Judicial members bring to bear their experience in adjudicating cases. On the other hand, expert G members bring into the decision-making process scientific knowledge on issues concerning the environment. In Hanuman Laxman Aroskar v. Union of India9, a two- Judge Bench of this Court noted that the NGT is an expert adjudicatory body on the environment. The Court held: H 454 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A “133. The NGT Act provides for the constitution of a tribunal consisting both of judicial and expert members.