Section 36 does not prohibit a challenge against an instrument that it shall not be acted upon because it is not duly stamped, but on that account there is no bar against an instrument not G duly stamped being acted upon after payment of the stamp duty and penalty according to the procedure prescribed by the Act. The doubt, if any, is removed by the terms of Section 42(2) which enAct, in terms unmistakable, that every instrument endorsed by the Collector under Section 42(1) H 442 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A shall be admissible in evidence and may be acted upon as if it has been duly stamped.” (emphasis supplied) 31. The above would indicate that there is no absolute bar against the instrument being “acted upon” since at a later stage the defect is B curable. 31.1. Arguing that the above course is not available, Ms. Malavika Trivedi, learned Senior Counsel for the intervenor had contended that Section 35 provides for a statutory bar, where the agreement shall not be admitted in evidence for any purpose nor shall it be acted upon, C registered or authenticated by any such person or by any public officer. It is, therefore, submitted that when a Court appoints an arbitrator under Section 11 of Arbitration Act, 1996, it is certainly “acting upon” the arbitration clause, which is barred by the clear language of Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899. Let us now proceed to test the above argument. 31.2 In Hameed Joharan v. Abdul Salam34 in the context of an D unstamped decree for partition, 2 judges of this Court had the occasion to interpret Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 and the interplay with Article 136 of the Limitation Act, 1963. It was contended in that case that an instrument not duly stamped, cannot be “acted upon”. The issue therein was whether a decree passed in a suit for partition can be acted E upon/enforced, without engrossing on stamp paper. It was also argued that the period of limitation begins to run from the date when the decree becomes enforceable i.e. when the decree is engrossed on the stamp paper. In this context, the Court opined that: “38. …..Undoubtedly, Section 2(15) includes a decree of partition F and Section 35 of the Act of 1899 lays down a bar in the matter of unstamped or insufficient stamp being admitted in evidence or being acted upon — but does that mean that the prescribed period shall remain suspended until the stamp paper is furnished and the partition decree is drawn thereon and subsequently signed by the Judge? The result would however G be an utter absurdity. As a matter of fAct, if somebody does not wish to furnish the stamp paper within the time specified therein and as required by the civil court to draw up the partition decree or if someone does not at all furnish the stamp paper, does that H 34 (2001) 7 SCC 573 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 443 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS.