(b) Whether the parties have concluded the contract/ transaction by recording satisfaction of their mutual rights C and obligation or by receiving the final payment without objection.” 43. In Geo Miller (supra), this Court observed in para 28 and 29 as under: “28. Having perused through the relevant precedents, we D agree that on a certain set of facts and circumstances, the period during which the parties were bona fide negotiating towards an amicable settlement may be excluded for the purpose of computing the period of limitation for reference to arbitration under the 1996 Act. However, in such cases the E entire negotiation history between the parties must be specifically pleaded and placed on the record. The Court upon careful consideration of such history must find out what was the “breaking point” at which any reasonable party would have abandoned efforts at arriving at a settlement and contemplated referral of the dispute for arbitration. This F “breaking point” would then be treated as the date on which the cause of action arises, for the purpose of limitation. The threshold for determining when such a point arises will be lower in the case of commercial disputes, where the party’s primary interest is in securing the payment due to them, than G in family disputes where it may be said that the parties have a greater stake in settling the dispute amicably, and therefore delaying formal adjudication of the claim. 29. Moreover, in a commercial dispute, while mere failure to pay may not give rise to a cause of action, once the applicant H has asserted their claim and the respondent fails to respond M/S B AND T AG v. MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 623 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] to such claim, such failure will be treated as a denial of the A applicant’s claim giving rise to a dispute, and therefore the cause of action for reference to arbitration. It does not lie to the applicant to plead that it waited for an unreasonably long period to refer the dispute to arbitration merely on account of the respondent’s failure to settle their claim and because B they were writing representations and reminders to the respondent in the meanwhile.” 44. The aforesaid observations make it very clear that what is important for the Court is to find out what was the “Breaking Point” at which any reasonable partywould have abandoned efforts at arriving at C a settlement and contemplated referral of the dispute for arbitration. 45. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner has placed strong reliance on para 28 of Geo Miller (supra) to fortify her submission that the “Breaking Point” was sometime in September, 2019 and not in 2016 as asserted by the respondent. What was the “Breaking Point” is D a question of fact and we shall deal with this issue a little later. However, para 28 referred to above should be read along with the observations made by this Court in para 21 of the . Para 21 reads thus: “21.