It has been held that the circumstances concerned “must or should” and not “may be” established. It has been held that there is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between “may be proved” and “must be or should be proved”. It has been held that the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty. It has been held that the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one sought to be proved, and that there must be a chain of evidence so complete so as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused. 19. It is a settled principle of law that however strong a suspicion may be, it cannot take place of a proof beyond reasonable doubt. In the light of these guiding principles, we will have to consider the present case. 20. We fi nd that the prosecution has utterly failed to prove the case as they need to prove the incriminating circumstances beyond reasonable doubt. The evidence with regard to last seen theory is totally unreliable. The evidence regarding the CDRs also is one which does not inspire any confi dence. As such, we fi nd that the appeals deserve to be allowed. 21. In the result, the appeals are allowed. The and dated 5th August 2014 passed by the High Court of Delhi at New Delhi in Criminal Appeal Nos. 1242, 936 and 1136 of 2013, and the and dated 17th May 2013 passed by the trial court are quashed and set aside. KAMAL v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 57 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 22. The appellants are acquitted of all the charges levelled against them. They are directed to be set at liberty if not required in any other case. Bail bonds of the appellants shall stand discharged. 23. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals allowed. Nidhi Jain