[2023] 13 S.C.R. 258 : 2023 INSC 870 CASE DETAILS SMT. M. HEMALATHA DEVI & ORS. v. B. UDAYASRI (Civil Appeal Nos. 6500-6501 of 2023) OCTOBER 05, 2023 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL AND SUDHANSHU DHULIA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the dispute between the parties is arbitrable, and once a party has availed the remedy before a public forum under a special benefi cial legislation, can it be compelled to go for arbitration. Consumer Protection Act, 2019 – Consumer Protection Act, 1986 – Arbitration Act & Conciliation, 1996 – s.11(6A), 8(1) – Arbitrability of consumer dispute – Constructed house/villa was not handed over to the buyer/consumer-respondent on time – Later, builder terminated the agreement and the appellants-builders/owners fi led application u/s.11(5), (6), Arbitration Act, 1996 before the High Court for appointment of Arbitrator, in terms of the arbitration clause in the agreement – Respondent fi led complaint before the District Forum – Appellants’ application was dismissed, liberty was granted to fi le a s.8 application before the District Forum which when fi led was dismissed – Review fi led by the appellants, dismissed – Plea of the appellants that the High Court erred in dismissing their application as under the amended provisions of s.11, Arbitration Act, 1996 i.e. after insertion of sub-section 6A to s.11, by way of an amendment in 2016, the High Court had no choice but to refer the matter for arbitration: Held: All disputes are not capable of being referred to arbitration – The exclusion of a dispute from arbitration may be express or implied, depending upon the nature of the dispute, and a party to a dispute cannot be compelled to resort to arbitration merely for the reason that it has been provided in the contract, to which it is a signatory – The arbitrability of a dispute has to be examined when one of the parties seeks redressal under a 258 SMT. M. HEMALATHA DEVI & ORS. v. B. UDAYASRI 259 welfare legislation, in spite of being a signatory to an arbitration agreement – Consumer Protection Act is a piece of welfare legislation with the primary purpose of protecting the interest of a consumer – Consumer disputes are assigned by the legislature to public fora, as a measure of public policy – Therefore, by necessary implication such disputes will fall in the category of non-arbitrable disputes, and these disputes should be kept away from a private fora such as ‘arbitration’, unless both the parties willingly opt for arbitration over the remedy before public fora – In the present case, the application u/s.11, Arbitration Act, 1996 fi led by the appellants for appointment of an arbitrator, was not maintainable – Impugned s which held this position upheld – High Court adopted the right approach in its two impugned s, where it declined to interfere in the matter and appoint an arbitrator – Reasoning given in Emaar MGF Land Ltd. v. Aftab Singh [2018] 14 SCR 791 (Emaar III) would be equally applicable to s.11 application before the High Court – Both the provisions incorporated in s.8 and s.11 [i.e.