Prayer (iii) in the writ petitions fi led by the appellants pertained to this. Section 19 does not specify in clear terms as to how the arrested person is to be ‘informed’ of the grounds of arrest and this aspect has not been dealt with or delineated in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra). Similarly, in V. Senthil Balaji (supra), this Court merely noted that the information of the grounds of arrest should be ‘served’ on the arrestee, but did not elaborate on that issue. Pertinent to note, the grounds of arrest were furnished in writing to the arrested person in that case. Surprisingly, no consistent and uniform practice seems to be followed by the ED in this regard, as written copies of the grounds of arrest are furnished to arrested persons in certain parts of the country but in other areas, that practice is not followed and the grounds of arrest are either read out to them or allowed to be read by them. 27. In this context, reliance is placed by the ED upon the decision of a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in Moin Akhtar Qureshi vs. Union of India and others9, wherein it was observed that Section 19 of the Act of 2002 uses the expression ‘informed of the grounds of such arrest’ and does not use the expression ‘communicate the grounds of such arrest’ and, therefore, the obligation cast upon the authorized offi cer under Section 19(1) is only to inform the arrestee of the grounds of arrest and the provision does not oblige the authority to serve the grounds for such arrest on the arrestee. Reliance is also placed by the ED on the of a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Chhagan Chandrakant Bhujbal vs. Union of India and others10, which held that the grounds of arrest are to be informed to the person 9 WP (Crl.) No. 2465 of 2017, decided on 01.12.2017 = 2017 SCC OnLine Del 12108 10 2017 Cri LJ (NOC 301) 89 = 2017 (1) AIR Bom R (Cri) 929 PANKAJ BANSAL v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 735 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] arrested and that would mean that they should be communicated at the earliest but there is no statutory requirement of the grounds of arrest being communicated in writing. 28. No doubt, in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), this Court held that non-supply of the ECIR in a given case cannot be found fault with, as the ECIR may contain details of the material in the ED’s possession and revealing the same may have a deleterious impact on the fi nal outcome of the investigation or inquiry. Having held so, this Court affi rmed that so long as the person is ‘informed’ of the grounds of his/her arrest, that would be suffi cient compliance with the mandate of Article 22(1) of the Constitution. 29. In this regard, we may note that Article 22(1) of the Constitution provides, inter alia, that no person who is arrested shall be detained in custody without being informed, as soon as may be, of the grounds for such arrest.