8.3. Learned senior counsel has contended in the third limb of submissions that the directions as issued in the present matter would result in unjust enrichment of the respondent inasmuch as the present value of the award would be around Rs. 7.35 crore and that would be D approximately 4.5 times the cost of all the three flats taken together today as per the current market rate. Pertinently, the learned senior counsel would submit, the respondent had, until the time of cancellation, paid only a sum of Rs. 13.35 lakhs for all the three flats which was only 25% of the final price that would have been payable at the time of taking possession. In this regard, it has also been argued that even with reference E to the decision in Ghaziabad Development Authority (supra), the compensation to be awarded to the respondent cannot exceed the fair market value of the flats and as per the circle rates, it would be around Rs. 2.04 crore and even as per the precedents of sale transactions, the amount could at the most be Rs. 2.25 crore as per the average sale price F based on 10 sale precedents in the same building and for the flats of similar size. In any case, the amount of compensation on the basis of present market realities would be much lower as compared to the compensation quantified on the basis of compound interest @ 14%. 8.4. In the fourth limb of submissions, learned senior counsel for G the appellants has argued that in the present case, the respondent had neither demanded nor prayed for the relief of compound interest in the complaints filed before the District Forum; and with reference to the decision of this Court in the case of Manohar Lal (D) by Lrs. v. Ugrasen (D) by Lrs. and Ors. : (2010) 11 SCC 557, it has been contended that the Consumer Fora could not have granted relief which had not been H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1117 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] specifically prayed for. Further to this, learned counsel has also contended A that in the present case, there had not been any finding by the State Commission or the National Commission as regards the alleged loss or injury suffered by the respondent. Although, the respondent pleaded loss of rent but no evidence was brought on the record on this issue nor had it been the case of the respondent that she was staying in a rented B accommodation or that she had availed loan for purchasing the flats and was making payment of instalments to the lender. It has, thus, been argued that without any pleading, without any evidence, and without any finding on any loss or injury, the State Commission proceeded to direct the refund of deposited amount with compound interest @ 14%, which remains wholly unjustified. C 8.5. Fifthly, learned senior counsel for the appellants has referred to the decision of this Court in the case of Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga (supra) in detail and has contended that therein, the only argument before this Court was as to whether the Tribunal under MRTPAct was required to determine the specific amount towards compensation as envisaged D by Section 12-B thereof and the observations in paragraph 5 of the decision, this Court did not interfere with the award of compound interest in that context.