rate of interest on the fi xed deposits made by the clubs. That this activity of the banks of utilising the funds of the clubs which are in the form of fi xed deposits towards its banking activities with third parties who are outside the net of mutuality, is purely a commercial operation. Therefore, there is a rupture of the principle of mutuality,resulting in a breach of one of the conditions of the principle of mutuality, namely, identity between contributors and participators. That the surplus funds are not used directly by the clubs towards any specifi c service, maintenance or any other direct benefi t for the members of the club, but are deposited in the form of fi xed deposits in banks to be at the disposal of the said banks for its operations vis-a-vis third parties, namely, customers of the banks. Therefore, there is no identity vis-a-vis the third parties being the customers of the banks and the members of the Clubs. Hence, the principle of mutuality would not apply. According to the learned ASG, this is so irrespective of whether the fi xed deposits are made in banks which are corporate members of the clubs or in any other bank or post offi ces. That the interest accrued on the fi xed deposits made by the clubs is similar in nature to any other banks’ deposit earning an interest made by any other customer of the bank during the course of banking operations and hence, it has a taint of commerciality which is fatal to the principle of mutuality. 6.17 It was next contended that for the application of principle of mutuality, there has to be a no-profi t motive in the activities of the club, exclusively for the benefi t of the members of the Clubs. Therefore, there cannot be avoidance of the liability to pay tax on such income earned by the clubs on the principle of mutuality. It was emphasised by the learned ASG that the relationship between the club with a bank as a customer of the banks is a business relationship just as any other customer of the bank would have a relationship with a bank and hence, the protection of mutuality cannot be invoked to such transactions which are purely commercial in nature. In this regard, our attention was drawn to various paragraphs of the of this Court in the case of Bangalore Club to contend that the reasoning therein is just and proper which would not call for reconsideration by a reference to a larger Bench. 6.18 Learned ASG also drew our attention to the fact that the Bombay High Court as well as the Madras High Court had not concurred with the of the Karnataka High Court in Canara Bank and they observed SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1005 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] that the said may be restricted to the facts of that case alone and cannot act as a precedent particularly in view of the of this Court in Bangalore Club.