v. RADHESHYAM AGRAWAL 657 [M. R. SHAH, J.] contractor when the contractor fails to complete the work within stipulated A time under the contract and subsequently, completes the work beyond the period prescribed under the contract? 5.1 In to consider the aforesaid issue, the relevant clauses of the contract and OPWD Code, are required to be referred to and considered, which are as under: - B Relevant provision of the contract agreement Extension of Time Clause-4 “If the contractor shall desire an extension of the times for completion of the work, on the ground of his having been unavoidably C hinder in its execution or any other ground he shall apply in writing to the Executive Engineer within 30 days of the date of the hindrance on account of which he desires such extension as aforesaid and the Executive Engineer shall, if in his opinion (which shall be final) reasonable grounds be shown thereof, authorize such extension of time, if any, as may in his opinion, be necessary or proper. The Executive Engineer shall at the D time inform the contractor whether he claims compensation for delay.” Relevant provisions of the OPWD Code Clause (V) of para 3.5.5 of the OPWD Code, Vol. I: - “Percentage Contract will be in addition of item rate, lump sum E contractors etc. In such contracts the schedule of quantities shall mention estimated rate of such item and amount thereof. The Contractor has to mention percentage excess or less over the estimated cost (in figures as well as words) in the prescribed format appended to the tender document. The Contractors F participated in the tender for more than one work may offer conditional rebate. Rebate offer submitted in separate sealed envelope shall be opened, declared and recorded first. The rebate so offered, shall be considered after opening of all packages called in the same tender notice. The Contractors who wish to tender for two or more work shall submit separate tender G for each. Each tender shall have the name and number of the works to which they refer, written on the envelope. The adopted format for percentage rate is same as that of the form adopted for item rate tenders but the word “item rate” shall be replaced by “percentage rate” and the contract form may be named as P- H 658 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 1. In this for time is the essence. The Contractor is required to maintain a certain rate of progress specified in the contract. The contract can also be terminated with penalty when the progress of work is not as per the conditions of contract. The quantity mentioned can be increased or reduced to the extent of 10% for individual items subject to a maximum of 5% over the estimated B cost. If it exceeds the limit stated above prior approval of competent authority is mandatory before making any payment. The period of completion is fixed and cannot be altered except in case of exceptional circumstances with due approval of next higher authority.