[2023] 11 S.C.R. 652 : 2023 INSC 766 CASE DETAILS STATE BANK OF INDIA v. A.G.D. REDDY (Civil Appeal No. 11196 of 2011) AUGUST 24, 2023 [J. K. MAHESHWARI AND K. V. VISWANATHAN, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the Division Bench and the Single Judge of the High Court were justifi ed in quashing the passed by the Appointing Authority imposing a punishment of “reduction in basic pay to the lowest stage in Scale-I” as envisaged under Rule 49 (e) of the State Bank of India (Supervising Staff ) Service Rules and treating the period spent by the delinquent offi cer under suspension from 18.08.1990 till the date of his reinstatement as suspension only. Service Law – Misconduct – Commission of certain acts of misconduct by the employee while working as Field Offi cer of the Bank – Disciplinary proceedings – Appointing Authority imposed punishment of reduction in basic pay to the lowest stage in Scale-I and treated the period spent by the delinquent officer under suspension till the date of his reinstatement as suspension only – Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court quashed the – Correctness: Held: Both the Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court erred in interfering with the fi ndings of the Enquiry Offi cer, the decision of the Disciplinary Authority, and the of the Appointing Authority and the Appellate Authority – Thus, the of the Single Judge and that of the Division Bench set aside – State Bank of India (Supervising Staff ) Service Rules – r. 49 (e). [Para 41] Service Law – Disciplinary proceeding – Onus of proof: 652 STATE BANK OF INDIA v. A.G.D. REDDY 653 Held: In a disciplinary proceeding, the burden of proof depends upon the nature of the charge and the nature of the explanation put forward by the employee – In a given case, the burden may be shifted to the employee depending upon the explanation – On facts, the specifi c charge was with regard to a series of named units, periodical inspections were not carried out – It was after the production of the inspection register that the defence representative of the employee stated, that they would respond after going through the said documents – No response was forthcoming – Neither from the records nor at the hearing it was demonstrated as to how the charge of failure to conduct the inspection was countered by the employee – Records sought being made available, the onus did shift to the employee to show that the charge was untenable – As regards the failure to conduct periodical inspection, it cannot be said that the fi nding of the Enquiry Offi cer is on a mis-reading of the evidence or that the records of the inspection of units were part of the records that could be possibly misplaced or that a fi nding was based on some stray sentence and personal knowledge was imported by the Enquiry Offi cer de hors the record.