These grounds are illustrative and not exhaustive. Where bail has been granted under the proviso to Section 167(2) for the default of the prosecution in not completing the investigation in sixty days after the defect is G cured by the filing of a charge-sheet, the prosecution may seek to have the bail cancelled on the ground that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the accused has committed a non- bailable offence and that it is necessary to arrest him and commit him to custody. However, in the last mentioned case, one would expect very strong grounds indeed. (Raghubir Singh v. State of Bihar H [(1986) 4 SCC 481. )” THE STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION V. T. 761 GANGI REDDY @ YERRA GANGI REDDY [M. R. SHAH, J.] 9.6 Now, so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of this A Court in the case of Mohamed Iqbal Madar Sheikh and Ors. (supra) relied upon by the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – original Accused No. 1 is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that in the said decision, this Court has not taken a contrary view than the view taken in the case of Aslam Babalal Desai B (supra). In the case of Mohamed Iqbal Madar Sheikh and Ors. (supra), it was a case of refusing to release the accused on default bail. While releasing the accused on default bail, thereafter, this Court observed that if the accused is released on bail because of the default in completion of the investigation, then, no sooner the chargesheet is filed, the granting bail to such accused cannot be cancelled. However, thereafter, C it is observed in paragraph 10 that the bail of such accused who has been released, because of the default on the part of the investigating officer to complete the investigation, can be cancelled, but not, only on the ground that after the release, the chargesheet has been submitted against such accused for an offence. Thereafter, it is further observed D that for cancelling the bail, the well-settled principles in respect of cancellation of bail have to be made out as observed by this Court in the case of Aslam Babalal Desai (supra). Therefore, as such the observations made by this Court in the case of Mohamed Iqbal Madar Sheikh and Ors. (supra) even supports the case on behalf of the C.B.I. that the granting bail shall be deemed to be under Section 437(1) E or (2) or Section 439(1) of the Cr.P.C. and that can be cancelled when a case for cancellation is made out under Section 437(5) or 439(2) Cr.P.C. 9.7 Thus, when special reasons/grounds are being made out from the chargesheet and the chargesheet reveals the commission of a non- F bailable crime, the bail in favour of a person, who has been released on default bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. can be cancelled considering Section 437(5) and Section 439(2) Cr.P.C. 9.8 What can be said to be special grounds for cancellation of the bail, over and above the well-known grounds for cancellation of the bail G granted under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C.