Perusal of the same reveals that the rigor mortis was present in all the four limbs due to swelling and not in normal course. It was the B duty of the defence to ask the doctor who had conducted post mortem on the dead body, whether the presence of rigor mortis was suggestive of the fact that the deceased was killed within thirty-six hours of his post mortem examination. But no such question was put to doctor. The doctor in his statement C had stated that the time between death and post mortem examination was more than forty-eight hours and this statement of the doctor was not challenged in his cross- examination. Therefore, the plea of the ld. defence counsel cannot be accepted.” D 11. We are afraid that by pointing out the weakness in the cross examination of the defense the presiding judge indirectly admits to the weakness in the trial itself. We say this for the reasons that under Section 165 of the Act, a trial judge has tremendous powers to “ask any question he pleases, in any form, at any time, of any witness, or of the parties about any fact relevant or irrelevant”. It is in fact the duty of the Trial E Judge to do so if it is felt that some important and crucial question was left from being asked from a witness. The purpose of the trial is after all to reach to the truth of the matter. Section 165 of the Act reads as under: “165. Judge’s power to put questions or production. –– The Judge may, in to discover or to obtain proper proof F of relevant facts, ask any question he pleases, in any form, at any time, of any witness, or of the parties about any fact relevant or irrelevant; and may the production of any document or thing; and neither the parties nor their agents shall be entitled to make any objection to any such question or , nor, without the leave of the Court, to cross-examine G any witness upon any answer given in reply to any such question: Provided that the must be based upon facts declared by this Act to be relevant, and duly proved: Provided also that this section shall not authorize any Judge to compel any witness to answer any question, or to produce any H 232 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A document which such witness would be entitled to refuse to answer or produce under sections 121 to 131, both inclusive, if the question were asked or the document were called for by the adverse party; nor shall the Judge ask any question which it would be improper for any other person to ask under section 148 or 149; nor shall he dispense with primary evidence of B any document, except in the cases hereinbefore excepted.” The powers of a presiding judge in a criminal trial and his duty to get to the truth of the matter have been laid down in a seminal judgement of this Court authored by Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy, which is Ram Chander v. State of Haryana4.