14.1. In the case of DLF Homes Panchkula Pvt Ltd (supra), G the facts- sheet indicates the features of delay in delivery of possession and grant of compensation for such delay by way of interest as also a lump sum and therein, this Court observed that there cannot be multiple heads to grant damages and interest when the parties had agreed to payment of damages in a particular manner. In the given context, this Court, inter alia, observed as under: H 1126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A “15. The District Forum under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (“the 1986 Act”) is empowered inter alia to the opposite party to pay such amount as may be awarded as compensation to the consumer for any loss or injury suffered by the consumer due to the negligence of the opposite party including to grant punitive damages. But the forums under the Act cannot award interest B and/or compensation by applying rule of thumb. The to grant interest at the maximum of rate of interest charged by nationalised bank for advancing home loan is arbitrary and has no nexus with the default committed. The appellant has agreed to deliver constructed flats. For delay in handing over possession, the C consumer is entitled to the consequences agreed at the time of executing buyer’s agreement. There cannot be multiple heads to grant of damages and interest when the parties have agreed for payment of damages @ Rs 10 per square foot per month. Once the parties agreed for a particular consequence of delay in handing over of possession then, there have to be exceptional and strong D reasons for SCDRC/NCDRC to award compensation at more than the agreed rate. 16. Though the 1986 Act empowers the authorities to award compensation for any loss or injury including building damages but the of NCDRC or that of SCDRC of awarding compensation E is without any foundation being laid down by the complainant on judicially recognised principles and is by rule of thumb. Therefore, we find that grant of compensation under various heads granted by NCDRC cannot be sustained.” 14.2. The case of Wing Commander Arifur Rahman Khan F (supra) had been another one of delay in delivery of possession wherein this Court enunciated principles for awarding of compensation for such delay. In that context, this Court held that compensation in excess of stipulated amount in the agreement was allowable when the stipulated compensation was unreasonable and unfair. Therein, this Court ultimately G allowed simple interest @ 6% p.a. with the following observations and directions: “69. For the above reasons we have come to the conclusion that the dismissal of the complaint by NCDRC was erroneous. The flat buyers are entitled to compensation for delayed handing over of possession and for the failure of the developer to fulfil the H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1127 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] representations made to flat buyers in regard to the provision of A amenities.