The requirement that the Management must obtain approval was distinguished from the requirement that it must obtain C permission, of which mention is made in Section 33(1). 7. It is seen that the approval envisaged under Exception (iii) of Section 59(1)(a), is to enable the Parishad to proceed further in implementation of the scheme framed by the Board. Until approval is given by the Government, the D Board may not effectively implement the scheme. Nevertheless, once the approval is given, all the previous acts done or actions taken in anticipation of the approval get validated and the publications made under the Act thereby become valid.” E (Emphasis Applied) In this respect, we would like to hold that reliance on the same is misdirected for the reason that the interpretation of a contractual condition as contained in the present lease deed stands on a different footing than the interpretation of statutory provisions which were the subject matter in the case of U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad.6 F 46.It is now settled law that any contractual term or condition is to be interpreted as per the natural and ordinary meaning appended to the language used by the parties unless the same leads to absurdity.7 In the present case, condition (e) of the 1924 lease deed makes it clear that no rights in the Suit Land are allowed to be transferred or created G “without the written approval of the Deputy Commissioner of Nainital” which bears the crystal clear requirement of the prior assent needed from the Deputy Commissioner. This interpretation is also 6 U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (n 1). 7 M.O.H. Uduman v. M.O.H. Aslum, (1991) 1 SCC 412, para 14; Investors Compensation H Scheme Ltd vs. West Bromwich Building Society,[1998] 1 All ER 98. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR 971 (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] supported from the fact that leases under the Government Grants Act of A 1985 are to be strictly constructed as per the terms of the grant, regardless of any other provisions of the law as noted in State of Uttar Pradesh v Zahoor Ahmad8 which states that – “16. Section 3 of the Government Grants Act declares the unfettered discretion of the Government to impose such B conditions and limitations as it thinks fit, no matter what the general law of the land be. The meaning of sections 2 and 3 of the Government Grants is that the scope of that Act is not limited to affecting the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act only. The Government has unfettered C discretion to impose any conditions, limitations, or restrictions in its grants, and the right, privileges and obligations of the grantee would be regulated according to the terms of the grant, notwithstanding any provisions of any statutory or common law.” D 47.Additionally, the bench in U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad9 furthermore relied on the decisions rendered in Life Insurance Corpn. of India v. Escorts Ltd.10 and Lord Krishna Textiles Mills Ltd. v. Workmen11, wherein the terms ‘permission’ and ‘approval’ were used within same statute which necessitated the distinction between these terms.