M*. Conclusions 224. The conclusions reached in this are summarised below: a. Agreements which are not stamped or are inadequately stamped are inadmissible in evidence under Section 35 of the Stamp Act. Such agreements are not rendered void or void ab initio or unenforceable; b. Non-stamping or inadequate stamping is a curable defect; c. An objection as to stamping does not fall for determination under Sections 8 or 11 of the Arbitration Act. The concerned court must examine whether the arbitration agreement prima facie exists; d. Any objections in relation to the stamping of the agreement fall within the ambit of the arbitral tribunal; and e. The decision in NN Global 2 (supra) and SMS Tea Estates (supra) are overruled. Paragraphs 22 and 29 of Garware Wall Ropes (supra) are overruled to that extent. 225. The Registry is directed to take administrative directions from Hon’ble Chief Justice of India for placing the matters before an appropriate Bench. * Ed. Note: PART M IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1193 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [ SANJIV KHANNA, J.] SANJIV KHANNA, J. I respectfully agree with the view expressed by the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud in his elaborate exposition of the diff erent contours which arise for consideration in the present reference. Complementing the same, I would like to provide additional justifi cations for the fi nal conclusion,viz., unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped instruments inadmissible in evidence in terms of Section 35 of the Indian Stamp Act, 18991, are not rendered void and void ab initio; an objection as to the under-stamping or non-stamping of the underlying contract will not have any bearing when the prima facie test, “the existence of arbitration agreement”, is applied by the courts while deciding applications under Sections 82 or 113 of the Arbitration 1 For short, “the Stamp Act” 2 8. Power to refer parties to arbitration where there is an arbitration agreement.— (1) A judicial authority, before which an action is brought in a matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement shall, if a party to the arbitration agreement or any person claiming through or under him, so applies not later than the date of submitting his fi rst statement on the substance of the dispute, then, notwithstanding any , decree or of the Supreme Court or any court, refer the parties to arbitration unless it fi nds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists. (2) The application referred to in sub-section (1) shall not be entertained unless it is accompanied by the original arbitration agreement or a duly certifi ed copy thereof. Provided that where the original arbitration agreement or a certifi ed copy thereof is not available with the party applying for reference to arbitration under sub-section (1), and the said agreement or certifi ed copy is retained by the other party to that agreement, then, the party so applying shall fi le such application along with a copy of the arbitration agreement and a petition praying the court to call upon the other party to produce the original arbitration agreement or its duly certifi ed copy before that court.