1043 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 202 of the said Act, since the creation of the same in favour of the A Corporate Debtor was coupled with flow of consideration. 41. Having dealt with the objections raised on the strength of statutory provisions, let us now see the decisions on which heavy reliance is placed by the appellants. B 42. Embassy Property Developments Private Limited (supra) arose out of a case where, under the guise of preserving and protecting the interests of the Corporate Debtor, NCLT issued a direction to the Government of Karnataka to grant renewal of a mining lease, in terms of the deeming provision in Section 8A(6) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957. Raising the question of C jurisdiction of the NCLT to issue such a direction, the Government of Karnataka approached the High Court by way of a writ petition, instead of filing a statutory appeal to NCLAT. The jurisdiction of the High Court to entertain the said writ petition and also grant interim stay, was what was questioned before this Court in the said decision. The right to have D a mining lease granted by the Government, was neither a statutory right nor a contractual right. A person applying for a mining lease may at the most be entitled to have his application considered along with the applications of others and to a fair treatment. Once a mining lease is granted, the terms and conditions of such grant may be subject to the covenants contained in the grant as well as the statutory provisions. E Therefore, the ratio laid down in Embassy Property Developments Private Limited(supra) may not go to the rescue of the appellants in a case of this nature where Energy Properties became the owner only on account of the money paid by the Corporate Debtor and a bundle of very valuable rights and interests in immovable property was created F thereafter in favour of the Corporate Debtor. 43. The decision of this Court in Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (supra) may not also go to the rescue of the appellants, since the same arose out of a termination of Power Purchase Agreement13. In fact, this Court made a distinction in the said case, between (i) a dispute that arose out of the termination of PPA solely on account of G insolvency on the one hand; and (ii) the other disputes relating to the PPA on the other hand. 13 For short, “PPA” H 1044 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 44. The decision in Tata Consultancy, rather than helping the appellants, actually supports the case of the Corporate Debtor. In fact, the decision in Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited was distinguished in Tata Consultancy (by the very same author), on the ground that if the termination was on an ipso facto clause i.e., the fact of insolvency itself, then NCLT will have jurisdiction, but that there was no residuary B jurisdiction for NCLT, if the termination of a contract is based on grounds unrelated to the insolvency.