It is no doubt true that this Court (G.K. Mitter and A.N. STATE OF HARYANA AND OTHERS v. DINESH SINGH 1063 AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] Ray, JJ.) has in Government of India, Ministry of Home Aff airs v. Tarak Nath Ghosh, [(1971) 1 SCC 734 : AIR 1971 SC 823] ‘expressed the view that under Rule 7(1) of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1955 [replaced in 1969 by Rule 3(1) with which we are concerned] the Government is entitled to place an offi cer under suspension even before defi nite charges are communicated to him when preliminary investigation has been made into his conduct following allegations of corrupt or malpractice levelled against him. In support of this view, reliance in that decision was placed on S. Govinda Menon v. Union of India, [(1967) 2 SCR 566 : AIR 1967 SC 1274] ’ an earlier decision by a bench of two Judges.” 38. In Kul Bhusan Chopra v. Punjab National Bank and Ors. (1979) IILLJ 86 Del the Delhi High Court while considering the suspension of the petitioner under Clause 12 of the Punjab National Bank Offi cer Employees (Discipline and Appeal) Regulation 1977 elucidated the meaning of the term contemplation as follows: “11. When can the disciplinary proceedings be said to be “contemplated” must then be determined. Can an offi cer be suspended merely during the investigation by the Bank or during the pendency of some sort of a preliminary of confi dential enquiry by it and must the suspension be resorted to, if at all, only after a formal charge or accusation has been made against an offi cer? What does the expression “contemplated” connote? Does it merely mean that proceedings are likely in the foreseeable future or are imminent in the near future or are about to be initiated. These are some of the questions that were posed in the course of arguments. The expression “contemplated” is not defi ned in the Regulations. According to the dictionary meaning, the word “contemplate” would mean to have in view, to expect, to take into account as contingency, to propose. In the case of P.R. Nayak, (5) the diff erence between “contemplation” and “initiation” was brought out. The relevant rule in that case empowered the authority to suspend where the proceedings had been initiated. The of suspension was, however, made before the initiation of proceedings on the ground that the same were “contemplated”. It was held that the rules did not authorise suspension “merely because disciplinary 106 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. proceedings against him are contemplated”. In the case of State of U.P. v. Jai Singh Dixit, (6) a Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court was concerned with Rule 49A of the U.P. Civil Services (Classifi cation, Control and Appeal) Rules which empowered the authority to suspend a Government servant “against whose conduct an enquiry is contemplated or is proceeding” which is in pari materia with the Regulation in the present case. According to the Allahabad High Court, the proper meaning which could be assigned to the word “contemplated” in the context of the aforesaid rule was when it was in the mind of the appointing authority that in due course a formal departmental enquiry shall be held or there existed a contingency for such an enquiry.