The casting of vote in favour of one or the other candidate marks the accomplishment of freedom of expression of the voter.” 57. Justice DM Dharmadhikari expressed his agreement with the E view taken by Justice Venkatarama Reddi, thus making it a majority decision holding that the right to vote is a constitutional right. Even Justice Shah had held that the right of adults to take part in the election process as a voter could only be restricted by a valid law which does not offend constitutional provisions. 58. An argument based on the majority view in PUCL 2003 was F put forth before a Constitution Bench of this Court in Kuldip Nayar and Others v. Union of India and Others37(hereinafter “Kuldip Nayar”). It was argued that a right to vote is a constitutional right besides that it is also a facet of fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The Constitution bench rejected the argument. It was held: G “The argument of the petitioners is that the majority view in the case of People’s Union for Civil Liberties, therefore, was that a right to vote is a constitutional right besides that it is also a facet of fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. 37 (2006) 7 SCC 1 H 202 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A We do not agree with the above submission. It is clear that a fine distinction was drawn between the right to vote and the freedom of voting as a species of freedom of expression, while reiterating the view in Jyoti Basu v. Debi Ghosal (supra) that a right to elect, fundamental though it is to democracy, is neither a fundamental right nor a common law right, but pure and simple, a statutory B right. Even otherwise, there is no basis to contend that the right to vote and elect representatives of the State in the Council of States is a Constitutional right. Article 80(4) merely deals with the manner of election of the representatives in the Council of States as an C aspect of the composition of the Council of States. There is nothing in the Constitutional provisions declaring the right to vote in such election as an absolute right under the Constitution.” 59. The Constitution Bench in Kuldip Nayar seems to have missed the point that Justice Venkatarama Reddi’s opinion in PUCL 2003 that D the right to vote is a constitutional right was explicitly concurred by Justice Dharmadhikari. Therefore, Kuldip Nayar’s view that PUCL 2003 considered the right to vote/elect as a statutory right does not seem to portray the correct picture. 60. In Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam and Another v. E Election Commission of India,38 a three-judge bench was considering a challenge to the constitutional validity of the amendment of the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) , 1968, which mandated that in to be recognized as a State party in the State, a political party would have to secure not less than 6% of the total valid votes polled in the State and should also have returned at least 2 members to the F Legislative Assembly of the State.