Both these persons were called to the police station but they did not report. The Investigating Officer thereafter went to the house of the appellant. 5. According to the Investigating Officer, both the accused confessed before him that they had gone to Fatikroy and Kanchanbari H 1 in short ‘IPC’ INDRAJIT DAS v. THE STATE OF TRIPURA 145 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] area on the bike of the deceased Kaushik Sarkar. On the way they had A purchased a bottle of alcohol and consumed it along with Babul Das. Thereafter, they started driving towards Kailashahar. At Shantipur, they got down to answer the call of nature. Kaushik was sitting on the motor cycle. At that stage, both the accused assaulted Kaushik Sarkar with the vojalis. They threw the helmet, purse and two vojalis in the nearby B jungle and dragged the dead body and the motor cycle to the nearby river and threw them in the river. Then they swam across the river, went to the house of the appellant and burnt their blood-stained clothes. 6. The accused ‘juvenile K’ was tried under the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000. The present C appellant was tried by the regular Sessions Court. Upon charge being framed and read out, he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 7. The prosecution examined as many as 40 witnesses and also led documentary evidence which was duly proved and exhibited. The Trial Court vide dated 19.04.2011 recorded a finding that the D prosecution had fully established the guilt of the appellant beyond reasonable doubt, and accordingly convicted him of the offences and sentenced him as recorded earlier. 8. The appellant preferred appeal before the High Court which has since been dismissed by the impugned as the High Court E was also of the view that the prosecution had been successful in proving the charges beyond reasonable doubt. 9. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material evidence on record. 10. The present one is a case of circumstantial evidence as no F one has seen the commission of crime. The law in the case of circumstantial evidence is well settled. The leading case being Sharad Birdhichand Sarda vs. State of Maharashtra2. According to it, the circumstances should be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused; the circumstances taken cumulatively should form a chain so complete that there is no escape from the conclusion G that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused and they should be incapable of explanation on any hypothesis other than that of the guilt of the accused and inconsistent with his innocence. The said principle set out in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda 2 1984 (4) SCC 116 H 146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A (supra) has been consistently followed by this Court. In a recent case – Sailendra Rajdev Pasvan and Others vs. State of Gujarat Etc.3, this Court observed that in a case of circumstantial evidence, law postulates two-fold requirements.