Suffice it to say that at the relevant time when the State police agency took a particular stand, accused No. 13 was in power and sitting D Minister. The facts narrated hereinabove would suggest the manner in which the earlier investigation was caried out and that the accused No. 13 was only chargesheeted in the second supplementary charge sheet in the month of March, 2022 and not prior to that when the first charge sheet was filed, the supplementary chargesheet was filed and even when the charges against the other accused were framed. The endeavor of E the Court should be to have the fair investigation and fair trial only. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case narrated hereinabove, we are of the opinion that a case is made out for further investigation and the State agency may be permitted to conduct a further investigation and to bring on record the further material, which may be F in the furtherance of fair investigation and fair trial. The High Court has committed a very serious error in not ing and/or permitting the State police agency to further investigate into the FIR bearing Nos. 119 and 120 of 2020. The High Court has not considered the relevant aspects narrated hereinabove and therefore interference of this Court is warranted. G 14. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, present appeal succeeds in part. The impugned and passed by the High Court refusing to transfer the investigation of the FIR No. 120 of 2020 to CBI is hereby confirmed. The impugned and passed by the High Court refusing to further investigation / re- H 78 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A investigation is hereby quashed and set aside and we direct / permit the State investigating agency to further investigate into the FIR bearing No. 120 of 2020 and on what aspects the further investigation shall be caried out is left to the wisdom of the State investigating agency. Further investigation be carried out and completed as early as possible, preferably within a period of three months from the date of receipt of the present B and the further supplementary report be placed before the learned Magistrate in the Trial/before the concerned Trial Court thereafter forthwith, which may be considered by the Trial Court in accordance with law and on its own merits and the accused be tried accordingly and in accordance with law and on merits. C Present appeal is partly allowed to the aforesaid extent. Ankit Gyan Appeal partly allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri and Rahul Rathi, LCRAs) D E F G H