We are hence not entering into the correctness or otherwise of the evidence on record. It, however, cannot be overlooked that as on today, the applicant has been found guilty and convicted by a competent criminal court. Initial presumption G of innocence in favour of the accused, therefore, is no more available to the applicant. xxx xxx xxx H 160 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 30. ….In the above cases, it has been observed that once a person has been convicted, normally, an appellate court will proceed on the basis that such person is guilty. It is no doubt true that even thereafter, it is open to the appellate court to suspend the sentence in a given case by recording reasons. But it is well settled, as observed in Vijay Kumar [(2002) 9 B SCC 364 : 2003 SCC (Cri) 1195 : JT 2002 Supp (1) SC 60] that in considering the prayer for bail in a case involving a serious offence like murder punishable under Section 302 IPC, the Court should consider all the relevant factors like the nature of accusation made against the accused, the manner C in which the crime is alleged to have been committed, the gravity of the offence, the desirability of releasing the accused on bail after he has been convicted for committing serious offence of murder, etc. It has also been observed in some of the cases that normal practice in such cases is not to suspend the sentence and it is only in exceptional cases that the benefit D of suspension of sentence can be granted. 31. In Hasmat [(2004) 6 SCC 175 : 2004 SCC (Cri) 1757 : JT (2004) 6 SC 6] , this Court stated : (SCC p. 176, para 6) “6. Section 389 of the Code deals with suspension of E execution of sentence pending the appeal and release of the applicant on bail. There is a distinction between bail and suspension of sentence. One of the essential ingredients of Section 389 is the requirement for the appellate court to record reasons in writing for ing suspension of execution of the sentence or appealed. If he is in F confinement, the said court can direct that he be released on bail or on his own bond. The requirement of recording reasons in writing clearly indicates that there has to be careful consideration of the relevant aspects and the directing suspension of sentence and grant of bail should G not be passed as a matter of routine.” (emphasis supplied) 32. The mere fact that during the period of trial, the accused was on bail and there was no misuse of liberty, does not per se warrant suspension of execution of sentence and grant of H OMPRAKASH SAHNI v. JAI SHANKAR CHAUDHARY & 161 ANR. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] bail. What is really necessary is to consider whether reasons A exist to suspend execution of the sentence and grant of bail.” (Emphasis supplied) 29. In the case of Atul Tripathi v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others, reported in (2014) 9 SCC 177, whereunder apart from identifying the differences of consideration of prayer for grant of bail relating to B pre-conviction stage as well as post-conviction stage, it has been held in para 14 which is as follows: “14.