A 45. In Indian National Congress (I) v. Institute of Social Welfare16, this Court held that Section 21 of the General Clauses Act cannot be pressed into service to vary, amend, or review a quasi-judicial or notification. It is important to note that a quasi-judicial or notification cannot be rescinded by relying upon Section 21 of the Gen- eral Clauses Act. The notification dated 2 August 2019 rescinded the B notification dated 4 July 1986 by which the OAT was established. It is therefore the notification dated 4 July 1986 which established the OAT which must be analysed to determine whether it is a quasi-judicial noti- fication, and not the notification dated 2 August 2019, the effect of which was to abolish the OAT. If the answer is that the decision to establish C the OAT was indeed a quasi-judicial decision, Section 21 of the General Clauses Act cannot be relied on to reverse this decision. As a conse- quence, the notification dated 2 August 2019 will be invalid, being im- properly issued. If, however, the decision to establish the OAT was ad- ministrative , there would be no bar to the invocation of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act to rescind the notification establishing the OAT. D 46. This Court discussed the meaning and contours of a quasi- judicial act in Province of Bombay v. Khushaldas S. Advani17, where SR Das, J. in his concurring opinion held: “80.1. (i) that if a statute empowers an authority, not being a court E in the ordinary sense, to decide disputes arising out of a claim made by one party under the statute which claim is opposed by another party and to determine the respective rights of the contesting parties who are opposed to each other, there is a lis and prima facie and in the absence of anything in the statute to the contrary it is the duty of the authority to act judicially and the F decision of the authority is a quasi-judicial act; and 80.2. (ii) that if a statutory authority has power to do any act which will prejudicially affect the subject, then, although there are not two parties apart from the authority and the contest is between the authority proposing to do the act and the subject opposing it, G the final determination of the authority will yet be a quasi-judicial act provided the authority is required by the statute to act judicially. 81. In other words, while the presence of two parties besides the deciding authority will prima facie, and in the absence of any other 16 (2002) 5 SCC 685 H 17 (1950) SCC 551 ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 773 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] factor impose upon the authority the duty to act judicially, the A absence of two such parties is not decisive in taking the act of the authority out of the category of quasi-judicial act if the authority is nevertheless required by the statute to act judicially.” 47.