[2023] 15 S.C.R. 480 : 2023 INSC 956 CASE DETAILS MANISH SISODIA v. CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (Criminal Appeal No(s). 3352 of 2023) OCTOBER 30, 2023 [SANJIV KHANNA AND S.V.N. BHATTI, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: The two appeals are fi led by the appellant- former Deputy Chief Minister of Delhi seeking bail in the prosecutions arising from a case registered by the CBI under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and the Penal Code, 1860; and enforcement case fi led by the Directorate of Enforcement, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 – s.45 – Requirement for grant of bail under: Held: Referring to s.45 of the PML Act, in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary it was held that provision does not require that to grant bail, the court must arrive at a positive fi nding that the applicant has not committed an off ence under the PML Act – Section 45 must be construed reasonably as the intent of the legislature cannot be read as requiring the court to examine the issue threadbare and in detail to pronounce whether an accused is guilty or is entitled to acquittal – Further, an on an application for bail is passed much before the end of trial and sometimes even before commencement of trial – Lastly, it is trite, that for the purpose of considering an application for bail, although detailed reasons are not necessary to be assigned, and, therefore, the evidence need not be weighed meticulously, a tentative fi nding should be recorded on the basis of broad probabilities – The granting bail must demonstrate application of mind at least in serious cases where the applicant has been granted or denied bail – The fi ndings recorded by the Court for grant or refusing bail being tentative, will not have any bearing on the merits of the case, and the trial court would proceed and decide the 480 MANISH SISODIA v. CENTRAL BUREAU OF 481 INVESTIGATION case on the basis of evidence produced during trial without in any manner being prejudiced thereby. [Para 8] Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 – s.3 – Contours of: Held: On dissection of the main part of s.3, it is held that it postulates three ‘p’s, namely, the person, the process or activity, and the product – The process or activity consists of six parts- concealment, possession, acquisition, use, projecting or claiming the proceeds of crime as untainted property – The product, that is, the proceeds of the crime, has been defi ned in Section 2(u) of the PML Act, as a property derived or obtained directly or indirectly by a person as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled off ence or the value of such property – As far as ‘person’ is concerned, it means those who directly or indirectly attempt to indulge; those who knowingly assist, or those who are knowingly a party, or those who are actually involved – On the above interpretation, this court held in Y. Balaji v. Karthik Desari and Another that the off ence u/s.