A signed the agreement was not authorised to do so and various other conundrums that arise on the facts of this case, it is unsafe to conclude, one way or the other, that an arbitration agreement exists between the parties. The prima facie review spoken of in Vidya Drolia (supra) can lead to only one conclusion on the facts of this case - that a deeper consideration of whether an B arbitration agreement exists between the parties must be left to an Arbitrator who is to examine the documentary evidence produced before him in detail after witnesses are cross- examined on the same. For all these reasons, we set aside the impugned of the Delhi High Court in so far as it C conclusively finds that there is an Arbitration Agreement between the parties.” [emphasis supplied] 74. At this point, it would suffice to note that the Court in SMS Tea(supra) held that an arbitral agreement would be rendered D inadmissible in evidence if the underlying contract is not stamped. It did not, however, state that an unstamped arbitration agreement would be rendered voidas held in Garware(supra) in the later decision. While SMS Tea(supra) extended the separability presumption in the context of the Registration Act, 1908 we will notice below that this presumption E can also be extended in the context of Stamp Act, 1899 through harmonious construction. I. Discussion on Garware 75. The facts in Garware(supra) were that a sub-contrAct, for the installation of geo-textile tubes embankment with toe mound at village F Pentha in Odisha, was provided by the employer for prevention from coastal erosion. Owing to disputes between parties, the sub-contract was terminated. The Respondent filed a petition under Section 11 which was allowed by the Bombay High Court and sole arbitrator was appointed. On appeal, this Court primarily relied on SMS Tea(supra) to hold that the arbitration agreement in an unstamped document cannot be acted G upon and hence, an arbitrator could not be appointed until the unstamped agreement in question was impounded. Despite considering the amended Section 11(6A) and the 246th LCI Report(supra) to note that SBP(supra) and Boghara(supra) have been overruled, the Court held that “SMS Tea Estates ha(d), in no manner, been touched by the amendment of H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 465 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] Section 11(6-A)” since it was not excluded by either the 246th LCI A Report(supra) or the Statement of Object and Reasons of the 2015 Amendment. It was further held that as per Section 2(h) of the Indian Contract Act1872, an agreement becomes a contract only if it is enforceable by law and hence, an unstamped document would be unenforceable due to the bar under Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899. B The following paragraph has been doubted by NN Global(supra): “22. When an arbitration clause is contained “in a contract”, it is significant that the agreement only becomes a contract if it is enforceable by law.