Hence, the present appeals. 3. Shri Guru Krishna Kumar, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellants – original defendants, has vehementlysubmitted G that in the facts and circumstances of the case the High Court has committed a very serious error in dismissing the review application which as such was filed pursuant to the liberty reserved by this Court. It is submitted that as while allowing the second appeal the relevant clauses of the sale agreement was not considered by the High Court and there were certain factual errors and even the cross objection was rejected H T. D. VIVEK KUMAR & ANR. v. RANBIR CHAUDHARY 543 [M. R. SHAH, J.] without consideration; the High Court ought to have allowed the review A application and ought to have considered the entire appeal on merits. It is further submitted that even otherwise the High Court has materially erred in passing the decree for specific performance of the sale agreement which as such was refused by the learned Trial Court as well as the First Appellate Court. B 3.1 It is submitted that even while allowing the second appeal the High Court did not specifically frame any substantial question of law which as such was required to be framed as per Section 100 of the CPC. 3.2 It is further submitted that the High Court has not properly C appreciated and considered the fact that even as per the sale agreement if the first party – appellant fail or refuse to execute the sale agreement within the stipulated time, the seller shall be responsible to pay double the amount given as an advance. It is submitted that therefore, assuming that there was failure on the part of the defendant(s) to execute the sale D deed in favour of the plaintiff within the stipulated time, the plaintiff shall only be entitled to double the amount given as an advance. It is submitted that therefore, as such both the Courts below rightly refused to pass a decree of specific performance. 3.3 Making the above submissions and relying upon paragraph 31 E of the decision of this Court in the case of P. D’Souza Vs. Shondrilo Naidu (2004) 6 SCC 649, it is prayed to allow the present appeals. 4. While opposing the present appeals, Shri Daya Krishan Sharma, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – original plaintiff has vehemently submitted that in the present case there are concurrent findings recorded by all the courts below on readiness and willingness F on the part of the plaintiff to perform his part of the contract and it was the defendant(s) who did not perform their part of the contract and did not execute the sale deed though, the plaintiff was ready and willing to pay the sale amount. It is submitted that therefore, in view of the concurrent findings recorded by all the courts below, the High Court has G not committed any error in passing the decree for specific performance of the sale agreement.