H 448 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (2) The application shall state the grounds on which objection to the award is taken: Provided that every such application shall be made, (a) if the person making it was present or represented before the Collector at the time when he made his award, within six B weeks from the date of the Collector’s award; (b) in other cases, within six weeks of the receipt of the notice from the Collector under section 12, sub-section (2), or within six months from the date of the Collector’s award, whichever period shall first expire.” C 26. The first and foremost thing to be taken note of is that the nature of the challenge in the Writ Petition filed by the appellants before the High Court was based on violation of Article 14, which is a fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution. Such a challenge, irrespective of the existence of any alternative remedy under a statute cannot put a bar on the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Courts. D 27. The Respondent Authority argued that since the agreement was consented to, no challenge could exist in the Court. This argument in the facts of the case, has been raised only to be rejected. The issue involved in adjudication is not in respect of an agreement entered into by the appellants. Similar agreements were also entered into with the E Authority by such identically situated landholders who have been granted additional compensation subsequent to the agreement by carving out a distinction on the basis of period of residence/occupation of the land which was acquired by creating an artificial classification of ‘Pushtaini’ and ‘Gair-Pushtaini’ landholders. F 28. Furthermore, since the issue of additional compensation by making an artificial classification of ‘pushtaini’ and ‘Gair-pushtani’ was not in existence at the time of the agreement, there was no occasion to challenge the same. 29. Further, specifically in the context of the grant of ex-gratia G payment, it is to be noted that the said payment granted to Pushtaini landowners through a separate notification, was assessed, and given, after the agreement was signed by both, Pushtaini and Gair-pushtaini Landowners. The Appellants herein, under those circumstances, could not have challenged the agreement vis a vis the ex-gratia payment on H RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 449 PRADESH [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] grounds of violation of Article 14, when no such violation existed at the A time of the agreement. No man can be expected to predict a future violation of their rights and file a pre-emptive appeal. This Court is reminded of the words of Francis Bacon, who in the 17th century wrote about the link between legal certainty and justice: “For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare B himself to the battle? So if the law give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare to obey it? It ought therefore to warn before it strikes... Let there be no authority to shed blood; nor let sentence be pronounced in any Court upon cases, except according to a known and certain law Nor should a man be C deprived of his life, who did not first know that he was risking it.’ (Quoted in Coquillette, Francis Bacon pp 244 and 248, from Aphorism 8 and Aphorism 39?