37. Insofar as the GCV is concerned, the CERC found that in the 2014 Tariff Regulations of the Commission, the measurement of GCV has been specified on “as received” basis. It, therefore, found that it would be appropriate if the GCV on “as received” basis is considered C for computation of compensation for Change in Law. 38. Being aggrieved by the passed by the CERC dated 15th November 2018, the MSEDCL preferred an appeal being Appeal No.342 of 2019 before the learned APTEL. The learned APTEL did not find merit in the submission of the MSEDCL and as such, dismissed the D appeal by and dated 16th July 2021. 39. Being aggrieved thereby, MSEDCL has approached this Court by way of Civil Appeal No.6927 of 2021. 40. The arguments on behalf of the appellant-MSEDCL in Civil Appeal No.684 of 2021 were advanced by Shri Gopal Jain, learned Senior E Counsel, whereas arguments in Civil Appeal No.6927 of 2021 were advanced by Shri G. Sai Kumar, learned counsel. 41. We have also heard Shri Balbir Singh, learned Additional Solicitor General and Shri M.G. Ramachandran, learned Senior Counsel appearing for some of the State Electricity Distribution Companies, whose F matters are not being decided by this , but wherein the aforesaid three questions/issues are common. 42. On behalf of the respondent-APML as well as the respondent- GMR, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned Senior Counsel advanced the arguments. His arguments were supplemented by Shri Vishrov G Mukherjee, learned Counsel. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE DISCOMS 43. The main arguments that were advanced on behalf of the Distribution Companies (hereinafter referred to “DISCOMS”) are as under: H 98 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (i) The SHR and GCV value are declared in the bid document and it is not permissible for the Generating Companies to claim advantage on the basis of SHR value which is different than the one quoted i.e. the SHR value as provided in the Tariff Regulations or the actual. It is their submission that the declaration of operational parameters i.e. SHR and GCV B were the mandate of the bid in case of Case-1 competitive bidding process. It is submitted that if deviation from such declared bid parameters for compensating the bidder/ Generating Companies/ Generators under the PPA on the ground of Change in Law is permitted, it will take away the C very sanctity of the bid. (ii) It is submitted that to ensure serious participation in the bid process and for timely completion of commencement of supply of power, the Competitive Bidding Guidelines 2005 itself mandates the bidder/generator/Generating Companies D to have a ‘firm’ fuel arrangement. It is their submission that it is mandatory for the bidder/generator to declare the ‘quantity’ of fuel required to generate power for the entire term of the PPA. The DISCOMS argued that the quantity of fuel can only be ascertained by applying the SHR and GCV components as declared in the bid. E (iii) It is submitted that the RFP itself mandated the participating bidders/generators to submit documentary evidence with regard to the ‘quantity’ of fuel required to generate power for the entire term of 25 years of the PPA.