v. THE 393 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Chancellor shall be appointed from among the persons in the panel. The aforementioned procedure at the time of the initial appointment, for a period of four years, in 2017 was followed. The fi rst term was expiring after the completion of four years and it is in that background, notice Ext.P2 was published but the Secretary of Department of Higher Education notifi ed of withdrawal with immediate eff ect, for as per provisions of Sub section (10), Vice-Chancellor can be re-appointed, but the term is restricted to two (2). It is now to be seen as to whether on the basis of statutory procedure provided in the Act ibid and on analysis of s cited, can this Court interfere in the process of appointment or not. xxx xxx xxx 10. The expression ‘appointment’ and ‘re-appointment’ have different connotation; for undergoing the re-appointment the qualifications are prescribed under Clause 7.3 of the UGC regulations ibid and there is no age bar and for reappointment, criteria of age would not be applicable. No doubt, for appointment, the entire procedure prescribed under Section 10 is to be followed. At the time of the initial appointment, in the year 2007, all the parameters were considered for appointment as per the procedure laid down therein but for re-appointment as per proviso to sub-Section (10) there is no requirement for undertaking the task of constitution of a Selection Committee as was done during the initial appointment. As per the pleading and submissions, there has not been any incident or lack of integrity, transparency as provided in the UGC regulations. Considering the provisions of applicable laws to my mind, notice Ext.P2 was withdrawn vide Ext.P3 on 22.11.2021 for the simple reason the party respondent i.e., the 4th respondent was not disqualified at the time of initial appointment. It cannot be said that there was any violation of the statutory provisions for reconsideration for the purpose of re-appointment, thus, in such circumstances, writ of quo-warranto cannot be issued.” (Emphasis supplied) 394 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. C. RELEVANT OBSERVATIONS MADE BY THE DIVISION BENCH IN APPEAL. 11. The writ appeal fi led by the appellants herein before the Division Bench of the High Court also failed. The Division Bench in its impugned held as under: “20. On an analysis of the said provision, it is clear that the Vice- Chancellor shall be appointed by the Chancellor on the recommendation of a committee appointed by him for the purpose. In the case on hand, the appointment of the 4th respondent in the year 2017 for a period of 4 years in contemplation of sub-Section 10 of Section 10, and in contemplation of law is admitted. It is also an ·admitted fact that the eligibility and qualifi cation of the 4th respondent at the initial stage of appointment is undoubted. It is also quite clear and evident from the provisions of Section 10 that a clear cut procedure and modalities are prescribed in the said provision to select the Vice Chancellor.