However, this Court found that applying the test of proportionality, in the absence of the RBI pointing out some semblance of any damage suffered by its regulatory entities, the action was not sustainable.The learned A.G. submitted that the action in the present case was taken after considering B the relevant factors and to address serious concerns such as terror financing, black money and fake currency. It is, therefore, submitted that the of this Court in the case of Internet and Mobile Association of India (supra) would not be applicable to the facts of the present case. C 65. The learned A.G., relying on the of this Court in the case of State of Tamil Nadu and another v. National South Indian River Interlinking Agriculturist Association36, submitted that in a case of non-classificatory arbitrariness, the test of proportionality would be applicable. However, in a case of classificatory arbitrariness, the only D test that will have to be satisfied is the rational nexus test, i.e. whether the action taken has a reasonable nexus with the object to be achieved. In such a case, the proportionality test would not be applicable. It is submitted that the present case would fall in the latter category and not in the former category. E 66. Countering the argument made on behalf of the petitioners that the power exercised under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act has not been exercised in the manner as provided therein and further that the decision-making process is flawed on account of patent arbitrariness, the learned A.G. submitted that in view of the settled legal position, the said contention is also not tenable. It is submitted that what F is postulated under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act is that the Central Government may take a decision on the recommendation of the Central Board. It is submitted that in the present case, there was, in fact, a recommendation by the Central Board recommending demonetization. The decision by the Central Government has been taken G after considering the said recommendation. It is, therefore, submitted that the procedure as provided in sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act stands duly complied with. The learned A.G. submitted that the RBI is not only an expert body but a very special institution charged with a duty of conceiving and implementing various facets of economic and H 36 (2021) SCC OnLine SC 1114 VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 53 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] monetary policy. It is submitted that there cannot be a straitjacket formula A in the discharge of its duty. Learned A.G. submits that in any case, it is a settled law that this Court should not interfere with the opinion of experts and leave it to experts who are more familiar with the problems they face. Reliance in this respect is placed on the of this Court in the case of Rajbir Singh Dalal (Dr.) v. Chaudhari Devi Lal B University, Sirsa and another37 and Secretary and Curator, Victoria Memorial Hall v. Howrah Ganatantrik Nagrik Samity and others38.