H MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 477 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] Returns were filed without audit reports and auditors have A not signed balance sheets and the auditors were also based out of Delhi. Though bank accounts were available both in Delhi and Sikkim, the authorized signatories, to operate both the accounts were located only in Delhi; iii) The statutory books, registers and the shareholders were B all located in Delhi; iv) No evidence was ever produced for having conducted board meetings in Sikkim; v) When it came to earning of commission from various agents, C the genuineness of the addresses given at Sikkim could not be proved. When notices were issued under Section 131 of the Act, no response was forthcoming and, from the memorandum and articles of association it was clear that the agents were kith and kin of the directors; D vi) Shockingly, the total commission alleged to have been earned was more than the sale of cardamom and what could have been produced by the State of Sikkim in a year. These facts have been corroborated by the intelligence wing of the department; E vii) There were no employees and no expenses incurred at Sikkim; viii) At the time of search and seizure on 15.03.1990 at the premises of Mr. Rattan Gupta & Co., the following things were seized: F 1) Books of accounts 2) Funds 3) Memorandum and Articles of Association 4) Blank cheque books of the bank accounts held both in G New Delhi, Gangtok and Sikkim 5) Pass books of all the 5 companies both Delhi and Gangtok 6) Blank printed letter pads and rubber stamps H 478 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A ix) Mr. Rattan Gupta in his statement dated 15th March, 1990, confirmed that as part of reconciliation, the persons contacted were Dalmia Resorts International Private Limited and Gujarat Heavy Chemicals Limited and other entities. He further confirmed that Mr. Rajiv Jain became a director in 3 companies on his instructions and he had also made B directors in all the 5 Sikkim companies and named a few of them. It was conceded clearly that though these persons became directors at his behest no work was performed by these persons except signing papers; x) Mr. Rajiv Jain in his statement dated 15th March, 1990 C confirmed that cheque books and pass books were found at the office of Mr. Rattan Gupta and so is the case with rubber stamps and blank printed letter heads; xi) Mr. Ravinder Singh in his statement confirmed that he had been looking after the day-to-day affairs of these companies D from Delhi till March, 1998, after which Rattan Gupta took over the position as the only director and the other directors were his nominees, and Rattan Gupta functioned and operated only from Delhi and no office expenses have been incurred in Sikkim; E xii) The AO also entered a finding that there has been a fund transfer from Delhi into the bank accounts at Sikkim to claim exemption and these have been round tripping of money going from Delhi to Sikkim and getting remitted back into Delhi and claiming exemption in Sikkim; and F xiii) This was done till 31st March, 1989 and the moment Income Tax Act was extended in 1990 the whole apparatus erased and no commission was shown by any of the companies.