The meaning of “entitle” would indicate that the Bar Council of India could prescribe such conditions which would give the right or claim to a person to be enrolled as an advocate. Thus, Bar F Council of India’s role prior to enrolment cannot be ousted. b. V. Sudeer7 failed to consider that Section 24(1) is subject to the other provisions of the said Act and Rules made thereunder. In V. Sudeer8, this Court held that Sections 24(1)(d) and 28(2)(b) of the said Act had empowered the State Bar Councils to provide for a G pre-enrolment training and examination, which had been repealed through 5 (supra) 6 (supra) 7 (supra) 8 (supra) H 354 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the 1973 Amendment. The Amicus submitted that the legislature was not expected to make any superfluous provisions that specifically empower the Bar Council of India with the specific action regarding pre-enrolment training and examination. However, the purport of Section 49 of the said Act and in particular Section 49(1)(ag) already empowers the Bar Council of India to do so. B It was also submitted that: i. Section 24(1) of the said Act opens with the words “subject to the provisions of this Act, and the rules made thereunder” thereby making the conditions under Section 24(1) and its C sub-clauses, directly subject to the rules framed under the said Act. ii. In Satish Kumar Sharma v. Bar Council of H.P9, a three Judges Bench of this Court held that the enrolment under Section 24 of the said Act is subject to the Rules framed by D the Bar Council of India under Section 49 of the said Act, even if no Rules were framed under Section 24(1)(e) or Section 28(2) (b) of the said Act itself. iii. This Court’s reliance on Section 24A of the said Act in V. Sudeer10is misplaced since the power to disqualify a person E from enrolment is materially different from prescribing conditions subject to which the very right to be enrolled arises. c. V. Sudeer11 erred in concluding that it is not one of the statutory functions of the Bar Council of India to frame rules which F impose pre-enrolment conditions. The 1995 Rules could have been ‘traced’ to the Bar Council of India’s function of ‘general supervision’ over the State Bar Councils, which was not considered by V. Sudeer12: G i. In light of clauses (l) and (m) of Sub-Section (1), it was submitted that Section 7 of the said Act is not an exhaustive 9 (2001) 2 SCC 365 10 (supra) 11 (supra) H 12 (supra) BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA v. BONNIE FOI LAW COLLEGE 355 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] list of the Bar Council of India’s statutory function. Further, A the Bar Council of India’s function under Section 7(1)(g) of the said Act would include the authority to specifically direct State Bar Councils not to enrol persons who had not undertaken the training course prescribed under the 1995 Rules. B ii. An additional statutory function can be culled out on a conjoint reading of Section 7(1)(l) and Section 24(1) of the said Act, which confers the Bar Council of India with a statutory function of prescribing rules subject to which any person may be treated as “qualified to be admitted as an C advocate on a State roll”, such as a pre-enrolment training course or exam prescribed by the Bar Council of India.