Therefore, under clause (iii) of the Explanation, an opportunity would have to be provided C to individuals who fall within the scope and ambit of the said clause of the I.T. Act, 1961, to get their names registered if not yet registered. 73. However, in my view, the Explanation restricts the exemption only to those Sikkimese individuals who fall within the three clauses of the Explanation, as the object and purpose of the exemption is only to D exempt the settlers in Sikkim or persons domiciled in Sikkim in terms of the 1961 Regulation or the Government s referred to above. Even though the 1961 Regulation has been repealed, nevertheless, the Register of Sikkim Subjects which is maintained under the said Regulation, which had acquired a sanctity, has been the basis for grant of an exemption E and particularly in the form of clause (iii) of the Explanation to Section 10(26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961. This would imply that all those individuals who fall outside the scope and ambit of the Explanation would not be granted the exemption. Then, the questions of discrimination against persons such as the petitioners and others similarly situated would arise. 74. Individuals having become citizens of India and were domiciled F in Sikkim as on 26th April, 1975 are also entitled to the benefit of registration and exemption. Thus, in my view, all individuals domiciled in Sikkim till 26th April, 1975 and who have since become citizens of India are entitled to exemption from payment of income tax as per Section 10 (26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961. G 75. The rationale being, Sikkim merged with India and became a State within India in the year 1975 and a special status was given to it by virtue of Article 371-F of the Constitution of India. This does not mean that all persons domiciled in Sikkim who have been treated as citizens of India are entitled to the exemption. Only such individuals are entitled to H the exemption who fall within the three clauses of the Explanation. Hence, ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 365 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] the Explanation must be construed strictly as it is in the nature of a A definition of the expression “Sikkimese” for the purpose of granting an exemption from payment of income tax under the I.T. Act, 1961. However, the exemption must be extended to incorporate all such individuals who have been domiciled in Sikkim as on 26th April, 1975 and who have since then become citizens of India. This would mean that all B other citizens of India who do not fall within the ambit of the Explanation as interpreted above and who have been domiciled in Sikkim State subsequent to 26th April, 1975 would not have the benefit of exemption under Section 10 (26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961. 76. In view of the above interpretation, in my view, the Explanation C has to be saved from being in violation of Articles 14 or 15 of the Constitution of India as there is rationale in the three clauses of the Explanation which is a reasonable classification which has a nexus to the object sought to be achieved, which is to grant of exemption from payment of income tax only to those individuals who would qualify as ‘Sikkimese’ in terms of the Explanation to clause (26AAA) of Section D 10 of the I.T.