The Petitioner also states that false cases, including one alleging rape, have been fastened on him, in an effort to threaten the witnesses and influence them to depose in favour of the accused persons. 16. It is in this factual backdrop that this transfer petition has been C filed. B. SUBMISSIONS 17. Mr. P.S. Patwalia, learned senior counsel for the Petitioner has raised the following contentions seeking transfer of the trial outside the State of West Bengal: D (i) The conduct of the State, which was vigorously opposing the bail applications of Respondent No. 2 in the past, has dramatically changed and is now detrimental to the Prosecution’s case; (ii) Respondent No. 2 has at least thirty-four (34) criminal cases E registered against him and yet, the State directed withdrawal from prosecution without any cogent reason. The power under Section 321, CrPC was blatantly misused; (iii) The De-facto Complainant has been gained over during the trial as is evident from his no-objection to the grant of F bail to Respondent No. 2; his prayer to withdraw the writ petition challenging the State’s notification under Section 321, CrPC and the De-facto Complainant turning hostile during his cross-examination; (iv) The witnesses are being threatened and are turning hostile G in their cross examination. False cases have been instituted against crucial witnesses to browbeat them; (v) There is a serious threat to the life and liberty of the witnesses and they may be influenced due to the lack of a safe environment to truthfully depose before the court. H 1102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Reliance has been placed on certain observations of the Calcutta High Court regarding the mala fides of the State; (vi) It is alleged that on a previous occasion, when the High Court directed to shift Respondent No. 2 from Purba Medinipur to a hospital in Kolkata for medical treatment, B the same was not done. Rather, he was kept in the hospital at Purba Medinipur where he had access to luxurious facilities; (vii) Reliance has been placed on the High Court’s observations while rejecting Respondent No. 2’s bail application to the C effect that: “The aforesaid narration of events clearly discloses a prevaricating stance on the part of the State of West Bengal. While on one hand, the State proceeded to bury the prosecution by resorting to its withdrawal under Section 321 Cr.P.C., on the other hand it purported to continue the prosecution against D the petitioner and other accused persons by examining witnesses. … Be that as it may, it is relevant to note in the prosecution E conducted by the State, most of the witnesses have resiled from their earlier statements to police and have turned hostile. It is also pertinent to bear in mind even the informant Jahar Sha, the original writ petitioner in WPA 6315 of 2021 expressed apprehension and was unwilling to proceed with the said proceeding challenging withdrawal of prosecution. F These circumstances give rise to a serious apprehension in the mind of this Court as to the overwhelming and malevolent influence on the witnesses as well as the informant which had prompted them from either withdrawing from the writ petition or resiling from their earlier statements before police G during deposition in Court.” (viii) In these circumstances, there is a genuine apprehension in the mind of the Petitioner, brother of the Deceased, that they would not receive free and fair justice in the State of West Bengal as the prosecution is compromised; H AFJAL ALI SHA @ ABJAL SHAUKAT SHA v. STATE OF WEST 1103 BENGAL & ORS.