4. By the impugned and and despite the fact that the aforesaid reliefs were prayed by the original writ petitioners, the High Court has considered that the original writ petitioners have prayed for a writ of quo warranto. The aforesaid reliefs cannot be said to be G the reliefs of a writ of quo warranto. However, instead of remanding the matter to the High Court, we ourselves have considered the matter and the issues on merits. 5. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the High Court has submitted that initially in the year 2005, the High Court did amend the H 222 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Recruitment Rules, however, the same came to be set aside by the High Court and the matter reached to this Court and thereafter after conclusion of the proceedings before this Court in the year 2018, the High Court amended the Recruitment Rules in line with the directions issued by this Court in the case of All India Judges’ Association (supra). B 5.1 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the High Court has also further submitted that in absence of the selected/appointed candidates, no relief can be granted by quashing and setting aside the appointments made in excess of the quota beyond 10%. 6. Heard learned counsel for the respective parties at length. C This Court in the case of All India Judges’ Association (supra) specifically directed that from the date of the said , there shall be 25% of seats for direct recruitment from the Bar, 65% of seats are to be filled up by regular promotion of Civil Judge (Senior Division) and 10% seats are to be filled up by limited departmental competitive examination. This Court also further directed that if the candidates are D not available for 10% seats, or are not able to qualify in the examination then vacant posts are to be filled up by regular promotion in accordance with the Service Rules applicable. This Court also further directed that all the High Courts to take steps to see that existing Service Rules be amended positively with effect from 1.1.2011. This Court also further E directed that if the Rules are not suitably amended, the said shall prevail and further recruitment from 1.1.2011 shall be continued accordingly as directed. 7. Therefore, as per the directions issued by this Court in the aforesaid decision, on and from 1.1.2011, only 10% seats are to be filled F up by limited departmental competitive examination. Any appointment beyond 10% seats filled up by limited departmental competitive examination therefore shall have to be considered appointment excess in quota. 8. In the present case, in the year 2017, there were 740 sanctioned G posts. Therefore, 74 seats were to be filled up by limited departmental competitive examination against which 78 posts were filled up by limited departmental examination. Thereafter, further 11 posts were advertised, out of which 5 posts were filled up. The result would be that the posts were filled up by limited departmental competitive examination beyond 10% seats quota for limited departmental competitive examination.