for the Respondents. / OF THE SUPREME COURT VIKRAM NATH, J. 1. The acquittal of respondent no.2 recorded by the Trial Court and the High Court was reversed vide dated August 18, 2023 and respondent no.2 was convicted under Section 302 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code, 18601. By the same it was directed to take respondent 1 IPC HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR AND ORS. 585 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] no.2 into custody and produce him today in Court for being heard on sentence. 2. Crl.M.P.No.169246 of 2023 was fi led by respondent no.2 with a prayer to permit him to appear virtually considering his health conditions and that he was already undergoing life sentence in another murder case. Crl.M.P. is allowed. Respondent no.2 is present virtually from jail and is duly represented by his counsel. 3. We have heard learned counsel for the parties. 4. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and the fi ndings recorded by us and also taking into consideration the fact that the incident is of the year 1995, almost 28 years old, awarding death sentence would not be appropriate and as such we award imprisonment for life to respondent no.2 under Section 302 IPC along with fi ne of Rs.20 lacs. Further, respondent no.2 is awarded 7 years rigorous imprisonment under Section 307 IPC along with fi ne of Rs.5 lacs. Distribution of fi ne will be indicated a little later. Both the sentences to run concurrently. 5. The fi ne has been awarded of the magnitude referred to above considering the shocking facts and circumstances of the case which have been considered in detail and fi ndings recorded in the dated August 18, 2023. 6. Section 357 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 19732 provides that whenever fi ne is imposed as a sentence, the Court may while passing the , the whole or in part of the fi ne recovered to be applied as per clauses (a) to (d) of sub-section (1) thereof. Clause (a) provides for defraying the expenses incurred in the prosecution. We are not inclined to grant any such expenses to the State considering the fact that the State in fact did not prosecute the case fairly, rather throughout assisted the accused. Clause (b) and (d) also will have no application, however, under clause (c) considering the conduct of accused no.2, further the mental, physical, and fi nancial damages suff ered by the victim’s family, the two deceased and the injured, we direct that the fi ne awarded to be paid as damages in the following manner: 2 CrPC 586 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. a) We award damages of Rs.10 lacs each to the legal heirs of two deceased Rajendra Rai and Daroga Rai. The Trial Court will get a preliminary enquiry conducted with regard to the legal heirs of the two deceased and the amount will be disbursed to the legal heirs as per the law of Succession. b) Similarly, the amount of fi ne awarded under section 307 IPC of Rs.5 lacs would be disbursed in the same manner by the Trial Court to the victim if she is alive and if not, to her legal heirs.