First, the documents are not available to the affected party. Second, the documents are relied upon by the opposite party (which is most often the state) in the course of the arguments, and the court arrives at a finding by relying on the material. In such a case, the affected party does not have any recourse to legal E remedies because it would be unable to (dis)prove any inferences from the material before the adjudicating authority. 59. This form of adjudication perpetuates a culture of secrecy and opaqueness, and places the beyond the reach of challenge. The affected party would be unable to “contradict errors, identify F omissions, challenge the credibility of informants or refute false allegations”.51 The right to seek judicial review which has now been read into Articles 14 and 21 is restricted. A corresponding effect of the sealed cover procedure is a non-reasoned . In Commander Amit Kumar Sharma v. Union of India52, one of us (DY Chandrachud, J) G speaking for the court commented on the procedural infirmities which the procedure of sealed cover perpetuates: “27. The elementary principle of law is that all material which is relied upon by either party in the course of a judicial proceeding 51 Charkaoui v. Canada (Citizenship and Immigration),(2007) 1 S.C.R 350 H 52 (2022) SCC OnLine SC 1570 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 645 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] must be disclosed. Even if the adjudicating authority does not rely A on the material while arriving at a finding, information that is relevant to the dispute, which would with ‘reasonable probability’ influence the decision of the authority must be disclosed. A one- sided submission of material which forms the subject matter of adjudication to the exclusion of the other party causes a serious B violation of natural justice. In the present case, this has resulted in grave prejudice to officers whose careers are directly affected as a consequence. 28. The non-disclosure of relevant material to the affected party and its disclosure in a sealed-cover to the adjudicating authority C (in this case the AFT) sets a dangerous precedent. The disclosure of relevant material to the adjudicating authority in a sealed cover makes the process of adjudication vague and opaque. The disclosure in a sealed cover perpetuates two problems. Firstly, it denies the aggrieved party their legal right to effectively challenge an since the adjudication of issues has proceeded on the D basis of unshared material provided in a sealed cover. The adjudicating authority while relying on material furnished in the sealed cover arrives at a finding which is then effectively placed beyond the reach of challenge. Secondly, it perpetuates a culture of opaqueness and secrecy. It bestows absolute power in the hands E of the adjudicating authority. It also tilts the balance of power in a litigation in favour of a dominant party which has control over information. Most often than not this is the state. A judicial accompanied by reasons is the hallmark of the justice system.