193. In the case at hand, the use of the expression “otherwise dispenses of” in the phrase “a consumer…dies, or transfers, assigns or C otherwise dispenses of the undertaking or premises’’, does not bring into play the rule of ejusdem generis for the preceding words “dies”, “transfers”, “assigns” do not belong to a single limited genus. 194. The word “transfer” itself is generally regarded to have a wide connotation, comprehending within it both voluntary and involuntary transfers. In Mangalore Electric Supply Co. Ltd. v. The D Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal,91 a three-judge Bench of this Court held that a compulsory acquisition of property can constitute a “transfer” within the meaning of Section 12B(1) of the Indian Income Tax Act 1962. It rejected the argument that the word “transfer” must be construed ejusdem generis with the preceding words “sale”, “exchange”, E “relinquishment”. On the wide amplitude of the word ‘transfer’, this Court observed: “8. We find it impossible to accept this submission. In the first place if it was intended that voluntary transfers alone should fall within the meaning of the section, it was unnecessary for the F legislature to use the expression “transfer”, an expression acknowledged in law as having a wide connotation and amplitude. Earl Jowitt, in “The Dictionary of English Law” says: “In the law of property, a transfer is where a right passes from one person to another, either (1) by virtue of an act G done by the transferor with that intention, as in the case of a conveyance or assignment by way of sale or gift, etc; or (2) by operation of law, as in the case of forfeiture, bankruptcy, descent, or intestacy.” 90Id H 91 (1978) 3 SCC 248 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 735 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Roland Burrows on “Words and Phrases”, Volume V, contains a A statement under the caption “Transfer on Sale” at p. 331 that even a transfer of land under compulsory powers is a transfer “on sale”. It is unnecessary for us to consider the question whether a compulsory acquisition of property is a “sale” within the meaning of Section 12-B(1) and indeed, it is needless for the present purpose B to go that far. We are concerned with the narrower question whether a compulsory acquisition of property can amount to a “transfer” within the meaning of Section 12-B(1) and upon that question it is important to bear in mind that the word “transfer” is comprehensive and is regarded generally as comprehending within its scope transfers both of the voluntary and involuntary kinds. C Without more, therefore, there is no reason for limiting the operation of the word “transfer” to voluntary acts of transfer so as to exclude compulsory acquisitions of property.” (emphasis supplied) D 195. The rule of ejusdem generis cannot be applied when there is no distinct category or a genus. In the absence of a genus, the words ‘transfer’ or ‘otherwise dispenses of’, which are wide in their meaning, cannot be restricted to only mean voluntary transfers by the application of the ejusdem generis principle.