27. The question of extension of time for compliance of the s of court does not, in any manner, relate to limitation. In any event, in the s, starting from (2020) 19 SCC 10 and till (2022) 2 SCC 117 (supra) this Court was not extending, by way of overarching and/or F omnibus directions, time to comply with and/or obey judicial/court s. dated 23.03.2020 in Suo Motu Writ Petition (C) No. 3 of 2020 [(2020) 19 SCC 10] has been commented upon in S Kasi v State, (2021) 12 SCC 1, where this Court was pleased to opine as under: G “19. The limitation for filing petitions/ applications/ suits/ appeals/ all other proceedings was extended to obviate lawyers/ litigants to come physically to file such proceedings in respective courts/tribunals. The was passed to protect the litigants/lawyers whose petitions/ applications/ suits/ appeals/ all other proceedings would become time-barred they H K. CHINNAMMAL (DEAD) THR. LRS. v. L. R. EKNATH 847 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] being not able to physically come to file such proceedings. A The was for the benefit of the litigants who have to take remedy in law as per the applicable statute for a right. The law of limitation bars the remedy but not the right. When this Court passed the above for extending the limitation for filing petitions/ applications/ suits/ appeals /all other B proceedings, the was for the benefit of those who have to take remedy, whose remedy may be barred by time because they were unable to come physically to file such proceedings. …” (emphasis supplied) C 28. More importantly, when the appellants themselves admit that they had given a Legal Notice on 06.11.2020 showing their readiness and willingness to pay the lease rent amount, then they cannot take plea that they were handicapped due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Finally, they deposited Rs.28,563/- on 18.02.2021. Ergo, it is manifest that in the D instant case, there was no such special handicap, effectuated by the pandemic, on the appellants in complying with the direction to pay 31½ bags of paddy or an amount equal thereto, which could have compelled us, if at all, to lean in favour of the appellants. 29. Another aspect this Court would not lose sight of is the fact E that the Act confers a privilege on the cultivating tenant vis-a-vis the landlord, by which the cultivating tenant is protected from eviction by the landlord. In to grant such privilege, the scope of eviction of the cultivating tenant at the behest of the landlord is circumscribed, by the Act. Hence, the court is required to ensure that even the said limited F ground(s) for eviction by the landlord of the cultivating tenant, are not frustrated by granting some extra benefit or indulgence to the cultivating tenant. 30. In the present factual set-up, the default is of at least three years, and the time given of two months was not per se inadequate. It is G a matter of record that whatever payment was made/deposited, without going into whether it satisfied the dated 04.02.2019 or not, was made after over four months had elapsed, from the date of knowledge of the dated 04.02.2019, as admitted by the appellants.