It is against the backdrop of the afore-stated legal principles that we proceed to consider if there is any interference that is called for. Point No. (1): 47. The accused has neither replied to the demand notice nor has led any rebuttal evidence in support of his case. The case set up by him needs to be drawn from the suggestions put during the cross examination and from his reply given in the statement recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. 48. It has been suggested to the complainant that accused had not borrowed any loan from him. It was suggested to him that no legal notice had been issued on dishonor of cheque. It was further suggested that the complainant has misused a blank cheque - the said cheque having been obtained from his employee, Gita Sunar, who also happens to be the sister- in law of the accused. It was suggested that Gita Sunar had some fi nancial transactions with the complainant and towards that end, he had received a blank cheque (signed by the accused) from Gita Sunar and misused it. It RAJESH JAIN v. AJAY SINGH 805 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] is pertinent to note that the suggestions mentioned above were denied by the complainant. 49. In her cross examination, Gita Sunar (examined on behalf of complainant as CW.3) has denied the suggestion that she has misused a blank cheque in collusion with the complainant. She has also denied the suggestion that a blank cheque was given to her by the brother-in law of the accused. 50. In the statement recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C., the fi rst incriminating circumstance put to the accused was as follows: “It has come in evidence against you that you along with your wife, Jyoti visited the plaintiff an Orthopaedic Surgeon on 1-3-14, and availed friendly loan from plaintiff from time to time through sister of Jyoti namely Gita Sunar working there, on the plea of need for family requirements, and promised to pay up the “interest moneys as also the entire Principal amounts, what do you have to say about this? He responded to said suggestion/question as follows: “I had taken some money from the plaintiff . I have taken Rupees Twenty Lac from the plaintiff .” 51. When it was put to him that he has reneged on his promise to pay on several occasions and sought to avoid the complainant by changing his telephone number, the accused denies that he had changed his number but however, admits that he could not pay the entire sum at one go. He further admits that he did pay some interest but could not pay the remaining sum since the complainant would increase the outstanding amount every month by one lakh rupees and had been demanding higher amount. As regards the circumstance of return of the cheque, the legal notice and non-reply to the demand notice, he admits of having received the demand notice. He states that he had no knowledge about the dishonor of his cheque since his cheque book and bank passbook were kept in his sister-in-law’s house.