This court, in F its judgement set aside those findings of the High Court regarding validity of the Act. Consequently, the provisions of the Act were held to be valid and binding. The Act sought to regulate appointments to various institutions covered by it, including the madrasas in West Bengal. This court upheld the provisions of the Act after examining the relevant details and inter alia held as follows: G “54. The regime put in place by the State legislature thus ensures that the Commission comprising of experts in the field would screen the talent all across the State; will adopt a fair selection procedure and select the best available talent purely H 2(2014) 3 SCC 373 SNEHASIS GIRI AND ORS. v. SUBHASIS MITRA 303 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] on merit basis; and even while nominating, the interest of the A minority institution will also be given due weightage and taken care of. The statutory provisions thus seek to achieve ‘excellence’ in education and also seek to promote the interest of the minority institutions. The provisions satisfy the test as culled out in the decision of this Court in TMA Pai Foundation B case. 55. In our considered view going by the principles laid down in the decision in TMA Pai Foundation case, the concerned provisions cannot, therefore, be said to be transgressing the rights of the minority institutions. The selection of the teachers C and their nomination by the Commission constituted under the provisions of the Commission Act would satisfy the national interest as well as the interest of the minority educational institutions and said provisions are not violative of the rights of the minority educational institutions. D 56. The aforesaid conclusions have been arrived at by us in keeping with the principles laid down by this Court in TMA Pai Foundation case. We are aware that in Brahmo Samaj Education Society, E Sindhi Education Society and Chandana Das (Malakar), decided after TMA Pai Foundation, this Court had also dealt with the question whether the concerned authorities could validly nominate teachers to be appointed in minority educational institutions. Brahmo Samaj Education Society did not specifically deal with the question whether rules were valid F or not and left it to the authorities to bring the rules and regulations in conformity with the principles in TMA Pai Foundation case. Sindhi Education Society dealt with the issue in the context of reservation. It also found that the teachers nominated by the concerned authorities would not be G compatible to teach in educational institutions run by linguistic minorities. In Chandana Das (Malakar) the basic issue was whether the concerned institution was a minority institution or not. Sindhi Education Society and Chandana Das (Malakar) dealt with statutory regimes which did not have H 304 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A any special features or matters concerning compatibility of teachers which could be required going by the special characteristics of the minority educational institutions. However, the additional feature in the present matter shows that the composition of the Commission with special emphasis on persons having profound knowledge in Islamic Culture B and Theology, would ensure that the special needs and requirements of minority educational institutions will always be taken care of and thus the present case stands on a different footing.