Issue No. 5 i) Enquiry under Section 5A is (A) Whether the owners/ interested mandatory whether or not the land persons of the land in question have owner makes an objection in waived or acquiesced their rights writing D for not filing objections to the ii) This point has not been answered preliminary notifications? by the Hon'ble High Court. And (B) Whether there is any delay and latches in these writ petitions and for that reason they are not entitled to the relief as prayed in these writ petitions? Issue No. 6 & 7 Declaration under Section 6 has been made by the State E 6. Whether the Core Committee Government without consulting appointed by the State Govt. is in the Land Acquisition Committee compliance with the provision to be constituted under Rule-3 of under Section 40, sub section (2) of the Land Acquisition (Companies) the LA Act, 1894 and it has Rules, 1963. conducted an inquiry and submitted its report to the State Govt. for its consideration and compliance of the above provisions of the Act can F dispense with the Rules 3 & 4 of the Land Acquisition (Companies) Rules, 1963 for declaration under Section 6 of the LA Act? and 7. Whether the State Government has complied with Rules 3(2) and 4 of G the Rules, 1963 and the Collector has submitted his report to the State Government and the same is forwarded to the Committee constituted for this purpose and whether it has consulted the Committee before declaring the lands notified & published under Section 6 notifications? H 1002 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Issue No. 8 & 9 i) MOU is not in conformity with sub sections (1) to (4A) of Section 41. 8. Whether the beneficiary company has ii) There is non-compliance with executed Memorandum of Section 39 of the Act as there is Understanding as required under no formal agreement executed Section 41 of the Land Acquisition under Section 41. Act with the State Government giving undertaking as provided under sub sections (1), (2) & (3) of the said section of the Act and the B same is published in the official gazette as required under Section 42 thereof? And 9. Whether the Memorandum of Understanding dated 19/07/2006 executed by the beneficiary company can be construed as a valid agreement as provided under C Section 41 of the LA Act for acquiring the lands in question in favour of the beneficiary company? Issue No. 10 The compensation to be awarded Whether the Collector has has been determined by the determined approx. amount of Collector on the basis of sales compensation to be awarded and statistics secured from District deposited as required under the Sub Registrar and the value of the provisions and by following the land has been shown in the sales D procedure as provided under statistics has been treated as the Section 23 and 24 of the LA Act? market value and awarded the same as compensation. Issue no.