35. Another notable feature is that PW-2, during his cross-examination, came up with a diff erent story as to what transpired during those crucial days. He stated that on 28.03.2013, when Om Prakash Yadav and he went to the Gurudwara and while he was there, Om Prakash Yadav gave him a missed call. He claimed that he called him back at about 2 pm and Om Prakash Yadav told him that Bobby was there and had taken gutkha and left. PW-2 claimed that he told his sister not to worry and that Bobby was with Om Prakash Yadav. He, however, went on to state that when they reached the police station at 3:30 pm, he did not tell the police about Om Prakash Yadav calling and speaking to him. He claimed that, on 28.03.2013, Om Prakash Yadav threatened that he would kill him and burn down his house. According to PW-2, he had not recognised the voice of the caller who called for ransom. He further stated that the police did not call him or PW-1 when they took Rajesh Yadav and Raja Yadav. PW-2 also said that when they questioned him. i.e., PW-2, on 28.03.2013 at about 5 or 6 in the evening, he told them everything about who had called, etc. There is, again, total suppression by the prosecution of this new twist in the tale and how it could possibly fi t in with its version projected before the Court. RAJESH & ANR. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 25 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] 36. Lastly, Dr. Vivek Shrivastav (PW-7), who conducted the postmortem examination, stated that semi-digested food was found in the stomach of the deceased and it would have been consumed less than six hours prior to death. According to him, it could have been 30 minutes or 1 hour. He stated that if alcohol is drunk with food and death occurs within 1 hour thereafter, then it is possible for the semi-digested food to smell of alcohol. He admitted that he did not fi nd any such smell of alcohol. His testimony weakens the prosecution’s claim that Ajit Pal consumed whiskey just before he was killed. 37. Before parting with the case with our verdict, we may note with deep and profound concern the disappointing standards of police investigation that seem to be the invariable norm. As long back as in the year 2003, the Report of Dr. Justice V.S.Malimath’s ‘Committee on Reforms of Criminal Justice System’ had recorded thus: ‘The manner in which police investigations are conducted is of critical importance to the functioning of the Criminal Justice System. Not only serious miscarriage of justice will result if the collection of evidence is vitiated by error or malpractice, but successful prosecution of the guilty depends on a thorough and careful search for truth and collection of evidence which is both admissible and probative. In undertaking this search, it is the duty of the police to investigate fairly and thoroughly and collect all evidence, whether for or against the suspect.