In the case of Rishipal Singh Solanki, the two-Judge Bench of this Court has laid down the principle that an inquiry initiated under Section 9 D (2) of 2015 Act would be similar to that contained in Section 94 of thereof. This Court accepted this view. This Court has called for the source of the date of birth certificate, which recorded the applicant’s birth date at the time of his entry into the school which was in the year 1986. So far as the inconsistent dates of birth mentioned in the other documents, none of them is specified to E be taken into consideration for undertaking the process of age determination as laid down in Section 94 (2) of the said statute. Once the applicant has discharged his onus, in support of his claim of juvenility by producing the date of birth certificate from the school, the State had to come up with any compelling F contradictory evidence to show that the recordal of his date of birth in the admission register was false. The State, in this case, has not come up with any such compelling evidence which would render such certificate to be unreliable or false. The State and the complainant have sought to disprove the applicant’s case on the basis of materials disclosed by him only, apart from the G electoral roll. Here, this Court cannot indulge in any guesswork to doubt the entry in the school register. No evidence has been led to contradict the basis of the age of the applicant reflected in H 1062 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the aforesaid document. The certificate of date of birth as evidence of age having been provided in the statute itself, this Court shall go by that. The other factor which has crossed this Courts’s mind is as to whether a boy of 12 years could commit such a gruesome crime. But though this factor shocks this Court, this Court cannot apply speculation of this nature to cloud this Court’s adjudication B process. This Court possess no knowledge of child psychology or criminology to take into account this factor while examining the report of the Inquiring Judge. Moreover, the age of the applicant revealed in the ossification test keeps the age of the applicant as claimed by him, within the range specified in the C report. The said test was conducted in the year 2005, and his age was determined in the range of 22 to 40 years. If this Court take 22 years as his age in 2005, then his year of birth would haven been 1983. That would broadly correspond to the date of birth contained in the admission register. [Para 41][1111-G-H; 1112- A-E] D 9. In the light of this Court’s findings and the reasons this Court have disclosed above for arriving at such finding, this Court accept the report of the Inquiring Judge. This Court declare that the date of birth of the applicant as reflected in the certificate issued by the Rajkiya Adarsh Uccha Madhaymik Vidyalaya, E Jalabsar, tehsil Shri Dungargarh, district – Bikaner, dated 30th January 2019, a copy of which has been annexed in the Inquiry Report as “I-2”, is to be accepted for determining his age at the time of commission of the offence of which he has been convicted.