26. The Division Bench of the High Court took a conscious decision to protect the rights, interests and service conditions of such of the employees who have served for sufficient long time but discontinued because of the policy of the rival political groups. But the fact is that the D employees became its victim and that appears to be the reason for which the impugned dated 8th November, 2011 came to be passed and after they have been contesting their rights for almost more than a decade, at least, this Court in the interest of justice, may not interfere, in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case. E 27. Learned counsel, in alternative, submits that if this Court is not inclined to consider their submission, at least the employees who have not been able to take employment so far, may be permitted to accept their 6 months’ honorarium for the period between 1st December, 2011 and 31st May, 2012 which comes to principal amount of Rs.25,851/ F - per MNP, at least, with a reasonable interest, as may be considered to be appropriate, in the facts and circumstances of the case. 28. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material available on record. 29. If we look into the scheme originally introduced by the G Government by dated 2nd September, 1989, the object of the scheme was to provide employment to the educated youth in rural areas who have completed 10th standard in implementing several programmes of the Government at the village level which require continuous effort for successful completion. After Government has identified such programmes, they can be entrusted to a village work force of unemployed H 402 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A educated youth for better implementation. The Government took a decision that there should be two village level workers-one male and one female- who will be engaged in each of the village panchayat. They will be called Makkal Nala Paniyalargal (MNP) and be engaged on an honorarium of Rs.200/- per month in the first instance. B 30. As far as how the appointment has to be made, a mechanism was put in place that such employees who are in the age bracket of 18 to 30 years with educational qualification of 10th standard (and those who are working in hill/tribal areas, their educational qualification can be relaxed to 8th standard),their recruitment shall take place through an advertisement in the local area and be considered by a Committee for C shortlisting the candidates to be considered for appointment. The mechanism which was put in place in the first instance, by dated 2nd September, 1989 has looked into various rough weather. It reveals from the record that as and when there was change of political scenario, the successive political party always disbanded/cancelled the policy D decision of its earlier Government in power which had introduced a scheme for offering employment to the educated unemployed youth. 31. This can very well be noticed from the records that the Schemewhich was introduced by the Government for providing employment to educated unemployed youth in rural areas dated 2nd E September, 1989 came to be disbanded by the successive Government by dated 13th July, 1991 in consequence discontinued the service rendered by such unemployed youth.