(viii) 06.01.2022 – The respondent no. 1 having challenged the said of SDO by fi ling the writ petition, the same came to be dismissed by the Single Bench of the High Court. (ix) 25.04.2022 – The respondent no. 1 having preferred the writ appeal before the Division Bench, the same came to be allowed vide the impugned and , mainly on the ground that the relief claimed by the petitioner in the Election Petition was not in consonance with the Rule 6 of the Rules of 1995. 3. The crisp question of law that falls for consideration before this Court is whether the Election Petition fi led by the petitioner before the Sub Divisional Offi cer (R) seeking relief of recounting of votes alone, without seeking any relief under Rule 6 of the Rules of 1995 was maintainable? 4. Before adverting to the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties on the issue involved it would be apt to mention that as per Section 122 of the Chhattisgarh Panchayat Raj Adhiniyam, 1993 (hereinafter referred to as the said Act) an election under the said Act could be called in question only by a petition presented in the prescribed manner, and in case of Panchayat to the Sub Divisional Offi cer (R), within 30 days from the date on which the election in question was notifi ed. The State Government in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 95 read with Section 43 of the said Act of the 1993 has framed the Rules called the Chhattisgarh Panchayat Nirvachan Niyam, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as the Nirvachan Niyam 1995). Chapter IX of the said Nirvachan Niyam 1995 deals with “Poll and voting for election”. Sub rule (1) and sub rule (2) of Rule 77 thereof being relevant are reproduced hereunder: - 154 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. “77. Counting of votes. – (1) Every ballot paper which is not rejected under rule 76 shall be counted: Provided that no cover containing tender ballot papers shall be opened and no such ballot paper shall be counted. (2) After the counting of votes in respect of a polling station has been completed, the Returning Offi cer or such other offi cer authorised by him, shall make the entries in result sheet in Form 16 for Panchas and in Part one of the result sheet in Form 17, 18 and 19 for sarpanch, members of Janpad Panchayat and Zila Panchayat respectively and announce the total number of votes polled by each candidate.” 5. Rule 80 pertains to the recount of votes. The relevant sub-rule (1) and (2) thereof are reproduced hereunder: - “80. Recount of votes. – (1) After an announcement has been made by the Returning Offi cer or such other offi cer authorised by him, of the total number of votes polled by each candidate under sub-rule (2) of rule 77, a candidate or, in his absence, his election agent or his counting agent may apply in writing to the Returning Offi cer or such offi cer authorised by him, for a recount of all or any of the votes already counted, stating the grounds on which he demands such recount.