The maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit, which means that the act of the court shall prejudice no one, becomes applicable in such a case. In such a fact situation, the court is under an obligation to undo the wrong done to a party by the act of the court. Thus, any undeserved or unfair advantage gained by a party invoking the jurisdiction of the court must be neutralised, as the institution of litigation cannot be permitted to confer any advantage on a suitor from delayed action by the act of the court. (Vide Shiv Shankar v. U.P. SRTC, 1995 Supp (2) SCC 726 : 1995 SCC (L&S) 1018, GTC Industries Ltd. v. Union of India, (1998) 3 SCC 376 and Jaipur Municipal Corpn. v. C.L. Mishra, (2005) 8 SCC 423). 18. In Ram Krishna Verma v. State of U.P., (1992) 2 SCC 620], this Court examined a similar issue while placing reliance upon its earlier in Grindlays Bank Ltd. v. CIT, (1980) 2 SCC 191 : 1980 SCC (Tax) 230 and held that no person can suff er from the act of the court and in case an interim has been V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 899 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] passed, and the petitioner takes advantage thereof, and ultimately the petition is found to be without any merit and is dismissed, the interest of justice requires that any undeserved or unfair advantage gained by a party invoking the jurisdiction of the court must be neutralised.” 325. In Karnataka Rare Earth v. Deptt. of Mines & Geology, (2004) 2 SCC 783, this Court observed that maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit requires that the party should be placed in the same position but for the court’s which is ultimately found to be not sustainable which has resulted in one party gaining advantage which otherwise would not have earned and the other party has suff ered but for the s of the court. The successful party can demand the delivery of benefi t earned by the other party, or make restitution for what it has lost. This Court observed : (SCC pp. 790-91, paras 10-11) “10. In … the doctrine of actus curiae neminem gravabit and held that the doctrine was not confi ned in its application only to such acts of the court which were erroneous; the doctrine is applicable to all such acts as to which it can be held that the court would not have so acted had it been correctly apprised of the facts and the law. It is the principle of restitution that is attracted. When on account of an act of the party, persuading the court to pass an , which at the end is held as not sustainable, has resulted in one party gaining advantage which it would not have otherwise earned, or the other party has suff ered an impoverishment which it would not have suff ered, but for the of the court and the act of such party, then the successful party fi nally held entitled to a relief, assessable in terms of money at the end of the litigation, is entitled to be compensated in the same manner in which the parties would have been if the interim of the court would not have been passed.