They are also not there to see the culprits escape conviction.” 110. This Court in the case of Zahira Habibulla H. Sheikh v. State of Gujarat19, had commented as follows with respect to the conduct of fair trial: 18 AIR 1992 SC 604 19 (2004) 4 SCC 158 HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 463 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] “Denial of a fair trial is as much injustice to the accused as is to the victim and the society. Fair trial obviously would mean a trial before an impartial judge, a fair prosecutor and atmosphere of judicial calm. Fair trial means a trial in which bias or prejudice for or against the accused, the witnesses, or the cause which is being tried is eliminated. If the witnesses get threatened or are forced to give false evidence that also would not result in a fair trial. The failure to hear material witnesses is certainly denial of fair trial.” *** “Failure to accord fair hearing either to the accused or the prosecution violates even minimum standards of due process of law. It is inherent in the concept of due process of law, that condemnation should be rendered only after the trial in which the hearing is a real one, not sham or a mere farce and pretence. Since the fair hearing requires an opportunity to preserve the process, it may be vitiated and violated by an overhasty, stage-managed, tailored and partisan trial.” *** “Time has become ripe to act on account of numerous experiences faced by courts on account of frequent turning of witnesses as hostile, either due to threats, coercion, lures and monetary considerations at the instance of those in power, their henchmen and hirelings, political clout and patronage and innumerable other corrupt practices ingeniously adopted to smother and stifl e truth and realities coming out to surface rendering truth and justice to become ultimate casualties. Broader public and societal interests require that the victims of the crime who are not ordinarily parties to prosecution and the interests of State represented by their prosecuting agencies do not suff er even in slow process but irreversibly and irretrievably, which if allowed would undermine and destroy public confi dence in the administration of justice, which may ultimately pave way for anarchy, oppression and injustice resulting in complete breakdown and collapse of the edifi ce of rule of law, enshrined and jealously guarded and protected by the Constitution. There comes the need for protecting the witness.” *** 464 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. “A more serious ground which disturbs us in more ways than one is the alleged absence of congenial atmosphere for a fair and impartial trial. It is becoming a frequent phenomenon in our country that court proceedings are being disturbed by rude hoodlums and unruly crowds, jostling, jeering or cheering and disrupting the judicial hearing with menaces, noises and worse.” 111. The Trial Court and the High Court miserably failed to notice the sensitivity and intricacies of the case.