The name of Village is Jalabsar and the names “Anada” and B “Nirana” can be seen therein to be the sons of “Chetanram”. As such, the Pariwar Card i.e. the document at serial no.8 can very well be relied on. 50) The document at serial no.7 (Annexure- ‘I-7’) has been reported by the Police Officer to be forged document. It has C been issued by Gauradevi as a Surpanch of village Udarasar. She had certified in the document at serial no. 7 that, “Narayan Chaudhary” and “Niranaram” is the name of same person. Her statement, statement of her son Jetharam s/o Todaram and one villager named Udaram was recorded by D the Police Officer. All of them disowned the document at serial no.7. The Police Officer however, has collected one more document having the signature of Surpanch Gauradevi and recorded statement of one Kesraram who was Gramsevak, in support thereof. However, the signature of Sarpanch on the document collected by the Police Officer having reference to E the statement of Kesraram and her signature on document at serial no. 7 appear to be identically same. As such, in the circumstances when Gauridevi admitted that, she was a Sarpanch, the document at serial no. 7 cannot be doubted as to the signature of the Sarpanch. Gauradevi was not able to F see and not able to read. As such, the statements of Jetharam and Udaram would be not be much relevant, when a document for comparison of signature has been collected by the Police Officer. The signature of Sarpanch thereon and document at’ serial no. 7 appear to be identical. Hence, even the document at serial no. 7 can be considered. G 51) As per Section 94 of the Act, only when the school certificate or the certificate of Panchayat and Corporation etc. is not found, the ossification test can be resorted to. Since, in this case authentic school certificates are on record, at this moment, there is no need to consider the document at serial H no.11 (Annexure- ‘J-1’). NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1081 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] 52) In view of the documents mentioned above, it appears A that, “Niranram” and “Anadaram” are brothers. It also appears that, “Chetanram” is their father. They are resident of Jalabsar. The school record, which is discussed in foregoing paragraphs, indicate the date of birth of “Anadram s/o Chetanram” to be 04/04/1980, while the date of birth of B “Niranaram” appears to be 01/02/1982. Thus, from these school documents it can be said that, “Anadaram” is elder to “Niranaram”. In the Pariwar Card i.e. document at serial no.8, same is the position since “Anadaram” is appearing to be elder to “Niranaram”. Here, since the name of father of both these persons is the same, and their village is also the C same, help can be taken from the observations made in the case of “Raju (supra)” by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. If the certificates are read with reference to the document at serial no.