However, the Court deciding a bail application cannot completely divorce its decision from material aspects of the case such as the allegations made against the accused; severity of the punishment if the allegations are proved beyond reasonable doubt and would result in a conviction; reasonable apprehension of the D witnesses being influenced by the accused; tampering with the evidence; criminal antecedents of the accused; and a prima-facie satisfaction of the Court in support of the charge against the accused. 24. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we shall now consider the facts of the present case. The allegations against respondents-accused E as well as the contentions raised at the Bar have been narrated supra. On a consideration of the same, the following aspects of the case would emerge: a) The allegations against respondent-accused, Budharam is for offences under Sections 302 and 120B of the IPC and F Section 3 read with Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act, while against respondents-accused, Rajendra Bishnoi and Vikas Vishnoi the allegations are for offences under Sections 302 and 120B of the IPC. b) The allegation against the respondents-accused is not only G that they were involved in a conspiracy to kill the deceased, Vikash Panwar, but also that they actively participated in his murder. The alleged incident is stated to be an instance of honour killing. c) A perusal of the chargesheet dated 19 August, 2022 would reveal that specific roles have been ascribed to each of the H ROHIT BISHNOI v. THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ANR. 515 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] respondents-accused in the alleged incident. It is alleged A that respondent-accused Rajendra Bishnoi tugged at the collar of the deceased from behind, so as to drag him down the stairs on which he was standing, after which respondent- accused Vikas Vishnoi caught hold of the deceased, thereby, enabling co-accused Raju to hit him on his head with the B butt of a country-made pistol. Having incapacitated the deceased in the said manner, Budharam was able to fire bullet shots on the chest and back of the deceased, resulting in his death. d) In the present case, it cannot be said that the accusations C against the respondents-accused are prima-facie wholly false, frivolous or vexatious in nature, so as to justify grant of bail. We observe, while not expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, that the prosecution has brought on record adequate material that would prima-facie point towards the guilt of the accused. Details as to the manner D in which the deceased, Vikash Panwar and Nirma were traced by the accused, the acts of reconnaissance that were carried out by the accused before the alleged fateful incident and the manner in which each of the accused participated in the alleged crime have been brought on record. Therefore, E we are not inclined to hold at this juncture that the prosecution has not established a prima-facie case as to the guilt of the accused. e) One of the prosecution witnesses, namely Nirma, turned hostile.