The argument appears to be that the Chennai metro development authority which is a local body has granted permission for F the construction of the storage facility treating the area as a general industrial use zone. This means that the building was permissible under the Town planning law. The argument is further sought to be buttressed with reference to the definition of the word building which encompasses a storage facility. G 54. This argument is sought to be met by Smt. Anita Shenoy, learned Senior Counsel, by pointing out that it would be plainly incongruous with the use of the words ‘storage facilities’ as contained in paragraph- 8 (II) (vi), falling under permitted activities under CRZ-II with the word ‘building’, which must make the position clear that placed side-by-side, H 280 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A building cannot include the storage facility, which has been expressly articulated and permitted as long as it is ‘in’ a notified port. 55. We notice certain salient features. CRZ-II has been classified in para 7 as areas that have been developed up to or close to the shore line. The storage tank of the appellant in the first case appears to be B located at a distance of 160 feet from the shore line. At the same time, it is located a few kilometres away from the Chennai port. We have already noticed that under CRZ III, the facility of storage of non- hazardous materials including edible oil is permitted only at a distance between 200-500 meters.This is even though both handling and storage of petroleum products is permitted, both within a distance of up to 200 C meters from the high tide line as also between 200-500 meters from the high tide line. It may defy logic. At least at first blush. We have already set out the objects of the notification.They include guarding against the dangers of natural hazards in coastal areas and the sea level rise due to global warming. This is no doubt also to be balanced with the need for D sustainable development. The coastal regulation appears to be based on considerations which appear to accommodate conflicting interests premised on considerations of what is felt as indispensably necessary and the nature of the zone in question. Allowing storage facilities for non-hazardous activities like edible oil, is, apparently, considered as an indispensable part of the operation of a port. The Port Authorities would E have full control over the storage facility located within its limits. No doubt, Section 35 of the Major Port Trust Act, 1964, inter alia, empowers the port to execute works outside its limits for securing and storing goods to be landed or to be shipped. The storage tanks in question are not works executed by the port. F 56. As far as the case that is sought to be built up on the basis that since CRZ-II permitted buildings on the landward side of the existing road, we must notice that this is not the basis for the decision of the first respondent which was successfully impugned before the NGT.