But while examining the grievance of the person who has invoked the jurisdiction of the court to initiate the proceeding for contempt for disobedience of its , before any such contemner is held guilty and punished, the court has to record a fi nding that such disobedience was wilful and intentional. If from the circumstances of a particular case, brought to the notice of the court, the court is satisfi ed that although there has been a disobedience but such disobedience is the result of some compelling circumstances under which it was not possible for the contemner to comply with the , the court may not punish the alleged contemner.”. (Emphasis supplied) 53. In Ashok Paper Kamgar Union v. Dharam Godha and Others reported in (2003) 11 SCC 1, the expression ‘wilful disobedience’ in the context of Section 2(b) of the Act was read to mean an act or omission done voluntarily and intentionally with the specifi c intent to do something, which the law forbids or with the specifi c intention to fail to do something which the law requires to be done. Wilfulness signifi es deliberate action BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1101 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] done with evil intent and bad motive and purpose. It should not be an act, which requires and is dependent upon, either wholly or partly, any act or omission by a third party for compliance. 54. In Ram Kishan v. Tarun Bajaj and Others reported in (2014) 16 SCC 204, it was observed as under:— “12. Thus, in to punish a contemnor, it has to be established that disobedience of the is “wilful”. The word “wilful” introduces a mental element and hence, requires looking into the mind of a person/contemnor by gauging his actions, which is an indication of one's state of mind. “Wilful” means knowingly intentional, conscious, calculated and deliberate with full knowledge of consequences fl owing therefrom. It excludes casual, accidental, bona fi de or unintentional acts or genuine inability. Wilful act does not encompass involuntarily or negligent actions. The act has to be done with a “bad purpose or without justifi able excuse or stubbornly, obstinately or perversely”. Wilful act is to be distinguished from an act done carelessly, thoughtlessly, heedlessly or inadvertently. It does not include any act done negligently or involuntarily. The deliberate conduct of a person means that he knows what he is doing and intends to do the same. Therefore, there has to be a calculated action with evil motive on his part. Even if there is a disobedience of an , but such disobedience is the result of some compelling circumstances under which it was not possible for the contemnor to comply with the , the contemnor cannot be punished. “Committal or sequestration will not be ed unless contempt involves a degree of default or misconduct.” (Vide S. Sundaram Pillai v. V.R. Pattabiraman [S. Sundaram Pillai v. V.R. Pattabiraman, (1985) 1 SCC 591], Rakapalli Raja Ram Gopala Rao v. Naragani Govinda Sehararao [Rakapalli Raja Ram Gopala Rao v. Naragani Govinda Sehararao, (1989) 4 SCC 255 : AIR 1989 SC 2185], Niaz Mohammad v. State of Haryana [Niaz Mohammad v. State of Haryana, (1994) 6 SCC 332 : AIR 1995 SC 308], Chordia Automobiles v. S. Moosa [Chordia Automobiles v. S. Moosa, (2000) 3 SCC 282], Ashok Paper Kamgar Union v. Dharam Godha [Ashok Paper Kamgar Union v. Dharam Godha, (2003) 11 SCC 1], State of Orissa v. Mohd.