True that for upholding the sale deed viz. (Exhibit 128), the First Appellate Court had given due weight to the notice dated 27.04.1979 (Exhibit 113), virtually lawyer notice issued by the second defendant immediately after the transaction, in the name of the plaintiff and held that it would lend support to the factum of sale G effected through sale deed (Exhibit 128). The First Appellate Court on such consideration and on appreciation of the materials on record held that the second defendant had failed to prove that the sale transaction was an outcome of money lending transaction and that the sale deed was nominal in nature. Consequently, the appeal was allowed, the and decree of the Trial Court was set aside and the suit for H DAMODHAR NARAYAN SAWALE (D) THROUGH LRS. v. SHRI 187 TEJRAO BAJIRAO MHASKE & ORS. [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] possession on the strength of title was decreed in favour of the plaintiff A (the appellant therein). 8.It is feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the said and decree that the Second Appeal No.435 of 1995 was filed by the original second defendant viz., the first respondent herein, which ultimately culminated in the impugned . B 9.A perusal of the impugned would reveal that the High Court re-framed the substantial questions of law on 15.10.2015 as hereinunder: - [1] Whether the plaintiff has established his entitlement for a C decree of possession of the suit property on the basis of the sale deed dated 21.04.1979 at Exh.128 executed by the defendant Nos.1 and 2? [2] Whether the defendant No.2 has established that the sale deed at Exh.128 was nominal and by way of collateral security and the said transaction was hit by the provisions of Section D 8 of the Maharashtra Prevention of Fragmentation and Consolidation of Holdings Act? [3] While reversing the findings recorded by the trial Court, whether the lower appellate Court has ignored the findings recorded by the trial Court on the material facts in the light E of undisputed factual position?” 10. Even though the powers under Article 136 of the Constitution of India must be exercised sparingly, yet there is absolutely nothing in the said Article which prohibits the Supreme Court from reversing even concurrent findings of the fact by courts below, if it is of the opinion on F the basis of the evidence on record, that affirming the findings of the courts below would result in a grave miscarriage of justice. It was so held by this Court in Charanjit & Ors. v. State of Punjab & Anr.1 as also in Adambai Sulemanbhai Ajmeri & Ors. v. State of Gujarat2. Therefore, if a relevant material legally brought on record and the question G of law arising out of its existence were not considered by the High Court, despite its due consideration by the First Appellate Court, while reversing the founded on such consideration this Court has necessarily 1 (2013) 11 SCC 163 2 (2014) 7 SCC 716 H 188 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R.