Out of the said nine complaints, except one all have been closed or rejected. As regards, the complaint at Sr. No.9, D which was made by the appellant’s ex-wife alleging bigamy, moral turpitude etc. against the appellant. In the remarks column, the respondents stated that necessary information in respect of the said court proceedings between the parties was sought by the department. The appellant clarified that a decree of divorce was E granted to the parties by the concerned Court and a copy of the said was duly supplied to the department against receipt on 21st March, 2018. [Paras 27, 28][49-F; 52-F; 53-B-C] 1.3 In the teeth of the series of s passed by the tribunal and the High Court in favour of the appellant, the respondents F elected to withhold his vigilance clearance, thereby compelling the appellant to file contempt petitions against the concerned officers for non-compliance of the s passed. Both, the High Court as well as the tribunal, issued notices for wilful disobedience of the s passed. In the proceedings before the High Court, on the one hand, the respondents kept seeking adjournments on G the ground that steps were being taken to forward the appellant’s name to the ACC for being processed for his appointment as Member, ITAT, till as late as on 31st May 2019 on which date they were granted one last opportunity for making compliances H 32 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A and at their request, the matter was adjourned to 9th July 2019 and on the other hand, the respondents slapped the appellant with a Charge Memorandum dated 17th June 2019 and suspended him on 1st July, 2019. [Para 36][56-C-E] 1.4 Having regard to the fact that the respondents did not B take the disciplinary proceedings initiated against the appellant to its logical conclusion and instead issued an compulsorily retiring him, it is not expedient to delve into the allegations levelled in the said Charge Memorandum; all the same, the Charge Memorandum have gone through cursorily that mentions three charges – one alleging that the appellant failed to seek C permission from the department to purchase a flat in relation to the matrimonial dispute between him and his estranged wife and the second one is in respect of the allegation of bigamy levelled against him by his estranged wife. It is already noted that during the course of the matrimonial dispute, the parties had arrived at D a settlement and the flat that was agreed to be given to the wife, was not purchased by the appellant but by his brother, which fact is amply borne out from the documents placed on record. The matrimonial dispute between the parties stood closed on a decree of divorce being granted on the basis of mutual consent. That the respondents were also cognizant of the said fact, is apparent from E the contents of O.M. dated 15th July, 2015 which records inter alia that the said allegations levelled by the wife had not been established.