This Court held that this was an erroneous approach because the Magistrate ought to have applied his mind to the complaint and determined whether the statement was prima facie defamatory, before issuing summons to the accused. This Court further held that a complaint could not be sustained on statements which were, on the face of it, non-defamatory. Also, it was held that it is a fundamental rule of criminal jurisprudence that if the allegations contained in a complaint do not constitute the off ence complained of, then the accused should not be made to undergo the ordeal of a trial. 37. B.R.K. Aathithan (supra) is the decision of most recent origin. Therein, the factual conspectus was such that certain reportage concerning the appellant was telecast on a television channel of the respondents, and the same was contended as defamatory. This Court emphasised the need for application of judicial mind by the Judicial Magistrate, while noting the consideration of the Fourth Exception to Section 499, IPC at the stage of issuance of process. This Court observed there as follows: 248 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “16. This essentially involved application of judicial mind to reach a defi nite conclusion as to whether or not the accused be summoned. In the instant case, the learned Judicial Magistrate having found that the allegations made by the appellant were in the teeth of fourth exception to Section 499 IPC, he declined to issue process to the respondents. Such dismissal cannot be said to be without application of judicial mind. The application of judicial mind and arriving at an erroneous conclusion are two distinct things. The Court even after due application of mind may reach to an erroneous conclusion and such an is always justiciable before a superior Court. Even if the said is set aside, it does not mean that the trial court did not apply its mind.” 38. We note that in a diff erent context, this Court in National Bank of Oman v. Barakara Abdul Aziz23 summed up the duty of a Magistrate as follows: “8. The duty of a Magistrate receiving a complaint is set out in Section 202 CrPC and there is an obligation on the Magistrate to fi nd out if there is any matter which calls for investigation by a criminal court. The scope of enquiry under this section is restricted only to fi nd out the truth or otherwise of the allegations made in the complaint in to determine whether process has to be issued or not. Investigation under Section 202 CrPC is diff erent from the investigation contemplated in Section 156 as it is only for holding the Magistrate to decide whether or not there is suffi cient ground for him to proceed further. The scope of enquiry under Section 202 CrPC is, therefore, limited to the ascertainment of truth or falsehood of the allegations made in the complaint: (i) on the materials placed by the complainant before the court; (ii) for the limited purpose of fi nding out whether a prima facie case for issue of process has been made out; and (iii) for deciding the question purely from the point of view of the complainant without at all adverting to any defence that the accused may have.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 23 (2013) 2 SCC 488 M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 249 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.]