Emotions: Being able to have attachments to things and people outside ourselves; to love those who love and care for us, to grieve at their absence; in general, to love, to grieve, to experience longing, gratitude, and justifi ed anger. Not having one’s emotional development blighted by fear and anxiety. (Supporting this capability means supporting forms of human association that can be shown to be crucial in their development)” (emphasis supplied) 191 Articles 25 to 28 of the Constitution 192 Martha (n 150) 193 The other capabilities listed by Martha C. Nussbaum include ‘life’, ‘bodily health’, ‘bodily integrity’, ‘senses, imagination and thought’, ‘practical reason’, ‘other species’, and ‘play’. 135 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. The second is ‘affi liation’ which is characterized as follows: “7. Affi liation: A. Being able to live with and toward others, to recognize and show concern for other human beings, to engage in various forms of social interaction; to be able to imagine the situation of another. (Protecting this capability means protecting institutions that constitute and nourish such forms of affi liations, and also protecting the freedom of assembly and political speech).” (emphasis supplied) 216. The capabilities of ‘emotions’ and ‘affi liations’ identifi ed by Nussbaum for self-development and sustaining a quality life are crucial for two important reasons. First, both capabilities focus on the human side of a person, that is, the ability and necessity of a person to emote and form relationships and associations. Second, the distinction between the capabilities of ‘emotions’ and ‘affi liation’ is that in the former, the emphasis is upon the agency of the individual and the freedom they have to form bonds with other people while in the latter, the emphasis is upon granting recognition to such associations. 217. Humans are unique in many respects. We live in complex societies, are able to think, communicate, imagine, strategize, and do more. However, that which sets us apart from other species does not by itself make us human. These qualities are necessary elements of our humanity but taken alone, they paint an incomplete picture. In addition to these qualities, our ability to feel love and aff ection for one another makes us human. We may not be unique in our ability to feel the emotion of love but it is certainly a fundamental feature of our humanity. We have an innate need to see and to be seen – to have our identity, emotions, and needs fully acknowledged, recognized, and accepted. The ability to feel emotions such as grief, happiness, anger, and aff ection and the need to share them with others makes us who we are. As human beings, we seek companionship and most of us value abiding relationships with other human beings in diff erent forms and capacities. These relationships may take many forms – the natal family, cousins and relatives, friends, romantic partnerships, mentors, or students. Of these, the natal family as well as the family created with one’s life partner form SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR.