Suits and applications cognizable by revenue court only— (1) All suits and application of the nature specifi ed in the Third Schedule shall be heard and determined by a revenue court. URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 541 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] (2) No court other than a revenue court shall take cognizance of any such suit or application or of any suit or application based on a cause of action in respect of which any relief could be obtained by means of any such suitor application. Explanation— If the cause of action is one in respect of which relief might be granted by the revenue court, it is immaterial that the relief asked for from the civil court is greater than, or additional to, or is not identical with, that which the revenue court could have granted. 208. Application of Civil Procedure Code— The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908), except: (a) provisions inconsistent with anything in this Act, so far as the inconsistency extends. (b) provisions applicable only to special suits or proceedings outside the scope of this Act, and (c) provisions contained in List I of the Fourth Schedule, shall apply to all suit and proceedings under this Act, subject to the modifi cations contained in List II of the Fourth Schedule.” 27. Let us now look at the relief claimed in the suit in the context of the overall scheme of the Tenancy Act,1955. In the suit, the plaintiff , inter alia, sought permanent injunction from disturbing the ownership and possession w.r.t 3 bighas of land purchased through two registered sale deeds. Such a relief could not possibly be granted by the forums empowered under the Tenancy Act,1955 which primarily deals with tenancy rights and their protection. Therefore, the jurisdiction of the civil Court is not ousted by Section 207 or Section 208 of the Tenancy Act,1955 and the contrary submission made by the appellant has to be rejected. Therefore, evaluation of the scheme of the Act would lead us to the conclusion that jurisdiction of the revenue Court would be barred under Tenancy Act,1955, in view of the reliefs claimed by plaintiff . 28. Moreover, even where a statute gives fi nality to the process, it does not exclude cases where the provisions of the particular statute have not been complied with or the Tribunal has failed to decide in conformity with 542 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. the fundamental principles of judicial procedure19. In the present case, in the absence of notice to the actual owner under Section 52 of the 1959 Act, the acquisition proceedings are legally vitiated and therefore the aff ected owner should be entitled to seek relief from the civil Court. As noticed, the defendant no. 1 i.e., the Urban Improvement Trust failed to adhere to the essential requirements under Section 52 of the 1959 Act. When the fundamental judicial procedure is disregarded, the action rendered is legally void and should be seen as being “outside the Act”.