Similarly, in State of Himachal Pradesh Vs. Shashi Kumar, (supra), this Court has observed that compassionate appointment being an exception to the general rule, the dependents of deceased government employee are made eligible by virtue of the policy D of compassionate appointment and they must fulfil the terms of the policy which are framed by the States/Employers. 14. It is to be noted that in the instant case, the respondent filed a suit for declaration and mandatory injunction seeking appointment on compassionate basis which was decreed by the Trial Court and upheld E and affirmed by the High Court. In State of Himachal Pradesh vs. Parkash Chand reported in (2019) 4 SCC 285, it has been categorically held that a direction by a High Court to consider cases for compassionate appointment dehors the terms of the policy is impermissible as it would amount to re-writing the terms of the policy. This aspect has been overlooked by the High Court in the instant case. In a similar vein, in F Indian Bank vs. Promila reported in (2020) 2 SCC 729, it has been observed that eligibility for compassionate appointment must be as per the applicable scheme and the courts cannot substitute a scheme or add or subtract from the terms thereof in exercise of judicial review. The aforesaid dicta would also apply to a suit filed seeking the relief of G compassionate appointment. 15. In this regard, reference could be made to the of this Court in State of Himachal Pradesh vs. Shashi Kumar reported in (2019) 3 SCC 653 wherein at Paragraphs 18-19 the aforesaid terms have been clearly stated. H BANK OF BARODA & ORS v. BALJIT SINGH 983 16. Therefore, it is necessary to consider the Scheme which is A applicable to the respondent in the instant case. It is not in dispute between the parties that the Scheme dated 18.09.1998 which has been issued by way of a Circular is applicable to the case of the respondent. Under the said Scheme, both the educational qualification as well as qualification vis-a-vis the income of the candidate making an application for B compassionate appointment have been prescribed and they are to be considered by the employer. In this context, it would be useful to refer the of the High Court which has raised two questions of law which are as follows: i) Whether the case of the appellant can be considered for C compassionate employment vis-a-vis the Scheme which was in vogue at the time when Balbir Singh died or subsequent to that? ii) Whether advancement of family pension can be the ground for non-suiting the case of compassionate employment? D 17. While answering the second question, the High Court has referred to a of the Rajasthan High Court in Mohd. Farooq Bhati vs. S.B.B.J. reported in (2009) 2 SCT 353 which had relied upon the of this Court in Balbir Kaur (supra) to hold that the objection with regard to the family income cannot be really considered as an E objection to deny compassionate appointment.