Learned Senior Advocate, Mr. Bhattacharyya, appearing on behalf of the respondents, has submitted that the fi ndings recorded in the by the National Commission in Pawan Gupta’s (supra), which is a case related to the same housing project, has merged with the passed by this Court in the appeals preferred by the appellant and it will be binding on the appellant on subsequent cases, including the cases fi led by the respondents. 23. On the other hand, it is submitted by learned Senior Advocates, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Mr. Amit Sibal, that the complaint preferred by Pawan Gupta was in his individual capacity and not in a representative capacity. Pawan Gupta had made specifi c prayer for handing over possession of his unit, for awarding interest on the amount paid by him for the delay that occurred in handing over possession and also for a refund of the amount charged by the appellant towards service tax, car parking and increase in the common area. Hence, upon the dismissal of the statutory appeals fi led by the appellant in case of Pawan Gupta (supra), the of the National Commission would merge into the of this Court through a non-speaking . The result would be that the litigation inter se the parties in case of Pawan Gupta (supra) had attained fi nality in the said case. Nonetheless, it could not be construed by any stretch of imagination that the National Commission was barred from examining or deciding the issues involved in the instant case as the appellant had placed on record details and evidence in the form of the architect’s certifi cate dated 23.09.2020 and a report of 1134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the same date with calculations to show and justify the increase in the sale area. The architect’s certifi cate and the report dated 23.09.2020 were not placed before the National Commission in the case of Pawan Gupta (supra). No doubt, the same were fi led before this Court as additional documents, but the appeal itself was dismissed in limine without taking the additional documents on record, and that too by a non-reasoned . In the present case, the architect’s certifi cate and the report dated 23.09.2020 were placed before the National Commission, but they were not examined and considered in the reasons set out by the National Commission. Decision in Pawan Gupta (supra) was simply applied. 24. Specifi cally on the question of additional documents, it is submitted by Learned Senior Advocate, Mr. Bhattacharyya, appearing on behalf of the respondents, that once an application for additional documents was fi led in this Court, the doctrine of merger would apply and, therefore, the present appeal merits dismissal on this short ground. 25. This Court has examined doctrine of merger in several decisions, but we would, for the purpose of this case, refer to only two decisions in Kunhayammed and Others v. State of Kerala and Another11 and Khoday Distilleries Limited and Others v. Sri Mahadeshwara Sahakara Sakkare Karkhane Limited.12, which approves of the ratio in Kunhayammed (supra).