Many of them, as a measure of price fixation must necessarily be, are matters of prediction of ultimate results on which even experts can seriously err and doubtlessly differ. Courts can certainly not be expected to decide them without even the aid of experts.” F [emphasis supplied] 221. In the case of R.K. Garg v. Union of India and Others64, another Constitution Bench of this Court observed thus: “8. Another rule of equal importance is that laws relating to G economic activities should be viewed with greater latitude than laws touching civil rights such as freedom of speech, religion etc. It has been said by no less a person than Holmes, J., that the legislature should be allowed some play in the joints, because 63 (1978) 3 SCC 459 64 (1981) 4 SCC 675 H 112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A it has to deal with complex problems which do not admit of solution through any doctrinaire or strait-jacket formula and this is particularly true in case of legislation dealing with economic matters, where, having regard to the nature of the problems required to be dealt with, greater play in the joints has to be allowed to the legislature. The court should feel more B inclined to give judicial deference to legislative in the field of economic regulation than in other areas where fundamental human rights are involved. ……….” [emphasis supplied] 222. Again, the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of C Shri Sitaram Sugar Company Limited and Another v. Union of India and Others65, observed thus: “57.Judicial review is not concerned with matters of economic policy. The court does not substitute its for that of the legislature or its agents as to matters within the province D of either. The court does not supplant the “feel of the expert” by its own views. When the legislature acts within the sphere of its authority and delegates power to an agent, it may empower the agent to make findings of fact which are conclusive provided such findings satisfy the test of reasonableness. In E all such cases, judicial inquiry is confined to the question whether the findings of fact are reasonably based on evidence and whether such findings are consistent with the laws of the land. As stated by Jagannatha Shetty, J. in Gupta Sugar Works [1987 Supp SCC 476, 481] : (SCC p. 479, para 4) “... the court does not act like a chartered accountant nor F acts like an income tax officer. The court is not concerned with any individual case or any particular problem. The court only examines whether the price determined was with due regard to considerations provided by the statute. And whether extraneous matters have been excluded from G determination.”” [emphasis supplied] 223. Recently, this Court in the case of Small Scale Industrial Manufactures Association (Registered) v. Union of India and H 65 (1990) 3 SCC 223 VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 113 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Others66 had an occasion to consider the issue with regard to scope of A judicial review of economic and fiscal regulatory measures.