11. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondents, on the other hand, submits that a complaint was made by the Deputy Superintendent G of Police, Vigilance Cell, Bhubaneshwar dated 9th December, 2020, who was the Officer of Directorate of Vigilance, Cuttack, Odisha, Cuttack and direction was given to the Directorate of Vigilance, Odisha to conduct a preliminary inquiry by dated 11th December, 2020, the decision itself was in violation of the principles of natural justice. Once the complaint was made by the officer of the Directorate of Vigilance, at H OFFICE OF THE ODISHA LOKAYUKTA v. DR. PRADEEP 567 KUMAR PANIGRAHI [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] least entrusting the preliminary inquiry to be conducted by another Officer A of the Directorate of Vigilance, may be senior in the ladder, was not legally justified. The Officer of the Department has made a complaint on 9th December, 2020 and other officer is called upon to conduct a preliminary inquiry as stated that one cannot be a judge in its own cause and that being the reason, the Division Bench of the High Court has B permitted the Lokayukta to conduct an inquiry by the inquiry wing of the Lokayukta and administrative bias can’t be ruled out of the Directorate of Vigilance who is to conduct a preliminary inquiry. 12. Learned counsel further submits that since the respondents were duly represented and the Advocate General of the State appeared C along with the State counsel, opportunity of hearing was afforded to the appellant and plea of the principles of natural justice as prayed for by the appellant being violated, in the facts and circumstances, does not hold good. That apart, review petition came to be rightly dismissed as the appellant failed to justify any manifest error being committed by the Division Bench of the High Court under its dated 3rd February, D 2021 which may call for our interference. 13. It may be noticed that while issuing notice by this Court on 23rd April, 2021, operation of the impugned was stayed. In furtherance of the stay granted by this Court, it is informed that the appellant has proceeded further and after the preliminary inquiry report E being submitted to the Lokayukta by the Officer Shri P.K. Naik on 28th May, 2021 and after affording opportunity of hearing to the appellant, a detailed was passed by the Lokayukta under Section 20(3)(a) dated 27th September, 2021 directing the Directorate of Vigilance to carry out investigation. In furtherance thereof, Directorate of Vigilance F submitted a detailed report of investigation to the Lokayukta on 7th June, 2022, however, no further action has been initiated and awaiting s of this Court which is indicated in the dated 24th June, 2022 placed on record along with IA No. 89629 of 2022. 14. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and with their assistance perused the material available on record. G 15. Before we proceed to examine the question raised in the instant appeals, it may be apposite to first take a bird’s eye view of the Scheme of the Act, 2014.