The reliefs which were inter-alia prayed for by the respondent in the captioned OA are reproduced below: - “8. Relief(s) sought for: The Hon’ble Tribunal be pleased to. set aside and quash the impugned - (i) FAX message dated 03.09.2012 (Anexure-11) and the constitution of the Central Legal Complaint Committee under the Chairperson Smt. S. Radhika, IPS there under; (ii) Memorandum dated 10.12.2012 (Annexure-16) and cancellation of the enquiry report of the Frontier Level Complaint Committee there under, and 500 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (iii) the Enquiry report dated 28.12.2012. (Annexure-17) of the · Central Complaint Committee.” 21. The CAT, Guwahati vide its final judgement & dated 03.07.2015 dismissed the said OA No. 181 of 2013 observing that the Frontier Complaints Committee had not been constituted as per the 2006 Standing , and as the disciplinary proceedings were still pending, it refrained from expressing any opinion in regard to the Central Complaints Committee’s Inquiry (except expressing some reservations on the issue of penalty recommended therein) and directed that the disciplinary proceedings be completed within 4-months. The relevant portion reads as under: - “61. Undisputedly, the Chairperson of the Frontier Level Complaint Committee was Junior in the rank to the applicant, inasmuch as the applicant got promotion in the rank of Area Organizer on 22.12.2005, whereas the Chairperson was promoted to the rank of complainant, which is not prescribed as per Standing Operating Procedure of the department. The fact that the Chairperson of the said committee was junior to the applicant was not unknown to the respondents and the respondents knowingly constituted the Frontier Level Complaints Committee with a Chairperson junior to the applicant and therefore there was no valid reason to annul the report of the FLCC. 62. We are unable to accept the said submission by expressing that if there is a procedural irregularity even accrued unknowingly or unfortunately that could not be encouraged when we go into the proper adjudication of the matter. The Central Complaint Committee by going to the thorough enquiry by giving opportunity to the applicant and others with due examination as well as cross examination with the witness culminated into the opinion. xxx xxx xxx 64. We have given our thoughtful consideration in the matter by taking into account the entire conspectus of the case, to the conclusion on the point that the consideration of Central Complaints Committee as per law laid down and in terms of the guidelines which has been duly followed by the department by taking care of the earlier observation UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 501 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] by giving our view that the Frontier Level Standing Committee fi ndings was not as per SOP reason as already given. We are not fi nding any infi rmity in the enquiry apropos sexual harassment of the women in work place and to that context, we are not giving any fi ndings or any opinion. xxx xxx xxx 66. However, respondents are directed to complete the Departmental Proceedings within four months from the date of receipt of the .