The Appellant’s Case Before Us: 8. The appellant’s primary plea was that his son was allocated C work by Gram Panchayat Aarave and not by Zilla Parishad Dhule. The allocation was done through an e-tendering process published on the web portal of the Maharashtra Government. The payment for the work was also made to the appellant’s son by the Gram Panchayat, although it was formally sanctioned by the Zilla Parishad. The work dated D 20.07.2020 was also under the seal of the Gram Panchayat, in view of the authority endowed with them under Article 243(G) read with Entry 13 of the 11th Schedule of the Constitution. 9. The appellant submitted that the Zilla Parishad had merely given administrative and technical sanction for the said allotment under Sections E 100, 100(2) and 125 of the said Act. The Zilla Parishad is stated not to have directly paid for the work undertaken by the appellant’s son. In this regard, reliance was placed on the counter affidavit of the Zilla Parishad, who is respondent no.3 before us. 10. Second, it was pleaded that the appellant had no personal interest in his son’s business and that they did not even reside together. F Reliance was placed on Gulam Yasin Khan v. Shri Sahebrao Yashwantrao Walaskar & Ors.2, where this Court observed that the mere relationship of an electoral candidate with an employee of the Municipal Committee would not disqualify the candidate from standing in the election. G 11. Third, it was contended that the Divisional Commissioner had not followed the principles of natural justice while disqualifying the appellant. It was urged that an elected representative cannot be removed from his post in a casual manner and without holding an enquiry into the 2 AIR 1966 SC 1339. H 798 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A alleged misconduct, as held by this Court in Ravi Yashwant Bhoir v. District Collector, Raigad & Ors.3. In the proceedings before the Divisional Commissioner, the appellant had requested for accommodation on the day as his lawyer was unwell, but the said request was unreasonably rejected. B Respondent No.3’s Resistance to the Claim of the Appellant: 12. Learned counsel for respondent no.3 sought to lay emphasis on the objective of Section 16 of the said Act, i.e., to bring probity into the working of the Zilla Parishads. With this background, it was urged that the concerned sub-section (i) of Section 16(1) of the said Act was C worded with a wide ambit so as to encapsulate three categories, i.e., work done (a) by of the Zilla Parishad; (b) in any contract with the Zilla Parishad; or (c) by or on behalf of the Zilla Parishad. In the present case, the work was carried out by the of the Zilla Parishad, and the payment was made through the Zilla Parishad as well. Thus it was urged that the facts fell squarely within the ambit of D Section 16(1)(i) of the said Act and disqualification was apparent. 13. In the given factual scenario, it was also urged that the appellant was elected in January 2020, whereas his son was registered as a contractor with the Zilla Parishad, Dhule on 20.02.2020.