Note 3 defined ‘Pan Masala’ as “any preparation containing betel nuts and any one or more of the following ingredients, namely lime, katha (catechu) and tobacco, whether or not containing any other ingredients”. However, at the same time, Chapter 24 contained C a specific entry “tobacco” which enumerated tobacco, manufactured tobacco, substitutes etc. The relevant sub-heading at that time was 2404.41 which enumerated chewing tobacco, including preparations commonly known as khara masala, kimam, dokta, zarda, sukha and surti. Thus, the CET Act itself made a distinction between pan masala - whether it D contained tobacco, or not, and all forms of tobacco. Right from 1995, the distinction in the CET Act between pan masala (Chapter 21) and tobacco (Chapter 24), had been made. The definition of pan masala also clarified that despite one of its ingredients being tobacco, it would nevertheless be a separate article. E 57. This court had to consider the effect of the term “includes” in relation to the definition of tobacco in Mahalakshmi Oil Mills (supra). The controversy was whether the term “tobacco” and the inclusive clause was wide enough to cover tobacco seeds. This court, observed that: “14. Can then the words “tobacco” and “any form of tobacco” in the first part of the definition be given a wider F meaning and read as including the seeds also, particularly as it talks of “tobacco in any form, cured or uncured, manufactured or unmanufactured”? We do not think they can be for several reasons. In the first place, tobacco seeds hardly answer to the description of either the expression G “manufactured tobacco” or the expression “unmanufactured tobacco” in their ordinary connotation; and the expression “cured or uncured” cannot also be associated with tobacco seeds. The expression used in the first part of the definition, though every wide, is, therefore, singularly inappropriate to take within its purview tobacco seeds as well. Secondly, the H M/S TRIMURTHI FRAGRANCES (P) LTD. THR. ITS DIRECTOR SHRI 1077 PRADEEP KUMAR AGRAWAL v. GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI THR. ITS PRINCIPAL SECRETARY (FINANCE) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] definition occurs in a statute levying excise duty which is A concerned not with the parts of a plant grown on the field but with the use to which those parts are put or can be put after severance. The legislature could not but have been aware that if the leaves, stalks and stems of the tobacco plant are used for manufacturing cured tobacco, biris, cigarettes and B so on, the seed is also used to produce oil and cake. It takes care to mention the first three items which are used in the manufacture of some forms of tobacco consumption which are also enumerated but refrains from referring to seeds which it would have done had it been intended to include the oil and cake also for purposes of the levy. The categories of C unmanufactured tobacco enumerated in the entry in the Schedule include “stalks” but not “seeds”. This also indicates that seeds are not intended to be included.