2. Pradeep Kumar He is the brother of deceased Pappu and also the (PW4) alleged eye witness to the incident. He has deposed on the following lines: 1. That on 16.08.2008 he along with his brother Pappu and one Sushil came to Azadpur Subzi Mandi for purchasing vegetable at around 3.00 a.m. and Pappu and Sushil went towards D Block for purchasing vegetables whereas he went towards onion shed. 2. That at around 3.30 AM he saw that four boys had surrounded his brother Pappu and friend Sushil and one of them had taken out the purse of his brother 896 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. from his pocket and when his brother objected then the accused Mukesh and Vijay (whom the witness has correctly identifi ed in the court by pointing out towards them but not by name), gave ice prick blow on various parts of his body and the other two accused who had surrounded his brother and Sushil had taken out the money. 3. He has identifi ed the accused Pawan and Sarwan correctly by pointing out towards them in the court. 4. That accused gave ice prick blow to Sushil and Pappu on which he raised alarm and thereafter all the four accused ran away towards D Block on which somebody informed the police on No.100 and police came there and took his brother and Sushil to BJRM Hospital. 5. That he went to his house to inform about the incident and later on he came back at the spot when he came to know that his brother has already expired. 6. That deceased Pappu was having black colour purse and used to keep one small diary and some telephone diary, voter I card etc. 7. That after postmortem examination dead body of his brother was received vide receipt which is Ex.PW4/A. 8. That later on he identifi ed the accused Pawan and Vijay in the judicial test Identifi cation Parade in Rohini jail. He has proved his statement recorded during the Test identifi cation Parade of accused Pawan and Vijay which are Ex.PW4/B and Ex.PW4/C respectively. 9. That subsequently he was again called in Tihar jail for the test Identifi cation Parade of other two accused but they refused to participate in the same and thereafter he had not identifi ed them anywhere before the police. 10. Some leading questions were put to the witness Pradeep by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State wherein he has admitted that on 15.09.2008 he had come to court complex Rohini and outside the court of Ld. MM Shri Prashant Kumar he had identifi ed accused Sharvan and Mukesh also besides accused Pawan and Vijay to the investigating offi cer being the said four persons who were involved in the incident. 11.That in the incident accused Sharvan had blocked the way of his brother and Sushil and Mukesh had attacked them with ice prick. MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 897 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.]