[2023] 8 S.C.R. 283 283 M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. A v. M. S. MURTHY & ORS. ETC. (Civil Appeal Nos. 4049-4053 of 2023) JUNE 15, 2023 B [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN AND PANKAJ MITHAL, JJ.] Suit – Partition suit – Decree – Preliminary decree – Mathruka property – Whether on facts, the Division Bench of the High Court was right in declaring that the preliminary decree dated 28.06.1963 C was vitiated by fraud and consequently null and void, especially when there was no pleading and no evidence let in – Held: The preliminary decree dated 28.06.1963 could not have determined the claim to title made by the legal heirs seeking partition, as against third parties – Any finding rendered in the preliminary decree, that the properties were Mathruka properties liable to be partitioned, D was only incidental to the claim of the legal heirs and such a finding will not be determinative of their title to property as against third parties – The manner in which the and preliminary decree dated 28.06.1963 were sought to be used, abused and misused by parties to the proceedings as well as non-parties who jumped into E the fray by purchasing portions of the preliminary decree and seeking to execute them through Court, defeating the rights of third parties, is what has prompted the Division Bench of the High Court to hold that the preliminary decree is vitiated by fraud – What was a simple suit for partition; and the incidental finding recorded that the properties were Mathurka properties, have been used by parties F and non-parties to assert title to the properties against strangers – This was definitely an abuse of the process of law – The and preliminary decree dated 28.06.1963, though may not be vitiated by fraud, are certainly not binding upon third parties like the claim petitioners as well as the Government who have set up independent G claims and whatever was done in pursuance of the preliminary decree was an abuse of the process of law. Suit – Decree – Preliminary decree – ‘Paigah’ Estate – Mathruka property – Whether on facts, the concurrent findings of the Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court that Khurshid Jah H 283 284 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A a ‘Paigah’ grantee, did not leave behind any Mathruka property, goes contrary to the finding recorded in the and preliminary decree that has attained finality – Whether the finding recorded in the and preliminary decree that the lands in question are Mathruka property was binding upon third parties – Held: No finding was ever recorded by the Trial Judge in his B dated 28.06.1963 that the properties left behind by Khurshid Jah were Mathruka properties – Therefore, the contention as though there was such a finding and that the finding has attained finality and that the impugned goes contrary to such a finding, is wholly misconceived – The Single Judge as well as the C Division Bench (in the impugned ) were right in holding that the properties were not established to be Mathruka properties – The effect of the of the Nazim Atiyat was not examined by the Trial Judge – In any case, such an examination had to be done independently and not in a partition suit, keeping in view, the 1955 Act and various subsequent enactments relating to agricultural land D reforms and urban land ceiling – When the entire claim of the appellants that the properties were Mathruka properties inheritable by the legal heirs had failed, the question of executing a decree on the strength of the plea that the property is a Mathruka property does not arise – The predecessors of the appellants have had E knowledge that faisal patti were recorded in the name of the claim petitioners in 1978 itself – Even the Receiver was aware of this, as seen from the letter written by the Receiver on 09.04.1980 to the Collector – It is too late in the day for the appellants to question as to how the claim of the claim petitioners stood established.