Half an hour later when I lifted his hand and dropped, it fell downwards and later I got confirmed H 416 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A that he is dead and then wrapped his dead body using bedsheet and buried. He has stated that there was a compost pit behind the house and he has buried the dead body in that compost pit only. He told that after burying his dead body he was residing there only. He stated that he murdered in to gain money by selling the equipments. He also told that he even thought of selling the B land. The accused told that he would show the place where he has buried the dead body and would show the people to whom he has sold the equipments. 16.4 PW-14 is another witness whose testimony has been placed reliance by the High Court in the chain of circumstances namely last C seen theory. In his examination in chief dated 12.03.2013, PW-14 has stated to the following effect: “I basically xxx industries. I have the acquaintance of Deepak Gowda who works by taking JCB for rent. Deepak did not know Malayalam and Kafan did not know Kannada and therefore D Deepak Gowda took me to talk about the money for JCB and about work. Then I got the acquaintance of Kafan. The witness was shown Ex.P.31 and 32 and he identified the person wearing purple colour shirt asMr. Jose Kafan.After that we had been to his garden land. He told me that he wanted workers as there are E no workers to work in his garden land. Therefore, I got a worker for him but he went back to Kerala saying he is not feeling comfortable. Later an advertisement was given in the month of September 2011 through which he got a worker. That worker was there in the house when we went there. The witness identifies that person who was with Mr. Jose Kafan as the F accused. Mr. Jose Kafan told that he does not have any identity card of this place and asked to get a SIM for his workers by giving my own address. Accordingly I got a SIM card to him.” 16.5 Apart from these two prime witnesses, PW-5, PW-7, PW-9, PW-10, PW-11 and PW-15 have also clearly and in unequivocal terms G deposed that accused was last seen in the house of the deceased after his death. Even if one witness amongst these is to be believed as to what has been deposed is the truth, necessarily the onus is on the accused to provide a satisfactory explanation either in his statement recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. or from the admissions elicited from these witnesses, the circumstances in which he was in the company of H SIJU KURIAN v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 417 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] deceased. When PW-10 and PW-14 have clearly stated that they had A seen the accused in the company of the deceased, and there being no satisfactory explanation offered by the accused to the contrary, it has to be necessarily held that accused had failed to discharge the burden cast upon him.