A company or for the matter of that a firm H 488 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A or an undivided Hindu family has got to work through servants and agents, but it is not the servants and agents that constitute the seat of power or the controlling and directing power. It is that authority to which the servants, employees and agents are subject, it is that authority which controls and manages them, which is the central authority, and it is at the place where the central authority B functions that the company resides. It’ may be in some cases that like an individual a company may have residence in more than one place. It may exercise control and management not only from one fixed abode, but it may have different places. That would again be a question dependent upon the circumstances of each case. But C the contention which Mr. Kolah has most strongly pressed before us is entirely unacceptable that a company controls or manages at a particular place because its affairs are carried on at a particular place and they are carried on by people living there appointed by the company with large powers of management. A company may have a dozen local branches at different places outside India, it D may send out agents fully armed with authority to deal with and carry on business at these branches, and yet it may retain the central management and control in Bombay and manage and control all the affairs of these branches from Bombay and at Bombay. It would be impossible to contend that because there are authorised E agents doing the business of the company at six different places outside India, therefore the company is resident not only in Bombay but at all these six different places. 4. ….It is perfectly true that these two managers do all the business of the company in Ceylon and in doing that business naturally a F large amount of discretion is given to them and a considerable amount of authority. But the mere doing of business does not constitute these managers the controlling and directing power. Their power-of-attorney can be cancelled at any moment, they must carry out any s given to them from Bombay, they must submit to Bombay an explanation of what they have been doing, and G throughout the time that they are working in Ceylon a vigilant eye is kept over their work from the directors’ board room in Bombay. The correspondence which has also been relied upon between the company here and its office in Colombo also goes to show and emphasises the same state of affairs. Mr. Kolah is right again H when he puts emphasis upon the fact that what we have to consider MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 489 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] in this case is not the power or the capacity to manage and control, A but the actual control and management, or, in other words, not the dejure control and management but thede facto control and management, and in to hold that the company is resident during the years of account it must be established that the company de facto controlled and managed its affairs in Bombay.