Reserve Bank of India has to go by the meaning given to this term in the said Act only. Therefore, it was concluded that the Reserve Bank of India, by virtue of its power under Section 22 cannot grant a licence to any co-operative society unless it is a state co-operative bank or a central co-operative bank or a primary co-operative bank. For that it would be necessary that a declaration under the NABARD Act, 1981 be fi rst obtained. While considering the defi nition of co-operative society and state co-operative bank under Section 2(f) and Section 2(u) respectively of the NABARD Act, 1981, it was observed that under the NABARD Act, 1981, co-operative society is a society which is registered or deemed to be registered under the Co-operative Societies Act, 1912 or any other law relating to co-operative societies for the time being in force in any State. In the context of the appellant therein, it was observed that the said entity had not registered under the Co-operative Societies Act, 1912. The question thus was, whether, the appellant therein was a society registered under any other law relating to co-operative societies for the time being in force in any State which would include all laws relating to co-operative societies which are in force in any State. While interpreting Section 2(f) of the NABARD Act, 1981 which defi nes co-operative society, this Court held that it is only co-operative societies registered under local or State laws relating to co- operative societies which would be covered under the said defi nition. If it is a state co-operative bank, then there would be a declaration only by the State Government. If a declaration is by the State Government, it must be in respect of a society which is registered in that State and which can be regulated by the Registrar of Co-operative Societies of that State. It was concluded that the words “in any State” in Section 2(f) of NABARD Act, 1981 would mean that the co-operative society must be registered under the law in force in any State in which it wants to operate. It was also observed that use of words “Co-operative Societies Act, 1912” in the NABARD Act, 1981 also indicates that the defi nition is restricted to societies registered under the law relating to co-operative societies in the State in which they want to operate. Thus, the term “any other law relating to co-operative KSCARDB v. THE ASSESSING OFFICER, TRIVANDRUM 351 AND ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] societies for the time being in force in any State” necessarily means only a State law. Further, under the NABARD Act, 1981, a state co-operative bank has to be the principal co-operative society in the State, the primary object of which must be fi nancing other co-operative societies in that State. The proviso to Section 2(u) of NABARD Act, 1981 enables the State to declare, in addition to an existing principal society in the State or where there is no principal society in the State, any one or more co-operative banks as State co-operative banks.