In the present case, we are concerned with the levy of service taxon DF collected by the respondents from the passengers. D Also in that decision, this court was not concerned with levy or otherwise of service tax on DF. It was argued that DF has not been collected as tax orcess and therefore, the contention that DF is a tax on which there cannot be any service tax is incorrect. The nature of DF is that these are the charges collected by the respondents for development of facilities for the use ofthe airport. In fact, the assesses’ contention was these are E the charges for the use of the airport services by the passengers and is not a tax. 16. Learned counsel relied on the reported as Krishi Upaj Mandi Samiti v Commissioner of Central Excise6 and urged that the nature of UDF is similar to the optional collection made by F market committees who perform services, which are not in the nature of a statutory activity or a sovereign function, and if such services are rendered for a consideration, they are subjected to levy. 17. Mr. Arvind Datar, Mr. Tarun Gulati and Mr. Pritesh Kapoor, learned senior counsel appearing for the assessees, contended that the G decision in Consumer Online (supra) has concluded the nature of collections; it is a tax, unrelated to any service provided, and has to be borne in mind that there is no consideration. Learned counsel relied on the following observation in Consumer Online Foundation: H 6 2022 (1) SCR 700 CENTRAL GST DELHI - III v. DELHI INTERNATIONAL 333 AIRPORT LTD [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “the object 8 of Parliament in inserting Section 22A in the A 2004 Act by the Amendment Act of 2003 is to authorize by law the levy and collection of development fees from every embarking passenger de hors the facilities that the embarking passengers get at the existing airports. The nature of the levy under Section 22A of the 2004 Act, in our considered opinion, B is not charges C or any other consideration for services for the facilities provided by the Airports Authority.” 18. It was argued by learned counsel that the taxable activity did not occur in this case, as the collections were intended for future developments whereas the ‘airport’ referred to in Section 65(105)(zzm) C is an existing airport. Counsel urged that such statutory levies were in the nature of cess or tax and were not liable to taxation. Counsel emphasized that the ruling of the Kerala High Court in Cochin International Airport Limited vs. Collector Central Excise7 has held that UDF is collected to fulfil the funding gap for development of airports, and cannot be termed as service. This ruling was upheld by this court8 . D In these circumstances, there is no merit in the revenue’s submission that development fee is collected for rendering services. 19. Learned counsel relied on the impugned s to say that to be liable to tax, service should be rendered to a person by a specifically described service provider in an airport.