While dealing with appeals preferred by accused nos.1,5 and 13, in paragraph 5, this Court held thus: “On a careful consideration of the evidence adduced by PWs-25 and 26, we are left with serious doubt as to whether the evidence of the said two witnesses should inspire the confi dence of the Court. Identifi cation of a total of 13 accused, who were sent out for trial including present accused-appellants, in a mob of 1000- 1500 people is by no means an easy task. Over and above that no Test Identifi cation Parade was held so far as accused Nos.1 and 5 are concerned. The prosecution has not off ered any explanation as to why no Test Identifi cation Parade was held in respect of A-1 and A-5 whereas a Test Identifi cation Parade was held in respect of A-13.” (emphasis added) 12. This Court was of the view that evidence of PW-25 and PW-26 does not inspire confi dence. This Court did not partially reject the testimony of PW-25 and PW-26 but rejected their testimony in its entirety. 13. As Section 149 of IPC was applied, this Court dealt with the theory of the prosecution based on the fact that accused nos.1,5 and 13 were present in the mob. This Court relied upon what is held in paragraph 5 of its decision 230 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. in the case of Musa Khan & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra2. Paragraph 5 of the said decision reads thus: “5. The appellants pleaded innocence and averred that they had been falsely implicated due to enmity and had not participated in the riot. Both the courts below have accepted the main facts leading to the occurrence as also participation of the appellants in the rioting. The Additional Sessions Judge as also the High Court, however, do not appear to have made a correct approach in examining the individual cases of the accused, particularly with reference to their actual presence or participation in the incident in question. It is true that having regard to the background against which the events took place all the incidents starting from the National Hotel and ending with the chawl of Jogendra Singh were parts of the same transaction, nevertheless they were separate incidents in which diff erent members of the mob had participated. In these circumstances, therefore, without there being any direct evidence about the actual participation of the appellants in all the incidents it could not be inferred as a matter of law that once the appellants were members of the mob at the National Hotel, they must be deemed to have participated in all the other incidents at the Engineering College Hostel, Bharat Lodge and the chawl of Jogendra Singh. It is well settled that a mere innocent presence in an assembly of persons, as for example a bystander, does not make the accused a member of an unlawful assembly, unless it is shown by direct or circumstantial evidence that the accused shared the common object of the assembly.