No justifi cation for this action was off ered by the respondents at the time of hearing of the matter. 47. Still further, the authorities realised that the post on which respondent No. 4 was working was not that of a Medical Offi cer with which his pay scale was equated and he was granted NPA. The dated 26.07.2017 vide which higher pay scale and NPA was granted to the respondent No. 4, was withdrawn to the extent of grant of NPA. The said was challenged by the respondent No. 4 by fi ling an Original Application before the Tribunal. The same was dismissed by the Tribunal on 31.7.2019. The stand taken therein by the offi cial respondents was that the respondent No. 4 was working on the post of Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) in CSTT, where his duties could not be equated with the doctors working in the Ministry of Health and Ministry of AYUSH. As they are barred from private practice, they were granted NPA. The writ petition challenging the aforesaid of the Tribunal was dismissed as withdrawn with liberty to move a representation before the competent authority. The matter remains here as none of the counsel pointed out any subsequent development. 48. Apparently, the authorities favouring the respondent No. 4 and the respondent No. 4 together were not able to achieve the objective of granting a higher status and pay scale to him. By every action, the respondent No. 4 generated litigation and planned new devices to steal a march over other similarly situated as him. 49. At the time of recruitment of the appellants as well as the respondent No. 4, they were governed by the 1980 Rules. The post was designated as that of a Research Assistant. It provided for diff erent subjects including Medicine. Vide dated 20.07.2000, the Government re-designated the post of Research Assistant to that of Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer. As is evident DR. P.N. SHUKLA AND OTHERS v. UNION OF INDIA AND 913 OTHERS [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] from the notifi cation dated 19.11.1993, the mode of recruitment provided for the post was 75% by way of direct recruitment/transfer and 25% by way of transfer on deputation. There was no other post. 50. Vide dated 26.08.2013, issued by the Government of India, Ministry of Human Resources Development, the post of Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) was re-designated as Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine). Needless to add that the post of Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) was still governed by the 1980 Rules, where no designation of Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) was available. No other set of Rules were referred to as on the date of issuance of the aforesaid , by which the new post would be governed. 51. The intention of the authorities who went out and out to favour the respondent No. 4 so as to grant him higher pay scale, was now sought to be achieved by notifying a separate set of Rules for him.