A the scope of central. It was specifically held that the circulars would bind the Revenue even if they were not found to be in accordance with the correct interpretation of the provision. It is apart from all these that, no doubt, this Court went on to hold as follows: - “These two circulars of the Central Board of Direct Taxes are, B as we shall presently point out, binding on the Tax Department in administering or executing the provision enacted in sub-section (2), but quite apart from their binding character, they are clearly in the nature of contemporanea expositio furnishing legitimate aid in the construction of sub-section (2). The rule of construction by reference to contemporanea expositio is a well-established C rule for interpreting a statute by reference to the exposition it has received from contemporary authority, though it must give way where the language of the statute is plain and unambiguous. This rule has been succinctly and felicitously expressed in Crawford on Statutory Construction, (1940 Edn.) where it is stated in para 219 that”administrative construction (i.e. contemporaneous D construction placed by administrative or executive officers charged with executing a statute) generally should be clearly wrong before it is overturned; such a construction, commonly referred to as practical construction, although non-controlling, is nevertheless entitled to considerable weight; it is highly persuasive”. E The validity of this rule was also recognised in Baleshwar Bagarti v. Bhagirathi Dass [ILR 35 Cal. 701] where Mookerjee, J., stated the rule in these terms: “It is a well-settled principle of interpretation that courts in construing a statute will give much weight to the interpretation F put upon it, at the time of its enactment and since, by those whose duty it has been to construe, execute and apply it.” and this statement of the rule was quoted with approval by this Court in Deshbandhu Gupta & Co. v. Delhi Stock Exchange Association Ltd. [(1979) 4 SCC 565] It is clear from these two G circulars that the Central Board of Direct Taxes, which is the highest authority entrusted with the execution of the provisions of the Act, understood sub-section (2) as limited to cases where the consideration for the transfer has been understated by the assessee and this must be regarded as a strong circumstance supporting H the construction which we are placing on that sub-section.” K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 283 ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 59. The principle is inapposite in the facts. That the authorities A have proceeded on a particular basis, may as well betray their erroneous understanding. That such views do not clinch the issue relating to the construction of the law is elementary. We would think that in the facts of this case and on a construction of the statute or the law in question,viz., the 2011 notification, the understanding of the authorities if that be the B basis of the contention, cannot overwhelm our understanding of the notification. We again reiterate that the words ‘within’ and ‘in’ cannot include what is outside the port.