11. Let us again examine sub-section (1) of Section 30 under which the tenant can deposit rent in the Court. The above provisions have already been referred above, but we would like to emphasize the D last few lines of the provision which says: ‘…until the landlord in the meantime signifies by notice in writing to the tenant his willingness to accept it’ In other words, the tenant can only deposit rent in the Court, as long as the landlord has refused to accept the rent. Once the landlord E expresses his willingness to accept the rent, which in the present case he does by serving the notice dated 05.04.1995 (received on 10.04.1995), the tenant has no option but to deposit the rent to the landlord. This has not been done by the appellant. 12. The Full Bench decision of which reference has been given F by the Allahabad High Court in its impugned judgement dated 17.02.2012 is Gokaran Singh v. Ist Additional District and Sessions Judge, Hardoi and Ors.1 There were three questions before the Full Bench, all of them were relating to the Act No.13 of 1972. One of the questions with which we are presently concerned was: G “In a case where the landlord had earlier been refusing to accept rent at the correct rate and had been claiming rent at higher rate and the tenant had as a consequence of landlords earlier refusal in the past, deposited the rent in Court under 1 2000 SCC OnLine All 174 H 308 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Section 30 and thereafter, landlord serves a formal notice of demand again at a higher rate, whether the tenant without tendering rent at the correct rate to the landlord has a right straight away to deposit the same under Section 30 (1).” After discussing the entire law on the subject, the conclusion B derived by the Full Bench to this question is as follows: 37. (2) If the landlord has been refusing to accept the rent at the correct rate and has been claiming rent at higher rate, the tenant as a consequence of landlord’s earlier refusal in the past, deposited the rent in the Court under Section 30 C and if thereafter landlord serves formal notice to of demand against the higher rate and expresses his willingness to accept the rent, the tenant after receipt of notice is under an obligation to tender the rent at least at the rate admitted to him to the landlord and has got no right to straight away deposit the same under Section 30(1) of the Act.” D 13. The learned counsel for the appellant Sh.U.K.Uniyal, would rely on a later decision of this Court which is Ajai Agarwal and Ors. v. Har Govind Prasad Singhal and Ors.2. We are afraid that the facts of the said case were entirely different. In the case cited above, the tenant was given the benefit of sub-section (4) of Section 20 of the Act, E as he had deposited the “admitted rent” before the first date of hearing.