The subsequent of 23.02.2022 had observed that the terms of the final judgement of this court, especially para 58 disclosed that benefits were not confined and relief not granted only to the parties to the litigation but that the directions E had the effect of in rem adjudication. The court therefore directed the respondent contemnors to verify from the record with respect to entitlement of all petitioners. The contempt petitioners in their response urged that there are express directions of this court to release salaries of the contempt petitioners without insisting on verifying genuineness of their claims of being teaching/non-teaching staff or having requisite F qualifications as required by law. It is also pointed out that this Court was conscious that several appointments had been made which were either irregular or unsustainable having regard to the norms applicable. In this regard the respondent/alleged contemnors relied upon the dated 07.05.2018 to submit that in that , the court had unequivocally G recorded that no equity would be created on the arrangements made in the stop gap arrangement which would be subject to the final s in the civil appeals. 5. The respondents also argued that the judgement of this court – i.e. in the directions contained in paragraph 58 - nowhere contained an H 302 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A express direction to release salary in favour of anyone including the contempt petitioners without insisting upon verification of their claims of their being teaching/non- teaching staff or their having requisite qualification as prescribed by law. It is further submitted that even if the petitioners rely upon earlier interim s, those were only for release of salary subject to eligibility and verification as per law. The respondents B have relied upon the judgement of this court in Sudhir Vasudeva v. M. George Ravishekaran2 , to submit that the court exercising contempt jurisdiction cannot traverse beyond the four corners of the judgement or alleged to have been flouted or examine questions which have not been dealt with or decided in the judgement of which violation is alleged. C It is argued that all that this court did in the final judgement was to hold appointments of individuals made during the pendency of the appeals and the High Court judgement valid. The context of the judgement was the applicability of provisions of the Act. However, that did not mean that other statutory conditions such as qualifications, recognition or D otherwise of the madrasa concerned; its eligibility for grant-in-aid; the qualifications held by the candidate at the time of appointment; existence of vacancies and the manner in which the selection took place, etc. could not be considered. The alleged contemnors relied upon the recruitment rules in this regard which prescribed the manner of recruitment such as publication of employment notification; the roster of E vacancies; staffing pattern; whether the institution is eligible and admitted to aid or not. 6. As noted earlier, the judgement of the High Court in the appeal had declared unconstitutional certain provisions of the Act.