The necessary consequence of the provision is that it is an integral part of the territory of India. Likewise, IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 191 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] sub-clause (c) of clause (1) indicates that Article 370 shall apply in relation to the State. 314. In terms of sub-clause (d) of clause (1), such of the “other provisions” of the Constitution would apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir subject to such exceptions and modifi cations as the President may by specify. Sub-clause (d) was followed by two provisos: the fi rst proviso stipulated that a Presidential which related to matters specifi ed in the IoA referred to in “paragraph (i) of sub-clause (b)” shall be issued only with the consultation with the Government of the State”; and the second proviso stipulated that a Presidential relating to matters other than those specifi ed in the fi rst proviso would be issued only with the concurrence of the State Government. Consultation with the State Government under the fi rst proviso and its concurrence under the second proviso was mandatory. This is evident from the fact that both the provisos used the expression “No such … shall be issued except …” in consultation or, as the case may be, with the concurrence of the State Government. Sub-clause (d), in other words, empowered the President to issue an in terms of which other provisions (other than Articles 1 and 370) of the Constitution shall apply to Jammu and Kashmir. However, such other provisions would be subject to modifi cations and exceptions. Where the provisions corresponded to matters specifi ed in the IoA as falling within the domain of the Dominion Legislature, consultation was envisaged while in respect of other matters concurrence of the State Government was made mandatory. 315. Clause (2) of Article 370 envisaged that where the Government of the State of Jammu and Kashmir had given its concurrence under sub-clause (b)(ii) of clause (1) or under the second proviso to sub-clause (d) “before the Constituent Assembly for the purpose of framing the Constitution of the State is convened”, it shall be placed before the Constituent Assembly “for such decision as it may take thereon”. Clause (2), in other words, recognized that the Constituent Assembly was being convened for framing the Constitution for the State of Jammu and Kashmir. If the State Government as defi ned in the Explanation had concurred either with (a) the proposal of the Union to specify matters in the Union or Concurrent Lists other than those recognized by the IoA as matters over which Parliament could make laws; or (b) the application of the provisions of the Constitution to the State with modifi cations and 192 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. exceptions other than those relatable to the IoA referred to in sub-clause (b)(i), it had to be placed before the Constituent Assembly for its decision. Evidently, therefore, the concurrence of the State Government on matters falling within the ambit of sub-clause (b)(ii) or the second proviso to sub-clause (d) was not fi nal but would be governed by the decision of the Constituent Assembly.