v. Threshold standard 122. In Cox and Kings (supra), Justice Surya Kant observed that Reckitt Benckiser (supra) fi xed a higher threshold of evidence for the application of the group of companies doctrine as compared to earlier decisions of this Court. This Court’s approach is Reckitt Benckiser (supra) is indicative of the fact that the mere presence of a group of companies is not the sole or determinative factor to bind a non-signatory to an arbitration agreement. Rather, the courts or tribunals should closely evaluate the overall conduct and involvement of the non-signatory party in the performance of the contract. The nature or standard of involvement of the non-signatory in the performance of the contract should be such that the non-signatory has actively assumed obligations or performance upon itself under the contract. In other words, the test is to determine whether the non-signatory has a positive, direct, and substantial involvement in the negotiation, performance, or termination of the contract. Mere incidental involvement in the negotiation or performance of the contract is not suffi cient to infer the consent of the non-signatory to be bound by the underlying contract or its arbitration COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 697 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] agreement. The burden is on the party seeking joinder of the non-signatory to the arbitration agreement to prove a conscious and deliberate conduct of involvement of the non-signatory based on objective evidence. 123. An arbitration agreement is a distinct and separate agreement from the substantive commercial contract which contains the arbitration agreement. An arbitration agreement is independent of the other terms of the contract, to the extent that nullifi cation of the contract will not lead to invalidation of the arbitration agreement.99 The concept of separability of the arbitration agreement from the underlying contract ensures that the intention of the parties to resolve the disputes through arbitration does not vanish merely because of a challenge to the legal validity of the underlying contract.100 To join a non-signatory to arbitration, the decisive question that has to be answered is whether a non-signatory consented to the arbitration agreement, as distinct from the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement.101 124. Stavros Brekoulakis argues that the application of legal theories such as group of companies doctrine rests on an assumption that an arbitration agreement requires “less consent” or “less evidence of consent” than the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement.102 Brekoulakis further notes that the assumption that implied consent of a non-signatory to the underlying contract is suffi cient to constitute consent to the arbitration agreement contained in such contract militates against the principle of separability of contracts.103 125. The non-signatory’s participation in the negotiation, performance, or termination of the contract can give rise to the implied consent of it being bound by the contract. Brekoulakis rightly points out an anomalous situation where the legal theories such as the group of companies doctrine treat consent as a functional legal construct without actually determining the main question – 99 Reliance Industries Ltd v. Union of India, (2014) 7 SCC 603 100 Enercon (India) Ltd v. Enercon Gmbh, (2014) 5 SCC 1 101 Gary Born (n 44) 1545.