Furthermore, an opportunity to cross-examine the said defendants were given to the respondent herein/the plaintiff. A direction was also given to the Trial Court thereunder to dispose of the case on merits in so far as ‘B’ schedule E property is concerned. It is aggrieved by the said and decree dated 29.10.2007 of the High Court that the respondent herein/the plaintiff filed a Civil Appeal No.5201 of 2009 arising out of SLP (C) No.1279 of 2008 before this Court and which came to be disposed of modifying the and decree of the High Court dated 29.10.2007 by directing F the Trial Court to record the evidence ‘as directed by the High Court’ and transmit the records to the First Appellate Court viz., the High Court and such other directions as mentioned hereinbefore. The impugned was passed thereafter by the High Court whereby the and decree of the Trial Court was confirmed. It is thus obvious that there are concurrent findings against the appellants and in favour of the G respondent herein. Normally, an in-depth consideration is not the rule in an appeal by Special Leave filed under Article 136 of the Constitution of India when the findings are concurrent, in the absence of exceptional circumstances. Nonetheless, taking into account the facts that the captioned appeal is of the year 2011 and an interim direction to the parties H to maintain the status quo was passed as early as on 25.02.2011, we are SHIVSHANKARA & ANR. v. H.P. VEDAVYASA CHAR 377 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] inclined to deal with the conclusions and also the contentions of the A parties appropriately. 14.We are not oblivious of the settled position that in dealing with prayers for amendment of the pleadings the Courts should avoid hyper technical approach. But at the same time, we should keep reminded of the position that the same cannot be granted on the mere request through B an application for amendment of the written statement, especially at the appellate stage, where, what is called in question is the and decree passed by the trial Court and, in other words, after the adverse decree and without a genuine, sustainable reason. In short, the circumstances attending to the particular case are to be taken into account C to consider whether such a prayer is allowable or not and no doubt, it is allowable only in rarest of rare circumstances. In the case on hand, prayer to amend the plaint was allowed by the Trial Court as per dated 01.09.1995. Accordingly, the amendment was carried out by the plaintiff. Indisputably, thereafter, during the span of one year or thereabouts more than eight opportunities were given to the defendants D therein to file additional written statement, if any. Indubitably, the materials on record would reveal that the opportunities were not availed and no additional written statement was filed. Thereafter, based on the pleadings, issues were framed. Obviously, the defendants did not adduce any evidence for the reasons best known to them. The suit came to be decreed E thereafter as mentioned earlier.