To avoid situations such as these, in cases where the matter has been heard on a particular day but the is pronounced on a later date, the NCLT must refrain from affi xing the date of hearing on the . Such an approach would be a violation of the NCLT Rules, which create a distinction between hearing and pronouncement and do not allow the NCLT to dispense with the requirement of pronouncement. 21. In view of the above, the period of limitation began to run on 30 May 2023. The 30-daylimitation period provided in Section 61(2) of the IBC concluded on 29 June 2023. Though the appeal was fi led beyond the period of thirty days, it was within the condonable period of fi fteen days. We are of the considered view that the appeal should be restored to the NCLAT for reconsidering whether the appellant has shown suffi cient cause for condoning the delay beyond thirty days. To facilitate this, the impugned of the NCLAT declining to condone the delay is set aside and the proceedings are restored to the fi le of the NCLAT. We are not inclined to stay the CIRP at this stage. However, the NCLAT is directed to dispose of the appeal at the earliest. 22. Before concluding, we must note that it was settled in Sanket Agarwal (supra) that the date of e-fi ling of the appeal and not fi ling of the physical copy of the appeal stops the limitation from running. One of us (D.Y. Chandrachud, J.) had occasion to observe that the requirement of e-fi ling followed by physical fi ling results in duplication of eff ort and is a disincentive for e-fi ling. The Court held that: “30. […] Moreover, it is utterly incomprehensible why NCLAT should insist on physical fi ling in addition to e-fi ling. This unnecessarily burdens litigants and the Bar and is a disincentive for e-fi ling. A lawyer or litigant who is compelled to fi le physical copies in addition to e-fi led documents will have no cogent reason to resort to e-fi ling. This duplication of eff ort is time consuming. It adds to expense. It 324 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. leaves behind a carbon footprint which is diffi cult to eff ace. The judicial process has traditionally been guzzling paper. This model is not environmentally sustainable. If some judges are uncomfortable with e-fi les, the answer is to provide training to them and not to continue with old and outmoded ways of working. The judiciary has to modernize and adapt to technology. The tribunals can be no exception. This can no longer be a matter of choice. The IBC is a signifi cant prong in economic reforms. It has radically reshaped the law relating to insolvency and bankruptcy. The manner in which the law is administered will have to keep pace with technology. Both the Union government in its rule making capacity and the administrative heads of tribunals must ensure a seamless transition to working in the electronic mode.” 23.