[2023] 14 S.C.R. 266 : 2023 INSC 991 CASE DETAILS ASHWINI KUMAR UPADHYAY v. UNION OF INDIA & ANR. (Writ Petition (C) No. 699 of 2016) NOVEMBER 09, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Writ petition in the nature of public interest sought expeditious disposal of criminal cases against elected members of the Parliament and Legislative Assemblies. Constitution of India – Art. 32 – Expeditious disposal of criminal cases against elected members of the Parliament and Legislative Assemblies – Directions issued: Held: (i) Learned Chief Justices of the High Courts shall register a suo-motu case with the title, “In Re: designated courts for MPs/MLAs” to monitor early disposal of criminal cases pending against the members of Parliament and Legislative Assemblies – The suo-motu case may be heard by the Special Bench presided by the Learned Chief Justice or a bench assigned by them; (ii) The Special Bench hearing the suo-motu case may list the matter at regular intervals as is felt necessary – The High Court may issue such s and/or directions as are necessary for expeditious and eff ective disposal of the subject cases – The Special Bench may consider calling upon the Advocate General or the Public Prosecutor to assist the Court; (iii) The High Court may require the Principal District and Sessions Judge to bear the responsibility of allocating the subject cases to such court or courts as is considered appropriate and eff ective – The High Court may call upon the Principal District and Sessions Judge to send reports at such intervals as it considers expedient; (iv) The designated courts shall give 266 ASHWINI KUMAR UPADHYAY v. UNION OF INDIA 267 priority: (1) fi rst to criminal cases against MP’s & MLA’s punishable with death or life imprisonment then to (2) cases punishable with imprisonment for 5 years or more, and then hear (3) other cases – The Trial Courts shall not adjourn the cases except for rare and compelling reasons; (v) The learned Chief Justices may list cases in which s of stay of trial have been passed before the Special Bench to ensure that appropriate s, including vacation of stay s are passed to ensure commencement and conclusion of trial; (vi) The Principal District and Sessions Judge shall ensure suffi cient infrastructure facility for the designated courts and also enable it to adopt such technology as is expedient for eff ective and effi cient functioning; (vii) The High Courts shall create an independent tab on their website providing district-wise information about the details of the year of fi ling, number of subject cases pending and stage of proceedings – We make it clear that while monitoring the subject cases, the Special Bench may pass such s or give such additional directions as are necessary for early disposal of the subject cases. [Para 20] LIST OF CITATIONS AND OTHER REFERENCES Public Interest Foundation v. Union of India (2015) 11 SCC 433; All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors., 2023 SCC OnLine SC 673 – referred to.