Therefore, in the case of the tribe claim of B Thakur, an affinity test has to be applied. The submission of the State is that the view taken in the case of Vijakumar3 is correct and necessary clarifications will have to be issued regarding findings rendered in the case of Anand4 in paragraph 22. 11. Shri Ravi K. Deshpande, the learned senior counsel appearing C in one of the connected matters urged that the Scrutiny Committee constituted under the 2000 Act is not a quasi-judicial authority. He submitted that in the case of Dayaram v. Sudhir Batham & Ors.9, this Court held that Scrutiny Committee is not a quasi-judicial authority but it is an administrative authority. He also urged that the decision in the case of Dayaram9 has been followed by this Court in the case of J. Chitra v. D District Collector & Chairman, State Level Vigilance Committee, Tamil Nadu & Ors.10 He submitted that the finding of the High Court that the affinity test is an integral part of an enquiry by the Scrutiny Committee has no legal basis at all. His submission is that Anand’s case4 has been correctly decided and to that extent, the impugned E in the case of Shilpa Vishnu Thakur2 will have to be modified. One of the interveners also relied upon the provisions of the SC Rules and submitted that though the same specifically empower the Vigilance Cell to conduct affinity tests, such a provision is absent in the ST Rules. OUR VIEW F 12. We have already made a reference in detail to the directions issued by this Court in the case of Kumari Madhuri Patil1. A co- ordinate Bench in the case of Dayaram9, in paragraph 35 of its decision, held that the directions issued by this Court in paragraph 13 of Kumari Madhuri Patil’s case1 were issued as there was no statute governing the field of verification of caste claims of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled G Tribes, Nomadic Tribes and Other Backward Classes. Therefore, it was held that the directions issued in the case of Kumari Madhuri Patil1 would apply only until appropriate legislation is enacted. Hence, after 9 (2012) 1 SCC 333 10 (2021) 9 SCC 811 H 1118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A the 2000 Act came into force, only the provisions of the said enactment will prevail. 13. Therefore, we will have to interpret the provisions of the 2000 Act. The 2000 Act came into force on 18th October 2001. As can be noticed from the title, the 2000 Act deals with the regulation of issuance B and verification of caste certificates in respect of persons belonging to Scheduled Tribes, De-notified tribes, Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes and Special Backward Category. Under the scheme of the 2000 Act, an application for the grant of caste certificates is to be made to the Competent Authority as defined under Section 2(b). The Competent Authority is mandated to follow the procedure prescribed by the Rules. C After following the procedure prescribed, if the Competent Authority is satisfied that the claim made by the candidate is genuine, it can issue a caste certificate in a prescribed form.