It is submitted that the said illegal action of the Government of Orissa gives rise to sufficient cause for espousal of public interest. It is submitted that the action of the State in allotting such a huge tracts of land admeasuring 6000 acres and that too in the prime D location, which was nothing but a clear case of favourism and arbitrariness, which has been rightly set aside by the High Court. 5.2 It is submitted that the land acquisition proceedings including the notifications under Sections 4(1) and 6 and the awards passed in the land acquisition proceedings for acquisition of land in favour of the E beneficiary company have rightly been quashed by the Hon’ble High Court by the impugned and , which does not require any interference of this Court in exercise of the powers under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. 5.3 It is submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of F the original writ petitioners – original landowners / land losers that in the present case the land was identified by the appellant company, and not by the Government as is evident from the chronology of dates and events and the Note Sheet of the Principal Secretary of the Chief Minister. It is submitted that the Note sheet clearly shows, inter alia, that the appellant company asked the Government of Orissa to specifically make available G for it 15,000 acres of contiguous land around Nuanai, Puri district in Bhubaneshwar-Puri-Konark by 15.06.2006. 5.4 It is submitted that even the relevant clauses in the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) dated 19.07.2006 also show that the land was identified by the Company and not by the Government. It is H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 989 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] submitted that as per the MoU dated 19.07.2006, it was Vedanta A Foundation that proposed to set up the university along with a self- contained township near Puri in Orissa with an estimated cost of Rs. 15,000 crores. It is submitted that in the said MoU also there was a refence to the proposed location. It is submitted that the Government of Orissa just confirmed the availability of the contiguous land of about B 8000 acres. [Clause 5 of the MoU] 5.5 It is submitted that even, the Section 41 agreement executed between the Government of Orissa and the Anil Aggarwal Foundation also shows that the land was identified by the company and not by the Government as the said agreement says that the Company intended to C establish Vedanta University near Puri and had applied to the Government of Orissa for the acquisition of the land described in the schedule thereunder, written and delineated on the map annexed therein whereon the company intended to establish Vedanta University. 5.6 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on D behalf of the original writ petitioners – original landowners / land losers that the Government of Orissa, despite knowing fully well that the Vedanta Foundation had no prior track record in the field of education, included several clauses in the MoU dated 19.07.2006, providing undue largesse to Vedanta like total autonomy to Vedanta University and its authorities with regard to administration, admission, fee structure, curriculum and E faculty selection; proposed university to have complete immunity from any reservation laws of the State Government, all assistance in getting regulatory approvals from UGC, AICTE etc.