[2023] 3 S.C.R. 587 587 SEEMANT KUMAR SINGH A v. MAHESH PS & ORS. (Criminal Appeal No. 872 of 2023) MARCH 21, 2023 B [KRISHNA MURARI AND AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, JJ.] Bail – Adverse remarks – Expunction of – During the pendency of bail proceedings of respondent no.1, the High Court C made adverse remarks against the appellants, who had no lis in the proceedings – Further, the High Court issued direction for seeking reports against appellant no.2 during the bail proceedings – On appeal, held – Remarks made by High Court against appellant no.2 are unreasonable and without justification as appellant no.2 has no personal involvement in the case – No evidence against appellant D no.2 has been analysed and no opportunity has been given to him to explain himself – Also, appellant no.3 is not a party to the bail proceedings, it was unreasonable to pass adverse remarks – Further, the direction issued by the high Court to seek reports against the appellant no.2 during bail proceedings of respondent no .1 is liable E to be set aside as no opportunity of hearing was given to appellant no .2 and the High Court must have confined itself to the issues relevant to it for the purposes of deciding the bail of respondent no.1 – Adverse remarks passed by the High Court against the appellants expunged and of High Court quashed. F Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD:1. As far as the Appellant No.2 is concerned, the remarks made by the High Court against him seem to be unreasonable and without justification. The Appellant No.2 is merely a government employee of the department that is G conducting the investigation and has no personal involvement with the case. The Appellant No. 2 is not an accused and has nothing to do with the transaction of the crime, let alone the bail proceedings. No evidence against him has been analyzed by the court and no opportunity has been given to him to explain himself, however, scathing and egregious remarks have still been passed H 587 588 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A against him. In such a scenario, this Court finds that the remarks passed by the High Court to be unfair and not in the interest of justice. [Para 18][594-A-B] 2. In so far as the Appellant No. 3 is concerned, even though he is an accused in the alleged crime, however, what must not be B forgotten is the fact that he does not have any lis in the bail proceedings, as the same was exclusive to Respondent No.1. In such a scenario, where Appellant No.3 was not party to the ongoing bail proceedings, this Court finds it to be extremely unreasonable for the High Court to pass such adverse remarks against him. When no allegations were made against Appellant C No.3, and the presumption of innocence is still functional in the favor of the Appellant No.3, this Court finds it to be a gross abuse of the process of law to pass such adverse remarks against him, as such remarks do not just cause injury to his reputation, but also has the potential to cause great prejudice to his actual trial.