9.4 The learned Attorney General contended that the word “any” appearing before the words “series of bank notes” in sub- section (2) of Section 26 of the Act should be construed to F mean “all”. He submitted that the argument of the petitioners that the word “any” would not mean “all” is flawed and if the same is accepted, it would permit the Government to issue separate notifications for each series, however, the Government would be prohibited from issuing a common notification for all series. G 9.5 The learned Attorney General submitted that the word “any” has been used in two places in sub-section 2 of Section 26 of the Act and the word “any” preceding the word “series of bank notes” has to be construed to mean “all” whereas H 164 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A the word “any” preceding the word “denomination” may be construed to be a singular or otherwise. The learned Attorney General placed reliance on Maharaj Singh vs. State of Uttar Pradesh (1977) 1 SCC 155 to contend that the same word used in the same provision twice could be permitted to have a different meaning in each of such B usages. 9.6 The learned Attorney General contended that the submission made by the petitioners that the powers under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act have not been exercised in the manner provided therein and that the decision-making C process was flawed on account of patent arbitrariness, is not tenable. He submitted that sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act postulates that the Central Government may take a decision to carry out demonetisation pursuant to the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank and in D the present case, there was a recommendation made by the Central Board to the Central Government, recommending demonetisation. Thus, after considering the proposal of the Central Board, the Central Government took the decision to carry out demonetisation. Thus, the procedure as envisaged in sub-section (2) of Section 26 of E the Act was duly complied with. 9.7 The learned Attorney General placed reliance on Bajaj Hindustan Limited vs. Sir Lal Enterprises Limited (2011) 1 SCC 640 wherein it was observed that economic and fiscal regulatory measures are fields on which Judges F should encroach upon very warily as Judges are not experts in these matters. The learned Attorney General submitted that the Bank is an expert body charged with the duty of conceiving and implementing various facets of economic and monetary policy and that there cannot be a straitjacket G formula guiding the discharge of its duties. That therefore, it must be allowed to carry out its functions as it deems fit. The learned Attorney General further placed reliance on Rajbir Singh Dalal (Dr.) vs. Chaudhari Devi Lal University, Sirsa (2008) 9 SCC 284 and Secretary and Curator, Victoria Memorial Hall vs. Howrah H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 165 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Ganatantrik Nagrik Samity (2010) 3 SCC 640 to contend A that it is settled law that the courts should not interfere with the opinion of experts.