30 SUPREME COU[2R0T2 3R] E2P SO.CR.TRS. 30 [2023] 2 S.C.R. A CAPTAIN PRAMOD KUMAR BAJAJ v. UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER (Civil Appeal No. 6161 of 2022) B MARCH 03, 2023 [A. S. BOPANNA AND HIMA KOHLI, JJ.] Service Law: Compulsory retirement – Quashing of, when – Appellant selected and empanelled for appointment as a Member of ITAT by the Selection Committee – However, his appointment did C not mature – Respondent withheld his appointment on various counts, however, tribunal and all superior courts directed the respondents forward the name of the appellant to the appropriate Authority for selection/appointment to the post of Member, ITAT – Respondents did not comply with the s and in the meantime initiated D disciplinary proceedings against the appellant which never reached to its logical conclusion – Instead, the appellant was compulsorily retired three months short of the date of his superannuation – Challenged to, however both the tribunal and the High Court dismissed the same – On appeal, held: Service record of the appellant is impeccable – Complaints made against him are either closed or E has been settled, and this was well within the knowledge of the respondents – Nothing placed on record to show a sudden decline in the work conduct of the appellant so as to have compulsory retire him – It is not shown what transpired the respondents to resort to FR 56(j) and invoke public interest doctrine to compulsorily retire F him with just three months left for his service – of retirement is punitive in nature and was passed to short circuit the disciplinary proceedings – It failed to satisfy the underlying test of serving the interest of the public – Thus, the of compulsory set aside – Fundamental Rules – r.56(j). G Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 As per the material placed on record, the APARs of the appellant reflect that over the past several years, his integrity was being regularly assessed as “Beyond doubt” and this remained the position till as late as 31st July, 2019, when H his work performance was assessed for the period from 1st April, 30 CAPTAIN PRAMOD KUMAR BAJAJ v. UNION OF INDIA 31 AND ANOTHER 2018 to 31st March, 2019 and found to be upto the mark. In his A APARs for the past one decade, till the period just prior to the of his premature retirement, the respondents were consistently grading the appellant as “Outstanding”. No adverse entries were made by his superiors in the APARs of the appellant insofar as his work performance was concerned. No aspersion B was cast either on his conduct or character during all this period. As per the service records, his efficiency and integrity remained unimpeachable throughout his career. The inference drawn from the above is that the appellant’s service record being impeccable could not have been a factor that went against him for the respondents to have compulsorily retired him. [Para 26][48-C- C E] 1.2 The respondents have referred to nine complaints against the appellant, stated to be pending in the Vigilance Directorate.