For proving undervaluation, if the Department relies on declaration made in the exporting country, it has to show how such declaration was procured. We may clarify that strict rules of evidence do not apply to adjudication proceedings. They apply strictly to the courts’ proceedings. However, even in adjudication proceedings, the AO has to examine the probative value of the documents on which reliance is placed by the Department in support of its allegation of undervaluation. Once the Department discharges the burden of proof to the above extent by producing evidence of contemporaneous imports at higher price, the onus shifts to the importer to establish that the invoice relied on by him is valid. Therefore, the charge of under invoicing has to be supported by evidence of prices of contemporaneous imports of like goods. 39.2. Reverting to Section 14(1) of the Customs Act, this court held that it is for the department to prove that the invoice price is incorrect. When there is no evidence of contemporaneous imports at a higher price, the invoice price is liable to be accepted. This is what this court has said: 208 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 13. Section 14(1) speaks of “deemed value”. Therefore, invoice price can be disputed. However, it is for the Department to prove that the invoice price is incorrect. When there is no evidence of contemporaneous imports at a higher price, the invoice price is liable to be accepted. The value in the export declaration may be relied upon for ascertainment of the assessable value under the Customs Valuation Rules and not for determining the price at which goods are ordinarily sold at the time and place of importation. This is where the conceptual diff erence between value and price comes into discussion. 40. Section 14 of the Customs Act and Rules 3 and 4 of the Customs Valuation Rules again came up for consideration before this court in Varsha Plastics Private Limited (supra). As regards Section 14(1) of the Customs Act, this court analysed the said provision in the following manner: 19. Section 14(1) of the Act prescribes a method for determination of the value of the goods. It is a deeming provision. By legal fi ction incorporated in this section, the value of the imported goods is the deemed price at which such or like goods are ordinarily sold or off ered for sale for delivery at the time and place of importation in the course of international trade. 20. The word “ordinarily” in Section 14(1) is a word of signifi cance. The ordinary meaning of the word “ordinarily” in Section 14(1) is “non-exceptional” or “usual”. It does not mean “universally”. In the context of Section 14(1) for the purpose of “valuation” of goods, however, by use of the word “ordinarily” the indication is that the ordinary value of the goods is what it would have been in the course of international trade at the time of import. Section 14(1), thus, provides that the value has to be assessed on the basis of price attached to such or like goods ordinarily sold or off ered for sale in the ordinary course of events in international trade at the time and place of transportation.