[2023] 9 S.C.R. 583 : 2023 INSC 559 583 SAKSHI ARHA A v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND OTHERS (Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 16428 of 2022) MAY 18, 2023 B [AJAY RASTOGI AND BELA M. TRIVEDI, JJ.] Judicial Service – Rajasthan Judicial Service Rules, 2010 – r. 10 – Selection for the post of Civil Judge – Submission of caste certificate – Certificate not accepted – Benefit of Reservation not C given – An advertisement issued by respondent dated 22.07.2021, selection process held for the post of Civil Judge – Appellants being members of Other backward Classes (Non-creamy layer), More Backward Class (NCL) and from the Economically weaker Section (EWS), applied for the post in their respective reserved category – Exam conducted – Appellants scored higher marks in their category, D however, their certificate relating to category was somewhere later to 31.08.2021 i.e last date of application form, the benefit of reservation not extended to appellant – Writ filed before the High Court was dismissed – Held: (Per Ajay Rastogi, J. ): In the given facts and circumstances, when the rules are silent and there is no such E instruction that the certificate of the category has to be produced of the period on or before the last date of the application under the advertisement and each of the applicants has produced the certificate relating to category on being demanded by the recruiting authority when the list came to be published of the candidates who were provisionally called for interview on 04.08.2022, each of the F applicants indisputedly has furnished their certificate of the category to which they belong at the time of advertisement and had participated in the process of selection – High Court had gone wrong and was influenced with the condition of eligibility to be looked into on the last date of application – Respondents directed to consider G candidature of each of the appellant for appointment with consequential benefits – Held (Per Bela M. Trivedi, J.) (Dissenting) : It is no more res integra that in absence of a fixed date indicated in the advertisement inviting applications, with reference to which the requisite eligibility is to be judged, and when the rules are silent, H 583 584 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the only certain date for the scrutiny of the eligibility of a candidate would be the last date for making the applications – Hence, this Court found no error having been committed by the High Court while passing the impugned s and s. Placing the matter before Hon'ble CJI for constitution of B appropriate Bench, the Court Per AJAY RASTOGI, J. HELD : 1. It is true that the general rule is that while participating in the recruitment process, the person must possess the eligibility qualification on the last date fixed for such purpose C unless there is any express provision to the contrary and there can be no relaxation in the matter of holding requisite eligibility qualification by the date fixed and this has to be established by producing necessary certificate or degree, as the case may be.