The limited issue for the consideration of this Constitution Bench only relates to the “scope of legislative and executive B powers of the Centre and NCTD with respect to the term “Services.” That is to say, whether the NCTD or the Union government has legislative and executive control over “services.” We will now turn to the arguments made by counsel on opposing sides. B. Submissions C 8. Dr. AM Singhvi, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant, made the following submissions: a. The Legislative Assembly of NCTD has the power to enact laws under Entry 41 of List II of the Seventh Schedule. D The power cannot be excluded merely because the entry uses the term “state public services” and not “Union Territory public services”. Infact, the Delhi Legislative Assembly has enacted laws that fall within Entry 41; b. Even if it is found that the legislature of NCTD has not E exercised legislative power related to Entry 41 of List II, it does not imply that the power ceases to exist; c. NCTD has legislative power and executive power over all entries in List II other than entries 1,2, and 18 which have been expressly excluded by Article 239AA; F d. The phrase “insofar as such matter is applicable to Union Territories” in Article 239AA is inclusionary and not exclusionary. Multiple entries in List II and List III use the term “State.” The phrase “insofar as such matter is applicable to Union Territories” is a facilitative phrase which G permits such entries being made available to the Union Territory of NCTD without an amendment of the Lists in the Seventh Schedule. Without the facilitative phrase, NCTD would not have legislative competence over those entries in Lists II and III which use the term “State”; H 510 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A e. NCTD is sui generis. It cannot be brought within the common class of ‘Union Territories’; f. This Court in Union of India v. Prem Kumar Jain8 has recognised that the provisions of Part XIV of the Constitution extend to Union territories; B g. The report of the Balakrishnan Committee opined against the inclusion of “services” within the legislative and executive ambit of NCTD, does not have any relevance because: (i) It preceded the inclusion of Article 239AA, by which three entries from List II have been expressly C excluded from the legislative competence of NCTD; (ii) The conclusion that only States (and not Union territories) can have services is conceptually wrong; (iii) The of this Court in Prem Kumar Jain (supra) was not considered; and D (iv) The opinion of the majority in the 2018 Constitution Bench expressly notes that the report of the Balakrishnan Committee will not be used as an aid to interpret Article 239AA. E h. Personnel belonging to All-India Services and Central Government Services are governed by the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules 1954 and the All-India Services (Joint Cadre) Rules 1972 respectively. In terms of these rules, while it is the prerogative of the Joint Cadre Authority to make an officer available to GNCTD, the actual F posting of the officer within the departments of GNCTD is the prerogative of the latter.