The rule requiring corroboration is merely a rule of prudence [refer Paniben (Smt.) v. State of Gujarat, (1992) 2 SCC 474; HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 455 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] Munnu Raja and Anr. v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1976) 3 SCC 104; State of U.P. v. Ram Sagar Yadav, (1985) 1 SCC 552; Ramawati Devi v. State of Bihar, (1983) 1 SCC 211]. Moreover, if the person making the dying declaration survives, then such statement would not be admissible under Section 32 of the Evidence Act, rather such Statements may be admissible under Section 157 of the Evidence Act [refer Gajula Surya Prakasrao v. State of A.P., (2010) 1 SCC 88] 33. In light of the importance the dying declaration holds in a criminal trial, the dereliction of duty in recording the dying declaration and the doctor’s ignorance of medico-legal jurisprudence is apparent from the material placed before us. My attention has been drawn to various s, which have addressed the aspects of dereliction of duty by the doctors and importance of medico-legal aspect in medical jurisprudence [refer State of Gujarat v. Hasmukh @ Bhikha Gova Harijan, (1996) 1 Guj LR 292, Muniammal v. Supt. of Police, 2008 SCC OnLine Mad 1251 and Indrajit Khandekar v. Union of India and Ors., 2014 SCC OnLine Bom 4810]. It has to be remembered that every stakeholder in this criminal justice system is expected to act with a sense of fairness to bring out the truth so that punishment can be meted out to those who deserve. Although courts are provided with the duty to dispense justice, it cannot be denied that eff ective dispensation of justice by the courts in this country requires support of all the stakeholders. In light of the above, every stakeholder is expected to be aware of their responsibility and work towards achieving ends of the criminal justice system. 34. The last aspect is regarding the defective investigation and prosecution. If a negligent investigation or omissions or lapses, due to perfunctory investigation, are not eff ectively rectifi ed, the faith and confi dence of the people in the law enforcing agency would be shaken. Therefore the police have to demonstrate utmost diligence, seriousness and promptness. [refer Ram Bihari Yadav v. State of Bihar, (1998) 4 SCC 517]. 35. The basic requirement that a trial must be fair is crucial for any civilized criminal justice system. It is essential in a society which recognizes human rights and is based on values such as freedoms, the 456 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. rule of law, democracy and openness. The whole purpose of the trial is to convict the guilty and at the same time to protect the innocent. In this process courts should always be in search of the truth and should come to the conclusion, based on the facts and circumstances of each case, without defeating the very purpose of justice.” 95. In the case at hand, the deceased Rajendra Rai gave his statement in the form of Bayan Tahriri and narrated the entire incident and circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death.