[Paras 69 and 82] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Is a self-contained code – Provisions of other statutes cannot interfere with the working of the 108 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Arbitration Act, unless specifi ed otherwise. [Para 85 in of Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI] Arbitration – Arbitration agreement – Is the foundation of arbitration as it records the consent of the parties to submit their disputes to arbitration. [Para 88 in of Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI] Arbitration – Arbitration agreement – Separability of the arbitration agreement from the underlying contract in which it is contained. Held (per Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, B.R Gavai, Surya Kant, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): An arbitration agreement is juridically independent from the underlying contract in which it is contained – The concept of separability refl ects the presumptive intention of the parties to distinguish the underlying contract, which captures the substantive rights and obligations of the parties, from an arbitration agreement which provides a procedural framework to resolve the disputes arising out of the underlying contract – This presumption has various consequences in theory and practice, the most important being that an arbitration agreement survives the invalidity or termination of the underlying contract – The separability presumption gives eff ect to the doctrine of competence-competence. [Paras 90 and 112] Doctrines / Principles – Doctrine of competence-competence – Comparative analysis – Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 – s.16. Held (per Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, B.R Gavai, Surya Kant, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The doctrine of kompetenz-kompetenz (also known as competence competence), as originally developed in Germany, was traditionally understood to imply that arbitrators are empowered to make a fi nal ruling on their own jurisdiction, with no subsequent judicial review of the decision by any court – However, many jurisdictions allow an arbitral tribunal to render a decision on its jurisdiction, subject to substantive judicial review – The UK position is that although the arbitral tribunal is empowered to consider whether it has jurisdiction, its determination is subject to the IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1085 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 examination of the courts – The courts in the United States have considered the principle of competence-competence to be intertwined with the separability presumption – The Singapore High Court has given full eff ect to the doctrine of competence-competence since the arbitral tribunal gets the fi rst priority to determine issues even with respect to the very existence of the arbitration agreement, while the jurisdiction of the courts is limited to a prima facie determination – s.16 of the Arbitration Act recognizes the doctrine of competence-competence in Indian arbitration law. [Paras 115, 117, 118, 119, 120] Doctrines / Principles – Doctrine of competence-competence –Positive and negative aspects of the doctrine – Negative competence- competence – Discussed. Held (per Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, B.R Gavai, Surya Kant, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.