(ii) Whether cognizance of the chargesheet is necessary to prevent the accused from seeking default bail or whether mere filing of the H JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 11 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] chargesheet would suffice for the investigation to be deemed complete? A To put it in different words, whether the grant of sanction is contemplated under Section of the 167 CrPC? (iii) A Special Court may not be in a position to take cognizance on account of failure on the part of the prosecution to obtain sanction to prosecute the accused under the UAPA and the 1908 Act, but does B such failure amount to non-compliance with the provisions of Section 167(2) of the CrPC so as to entitle the accused to seek default bail? (iv) Whether filing of the chargesheet for the offences as enumerated above, in the Court of the Magistrate and the Magistrate thereafter, committing the case to the Court of Sessions or designated C Court would vitiate all subsequent proceedings on the ground that Section 16 of the National Investigation Agency Act, 2008 (for short, ‘the NIA Act’) empowers the Special Court to take cognizance of any offence without the accused being committed to it for trial upon receiving a police report? To put it in other words, whether the error on the part of the D investigating agency to file chargesheet for the offence enumerated above, in the Court of Magistrate and not in the Sessions or designated Court would by itself entitle the accused to seek default bail under the provisions of Section 167(2) of the CrPC? 4. For the purpose of answering the aforesaid issues, it is very E much essential to take notice of the following chronology of dates and events: (a) On 02.06.2019 at around 04:50 in the morning, a team of police officers was patrolling. The vehicles passing through the Harsh Cheena, Kukkarwal bus stop in Raja Sansi, District Amritsar, State of Punjab, were being checked. At that point of time two boys belonging to the Sikh F community were noticed to have been travelling on a motorcycle without a number plate. On being asked to stop, they fled away. In the process of running away, one blue coloured bag which was in the hands of the pillion rider fell down. A mobile phone and two hand grenades were recovered from the bag. In such circumstances, FIR No. 90 came to be G registered at the Police Station Raja Sansi, District Amritsar (Rural), Punjab, for the offences punishable under the 1908 Act. Thus, the FIR came to be registered on 02.06.2019. (b) On 05.06.2019, the Punjab Police added Sections 17, 18, 18B and 20 of the UAPA. H 12 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A (c) On 08.06.2019, accused Jasbir Singh and Varinder Singh came to be arrested by the Punjab Police. (d) On 27.07.2019, Sukhpreet Singh alias Budda (Accused No. 8) was arrayed as accused in the instant FIR and offence under Section 120B of the IPC was added.