Once an of compulsory retirement has been passed bona fide and without any extraneous motive, there is no justification for interference. 9 For short ‘APAR’ H 10 For short ‘ASG’ CAPTAIN PRAMOD KUMAR BAJAJ v. UNION OF INDIA 41 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] ANALYSIS AND CASE LAWS RELATING TO A COMPULORY RETIREMENT 12. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the parties, perused the records and the s cited by both sides. B 13. The provision of Fundamental Rule 56(j) reads as under: “FR 56(j) :- The Appropriate Authority shall, if it is of the opinion that it is in the public interest so to do, have the absolute right to retire any Government servant by giving him notice of not less than three months in writing or three C months’ pay and allowances in lieu of such notice :- (i) If he is, in Group ‘A’ or Group ‘B’ service or post in a substantive, quasi- permanent or temporary capacity and had entered Government service before attaining the age of 35 years, after he has attained the age of 50 years; D (ii) In any other case after he has attained the age of 55 years. 14. As is apparent from a perusal of the aforesaid provision, it takes in its fold two elements – the first one is the absolute right of the Government to retire an employee and the second is the requirement of E meeting the condition of public interest for doing so. The provision also provides for a prior notice of at least three months to the outgoing employee and mandates that the said provision can be invoked to retire a government servant only after he has attained the age of 55 years. 15. We are conscious of the fact that the scope of judicial review F in respect of an of compulsory retirement from the service, is fairly limited. The law relating to compulsory retirement has been the subject matter of discussion in a number of cases where certain settled legal principles have been laid down which are being elucidated hereinbelow. G 16. The object of compulsory retirement of a government servant was highlighted by this Court in Allahabad Bank Officers’ Association and Another vs. Allahabad Bank and Others11 in the following words:- 11 1996(4) SCC 504 H 42 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A “5. The power to compulsorily retire a government servant is one of the facets of the doctrine of pleasure incorporated in Article 310 of the Constitution. The object of compulsory retirement is to weed out the deed wood in to maintain efficiency and initiative in the service and also to dispense with the services of those whose integrity is doubtful so as B to preserve purity in the administration. Generally speaking, Service Rules provide for compulsory retirement of a government servant on his completing certain number of years of service or attaining the prescribed age. His service record is reviewed at that stage and a decision is taken whether he should be C compulsorily retired or continued further in service.