“ 9. The impugned seems to place much reliance on the duties, responsibilities and functions for the post of an Assistant Engineer (Electrical). In to ascertain as to whether a candidate holding the post would be disentitled or unfi t to perform such duties, functions or responsibilities, the determination requires to be made on the basis of some materials supported by the reports of medical experts. In the absence of such materials or medical report and merely relying upon the duties, functions and responsibilities for the post of Assistant Engineer (Electrical), would be illogical and baseless and hence, such reasoning rendering the petitioner ‘unfi t’, could be termed as ‘arbitrary’.” MOHAMED IBRAHIM v. THE CHAIRMAN & MANAGING 929 DIRECTOR & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 5. Aggrieved by the above single judge of the High Court, the employer- TANGEDCO, preferred writ appeal8 before the Division Bench of the High Court. The bench was of the opinion that employer had taken all relevant facts into consideration and having regard to the nature of the duties to be discharged in relation to the post i.e., AE by the appellant and observed: “7. All that TANGEDCO communicated to the petitioner was that the special committee constituted to look into the petitioner’s case had opined that the petitioner would not be fi t to discharge the duties involved in such post. There is always a presumption that a statutory body or an authority answering to that description under Article 12 of the Constitution would have acted in a reasonable manner and would have taken relevant considerations into account before passing an or arriving at a decision. While such presumption may be rebuttable, the writ petitioner does not indicate any manifest arbitrariness in the impugned decision of TANGEDCO for the Court to perceive the same to be grossly disproportionate to the condition that the writ petitioner suff ers from or the handicap that accompanies such condition.” 6. Aggrieved, the appellant approached this court under Article 136 and argued that the initial notifi cation9 for the post did not specify any qualifying criteria with regard to vision or colour blindness. Therefore, it was submitted that the absence of any specifi c qualifying criteria in the notifi cation, TANGEDCO’s action preventing the appellant from joining his duties is arbitrary and illegal. It was further argued that, following the High Court dated 11.03.201910, the appellant was examined by the RMB, Thanjavur and in its report, the expert opined that the appellant had defective colour vision; its report was not specifi c about whether the condition could aff ect his duties as there were no specifi ed visual norms for colour vision. In fact, the RMB also noted that the employer had not set out the required norms and it was hence not possible to opine whether the appellant could or 8 W.A. (MD) No.506 of 2021. 9 No. 1/2015 dated 28.12.2015 10 In W.P.(MD)No. 2255/2019. 930 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. could not perform his duties. The appellant relied upon the report of Aravind Eye Hospital and Post-Graduate Institute of Ophthalmology, Chennai which stated that he could identify red as orange colour and green and blue as lighter shades of those colures.