Thus, where one Entry is made “subject to” another Entry, it would D imply that, out of the scope of the former Entry, a field of legislation covered by the latter Entry has been reserved to be specifically dealt with by the appropriate legislature. [Para 25(i)][1016-B-E] 3.2 The IMC Act, 1956 is a legislation made by the E Parliament for the purpose of coordination and determination of standards in medical education throughout the Country. The said law, along with the Rules and Regulations made thereunder are for the purpose of determination of standards of medical education throughout India. Thus, determination of standards in medical education in India is as per the IMC Act, 1956 which is a Central F Law. This is in respect of modern medicine or allopathic medicine within the scope of Entry 66 of List I and not under Entry 25 of List III of the Seventh Schedule. Therefore, a State Legislature which passes a law in respect of allopathic medicine or modern medicine would be subject to the provisions of the IMC Act, G 1956 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder. This would imply that no State Legislature has the legislative competence to pass any law which would be contradictory to or would be in direct conflict with the IMC Act, 1956 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder. In other words, the standard in medical H 922 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A education insofar as modern medicine or allopathy is concerned, having been set by the IMC Act, 1956 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder or by any subsequent Act in that regard, such as the Medical Council of India Act, 2019, the State Legislature has no legislative competence to enact a law which is in conflict with the law setting the standards of medical B education in the context of modern medicine or allopathic medicine, which has been determined by Parliamentary Legislation as well as the Rules. In other words, a State Legislature has no legislative competence to enact a law in respect of modern medicine or allopathic medicine contrary to C the said standards that have been determined by the Central Law. Hence, in view of the Indian Medical Council Act,1956 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder, the Assam Act, namely, the Assam Rural Health Regulatory Authority Act, 2004, is declared to be null and void in view of the Assam Legislature not having the legislative competence to enact the said Law. [Para D 25(ii) & (iii)][1016-F-H; 1017-A-D; 1018-A] 3.3 The Assam Community Professionals (Registration and Competency) Act, 2015, enacted pursuant to the of the Gauhati High Court, is a valid piece of Legislation as it has removed the basis of the impugned passed by the E Gauhati High Court. The 2015 Act is also not in conflict with the IMC, Act, 1956. This is because the Central Act namely, IMC, Act, 1956 does not deal with Community Health Professionals who would practise as allopathic practitioners in the manner as they were permitted to practise under the Assam Act, in rural F areas of the State of Assam.