In our view, the legislature consciously immediately after the expression talcum powder, by employing the expression ‘including’ has thought it fit to include “medicated talcum powder” under Entry 127 of first schedule to the Act. In view of this inclusive definition, though the nycil powder E has all the qualities and ingredients of medicines and since the same is basically a talcum powder which has preventive and curative power, the same requires to be brought under the special entry rather than the general entry.” 5. The High Court further held that Entry 127 of the First Schedule F immediately after the expression talcum powder has used the word ‘including’. The word includes/including, “is used in interpretation clause to enlarge the meaning of the word in the statute. When such word is used in an interpretation clause, it must be construed as comprehending, not only such things as they signify according to G their natural import, but also those things which the interpretation clause declares that they shall include.”It was, therefore held that since Entry 127 is a specific entry in a fiscal statute, the general entry 6 2008 (9) SCR 496 H 7 2004 Supp(2)SCR 39 HEINZ INDIA LIMITED v. THE STATE OF KERALA 433 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (Entry 79) had to give way to the specific entry. The court observed A that: “though the Nycil Prickly Heat Powder is used for the care of the skin and not cure of the skin and though it contains a small quantity of Chlorphenesin, which has curative effect; in view of the specific entry, it has to be classified only under B Entry 127 of First Schedule to the KGST Act and not under Entry 79 of the Act which speaks of medicines and drugs. Heinz is aggrieved by these findings. II C 6. GSK appeals against the of the Madras High Court. They are in relation to two assessment years, i.e., 1993-94 and 1994-95. In both these cases, the assessing officer levied tax at the rate of 16 % under Entry 1(iii) of Part F of the First Schedule to the TNGST Act, rejecting the assessee’s(which was Heinz, initially) claim to levy tax at the rate of 5 % for the first sale of Nycil prickly heat powder on the D ground that it is a medicine or drug under Entry 20-A of Part C of the First Schedule to the TNGST. The Appellate Assistant Commissioner affirmed the view of the assessing officer.8 Heinz approached the Appellate Tribunal, which accepted its plea, and held that the product was a medicine or drug, and classifiable as such.9 The revenue’s appeal E to the Madras High Court succeeded. Heinz’s unit was during the interregnum, taken over by GSK. 7. The High Court, by its impugned , noted that the product is subject to license under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 [hereafter “Drugs Act”]. The court also noticed the Kerala and remarked F that the difference between the two enactments (KSGST Act and TNGST Act) is that in the latter, itis the explanation which clarifies that any of the items even if medicated or as defined in Section 3 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act will fall under the Entry I(iii) of Part ‘F’ of the First Schedule.