[K. M. JOSEPH, J.] exempt if it was exempt and it was not open to the first respondent to A pass on the burden without taking recourse to law. Thirdly, it is contended that the fact of the matter is that the position even before the cut off date was that goods in question were not exempt. (112) Since we are dealing with the notifications, we notice that the authority on Advance Ruling has gone into the history of the B notifications and dealt with the same though in the context of the right to exemption in a mega power plant but not for an ultra mega power project. But we are of the view that as far as the history of the notifications go, it would continue to be relevant: “7.1 The Entry corresponding to the present Entry was introduced C for the first time in 1999. As pointed out by the learned Sr. counsel for the applicant, the introduction of this Entry in the Customs notification seems to be a follow up to the policy decision taken by the Central Government as set out in the communication dated 10.11.1995 addressed by the Secretary, Ministry of Power, Government of India and the revised policy/guidelines relating to D Mega power projects issued in 1998. The policy formulated in 1995 was in relation to the “setting up of power plants of capacity of 1000 MW or more supplying power to more than one state”. In that policy document, it is stated that the “project of capacity of 1000 MW and more and catering power to more than one state E should be considered as a mega project. Projects which cater power to a single State, irrespective of size, would not come under this category”. In the policy which has been recast in 1998, it was decided that inter-state and inter-regional mega power projects were to be set up both in the public and private sectors. The re- organization of the public sector corporations was also envisaged F by the policy. The policy contemplates the beneficiary States constituting Regulatory Commissions with powers to fix tariff. Paragraph 5 of the guidelines is important. It says “the import of capital equipment would be free of custom duty for these projects”. In to ensure that domestic bidders were not adversely G affected, certain safeguards were spelt out.” 7.2 Entry/ Sl.No. 288A of Ch. 98.01 inserted by Notification No. 63/1999 substantially gives effect to the 1995 policy read with revised policy of 1998. The same concept of mega power project is to be found in that Entry. The Entry reads: H 70 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A B Condition No. 82 is as follows: - C 82. (a) If an officer not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Power certifies that- (i) the power purchasing state undertakes, in principle, to privatize distribution in all cities, in that State, each of which having a D population of more than one million within a period to be fixed by the Ministry of Power; and (ii) In the case of imports by a Central Public Sector Undertaking, the quantity, total value, description and specifications of the imported goods are certified by the Chairman and Managing Director of the said Central Public Sector Undertaking; and E (c) In the case of imports by a Private Sector Project, the quantity, total value, description and specifications of the imported goods are certified by the Chief Executive Officer of such project”.