The reasons given by the Union of India justifying withdrawal of the exemption notification, in our opinion, are not irrelevant to the exercise of the power in “public interest”, nor are the same shown to be insufficient to support the exercise of that power. [..]” F 13. Learned counsel further submitted that the power of the Central Government under Section 25(1) of the Act to grant or amend an exemption is not unrestricted and the government is duty bound to examine the issue in light of public interest. Reliance was placed on this court’s in Indian Express Newspapers (Supra) to contend G that the power to grant exemption from payment of the customs duty under section 25(1) of the Act is not a delegated power to tax but a power expressly conferred under the Act and thus principles of administrative law will be applicable. H 9 [(1994) Supp 4 SCR 448] UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. A. B. P. PVT. LTD. & ANR. 1121 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 14. Learned counsel for the assessee also placed reliance on Dai- A ichi Karkaria Limited v. Union of India & Ors., (hereafter, “Dai- ichi Karkaria”)10 and MRF Ltd. v. Commissioner of Sales Tax (hereafter, “MRF Ltd.”)11 to argue that in the present case, while amending the First Notification, the government failed to discharge its burden of establishing before the court as to what ‘public interest’ existed B that necessitated government to reduce the extent of exemption and how the withdrawal/amendment of the First Notification is in furtherance of “public interest”. In the present case, the Union failed to justify the “public interest” in confining the concessional rate of duty to rotary printing machines of double width four plate variety and not extending the same to rotary printing machines of the single width two plate variety C despite both the machines having minimum speed of 70,000 copies per hour. It was further argued that the machined imported by the Respondents was neither manufactured nor sold in India. Further, the argument of the Appellant that the Amended Notification was on account of representations received from several domestic manufacturers cannot D be accepted as the Imported Machine was purchased from a foreign country and the same was neither manufactured nor sold by any of the domestic manufacturers. 15. Learned counsel also placed reliance on Shrijee Sales Corporation v. Union of India12and Bannari Amman Sugars Ltd v. CTO13 to contend that the principle of promissory estoppel is applicable E against the government and though the government also has the right to resile from its promise but it must give a reasonable opportunity to the promisee to restore the status quo ante. In the present case, the assessees had paid advances to a French supplier through an irrevocable letter of credit prior to the enactment of the amended notification and F the issuance of the amended notification resulting in the imposition of enhanced custom duty has rendered it impossible for the assessees to revoke the letter of credit and restore the status quo.