A Provided further that no shall be revised after the expiry of a period of three years from the date of the supply of the copy of such to the assessee except where the is revised as a result of retrospective change in law or on the basis of a decision of the Tribunal in a similar case or on the basis of law declared by the High Court or the Supreme Court.” B (2) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, confer on any officer not below the rank of Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, the powers of the Commissioner under sub-section (1) to be exercised subject to such exceptions, conditions and restrictions as may be specified in the notification C and where an officer on whom such power have been conferred passes an under this section, such shall be deemed to have been passed by the Commissioner under sub-section (1).” 27. To the extent relevant for the present decision, suo motu power of revision could be exercised by the Revisional Authority for the purposes D of satisfying himself as to the legality or propriety of any made in any proceeding which is prejudicial to the interests of the State. The first proviso, however, imposed a restriction on exercise of such suo motu power, if an issue had been settled, inter alia, by an appellate authority. Thus, the sine qua non for exercise of power under section 34 is the E satisfaction of the Revisional Authority that an has been made by a taxing authority in any proceeding prejudicial to the interests of the State, the legality or propriety of which appears to him to be prima facie vulnerable. Nevertheless, such power cannot be exercised if the issue involved is pending before or has been settled by an appellate authority. It cannot be disputed that the Tribunal is comprehended within the F meaning of ‘appellate authority’ as defined in section 2(b) of the VAT Act. 28. These being the contours of section 34, as it then stood, it needs to be seen how far the Revisional Authority was justified in drawing power from such provision and exercising it. G 29. A bare perusal of the impugned revisional s reveals that the decision in Sonic Electrochem (supra) formed the plinth for the satisfaction that the s of assessment are liable to be revised. The decision in Sonic Electrochem (supra) was rendered upon consideration of the Gujarat Sales Tax Act, 1969 (hereafter ‘the Sales Tax Act’, for H short). The short question that arose for a decision was, whether ‘Jet M/S GODREJ SARA LEE LTD. v. THE EXCISE AND TAXATION 889 OFFICER-CUM-ASSESSING AUTHORITY [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] Mat’ produced by the appellant therein would come within Entry 129 of A Schedule II Part A of the Sales Tax Act, issued under section 49 thereof. Entry 129, at the relevant point of time, read thus: B 30. Having regard to the specific entry, i.e. Entry 129, dealing with mosquito repellents, this Court overruled the contention of the appellant therein that ‘Jet Mat’ would not come within the ambit of Entry 129 since one of its constituents happens to be an insecticide.