Therefore, E the State Government has constituted the committee to study the said issues and to give recommendations thereof; And whereas, the Government considers it expedient to prohibit the pooling of non-transport vehicles by aggregators in to ensure road safety of the general public and passengers at large F in the State of Maharashtra; Now, therefore, the Government of Maharashtra, in pursuance of clause 15 of the Motor Vehicle Aggregator Guidelines, 2020, hereby prohibits the use of non-transport vehicles (including two wheelers, three wheelers and four wheelers) for the purposes of G aggregation and ride -pooling thereof. By and in the name of the Governor of Maharashtra (R.M. Holkar) H Joint Secretary to Government” ROPPEN TRANSPORTATION SERVICES PVT LTD v. UNION OF 579 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 13. By the above decision, the State Government has noted that A the issue of whether non-transport vehicles ought to be permitted to be used as transport vehicles including for aggregation and ride pooling requires consideration. A Committee was constituted by the State Government on 12 January 2023. Pending the decision of the Committee, the State Government has prohibited the pooling of non-transport vehicles B by aggregators “in to ensure road safety of the general public and passengers at large” in the State of Maharashtra. The Committee which has been constituted by the State Government on 12 January 2023 is chaired by a former IAS officer consisting, inter alia, of the Additional Director General of Police and representatives of the Transport Department and the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation. C 14. The High Court adjudicated upon the challenge to the of the RTO dated 21 December 2022. The High Court recorded that counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners informed the Court that they would consider whether or not to challenge the notification dated 19 January 2023 separately and at that stage, the challenge was confined to the D of 21 December 2022 issued by the RTO. The High Court has also proceeded to observe that the Guidelines of 2020 leave a certain degree of latitude to the State Government and there is no policy of the State Government at the present point on the basis of which the petitioners would have an unrestricted right to obtain a licence. E 15. Mr Mukul Rohatgi, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners, submitted that many of the requirements of the Guidelines of 2020 on the basis of which the application for a licence was rejected are unworkable. This has been seriously in contest since Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the State of Maharashtra, has F urged that the Central Guidelines are intended to ensure, above all, the safety of the passengers and drivers for which purpose certain requirements have been introduced. 16. The correctness of the of the RTO rejecting the application for a licence on 21 December 2022 is now overshadowed by G the subsequent decision of the State Government arising out of its notification dated 19 January 2023.