The Chief Secretary of the State of Sikkim responded to the communication stating that the second option was acceptable in terms of which the seats in the Sikkim State Legislative Assembly would be increased from 32 to 40 so as to allow reservation for Limboo and Tamang Scheduled Tribes. On 4 April 2018, MHA again, initiated the exercise to increase the seats in the Legislative Assembly of Sikkim from 32 to 40 and to provide reservation for Limboo and Tamang Tribes while seeking the views of the Election Commission. The Election Commission responded on 4 April 2018. Thereafter, MHA addressed a communication to the Secretary of the Legislative Department in the Ministry of Law and Justice intimating that a “revised draft cabinet note and draft RPA (Amendment) Bill 2018 had been seen and approved by the Honourable Home Minister of India”. No further steps seem to have taken place thereafter after the exchange of these communications. 34. Counter affi davits have been fi led in these proceedings by the Election Commission of India, the State of West Bengal and the State of Sikkim. The Election Commission has stated that presently, it has no power to make any changes in the delimitation s passed by the Delimitation Commission in the States of West Bengal and Sikkim. According to the Election Commission, readjustment of seats requires an enabling provision in the law empowering it to undertake such an exercise. No action has been taken in the matter by MHA or by the Union and hence according to the Election Commission, it is unable to proceed further. The Election Commission also states that readjustment of seats would involve necessary amendments to the RP Act, among other legislation. 109 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 35. The State of West Bengal, has stated that in terms of the census of 2011, 52,96,953 persons belong to the Scheduled Tribes representing 5.8% of the total population and consequently, 6% of the seats in the Legislative Assembly are reserved for the Scheduled Tribes. Sixteen seats are stated to have been reserved in the Legislative Assembly and two seats in the Lok Sabha for the Scheduled Tribes. On 15 February 2006, a notifi cation was published by the Delimitation Commission allotting 42 seats in the House of People and 294 in the Legislative Assembly to the State of West Bengal. The State of West Bengal has also stated that the delimitation notifi cation was based on the census of 2001 and any exercise of delimitation would have to take place within the ambit and purview of Delimitation Act 2002. 36. The State of Sikkim has stated that the Government of Sikkim has been repeatedly requesting the Government of India to take immediate steps to provide reservation to the Limboo and Tamang Tribes in the Legislative Assembly of the State. The correspondence between the State and Union Governments, as detailed in the preceding paragraphs, has however, not led to the implementation of the proposal to increase the seats in the legislative assembly of the State.