C Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Act, 2017 – s.4 – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: sub-section (2) of s.4 of the 2017 Act cannot be read independently to provide power to the RBI in isolation of sub-sections (3) and (4) thereof – It is to be D read as a part of the scheme of s.4 of the 2017 Act – Because s.4 of 2017 Act provides an integrated scheme – It is a complete code in itself. Judicial Review – Limits of – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: E It is not permissible for a Court to advise in matters relating to financial and economic policies for which bodies like Reserve Bank are fully competent – It would be risky and hazardous for the courts to tread an unknown path and should leave such task to the expert bodies. F Government policy – Interference with – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: The Court would not interfere with any opinion formed by the government if it is based on the relevant facts and circumstances or based on expert’s advice – When the government forms its policy, it is based on a number of circumstances G and it is also based on expert’s opinion, which must not be interfered with. Policy matters – Economic policy – Judicial review by the Court – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: It is not the function H 10 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A of this Court or of any other Court to sit in over matters of economic policy – These must be left to the government of the day to decide – Even experts can seriously err and doubtlessly differ – Courts can certainly not be expected to decide – The Court must defer to legislative in matters relating to social and economic policies and must not interfere unless the exercise of B executive power appears to be palpably arbitrary – The Court does not have necessary competence and expertise to adjudicate upon such economic issues – It is also not possible for the Court to assess or evaluate what would be the impact of a particular action and it is best left to the wisdom of the experts – Mere errors of C by the government seen in retrospect is not subject to judicial review – Legislative and quasi-legislative authorities are entitled to a free play, and unless the action suffers from patent illegality, manifest or palpable arbitrariness, the Court should be slow in interfering with the same. D Demonetisation – Proportionality- the four-pronged test – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ.