price, the power tariff between the assessee and the State Electricity Board as per the power purchase agreement was not worked out in a competitive environment. 13.5 Referring to the provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 as well as the successorElectricity Act, 2003, learned counsel for the assessee submits that under the statutory regime prevalent at the relevant point of time, the State Electricity Board had virtual monopoly in the matter of generation and distribution of electricity. Though there was provision for generation of electricity for self-consumption, the power purchase agreement entered into between the assessee and the State Electricity Board is traceable to such statutory framework. Such a contract can be termed as a captive contract as the assessee had no other option but to accept the terms and conditions including the rate off ered by the State Electricity Board. In such a captive contract, the State Electricity Board is certainly the dominant partner. The price as per such contract, therefore, cannot be termed as the market value of electricity. In fact, the explanation below the proviso to sub-section (8) of Section 80 IA defi nes the market value as the price at which the goods in question would ordinarily fetch in the open market. Therefore, the market value in such circumstances can only be the rate at which the State Electricity Board was supplying electricity to the industrial consumers including the assessee. Elaborating further, he submits that the value of transaction of electricity between the two units of the assessee should be at arm’s length which would mean that the price in such a transaction should be such as between unrelated persons in an uncontrolled condition. 13.6 After referring to relevant provisions of the Act including Section 80J and Section 80A of the Act and the related Circular No. 169 of the CBDT, learned counsel has referred to the meaning of “market value” as per various dictionaries. Reliance has been placed on several judicial pronouncements to highlight the signifi cance of the expression “market value”. Finally, learned counsel for the assessee submits that the view taken by the revenue is erroneous and, therefore, the Tribunal and the High Court were justifi ed in deciding the issue in favour of the respondent assessee. The civil appeals being devoid of any merit are thus liable to be dismissed. 504 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 14. Submissions made by learned counsel for the parties have received the due consideration of the Court. 15. Since the core issue is relatable to Section 80-IA of the Act, it would be apposite to advert to and analyse the aforesaid provision. Section 80-IA deals with deductions in respect of profi ts and gains from industrial undertakings or enterprises engaged in infrastructure development etc. Let us fi rst take up sub-section (1), which reads as under: (1) Where the gross total income of an assessee includes any profi ts and gains derived from any business of an industrial undertaking or an enterprise referred to in sub-section (4) (such business being hereinafter referred to as the eligible business), there shall, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, be allowed, in computing the total income of the assessee, a deduction from such profi ts and gains of an amount equal to hundred per cent of profi ts and gains derived from such business for the fi rst fi ve assessment years commencing at any time during the periods as specifi ed in sub- section (2) and thereafter, twenty-fi ve per cent of the profi ts and gains for further fi ve assessment years : Provided that where the assessee is a company, the provisions of this sub-section shall have eff ect as if for the words "twenty-fi ve per cent", the words "thirty per cent" had been substituted.