18. Still aggrieved, the appellant fi led a Writ Petition before the High Court. The learned Single Judge of the High Court held that since both the Institutes were run by the same management and there was common supervisory and fi nancial control within the Institutions, thus both are inter-connected. It was also noted that the appellant had failed to produce any material to dislodge the aforesaid facts. The learned Single dismissed the Writ Petition. The Division Bench also upheld the passed by the Single Bench and dismissed the Writ Appeal. 19. Though the aforesaid material is suffi cient to non-suit it, to be fair to the appellant, we will deal with the documents which have been placed on record by the appellant before this Court but not before any of the authorities under the EPF Act or the High Court. The fi rst one is the letter dated 09.12.1987 from the University Grants Commission conveying the Registrar, Gulbarga University, Gulbarga, about the inclusion of the appellant college in the list of the approved colleges under the non-Government colleges, teaching upto Bachelor’s degree. The name of the college is mentioned as ‘The Ideal Fine Arts Society’s College of Visual Art’, a copy of which is also endorsed to the Principal of the aforesaid College. It shows that the College is nothing but an extended arm of the Society. The next document is the certifi cate of accreditation issued by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council on 04.11.2004. This accreditation has been issued in the name of ‘The Ideal Fine Art Society’s Mathosri Manikbai Kothari M/s MATHOSRI MANIKBAI KOTHARI COLLEGE OF VISUAL ARTS v. THE 549 ASSISTANT PROVIDENT FUND COMMISSIONER [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] College of Visual Arts’. This document again belies the stand of the appellant that both the institutes are independent. The documents produced by the appellant themselves show that it is not an independent establishment but an arm of the Society. 20. The next document is the audit report of the Ideal Fine Arts Society’s Mathosri Manikbai Kothari College of Visual Arts for the year ending March 2011. The accounts were fi nalized on 16.08.2011. Though, it may not be relevant considering that the two establishments managed and run by the same Society were clubbed way back in 2003 and the assessment under Section 7-A of the EPF Act was passed by the Commissioner on 23.09.2005, still a perusal of the balance sheet of the appellant clearly shows deposits from both the Society and the Ideal Fine Arts Trust. It shows fi nancial integrity of the appellant with the Society which is running both the Institutes. Schedule No.4 attached to the Income and Expenditure Account shows details of the capital receipts. It mentioned Hand Loan from Ideal Fine Arts Trust and the Ideal Fine Arts Society. Similar accounts of the Ideal Institute have been withheld from the Court, as the same would have certainly undermined the appellant's case of fi nancial integrity with the Society, which manages both the Institutes, and therefore, the management thereof.