[2023] 3 S.C.R. 871 871 M/S GODREJ SARA LEE LTD. A v. THE EXCISE AND TAXATION OFFICER-CUM-ASSESSING AUTHORITY & ORS. (Civil Appeal No.5393 of 2010) B FEBRUARY 01, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] Haryana Value Added Tax Act, 2003 : ss. 33 and 34 – Revision – As regards, tax liability on mosquito repellant manufactured by C the appellant, the Revisional Authority suo moto called for the assessment records of appellant as found that the Assessing Authority erred in levying tax on mosquito repellant @ 4% instead of 10 % – It issued show cause notices and passed final revisional enhancing the liability of the appellant to tax @10% instead of 4% – Writ petition thereagainst – High Court relegated the appellant to D the alternative remedy of appeal u/s. 33, which it had not pursued – Justification of – Held: Mere availability of an alternative remedy of appeal or revision, which the party invoking the jurisdiction of the High Court u/Art. 226 has not pursued, would not oust the jurisdiction of the High Court and render a writ petition “not E maintainable” – Availability of an alternative remedy does not operate as an absolute bar to the “maintainability” of a writ petition – Rule, which requires a party to pursue the alternative remedy provided by a statute, is a rule of policy, convenience and discretion rather than a rule of law – Hence, dismissal of a writ petition by a High Court on the ground that the petitioner has not availed the F alternative remedy without examining whether an exceptional case has been made out for such entertainment would not be proper – Moreover, a jurisdictional issue raised in the writ petition questioning the very competence of the Revisional Authority to exercise suo motu power, was a pure question of law – Thus, the G High Court erred in dismissing the writ petition – Constitution of India - Art.226. s.34 – Revisional jurisdiction – s of the Revisional Authority seeking to revise the s of the Assessing Authority pertaining to the Assessment Years – Held : Sine qua non for exercise H 871 872 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A of power u/s. 34 is the satisfaction of the Revisional Authority that an has been made by a taxing authority in any proceeding prejudicial to the interests of the State, the legality or propriety of which appears to him to be prima facie vulnerable. Constitution of India : Art.226 – Writ – “entertainability” and B “maintainability” – Difference between – Discussed. Art. 226 – Writ – Entertainability of, when effective and efficacious alternative remedy available – Discussed.” Judicial discipline: Principle of judicial discipline – Adherence to the decision of higher authorities – Unless the discipline of C adhering to decisions made by the higher authorities is maintained, there would be utter chaos in administration of tax laws apart from undue harassment to assesse – On facts, nothing on record to justify either illegality or procedural/moral impropriety in the proceedings before the Assessing Authority or the s passed by him, as such – To brand the of the Assessing Authority as illegal, the same D appears to be not only unjustified but also demonstrates thorough lack of understanding of the principle regulating exercise of suo motu revisional power by a quasi-judicial authority apart from being in breach of the principle of judicial discipline, while confronted with s passed by a superior tribunal/Court – It is not the E Assessing Authority’s s but those passed by the Revisional Authority, which suffer from a patent illegality.