This evolves the principle that a non-signatory could be subjected to arbitration provided these transactions were with group of companies and there was a clear intention of the parties to bind both, the signatory as well as the non-signatory parties. In other words, “intention of the parties” is a very signifi cant feature which must be established before the scope of the arbitration can be said to include the signatory as well as the non-signatory party.” 73. A non-signatory or third party could be subjected to arbitration without their prior consent, but this would only be in exceptional cases. The court will examine these exceptions from the touchstone of direct relationship to the party signatory to the arbitration agreement, 96 Gary Born (n 44) 1567 690 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. direct commonality of the subject-matter and the agreement between the parties being a composite transaction. The transaction should be of a composite nature where performance of the mother agreement may not be feasible without aid, execution and performance of the supplementary or ancillary agreements, for achieving the common object and collectively having bearing on the dispute. Besides all this, the court would have to examine whether a composite reference of such parties would serve the ends of justice. Once this exercise is completed and the court answers the same in the affi rmative, the reference of even non-signatory parties would fall within the exception afore-discussed.” (emphasis supplied) 108. In Cox and Kings (supra), Justice Surya Kant observed a contradiction in terms of the above extracted paragraphs 72 and 73 of Chloro Controls (supra). According to Justice Surya Kant, on the one hand, Chloro Controls (supra) emphasizes on the “intention of the parties”, while on the other hand it allows joinder of non-signatory parties to arbitration proceedings “without their prior consent”. Justice Surya Kant is indeed correct in noticing this inconsistency in the observations in the above two paragraphs. Para 72 underlines mutual intent while para 73 seems to move away from it by suggesting an absence of prior consent as well. We would like to clarify that the phrase “without their prior consent” has to be construed as “without prior formal consent to the arbitration agreement or the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement.” Reading the above two paragraphs harmoniously, it is evident that paragraph 72 emphasizes on determining the “intention of the parties” to bind a non-signatory party to an arbitration agreement. In paragraph 73, the Court deals with the tests for joining a non-signatory party which has not formally consented to the arbitration agreement. Furthermore, the said paragraph enlist the cumulative factors for deciphering the mutual intention of the parties to join non-signatory parties to the arbitration agreement. In view of the above clarifi cation, we are of the opinion that so construed there would be no inconsistency between paragraphs 72 and 73 of Chloro Controls (supra). 109. One of the contentions that has been raised before us pertains to the observations in paragraph 73 of Chloro Controls (supra) that the composite reference of all the parties should “serve the ends of justice”.