E 1271. Circumstances in which company may be wound up by Tribunal. – (1) A company may, on a petition under section 272, be wound-up by the Tribunal, - (a) If the company is unable to pay debts; (b) if the company has, by special resolution, resolved that the company be wound up by the Tribunal; (c) if the company has acted against the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of F India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public , decency or morality; (d) if the Tribunal has ed the winding up of the company under Chapter XIX; (e) if on an application made by the Registrar or any other person authorised by the Central Government by notification under this Act, the Tribunal is of the opinion that the affairs of the company have been conducted in a fraudulent manner or the company was formed for fraudulent and unlawful purpose or the persons concerned in the G formation or management of its affairs have been guilty of fraud, misfeasance or misconduct in connection therewith and that is proper that the company be wound up; (f) if the company has made a default in filing with the Registrar its financial statements or annual returns for immediately preceding five consecutive financial years; or (g) if the Tribunal is of the opinion that it is just and equitable that the company should be wound up. *** H 114 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 7.1 The provision as enacted was never enforced till it was substituted by Act No. 31 of 2016 and the Eleventh Schedule in paragraph 10 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 20162, with effect from 15th November 2016. This coincided with the enactment and enforcement of the Code, also applicable with effect from 15th November 2016. Consequent to the substitution, Section 2713 of the Companies Act 2013 B now envisages only five grounds for winding up of the company under the Companies Act 2013. The first ground is where the company, by special resolution, has resolved to be wound up by the Tribunal. The other grounds are when the company has acted against the sovereignty and integrity of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign C States, public , decency or morality; if the Tribunal on an application made by the Registrar or any other person authorised by the Central Government by a notification is satisfied that the affairs of the company have been conducted in a fraudulent manner, or the company was formed for a fraudulent or unlawful purpose, or the persons concerned in the formation or management of its affairs have been found to be guilty of D fraud, misfeasance or misconduct in connection therewith, which makes it proper for the company to be wound up; if the company has defaulted in filing financial statements and annual returns with the Registrar for immediately preceding five consecutive financial years; and lastly if the Tribunal is of the opinion that it is just and equitable that the company E should be wound up.