The Review Petitioners had not suggested any methodology of calculation of the relief due to E shortage of domestic coal. On the other hand, the Review Petitioners in their reply dated 28.7.2017 in the Petition No. 97/ MP/2017 had stated that “the reliance to the decision of GMR is wholly in appropriate”. The Review Petitioners are now suggesting an alternative formula for computation of the relief under change F in law. As already reiterated in the earlier part of the , the review cannot be used for substitution of a view already taken with a new view. Therefore, the review on the ground is not maintainable.” 53. We find that Haryana Utilities are indulging into approbation G and reprobation. They cannot be permitted to blow hot and cold at the same time. After accepting before the CERC that they would adopt the methodology as given in the case of GMR Kamalanga Energy Limited (supra), it would not be appropriate, in our view, on the part of the appellants, which are, after all, instrumentalities of the State, to change its stand after final s are passed by the CERC. H 484 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 54. In the case of MSEDCL v. APML and Others (supra), this Court observed thus: “150. In spite of this legal position and the stand taken by the Union of India, the DISCOMS are taking a stand which is contrary to the stand of the Union of India. In Energy Watchdog (supra), B it was also sought to be urged by DISCOMS that even on account of Change in Law, adjustments would not be permissible, which contention was outrightly rejected. We have come across a number of matters wherein concurrent s passed by the Regulatory Body and the Appellate Forum are assailed. Such a litigation would, in fact, efface the purpose of the Electricity Act. As already C discussed herein above, one of the major reasons for the enactment of the Electricity Act was the deterioration in performance of the State Electricity Boards.” 55. In the present case also, we find that the concurrent findings of fact recorded by the two expert bodies could have been interfered D with only if they failed to take into consideration the mandatory statutory provisions or if the decisions had been taken by them on extraneous considerations or that they were ex facie arbitrary and illegal. Nothing of that sort can be found in the impugned and to warrant interference. E 56. The appeal is, therefore, found to be without substance and the same is accordingly dismissed. No costs. Nidhi Jain Appeal dismissed. (Assisted by : Rakhi, LCRA) F G H