* * * * * * 46.1. Thus, as per Section 29A(g), a person shall not be eligible to submit a resolution plan if such person or any other person acting jointly or in concert with such person has been a promoter or in the management or control of a corporate debtor in which a preferential transaction, undervalued transaction, extortionate credit transaction or fraudulent transaction has taken place and in respect of which an has been made by the adjudicating authority. Clause (j) says that a person shall not be eligible to submit a resolution plan if such person or any other person acting jointly or in concert with such person has a connected person not eligible under Clauses (a) to (i). As per Explanation (i), the expression ‘connected person’ means-(i) any person who is the promoter or in the management or control of the resolution applicant; or (ii) any person who shall be the promoter or in the management or control of the business of the corporate debtor during the implementation of the resolution plan; etc. 47. The expression ‘related party’ appearing in Sections 5(24) and (24A) suff ering ineligibility under Section 29A has received considerable attention of this Court. In Swiss Ribbons Private Limited and Another Versus Union of India and Others8, a constitutional challenge was made to Section 29A(j) of the Code read with the defi nition of ‘related party’ as defi ned under Sections 5(24) and 5(24A). While repelling the challenge, this Court held as follows:- 109. We are of the view that persons who act jointly or in concert with others are connected with the business activity of the resolution 8 (2019) 4 SCC 17 902 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. applicant. Similarly, all the categories of persons mentioned in Section 5(24-A) show that such persons must be “connected” with the resolution applicant within the meaning of Section 29-A(j). This being the case, the said categories of persons who are collectively mentioned under the caption “relative” obviously need to have a connection with the business activity of the resolution applicant. In the absence of showing that such person is “connected” with the business of the activity of the resolution applicant, such person cannot possibly be disqualifi ed under Section 29-A(j). All the categories in Section 29- A(j) deal with persons, natural as well as artifi cial, who are connected with the business activity of the resolution applicant. The expression “related party”, therefore, and “relative” contained in the defi nition sections must be read noscitur a sociis with the categories of persons mentioned in Explanation I, and so read, would include only persons who are connected with the business activity of the resolution applicant. 110. An argument was also made that the expression “connected person” in Explanation I, clause (ii) to Section 29-A(j) cannot possibly refer to a person who may be in management or control of the business of the corporate debtor in future. This would be arbitrary as the explanation would then apply to an indeterminate person.