It rejected the first contention of NTPC that SPML should have first resorted to an alternative dispute resolution mechanism under the Dispute Resolution Clause. It noted that such a D request was, in fact, made by SPML on an earlier occasion, but NTPC failed to respond to the same. On the request for arbitration and the allegation of economic duress that allegedly prevailed in signing the Settlement Agreement, the High Court observed that: “66. SPML had invoked the arbitration clause and had sought E reference of disputes to arbitration. It had also approached this Court. Thus, it would be difficult for SPML to establish that it was economically coerced to enter into the Settlement Agreement. However, this Court is unable to accept that the dispute whether the Contract Agreement stood discharged/ F novated in terms of the Settlement Agreement, is ex facie untenable, insubstantial or frivolous.” (emphasis supplied) G validity or termination, or the execution of the Facilities- whether during the progress of the Facilities or after their completion and whether before or after the termination, abandonment or breach of the Contract- the parties shall seek to resolve any such dispute or difference by mutual consultation. If the parties fail to resolve such a dispute or difference by mutual consultation, then the dispute shall be referred in writing by either party to the Adjudicator, with a copy to the other party.” H NTPC LTD. v. M/S SPML INFRA LTD. 855 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] 13. After referring to the decisions of this Court in Mayavati A Trading (P) Ltd. v. Pradyuat Deb Burman6, Vidya Drolia and Ors. v. Durga Trading Corporation7, Duro Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Ltd.8, Sanjiv Prakash v. Seema Kukreja and Ors.9, and Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. and Anr. v. Dicitex Furnishing Ltd.10, the High Court allowed the Arbitration Petition. It appointed a former Judge of B the Delhi High Court as the Arbitrator on behalf of NTPC, and directed the respective arbitrators to appoint the presiding Arbitrator. 14. Submissions by the Parties: Shri Adarsh Tripathi, Advocate appearing with and on behalf of the Solicitor General, for NTPC, submitted that the Settlement Agreement dated 27.05.2020 was arrived at during C the pendency of the Writ Petition before the High Court. The allegations of coercion and economic duress were, therefore, false and unbelievable. He also submitted that SPML never raised claims during the subsistence of the contract, before the Completion Certificate was issued, or even before the final payment was made. Further, the conduct of SPML, in waiting for the release of the Bank Guarantees as per the Settlement D Agreement before withdrawing the Writ Petition, and thereafter instituting the Arbitration Petition, clearly demonstrated that the allegation of coercion was not bona fide. Finally, he submitted that the High Court was under an obligation to undertake a limited scrutiny to examine whether a matter is prima facie arbitrable. For this purpose, he relied on a recent decision E of this Court in Emaar India Ltd. v. Tarun Aggarwal Projects LLP & Anr11.