Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy in the said C refers to his earlier 5 given by him as a Judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, where it was said : “Every criminal trial is a voyage of discovery in which truth is the quest. It is the duty of a presiding judge to explore every avenue open to him in to discover the truth and D to advance the cause of justice. For that purpose he is expressly invested by Section 165 of the Evidence Act with the right to put questions to witnesses. Indeed the right given to a judge is so wide that he may, ask any question he pleases, in any form, at any time, of any witness, or of the parties E about any fact, relevant or irrelevant. Section 172(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure enables the court to send for the police-diaries in a case and use them to aid it in the trial. The record of the proceedings of the Committing Magistrate may also be perused by the Sessions Judge to further aid him in the trial.” F The duty of the presiding judge of a criminal trial is not to watch the proceedings as a spectator or a recording machine but he has to participate in the trial “by evincing intelligent active interest by putting questions to witnesses in to ascertain the truth.” While referring to a decision of Lord Denning in Jones v. National Coal Board6 the G learned Judge had said that it is the duty of the judge to ask questions to the witnesses when it becomes necessary to clear up any point that has been overlooked or left obscure, then he goes on to say as under: 4 1981 AIR 1036 5 Sessions Judge, Nellore v. Intha Ramana Reddy, ILR 1972 AP 683; 1972 Cri LJ 1485 H 6 (1957) 2 All ER 155: (1957) 2 WLR 760 DINESH KUMAR v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 233 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] “We may go further than Lord Denning and say that it is the A duty of a judge to discover the truth and for that purpose he may “ask any question, in any form, at any time, of any witness, or of the parties, about any fact, relevant or irrelevant” (Section 165, Evidence Act). But this he must do, without unduly trespassing upon the functions of the public prosecutor B and the defence counsel, without any hint of partisanship and without appearing to frighten or bully witnesses. He must take the prosecution and the defence with him. The Court, the prosecution and the defence must work as a team whose goal is justice, a team whose captain is the judge. The judge, ‘like the conductor of a choir, must, by force of personality, C induce his team to work in harmony; subdue the raucous, encourage the timid, conspire with the young, flatter and (sic the) old’.” In our considered opinion the prosecution has failed to establish important links in this case, which is so vital in a case of D circumstantial evidence.