The Tribunal while allowing the petition, 1 hereinafter referred to as the ‘2013 Act’. 2hereinafter referred to as the ‘SEBI (SAST) Regulations’ G 3hereinafter referred to as the ‘SEBI (PIT) Regulations’ 4hereinafter referred to as ‘the SEBI Act’. 5(1998) 7 SCC 105 6hereinafter referred to as ‘the SEBI’ or ‘the Board’. 7Companies Appeal (AT) 240 of 2017 of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal dated 06.12.2018 8hereinafter referred to as the ‘1956 Act’. H 534 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A directed the Appellant to buy-back its shares which were held by the Respondents. In appeal, the Appellate Tribunal set aside this direction on the ground that the Tribunal exceeded its jurisdiction. It is this of the Appellate Tribunal which is impugned before us. Relevant Facts: B 3. The Appellant herein is a listed company engaged in the manufacture and sale of rectified spirit, country liquor, marine products, carbon dioxide gas etc. Respondent No. 1 is also a listed company which is engaged in the business of producing carbon dioxide gas and dry ice. Respondent No. 2 is the managing director of Respondent No. 1, C Respondent No. 3 is the wife of Respondent No. 2, and Respondent Nos. 4-6 are close relatives of Respondent Nos. 2-3. 4. It is the contention of the Appellant that sometime in August 2003, Respondent No. 2 came up with a proposal for a business tie-up between the Appellant and Respondent No. 1. The Appellant is said to have rejected the proposal. It is alleged by the Appellant that after this D rejection, the Respondents started acquiring shares of the Appellant from the open market with a view to eliminate competition and strengthen its own dominant position in the relevant market. As of 18.01.2004, the Respondents collectively held just under 5% of the Appellant’s total paid-up share capital. E 5. On 19.01.2004, Respondent No. 1 acquired 600 equity shares of the Appellant and this resulted in the aggregate shareholding of the Respondents crossing 5% of the total paid-up share capital of the Appellant, thereby triggering Regulation 7(1)9 of the SEBI (SAST) Regulations. Regulation 7(1) mandates that when an acquirer, either by F himself or with any person acting in concert with the acquirer, acquires 9 Regulation 7(1) – Any acquirer, who acquires shares or voting rights which (taken together with shares or voting rights, if any, held by him) would entitle him to more than five per cent or ten per cent or fourteen per cent or fifty four per cent or seventy four per cent shares or voting rights in a company, in any manner whatsoever, shall disclose at every stage the G aggregate of his shareholding or voting rights in that company to the company and to the stock exchanges where shares of the target company are listed. Regulation 2(b) ¯ acquirer means any person who, directly or indirectly, acquires or agrees to acquire shares or voting rights in the target company, or acquires or agrees to acquire control over the target company, either by himself or with any person acting in concert with the H acquirer.