We must, therefore, proceed to examine the relevant provisions of the Act itself.” 55. In Kamla Prasad Khetan v. Union of India21, a Constitution Bench of this Court held that: G “10. … Section 21 of the General Clauses Act embodies a rule of construction, and that rule must have reference to the context 20 1959 SCR 1191 21 1957 SCR 1052 H 776 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A and subject-matter of the particular statute to which it is being applied” 56. Section 21 of the General Clauses Act can be invoked when its application would not be repugnant to the subject-matter, context, and effect of the statute and when it is in harmony with its scheme and B object. The court may refer to the provisions of the statute in question to determine whether Section 21 of the General Clauses Act will be applicable. 57. The scheme of the Administrative Tribunals Act is briefly analysed below: C a. Section 4 enables the Union Government to establish an SAT upon receipt of a request in this behalf from the concerned State Government; b. Section 5 provides for the composition of SATs. Sections 8 and 10B stipulate the term of office of the Chairperson and D the Members; c. Section 15 governs the jurisdiction of SATs; d. Chapter IV sets out the procedure to be followed before the Tribunal as well as the powers exercisable by it; and E e. Section 29 provides that every suit or proceeding pending before any court or authority immediately before the date of establishment of a tribunal under the Administrative Tribunals Act which would have been within the jurisdiction of the tribunal if the cause of action in such suit or proceeding had arisen after the establishment of the tribunal, stands transferred F to the tribunal on the date of its establishment. 58. The Administrative Tribunals Act does not contain a provision and a corresponding procedure for the abolition of an SAT once it is established. However, this does not mean that the abolition of an SAT, once it is set up, is impermissible. First, the Administrative Tribunals Act G does not proscribe the abolition of an SAT by the Union Government, upon the latter receiving a request from the concerned State Government. Second, nothing in the scheme of the statute implies or suggests that such an abolition would be incompatible with the objective sought to be achieved. To the contrary, if the concerned State Government is of the H considered view that the SAT is failing to meet the objectives of the ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 777 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Administrative Tribunals Act or that an alternate route for meeting the A same objectives is preferable to that of operating an SAT, it is free to act upon its view and request the Union Government to abolish the SAT. An amendment to the Administrative Tribunals Act is not a prerequisite for the State Government to make a request to the Union Government.