The norms, as stated in paragraph 31 of the said are reproduced hereunder: - “31.1 In all cases there is a possibility of life sentence or death sentence, learned Advocates who have put in minimum of 10 years’ practice at the Bar alone be considered to be appointed as Amicus Curiae or through legal services to represent an accused. 31.2 In all matters dealt with by the High Court concerning confi rmation of death sentence, Senior Advocates of the Court must fi rst be considered to be appointed as Amicus Curiae. 31.3 Whenever any learned counsel is appointed as Amicus Curiae, some reasonable time may be provided to enable the counsel to prepare the matter. There cannot be any hard and fast rule in that behalf. However, a minimum of seven days’ time may normally be considered to be appropriate and adequate. 990 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 31.4 Any learned counsel, who is appointed as Amicus Curiae on behalf of the accused must normally be granted to have meetings and discussion with the concerned accused. Such interactions may prove to be helpful as was noticed in Imtiyaz Ramzan Khan.” 15. In Best Bakery (supra), this Court has observed that the principle of fair trial now informs and energises many areas of the law. It is refl ected in numerous rules and practices. It is a constant, ongoing development process continually adapting to new and changing circumstances, and exigencies of the situation – peculiar at times and related to the nature of crime, persons involved – directly or operating behind social impact and societal needs and even so many powerful balancing factors which may come in the way of administration of criminal justice system. The concept of fair trial entails familiar triangulation of interests of the accused, the victim, and the society. 16. It was further observed that there can be no analytical, all- comprehensive or exhaustive defi nition of the concept of a fair trial, and it may have to be determined in seemingly infi nite variety of actual situations with the ultimate object in mind viz. whether something that was done or said either before or at the trial deprived the quality of fairness to a degree where a miscarriage of justice has resulted. Each one has an inbuilt right to be dealt with fairly in a criminal trial. Denial of a fair trial is as much injustice to the accused as is to the victim and the society. Fair trial obviously would mean a trial before an impartial judge, a fair prosecutor, and the atmosphere of judicial calm. Fair trial means a trial in which bias or prejudice for or against the accused, the witnesses, or the cause which is being tried is eliminated. It is inherent in the concept of due process of law, that condemnation should be rendered only after the trial in which the hearing is a real one, not sham or a mere farce and pretence. Since fair hearing requires an opportunity to preserve the process, it may be vitiated and violated by an overhasty, stage-managed, tailored and partisan trial.