It was therefore, further held that when one 4 AIR 1963 SC 884 5 AIR 1965 SC 1812 H 294 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A party makes a representation to the other about a fact he would not be shut out by the rule of estoppel if that other person knew the true state of facts and must consequently not have been misled by the misrepresentation. 12.2In the decision in Pratima Chowdhury v. Kalpana B Mukherjee6, while considering Section 115 of the Evidence Act, this Court held that four salient conditions are to be satisfied before invoking the rule of estoppel. Firstly, one party should make a factual representation to the other party. Secondly, the other party should accept and rely upon the aforesaid factual representation. Thirdly, having relied on the aforesaid factual representation, the second party should alter his position. Fourthly, C the instant altering a position, should be such, that it would be iniquitous to require him to revert back to the original position. After holding so, it was further held that the doctrine of estoppel would apply only when, based on a representation by the first party, the second party alters his position, in such manner, that it would be unfair to restore the initial D position. 12.3 In the decision in B.L. Shreedhar v. K.M. Munnireddy7, this Court held that when rights are invoked estoppel may with equal justification be described both as a rule of evidence and as a rule creating or defeating rights. The appellant relies on this decision, more particularly E paragraph 30 of the said decision and it reads thus :- “30. If a man either by words or by conduct has intimated that he consents to an act which has been done and that he will not offer any opposition to it, although it could not have been lawfully done without his consent, and he thereby induces F others to do that which they otherwise might have abstained from, he cannot question the legality of the act he had sanctioned to the prejudice of those who have so given faith to his words or to the fair inference to be drawn from his conduct.” G It is to be noted that in the said decision this Court clarified that a legal status expressly denied by a statute could not be conferred on the basis of estoppel. 6 AIR 2014 SC 1304 7 AIR 2003 SC 578 H BAINI PRASAD (D) THR. LRS. v. DURGA DEVI 295 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] 13. The appellant has also relied on the decision of this Court in A Chairman, State Bank of India & Anr. v. M.J. James8, more particularly, paragraph 39 which readthus:- “39. Before proceeding further, it is important to clarify distinction between “acquiescence” and “delay and laches”. Doctrine of acquiescence is an equitable doctrine which B applies when a party having a right stands by and sees another dealing in a manner inconsistent with that right, while the act is in progress and after violation is completed, which conduct reflects his assent or accord.