The fi rst proviso to Article 3 which requires that a Bill aff ecting the area, boundaries or name of a State has to be referred to the legislature of the State for its views; and ii. The second proviso to Article 3 which requires the consent of the State legislature for increasing or diminishing the area of the State of Jammu and Kashmir or altering the name of boundary of the State before the introduction of the Bill in Parliament; h. Whether during the tenure of a Proclamation under Article 356, and when the Legislative Assembly of the State is either dissolved or is in suspended animation the status of the State of Jammu and Kashmir as a State under Article 1(3)(a) of the Constitution and its conversion into a Union Territory under Article 1(3)(b) constitutes a valid exercise of power. E*. Analysis i. The State of Jammu and Kashmir did not possess sovereignty * Ed. Note: PART E. 62 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 87. Some petitioners urged that the State of Jammu and Kashmir retained an element of sovereignty when it joined the Indian Union. They argued that the IoA ceded ‘external sovereignty’ to the Union of India by ceding control over the subjects of defence, foreign aff airs, and telecommunication but the State retained ‘internal sovereignty’ because of: a. The history of the relationship between Jammu and Kashmir and India; b. The formation of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir; c. The adoption of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir; and d. The power to enact laws on all subjects except defence, foreign aff airs, and telecommunication. They urged that Article 370 subsumed the sovereignty retained by the State. In response, the Union of India advanced the argument that any sovereignty which vested with the State was ceded with the signing of the IoA. The Union argued that the constitutional scheme (of both the Indian Constitution and the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir) does not indicate that any element of sovereignty was retained by the State. The question of whether the State retained any element of sovereignty is a primary issue which will bear upon the other issues before this Court. a. The meaning of sovereignty 88. Sovereignty has diff erent connotations in political theory, law and philosophy. Even within these fi elds, there is no defi nitive meaning about its content. European philosophers, from Hobbes to Locke to Rousseau deliberated upon sovereignty, and its meaning has evolved over centuries. While it was initially considered as residing within a person (generally, the monarch), it is now thought to rest within a body or group. 89. Despite the absence of agreement on its precise content, there is broad agreement that legal sovereignty exists when a body has unlimited or unrestricted legislative power or authority and when none other is superior to it.153 This 153 See, for instance, Dicey, Law of the Constitution (8th ed. 1915); Austin, Jurisprudence (4th ed. 1873); John Dickinson, A Working Theory Of Sovereignty I, Political Science Quarterly, Volume 42, Issue 4, December 1927, Pages 524–548; IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 63 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] indicates that a sovereign authority has the supreme power to make laws and is not subordinate to another entity.