It is in this context that in Nasiruddin6 case, it has been mentioned that the real intention of the legislation must be gathered from the language used. Thus, the reasoning in Bijay Kumar Singh7 case cannot be doubted more so as the requirement is for a tenant to fi le an application, but he has to deposit the admitted arrears of rent as well, which has certainly not been done. 17. We are of the view that a combined reading of the two statutes would suggest that while the Limitation Act may be generally applicable to the proceedings under the Tenancy Act, the restricted proviso under Section 7 of the said Act, providing a time period beyond which no extension can be granted, has to be applicable. The proviso is after Sub-Section (2) of Section 7 but Sub-Section (2) of Section 7 in turn refers to Sub-Section (1) implying the application of the proviso to Sub-Section (1) too. 18. There is also a larger context in this behalf as the Tenancy Acts provide for certain protections to the tenants beyond the contractual rights. Thus, the provisions must be strictly adhered to. The proceedings initiated on account of non-payment of rent have to be dealt with in that manner as a tenant cannot occupy the premises and then not pay for it. This is so even if there is a dispute about the rent. The tenant is, thus, required to deposit all arrears of rent where there is no dispute on the admitted amount of rent and even in case of a dispute. The needful has to be done within the time stipulated and actually should accompany the application fi led under Sub- Sections (1) & (2) of Section 7 of the said Act. The proviso only gives liberty to extend the time once by period not exceeding two months. 6 (supra) 7 (supra) DEBASISH PAUL & ANR. v. AMAL BORAL 519 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] 19. The respondent neither paid the rent, nor deposited the rent by moving the application nor deposited it within the extended time as stipulated in the proviso. The mere allegation of absence of correct legal advice cannot come to the aid of the respondent as if such a plea was to be accepted it would give a complete license to a tenant to occupy premises without payment of rent and then claim that he was not correctly advised. If the tenant engages an advocate and abides by his advice, then the legal consequences of not doing what is required to be done, must fl ow. 20. We have also been given a statement of arrears of rent, which would show that for 142 months i.e., from February 2005 till fi ling of the petition under Section 7 of the said Act in December, 2016, rent was not paid and even thereafter arrears has not been paid as per the admitted rent of Rs.352 per month. The chart in this behalf, as submitted in Court, refl ects the position as under: No.