The fact that the Fund is a legal entity (for certain purposes) does not matter for, in the language of Lord Watson, it represented “the aggregate of its members and the members are the participators of its profi ts.”Lord Halsbury and Lord Fitzgerald dissented. Lord Halsbury reasoned that the nature of business would be more relevant than the relationship between the parties. Lord Fitzgerald, in his dissenting opinion, concluded that the premiums earned by the insurance company, so transferred to its headquarters in New York, ‘for the purpose of investment there by the corporation, formed part of the profi t of the concern, and 1008 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. became liable here to income tax.’ He adjudicated the dispute independently, without placing any reliance on London Assurance Corporation, which was sought to be distinguished by the Assessee. While acknowledging the diff erence between the facts of both cases, to the extent that policyholders were members of the New York Life Insurance Company, but outsiders as regards London Assurance Corporation, it was concluded that ‘distinction creates no real diff erence.’ Evolution of the principle of mutuality in India: 8.5 The Calcutta High Court also made a notable contribution to the evolution of the common law on mutuality. In Royal Calcutta Turf Club vs. Secretary of State, (1921) ILR 48 Cal 844 : AIR (1921) Cal 633 : (1921) 1 ITC 108, the Calcutta High Court considered the case of an unincorporated club that carried on business within the meaning of the Excess Profi ts Duty Act (10 of 1919). The Calcutta High Court reasoned that the proceeds generated by way of entrance fees charged from the public and the license fees credited by the book makers, would be assessable to income tax. 8.6 The Privy Council’s decision in an appeal emerging from the Madras High Court, in English and Scottish Joint Co-Operative Wholesale Society, Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Agricultural Income-Tax, 1948 SCC OnLine PC 41, crystallized the triple test for applying the principle of mutuality: (1) the identity of the contributors with and recipients of the common fund; (2) the status of the association or company, as an instrument obedient to the mandate of its members; and (3) the absence of possibility for contributors of the fund to derive profi ts from contributions made by them. 8.7 Substantial emphasis was placed on the pricing of the services off ered and the profi t motive behind the same. It was noted that the English and Scottish Joint Co-operative Wholesale Society, Ltd. is not bound by its rules to sell its tea only to its members, but it could make no diff erence if it were. The pertinent observations in this regard, are extracted as under: SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1009 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] “No matter who the purchasers may be, if the society sells the tea grown and manufactured by it at a price which exceeds the cost of producing it and rendering it fi t for sale, it has earned profi ts which are, subject to the provisions of the taxing Act, taxable profi ts.” Given the deep-rooted common law tradition, Indian jurisprudence has had a rich engagement with the principle of mutuality, especially in the context of taxation.