It E has been held that if the law which is passed is within the scope of the power conferred on a legislature and violates no restrictions on that power, the law must be upheld whatever a court may think of it. 74. It could thus be seen that the challenge to the legislative Act would be sustainable only if it is established that the legislature concerned F had no legislative competence to enact on the subject it has enacted. The other ground on which the validity can be challenged is that such an enactment is in contravention of any of the fundamental rights stipulated in Part III of the Constitution or any other provision of the Constitution. Another ground as could be culled out from the recent s of this G Court is that the validity of the legislative act can be challenged on the ground of manifest arbitrariness. However, while doing so, it will have to be remembered that the presumption is in favour of the constitutionality of a legislative enactment. 75. In the present case, it is nobody’s case that Parliament did not have power to enact on the subject on which the aforesaid Amendments H DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 573 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] have been enacted. As such, the said ground is not available to the A petitioners. 76. The next ground on which the validity of the aforesaid Amendments could be challenged is, as to whether they violate any of the fundamental rights stipulated in Part III of the Constitution or any other provision of the Constitution. B 77. It is sought to be urged that the aforesaid Amendments would defeat the directive issued by this court to have a fixed tenure of the Director of CBI/Director of Enforcement and permit a ‘carrot and stick’ policy to be adopted by the Executive. It is sought to be urged that if the aforesaid Amendments are permitted to exist, it will frustrate the very C purpose of insulating the aforesaid high posts from extraneous pressures. Let us consider this submission. 78. Insofar as the Director of Enforcement is concerned, the Central Government can appoint such a Director only on the recommendation of the Committee consisting of: D (i) the Central Vigilance Commissioner (Chairman); (ii) Vigilance Commissioners (Members); (iii) Secretary to the Government of India in-charge of the Ministry of Personnel in the Central Government (Member); (iv) Secretary to the Government of India in-charge of the E Ministry of Home Affairs in the Central Government (Member); (v) Secretary to the Government of India in-charge of the Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance in the Central Government (Member). F 79. It can thus be seen that a person can be appointed as Director of Enforcement only if the aforesaid Committee makes a recommendation to that effect. The said Committee, inter alia, consists of the Central Vigilance Commissioner as well as the Vigilance Commissioners. G 80. As pointed out herein above, Section 4 of the CVC Act deals with appointment of Central Vigilance Commissioner and Vigilance Commissioners.