A garages and out houses together with all trees, plants, shrubs, crops and all agricultural implements and cattle as per list handed over to the vendee and all surface rights, lights, water & other rights easements to have to hold and to enjoy peaceably and for ever without any let or hindrance from the vendor or any one claiming through him or B independently. It is certified by These Presents that the possession of the premises has already been made over to the vendee whose name has already been mutated in the Government records in place of the vendor aforesaid. It is further certified that the land and premises hereby sold are C absolutely free from all liens and charges save and except the yearly Government lease rent of Rs.183/6/4. The Vendor covenants with the vendee to compensate and save from harm the vendee his heirs, executors and assigns against any loss or damage that he might suffer due to any defect in the title of the vendor to sell the premises hereby D transferred or to any part thereof…….” (Emphasis Applied) These recitals of the Sale Deed highlight that the relationship between Mr. John Vaughn and Mr. Manohar Lal seemed more akin to E that of a vendor-vendee in a title sale than that of the sale of leasehold rights. 39. We must again take note that in respect of the two parallel findings given by the High Court, the Respondents for the first time before this Court have given up the finding which treated the Sale Deed as a sale of title. However, we must note that both these parallel findings F by the High Court have been without any serious examination of the nature of the Sale Deed itself. In our opinion, High Court erred in respect of these findings and as the same was essential to determine the present dispute on merit, we deem it a fit case to exercise our power of remand. 40.Additionally, despite these findings being a serious lacuna for G us to reach a conclusive decision, the Appellants have raised no serious objection to the modified stand taken by the Respondents wherein they stated that the Sale Deed was in respect of leasehold rights only. However, we would like to highlight several other aspects of the present disputes which further warrant the exercise of the power of remand. H STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR 967 (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] C.2 DETERMINATION OF THE 1924 LEASE DEED: A THE BREACH OF THE CONDITION OF PRIOR APPROVAL AND EXPIRY OF INITIAL LEASE DEED PERIOD 41. During the course of hearing, the bench raised a query in respect of the earliest stand taken by the Appellants on the aspect of B breach of clause (e) of the 1924 Lease Deed in respect of prior approval. In response to the same, our attention was towards the plaint filed by the State in the 1967 Eviction Suit, the relevant part thereof is as follows – “X-X-X-X C 3.