Firstly, that every link in the chain of circumstances necessary to establish the guilt of the accused must be established by the prosecution beyond reasonable doubt and secondly, B all the circumstances must be consistent pointing out only towards the guilt of the accused. We need not burden this by referring to other s as the above principles have been consistently followed and approved by this Court time and again. 11. In the above backdrop of the settled legal propositions, we C proceed to deal with the facts, circumstances and evidence of the present case and find out as to whether each link of the chain of circumstances is fully established by the prosecution or not. 12. The basic links in the chain of circumstances starts with motive, then move on to last seen theory, recovery, medical evidence, expert D opinions if any and any other additional link which may be part of the chain of circumstances. 13. First of all, we may record that the prosecution has not come forward with any motive whatsoever as to why the appellant along with the co-accused juvenile ‘K’ would commit the said crime. Even the Trial E Court and the High Court in the absence of any evidence have not been able to record a finding on the motive for the commission of the crime. 14. The High Court dealt with the aspect of motive in solitary paragraph no.20, a perusal of which does not reflect that any motive was noticed but that ‘juvenile K’ was the mastermind behind the crime F and that he had purchased the weapon of assault. This, by nowhere would constitute a motive. 15. In a case of circumstantial evidence, motive has an important role to play. Motive may also have a role to play even in a case of direct evidence but it carries much greater importance in a case of circumstantial G evidence than a case of direct evidence. It is an important link in the chain of circumstances. Reference may be made to the following two s on the importance of motive in a case of circumstantial evidence: 3 AIR 2020 SC 180 H INDRAJIT DAS v. THE STATE OF TRIPURA 147 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] (1) KunaAlias Sanjaya Behera vs. State of Odisha4; and A (2) Ranganayaki vs. State by Inspector of Police5. 16. Next, in the present case, the dead body has not been recovered. Only a limb was recovered but no DNA testing was carried out to establish that the limb was that of the deceased Kaushik Sarkar. As such the entire case of the prosecution proceeds on presumption that B Kaushik Sarkar has died. The principle of corpus delicti has s on both sides stating that conviction can be recorded in the absence of the recovery of the corpus and the other view that no conviction could be recorded in the absence of recovery of the corpus. The later view is for the reason that if subsequently the corpus appears as alive, someone C may have been convicted and sentenced and suffered incarceration for no crime committed by him.