For C these observations, the High Court considered it appropriate that the parties be given an opportunity to adduce further evidence and the matter be considered afresh. The High Court concluded on the matter with the following observations and directions: - “23. From the above, I notice that evidence necessary for D a proper determination of the suit has not been brought on record. The evidence on record is insufficient to arrive at a proper finding in favour of or against Ext.A1 Sale Deed. Material witnesses have not been examined. No evidence has been brought in with regard to passing of consideration. In the circumstances I am of the opinion that it would only be appropriate if the parties are E given an opportunity to adduce further evidence and the matter be considered afresh. The decree and in OS 293/12 is to be set aside and the suit remanded back to the trial court for disposal de novo. In the result, RFA Nos.96/12, 827/10, 238/14 are dismissed, F but without costs. RFA 247/14 is allowed. The and decree in OS 293/13 is set aside and the suit is remitted back to the trial court for disposal de novo after affording opportunity to all the parties to adduce further evidence. Parties to appear before the trial court on 24.07.2019.” G 6. Assailing the aforesaid and dated 28.06.2019, learned counsel for the appellant has strenuously argued that want of production of sufficient evidence had been a failure on the part of plaintiff- respondent No. 1 to prove her case but this failure on her part cannot be a ground to put the matter into another round of proceedings in the Trial Court. It has also been submitted that the High Court ought not to have H 12 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A remanded the suit for a fresh trial while requiring the parties to adduce fresh evidence because neither any ground was pleaded nor any relief was sought to that effect. Learned counsel would elaborate that it had not been the case of the plaintiff-respondent No. 1 that the Trial Court failed to consider any evidence adduced by her or that she could not produce any vital piece of evidence for any valid reason. On the contrary, B she neither got examined herself nor examined the Sub Registrar, who had registered the sale deed; and rather, the plaintiff’s husband,who was an attesting witness to the earlier agreement for sale, was examined in evidence on her behalf as PW-1. With reference to illustration (g) to Section 114 of the Evidence Act, learned counsel for the appellant has C argued that adverse inference ought to have been drawn against the plaintiff-respondent No. 1 for not presenting herself in the witness-box, particularly when the allegations of fraud were sought to be made the basis of her claim. Learned counsel has also submitted that none of the elements of proviso (1) to Section 92 of the Evidence Act having been established,the Trial Court, after appreciation of evidence, took a D reasonable view of the matter while finding that the circumstances were probabilising the case of the defendant-appellant.