In that sense, it was observed that treating them as a debt would tantamount to breach of the concessional agreement and the common loan agreement. The investment was clearly in the nature of debentures which were compulsorily convertible into equity and nowhere is it stipulated that these CCDs would partake the character of fi nancial debt on the happening of a particular event. 25. The appellant has invoked the guarantees and sought remedy against the sponsor company. The fact that it is not serving any fruitful purpose is not something which can weigh with us. 26. A signifi cant aspect taken note of in the impugned is that the terms of the various agreements prohibited the corporate debtor from taking 292 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. further debt without the consent of the assignees. No such approval was sought or taken. The amount was treated as an equity alone and not as a debt. 27. The NCLAT has also touched on the issue of the remedy which was available to the appellant which, in its view, was not availed within time a time bound process being of the essence in the Code. The claim of the appellant was rejected on 09.08.2022 and the appellant only sought to again raise the issue which could not extend the period of time. 28. The challenge to the rejection was laid only on 30.11.2022, after a period of three months from the rejection of the claim. 29. Last but not the least, we must also note that our jurisdiction comes from Section 62 of the Code. The said section reads as under: “62. (1) Any person aggrieved by an of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal may fi le an appeal to the Supreme Court on a question of law arising out of such under this Code within forty-fi ve days from the date of receipt of such ” 30. The jurisdiction is restricted to a question of law akin to a second appeal. The law does not envisage unlimited tiers of scrutiny and every tier of scrutiny has its own parameters. Thus, the lis inter se the parties has to be analyzed within the four corners of the ambit of the statutory jurisdiction conferred on this Court. 31. We are thus of the view that the appeal does not raise any such question of law and that the fi ndings of the Courts below are in accordance with settled principles. 32. We thus dismiss the appeal leaving parties to bear their own costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal dismissed. Nidhi Jain