published by the Oxford University Press has explained the meaning of these B words “inoperative or incapable of being performed” used in the New York Convention at p. 148, thus: “At first sight it is difficult to see a distinction between the terms ‘inoperative’ and ‘incapable of being performed’. However, an arbitration clause is inoperative where it has ceased to have effect C as a result, for example, of a failure by the parties to comply with a time-limit, or where the parties have by their conduct impliedly revoked the arbitration agreement. By contrast, the expression ‘incapable of being performed’ appears to refer to more practical aspects of the prospective arbitration proceedings. It applies, for example, if for some reason it is impossible to establish the arbitral D tribunal.” 34. Albert Jan Van Den Berg in an article titled “The New York Convention, 1958 — An Overview” published in the website of ICCA(www.arbitrationicca.org/media/0/12125884227980/ new_york_convention_of-1958_overview.pdf), referring to Article E II(3) of the New York Convention, states: “The words ‘null and void’ may be interpreted as referring to those cases where the arbitration agreement is affected by some invalidity right from the beginning, such as lack of consent due to misrepresentation, duress, fraud or undue influence. F The word ‘inoperative’ can be said to cover those cases where the arbitration agreement has ceased to have effect, such as revocation by the parties. The words ‘incapable of being performed’ would seem to apply to those cases where the arbitration cannot be effectively set into G motion. This may happen where the arbitration clause is too vaguely worded, or other terms of the contract contradict the parties’ intention to arbitrate, as in the case of the so-called co- equal forum selection clauses. Even in these cases, the courts interpret the contract provisions in favour of arbitration.” H 418 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 35. The book Recognition and Conferment of Foreign Arbitral Awards : A Global Commentary on the New York Convention by Kronke, Nacimiento, et al.(ed.) (2010) at p. 82 says: “Most authorities hold that the same schools of thought and approaches regarding the term null and void also apply to the B terms inoperative and incapable of being performed. Consequently, the majority of authorities do not interpret these terms uniformly, resulting in an unfortunate lack of uniformity. With that caveat, we shall give an overview of typical examples where arbitration agreements were held to be (or not to be) inoperative or incapable of being performed. C The terms inoperative refers to cases where the arbitration agreement has ceased to have effect by the time the court is asked to refer the parties to arbitration. For example, the arbitration agreement ceases to have effect if there has already been an arbitral award or a court decision with res judicata effect D concerning the same subject-matter and parties. However, the mere existence of multiple proceedings is not sufficient to render the arbitration agreement inoperative. Additionally, the arbitration agreement can cease to have effect if the time-limit for initiating the arbitration or rendering the award has expired, provided that it E was the parties’ intent no longer to be bound by the arbitration agreement due to the expiration of this time-limit.