However, G it cannot be ignored that the decisions of Courts to award compensation in such cases, proceed on the basis of lower evidentiary standards, as noted by this Court in Kumari vs. State of Tamil Nadu, (1992) 2 SCC 223. 60. In Tamil Nadu Electricity Board vs. Sumathi Das, (2000) H 4 SCC 543, this Court held that exercise of writ jurisdiction would be KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 799 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] inappropriate where there were disputed questions of fact that required A proof through substantial evidence. However, it has been clarified that the restriction applied only to the higher judiciary’s writ jurisdiction under Articles 32 and 226, and that it did not restrain this Court’s power to address the matter under Article 142, which allows this Court to pass any ‘necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter.’ B Therefore, this Court has recognised that factual disputes could operate as a limit on the Courts’ ability to treat a matter as being actionable as a Constitutional tort but has nevertheless awarded monetary compensation in certain cases possibly having regard to the glaring facts of those cases by exercising power under Article 142 of the Constitution. C 61. Scholarly views suggest that the concept of Constitutional tort challenges the ability of law to deter socially harmful behaviour of different kinds, by forcing the perpetrator to internalise the costs of their actions. However, in case of a Constitutional tort action, the entity saddled with the cost, is not the same as the entity who is to be deterred. This absurdity D is stated to be threatening to the corrective justice idea that tort law embodies. In other words, an actor’s direct ability to alter the injury- causing behaviour is critical to the foundation of tort law. However, given that an action of Constitutional tort imposes the burden of damages on an entity, other than the violator of the right, a doubt has been cast on its effectiveness in serving as a vehicle of corrective justice. E 62. In light of the aforesaid discussion, it is observed that it is not prudent to treat all cases where a statement made by a public functionary resulting in harm or loss to a person/citizen, as a constitutional tort. Regard must be had in every case to the nature of resultant harm or loss. Further, it is to be noted that even the cases cited hereinabove have permitted F treating an act or omission as a constitutional tort only where there has been an infraction of fundamental right as a direct result of such act or omission. Therefore the causal connection between the act or omission and the resultant infraction of fundamental rights, is central to any determination of an action of constitutional tort. G 63. In Delhi Jal Board vs. National Campaign for Dignity & Rights of Sewerage & Allied Workers, (2011) 8 SCC 568, this Court refused to entertain a matter against an interim passed by the Delhi High Court in a writ petition, whereby the Petitioner Board had been directed to deposit compensation in favour of the family of a H 800 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.