G 8. He relied upon the correspondence between the parties and argued that the demand for reconciliation was made in the second week of February, 1994. Therefore, when the reference was made in 1997 and when the claim was made, the appellant only then, preferred a counter claim in December, 1997. It was therefore, submitted that even on an H SUPER DIAMOND TOOLS & ORS. v. K. MOHAN RAO 647 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] application of the principle underlying Section 17, the claim was time A barred. 9. The impugned was based entirely upon the fact that the award sought to crystallize liabilities based on working of the accounts for 21 years. The Division Bench, further, noticed that the arbitrator was appointed, pursuant to which the appellant made a counter claim. B The record shows that in terms of the averments in the counter claim, the first respondent had stopped functioning as a partner in December, 1993. Although it appears that the parting of ways took place in early January, 1994, the fact remains that between that time and December, 1997 there was no attempt on the part of the appellant to positively C enforce his claim. Furthermore, even the pleadings in the counter claim are not specific with respect to the allegations of fraud. The ground on which the counter claim ultimately succeeded was over-invoicing on the one hand and diversion of raw material, such as diamonds, into the respondent’s wife’s business which resulted in denuding the partnership firm’s profit. D 10. The allegations in the counter claim are only to the effect that the first respondent set up a firm within 6 months of the leaving the appellant’s firm. Section 17 of the Limitation Act is an exception to the rule that the period of limitation commences from the date of cause of action. However, where the condition contemplated under Section 17 - E such as fraud exists, then subject to proof of fraud (based on specific averments) the date when limitation begins to be seen is date of knowledge of the plaintiff. The principle consistently followed by this Court in its past decisions such as Shri Vallabh Glass Works Ltd. v. Union of India1 and Commissioner of Sales Tax, UP v. Auriaya Chambers of F Commerce, Allahabad2 is that the date of knowledge of fraud - or such misfeasance - is the starting point for limitation. Further, it has been held by this Court in R. Radha Bai & Ors. v. P. Ashok Kumar & Ors.3 that Section 17 of the Limitation Act: “does not extend or break the limitation period. It only postpones or defers the limitation period. This is evident from G the phrase “The period of limitation shall not begin to run.” 1 [1984] 3 SCR 180 2 [1986] 2 SCR 430 3 [2018] 12 SCR 143 H 648 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 11. Having regard to the fact that the appellant (through its surviving partner) made its claim beyond 3 years from the date of his knowledge of the alleged fraud, this Court is of the opinion that the impugned , to the extent it sets aside the award, although in an appeal, is not in error of law.