It is permissible for her under the law to practice medicine when she is not performing her official duties. The Appellant, in her individual and independent capacity was carrying on her medical practice at a premises which is No. 87, Red Hills Road (North), Villivakkam, at Chennai. It is H S. ATHILAKSHMI v. THE STATE REP. BY THE DRUGS 917 INSPECTOR [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] here that she could be consulted and where she meets and examines her A patients. 3. An inspection was made on the above premises by the Drugs Inspector, Villivakkam Range on 16.03.2016. As per inspection report, the Drugs Inspector found the following medicines in the inner room of her premises. B C D E The Drugs Inspector also referred to certain sale bills of medicines which are as follows: F G H 918 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 4. The Drugs Inspector thereafter moved an application for obtaining sanction from the office of the Director of Drugs Control, Tamil Nadu, Chennai-06 on 22.09.2016 which was given to him on 23.01.2018. Consequently, the Drugs Inspector filed a complaint before the Court of X Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore, for prosecuting the Appellant under Section 18(c) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 B punishable under Section 27(b)(ii) of the Act. 5. Aggrieved by these proceedings, the Appellant filed an application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 before the High Court of Madras for quashing the criminal proceedings. Her petition was dismissed by the Ld. Single Judge on 21.06.2022. C Aggrieved by this, the Appellant has filed Special Leave Petition before this Court against the of the Single Judge. 6. Under Section 18 of Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940, a prohibition has been imposed as to the manufacture, sale etc. of certain drugs and cosmetics. Section 18 reads as follows: D 18. Prohibition of manufacture and sale of certain drugs and cosmetics. — From such date as may be fixed by the State Government by notification in the Official Gazette in this behalf, no person shall himself or by any other person on his behalf— (a) ………………………………….. E (b) [sell or stock or exhibit or offer for sale,] or distribute any drug [or cosmetic] which has been imported or manufactured in contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or any rule made thereunder; F (c) [manufacture for sale or for distribution, or sell, or stock or exhibit or offer for sale,] or distribute any drug [or cosmetic], except under, and in accordance with the conditions of, a licence issued for such purpose under this Chapter: Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to the G manufacture, subject to prescribed conditions, of small quantities of any drug for the purpose of examination, test or analysis: Provided further that the [Central Government] may, after consultation with the Board, by notification in the Official Gazette, permit, subject to any conditions specified in the H S. ATHILAKSHMI v. THE STATE REP. BY THE DRUGS 919 INSPECTOR [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.]