It is therefore contended on behalf of the respondents that the appellant No.1 being a habitual offender was required to be investigated in relation to FIR No.255/ 2020. Though on information, an attempt was made to apprehend him in Odisha, the same was not successful but he was found in Raipur itself G the next day where he was indulging in the illegal activity when he was apprehended. Hence the incident in Green Park Hotel as put forth by the appellants is disputed. Whether these seriously disputed facts justifies the prayer seeking for investigation by CBI, is the question to be answered herein. H ROYDEN HAROLD BUTHELLO & ANR. v. STATE OF 159 CHHATTISGARH & ORS. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] 17. Having noted this aspect of the matter it is appropriate to A refer to the decision in the case of State of West Bengal & Ors. vs. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal & Ors. (2010) 3 SCC 571 wherein it is held as hereunder:- “70. Before parting with the case, we deem it necessary to emphasise that despite wide powers conferred by Articles 32 and B 226 of the Constitution, while passing any , the Courts must bear in mind certain self-imposed limitations on the exercise of these constitutional powers. The very plenitude of the power under the said articles requires great caution in its exercise. Insofar as the question of issuing a direction to CBI to conduct investigation C in a case is concerned, although no inflexible guidelines can be laid down to decide whether or not such power should be exercised but time and again it has been reiterated that such an is not to be passed as a matter of routine or merely because a party has levelled some allegations against the local police. This extraordinary power must be exercised sparingly, cautiously and in exceptional D situations where it becomes necessary to provide credibility and instil confidence in investigations or where the incident may have national and international ramifications or where such an may be necessary for doing complete justice and enforcing the fundamental rights. Otherwise CBI would be flooded with a large E number of cases and with limited resources, may find it difficult to properly investigate even serious cases and in the process lose its credibility and purpose with unsatisfactory investigations.” Also Mithilesh Kumar Singh vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors. (2015) 9 SCC 795 wherein it is held hereunder:- F “12. Even so the availability of power and its exercise are two distinct matters. This Court does not direct transfer of investigation just for the asking nor is transfer directed only to satisfy the ego or vindicate the prestige of a party interested in such investigation. The decision whether transfer should or should not be ed G rests on the Court’s satisfaction whether the facts and circumstances of a given case demand such an . No hard-and-fast rule has been or can possibly be prescribed for universal application to all cases.