Section 12(3), as noticed earlier, states that the grounds of challenge to existence of circumstances, giving rise to justifi able doubts about tribunal’s independence or impartiality. Section 13(3) states that if the arbitrator does 101 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. not withdraw or the other party does not in the absence of the other party agreeing according to the challenge; the tribunal has to decide upon it. By Section 13(4) if the challenge is unsuccessful the tribunal would continue with the proceedings and fi nalize its award. Section 13(5) states that any party can challenge the arbitrator’s decision, after the award is made under Section 34. Section 13(6) keeps open the issue of fee to be payable to the arbitrator in the event, the award is set aside on the ground under Section 13(5). 25. Section 14 deals with the contingency of failure or impossibility of the arbitrator or tribunal to act and stipulates that the mandate of an arbitrator shall terminate and he shall be substituted by another “if he becomes de jure or de facto unable to perform its functions or for other reasons fails to act without undue delay or withdraws from his offi ce or parties agrees to the termination of his mandate”. By Section 14(2) if a controversy remains, concerning the grounds referred to in Section 14 (1), the Court may be approached by the parties to decide upon the issue of termination on mandate. 26. Having regard to the above statutory position it would be necessary to consider the s cited. The fi rst in this series would be M/s. Voestalpine Schienen GMBH v. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd.,19 where taking note of the amendment made to the Act in 2015, the Court underlined that it was with the objective to induce neutrality of arbitrators especially their independence and impartiality that the amendment act of 2015 was introduced. The amended provision was enacted to identify the circumstances that gave rise to justifi able doubts about the independence or impartiality of the arbitrator and in the event, any of those circumstances exist, the remedy provided is under Section 12. The court particularly underlined Section 12(5) which nullifi ed prior agreements to the contrary. In the facts of that case, it was held that if an advisor had any past or present business relationship with a party, he was ineligible to act as arbitrator. 27. The next case HRD (supra),needs to be closely analyzed. The court fi rst examined with some detail, the background of the 2015 amendment, 19 2017 (1) SCR 798 CHENNAI METRO RAIL LTD. ADMIN. BUILDING v. 1011 M/S TRANSTONNELSTROY AFCONS (JV) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the circumstances leading to it which is the Law Commission Report and eventually, the amendment. The Court then signifi cantly ruled as follows: “15. The enumeration of grounds given in the Fifth and Seventh Schedules have been taken from the IBA Guidelines, particularly from the Red and Orange Lists thereof. The aforesaid guidelines consist of three lists.