It is another matter that the said article is brought from the place where it is lying to the place where the search takes place but that cannot alter the position in law that the said article was not being carried by the accused on his or her person when apprehended. We must hasten to clarify that if that person is carrying a handbag or the like and the incriminating article is found therefrom, it would still be a search of the person of the accused requiring compliance with Section 50 of the Act. However, when an article is lying elsewhere and is not on the person of the accused and is brought to a place where the accused is found, and on search, incriminating articles are found therefrom it cannot attract the requirements of Section 50 of the Act for the simple reason that it was not found on the accused person. So, on the facts of this case, it is diffi cult to hold that Section 50 stood attracted and non-compliance with that provision was fatal to the prosecution case.” (Emphasis supplied) 78. Thereafter, in Abdul Rashid Ibrahim Mansuri v. State of Gujarat reported in (2000) 2 SCC 513, this Court (a three-Judge Bench) adopted a similar approach. It is relevant to note that the Bench was presided over by Dr. A.S. Anand, CJ, who authored the Constitution Bench decision in Baldev Singh (supra). In the said matter, four gunny bags were found in an auto rickshaw, which the accused was driving and no other person was present. The argument based on non-compliance of Section 50 as explained in the case of Baldev Singh (supra) was rejected on the ground that the gunny bags were not inextricably connected with the person of the accused. It was held that:- “12. In the present case, even the appellant has no case that he was searched by the police party. The place where the gunny bags were found stacked in the vehicle was not inextricably connected with the person of the appellant. Hence it is an idle exercise in this case, on 342 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the fact-situation, to consider whether there was non-compliance with the conditions stipulated in Section 50 of the Act.” (Emphasis supplied) 79. Thereafter, in Yasihey Yobin. v. Department of Customs, Shillong reported in (2014) 13 SCC 344, the test of an item being “inextricably linked to the person” was laid down while relying upon Namdi (supra). This Court held that in cases where the line of separation between the search of a person and an artifi cial object is thin and fi ne, the test of inextricable connection should be applied and then conclusion should be reached whether the search was that of a person or not. It was held that:- “10. This position in law is settled by the Constitution Bench in the case of State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh, and in Megh Singh v. State of Punjab, (2003) 8 SCC 666, where application of Section 50 is only in case of search of a person as contrasted to search of premises, vehicles or articles.