In the said case, this Court speaking through Dr. D. Y. Chandrachud, J. (as His Lordship then was) observed as under: E “85…..An absolute bar on women seeking criteria or command appointments would not comport with the guarantee of equality under Article 14. Implicit in the guarantee of equality is that where the action of the State does differentiate between two classes of persons, it does not differentiate them in an unreasonable or irrational manner. In this sense, even at its bare minimum, the F right to equality is a right to rationality. Where the State, and in this case the Army as an instrumentality of the State, differentiates between women and men, the burden falls squarely on the Army to justify such differentiation with reason. An absolute prohibition of women SSC officers to obtain anything but staff appointments G evidently does not fulfil the purpose of granting PCs as a means of career advancement in the Army. Whether a particular candidate should or should not be granted a criteria or command assignment is a matter for the competent authority to consider having regard to all the exigencies of service, performance and organisational requirements. In the present case the Army has H ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 349 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] provided no justification in discharging its burden as to why women A across the board should not be considered for any criteria or command appointments. Command assignments are not automatic for men SSC officers who are granted PC and would not be automatic for women either. The absolute exclusion of women from all others except staff assignments is indefensible. If the B Army has cogent reasons for excluding women from a particular criteria or command appointment, it may provide them to the relevant authorities and if necessary, to future courts. However, such a justification must take place on a case-to-case basis, in light of the requirements and exigencies of a particular appointment. The blanket non-consideration of women for criteria or command C appointments absent an individuated justification by the Army cannot be sustained in law.” 60. The fight for non-discrimination based on considerations of gender has assumed centre stage in the United States of America as well. The Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution provides that D no State shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction, equal protection of the laws. This clause has evolved a body of judicial doctrine which is comprised, inter-alia, in the numerous rulings issued by the United States Supreme Court, that have advanced women’s rights. A few of such landmark decisions may be referred to as under: E (a) In Reed vs. Reed, 404 U.S. 71, 92 S. Ct. 251 (1971), the question before the Supreme Court of the United States was, whether, a statute, namely, the Idaho Probate Code that included a gender-based provision, preferring males over females to administer an estate, violated the Equal Protection clause of the F Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution.In a unanimous decision, the Court held that the Idaho Probate Code’s dissimilar treatment of men and women was unconstitutional and was violative of the Equal Protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.