[2023] 11 S.C.R. 484 : 2023 INSC 771 CASE DETAILS RAJO @ RAJWA @ RAJENDRA MANDAL v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. (Writ Petition (Criminal) No(s). 252 of 2023) AUGUST 25, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Petitioner serving a sentence of life imprisonment for commission of off ences punishable u/ss.302/34 of the IPC, 1860 and s.27 of the Arms Act, 1959 sought direction for his premature release on the ground that he has been in custody for 24 years without grant of remission or parole. Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – Remission – Grant of: Held: Remission Board rejected the petitioner’s application for premature release twice – The reason for rejection of the petitioner’s application was the adverse report submitted by the presiding judge in the fi rst round, which was perfunctorily relied upon and reiterated in the report submitted by the then presiding judge in the second round as well – Both the reports submitted by the presiding judges (at the relevant time), demonstrate a casual opinion, based solely on the judicial record which presumably consisted of the fi nding of guilt, by the trial court and High Court – Overemphasis on the presiding judge’s opinion and complete disregard of comments of other authorities, while arriving at its conclusion, would render the appropriate government’s decision on a remission application, unsustainable – The appropriate government, should take a holistic view of all the opinions received (in terms of the relevant rules), including the judicial view of the presiding judge of the concerned court, keeping in mind the purpose and objective, of remission – Remission Board to reconsider the petitioner’s application for remission afresh – Concerned presiding judge to provide an opinion on the petitioner’s application for premature release, by examining the judicial record, and provide adequate reasoning, taking 484 RAJO @ RAJWA @ RAJENDRA MANDAL v. THE STATE 485 OF BIHAR & ORS. into account the factors laid down in Laxman Naskar case – Given the long period of incarceration already suff ered by the writ petitioner and his age, the Remission Board should render its decision, preferably within three months from the date of this . [Paras 14-17, 25] Sentencing – Judicial exercise vis-à-vis executive function – Statutory and Constitutional powers– s.432 CrPC; Articles 72, 161, Constitution of India: Held: Sentencing is a judicial exercise of power – The act thereafter of executing the sentence awarded, however, is a purely executive function which includes the grant of remission, commutation, pardon, reprieves, or suspension of sentence – This executive power is traceable to Article 72 and 161 of the Constitution of India – Whilst the statutory (u/s.432 CrPC) and constitutional (under Articles 72 and 161 of the Constitution) powers are distinct- the former limited power, is still an imprint of the latter (much wider power), and must be understood as such and placed in this context – This executive power which is inherently discretionary in nature, has to be exercised fairly, reasonably, and not arbitrarily – Absence to do so, would compel the court to exercise its judicial review and in appropriate cases remit the matter for reconsideration – Procedure laid out in s.432(2), has been held to be mandatory.