Essentially, it was a method of compensation for certain services, by granting rent-free land. 1 Gurgaon District Gazetteer, Gurgaon DG – Administrative Section A to C, 1910, pg. 177. 2 Mamala & Ors. vs. ISA & Anr., 1983 Punjab Law Journal 231; Gurgaon District Gazetteer, Gurgaon DG – Administrative Section A to C, 1910, pg. 177. LAJJA RAM & ORS. v. RATI CHAND & ORS. ETC 1531 11. A bhondedar typically possesses the following characteristic features: (i) He renders secular services towards the village community as well as the biswedars (proprietors), (ii) He is granted a parcel of land rent-free, within a village by the biswedars in lieu of payment for services rendered, and (iii) A bhondedar can be ejected from such piece of land in case of failure to render assigned services or fulfi l conditions of such grant. 12. The aforementioned characteristic features suggest that the rights available to Dfdt. No. 1 as the bhondedar, were conditional and not boundless. He could exercise limited rights as long as he rendered service towards the village in his capacity as the bhondedar. 13. Proceeding with the above understanding, let us now examine the nature & extent of a bhondedar’s right over a shamlatdeh property and also whether the bhondedar can exercise ownership rights over the granted land. The conditional and limited rights a dholi or a bhonda can exercise over the granted land, can be culled out from the decision in Lahore High Court in Sewa Ram vs. Udegir3where the following was expressed “…… in the revenue records the proprietary body are recorded as the owners of the property, and the grantee is recorded as a tenant in the column of cultivation. So long as the purpose, for which the grant is made, is carried out, it cannot be resumed, but should the holder fail to carry out the duties of his offi ce, the proprietors can eject him and put in someone else under a like tenure……. …….. It is beyond dispute that tenure of this kind cannot be alienated by sale or mortgage, and there can be little doubt that any alienation of that character, if made by the Dohlidar, would be absolutely void……… As the transaction was altogether void, we consider that even the alienor could have successfully pleaded in answer to the plaintiff ’s suit that the latter could not enforce it in a Court of law……. For the foregoing reasons we are of opinion that the Dohlidar had no 3 1921 SCC OnLine Lah 237. 153 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. right to make the alienation relied upon by the plaintiff , and that the defendant is not precluded from impeaching its validity………” 14. The above would suggest that a bhondedar had only limited right and should he fail to carry out his assigned duties, even this limited right becomes unavailable to the grantee of the property. The very nature of the tenure(s) does not bestow upon the holder, any right to alienate the granted land, by sale or mortgage.