A 12. The learned counsel further submitted that the District Magistrate, Mau who is an arbitrator appointed by the Central Government does not have any jurisdiction to decide the apportionment of the compensation. He is empowered only to decide the quantum of compensation under Section 3G(5) of the Act 1956 as an arbitrator. B 13. The learned counsel submitted that challenge before the District Magistrate, Mau was to the dated 11.12.2019 passed by the competent authority which he could not have entertained. The passed by the District Magistrate dated 16.01.2020 could be said to be without jurisdiction. 14. In the last, the learned counsel submitted that even otherwise C the impugned passed by the District Magistrate, Mau, could be said to be without jurisdiction as no notice or any opportunity of hearing was given to the appellants. 15. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being merit in his appeal, the same may be allowed D and the passed by the District Magistrate, Mau dated 16.01.2020 be quashed and set aside and the writ application filed by the appellants before the High Court be allowed. SUMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT NO. 1 – DISTRICT MAGISGRATE, MAU AND THE E RESPONDENT NO. 2 - COMPETENT AUTHORITY/ SPECIAL LAND ACQUISITION OFFICER, MAU 16. Shri V.K. Shukla, the learned senior counsel appearing for the District Magistrate, Mau (respondent No. 1) and Competent Authority/ Special Land Acquisition Officer, Mau (respondent No. 2), very fairly F submitted that the High Court committed an error in rejecting the writ application filed by the appellants herein. Shri Shukla submitted that the District Magistrate, Mau could not have entertained any petition filed at the instance of the respondents seeking to challenge the passed by the competent authority dated 11.12.2019 under Section 3H(3) of the Act 1956. In such circumstances referred to above, Shri Shukla submitted G that appropriate relief be granted in favour of the appellants. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT NOS. 4, 6 AND 16 17. Shri Arvind Kumar Shukla, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent Nos. 4, 6 and 16, submitted that no error not to speak of H VINOD KUMAR & ORS. v. DISTRICT MAGISTRATE MAU & 399 ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] any error of law could be said to have been committed by the High A Court in passing the impugned . He submitted that the dispute, in substance, is not one of apportionment but is in respect of the share in the subject land. In such circumstances, the District Magistrate, Mau had the jurisdiction and competence to look into the passed by the competent authority by relying upon the dated 31.05.1976 passed B by the Principal Civil Judge, Azamgarh in Civil Suit No. 63 of 1970. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being no merit in the present appeal, the same may be dismissed. ANALYSIS 18. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties C and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned .