It is G submitted that it is not possible to remove any person/firm from a position which whey are not holding. Accordingly, an directing removal of BSR who had already resigned as auditor of IFIN would only be possible by way of a legal fiction of treating BSR as continuing to remain IFIN’s auditor. H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 995 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] xix) It is next submitted that Section 140(5) of the Act does not A create any legal fiction by which an auditor who has resigned would continue to be treated as an auditor. A deeming fiction can only be created by the legislature. In fact, courts and tribunals do not have the power to create a deeming fiction by judicial interpretation when the statute does not provide for it. Reliance is B placed upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of Bhuwalka Steel Industries Ltd & Anr v. UOI, (2017) 5 SCC 598 (Para 38) and Sant Lal Gupta v. Modern Cooperative Housing Society Ltd., (2010) 13 SCC 336 (Para 14). xx) It is submitted that the need for a deemed removal of a past C auditor does not arise, since the very purpose and object of Section 140, i.e., removal and change of auditors, has been satisfied by the auditor’s resignation. Such a past auditor can, despite his resignation, be prosecuted for fraud under Section 447 of the Act. Therefore, the question of removing the auditor under Section 140(5) cannot and does not arise. D xxi) It is submitted that the Ministry was aware that an under Section 140(5) cannot be passed against a past auditor except through the device of a deeming fiction. This is evident from prayers (a), (b) and (c) of the 140(5) Company Petition sought qua Deloitte in which Ministry sought a “deemed removal” E of Deloitte even though it had already rotated out as auditor. Consequently, NCLT could not have gone into the merits of the 140(5) Company Petition itself as the relief sought for was beyond NCLT’s powers. xxii) It is submitted that further, the prayers in the Company Petition F sought against BSR became infructuous with its resignation on 19 June 2019. Pertinently, no “deemed removal” prayer was sought against BSR after its resignation. Despite this, NCLT proceeded to create a deeming fiction so as to clutch at its jurisdiction to pass an under Section 140(5) against BSR. G xxiii) It is then submitted that NCLT, exercising powers under Section 140(5), cannot direct removal of past auditors or deem such auditors to have been removed at a previous date. NCLT, being a creature of a statute, has to act within the domain prescribed by the law/statutory provision. Thus, NCLT cannot H 996 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A exercise power which has not been expressly vested in it, by directing a “deemed change in auditors. Reliance is placed upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of B. Himmatlal Agrawal v Competition Commission of India, AIR 2018 SC 2804 (para 8) and Cellular Operators Association of India v. Union of India, (2003) 3 SCC 186 (para 20-21).