××× ××× ××× 56. Insofar as the contention of the respondents with regard to clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 14 IBC is concerned, we do not fi nd that the words used in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 14 IBC could be read to mean that the decree-holder is not entitled to invoke the provisions of the IBC for initiation of CIRP. A plain reading of the said Section would clearly provide that once CIRP is initiated, there shall be prohibition for institution of suits or continuation of pending suits or proceedings against the corporate debtor including execution of any , decree or in any court of law, tribunal, arbitration panel or other authority. The prohibition to institution of suit or continuation of pending suits or proceedings including execution of decree would not mean that a decree-holder is also prohibited from initiating CIRP, if he is otherwise entitled to in law. The eff ect would be that the applicant, who is a decree-holder, would himself be prohibited from executing the decree in his favour. ××× ××× ××× 71. We have already hereinabove, done the exercise of considering the relevant provisions of the IBC afresh and come to a conclusion that a TOTTEMPUDI SALALITH v. STATE BANK OF INDIA & 501 ORS. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] liability in respect of a claim arising out of a recovery certifi cate would be a “fi nancial debt” within the meaning of clause (8) of Section 5 IBC and a holder of the recovery certifi cate would be a “fi nancial creditor” within the meaning of clause (7) of Section 5 IBC. We have also held that a person would be entitled to initiate CIRP within a period of three years from the date on which the recovery certifi cate is issued. We are of the considered view that the view taken by the two-Judge Bench of this Court in Dena Bank [Dena Bank v. C. Shivakumar Reddy, (2021) 10 SCC 330] is correct in law and we affi rm the same. ××× ××× ××× 86. To conclude, we hold that a liability in respect of a claim arising out of a recovery certifi cate would be a “fi nancial debt” within the meaning of clause (8) of Section 5 IBC. Consequently, the holder of the recovery certifi cate would be a fi nancial creditor within the meaning of clause (7) of Section 5 IBC. As such, the holder of such certifi cate would be entitled to initiate CIRP, if initiated within a period of three years from the date of issuance of the recovery certifi cate.” 6. The Appellate Tribunal, in the impugned had also treated the letter of the corporate debtor which was issued on 29.01.2020 to be acknowledgement of debt and on that basis proceeded to compute the limitation period. In our opinion, this reasoning was procedurally wrong. The appellant’s stand on this position is founded on Section 18 of the Limitation Act, 1963 and he contends that any acknowledgment beyond the period of limitation would not revive the right to sue.