The question, therefore, is whether the public interest in recovering debts due to banks and fi nancial institutions is to give way to the public interest in rehabilitation of sick industrial companies, regard being had to the present economic scenario in the country, as refl ected in parliamentary legislation. xxx xxx xxx 19. While this Act had worked for a period of about 7 years, the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 was brought into force, pursuant to various committee reports. The Statement of Objects and Reasons for this Act reads as follows: “Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 1. Banks and financial institutions at present experience considerable diffi culties in recovering loans and enforcement of securities charged with them. The existing procedure for recovery of debts due to the banks and fi nancial institutions has blocked a signifi cant portion of their funds in unproductive assets, the value of which deteriorates with the passage of time. The Committee on the Financial System headed by Shri M. Narasimham has considered the setting up of the Special Tribunals with special powers for adjudication of such matters and speedy recovery as critical to the successful implementation of the fi nancial sector reforms. An urgent need was, therefore, felt to work out a suitable mechanism through which the dues to the banks and fi nancial institutions could be realised without delay. In 1981, a Committee under the Chairmanship of Shri T. Tiwari had examined the legal and other diffi culties faced by banks and fi nancial institutions and suggested remedial measures including changes in law. The Tiwari Committee had also suggested setting up of Special Tribunals for recovery of dues of the banks and fi nancial institutions by following a summary procedure. The setting up of Special Tribunals will not 94 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. only fulfi l a long-felt need, but also will be an important step in the implementation of the Report of Narasimham Committee. Whereas on 30-9-1990 more than fi fteen lakhs of cases fi led by the public sector banks and about 304 cases fi led by the fi nancial institutions were pending in various courts, recovery of debts involved more than Rs 5622 crores in dues of public sector banks and about Rs 391 crores of dues of the fi nancial institutions. The locking up of such huge amount of public money in litigation prevents proper utilisation and recycling of the funds for the development of the country. 2. The Bill seeks to provide for the establishment of Tribunals and Appellate Tribunals for expeditious adjudication and recovery of debts due to banks and fi nancial institutions. Notes on clauses explain in detail the provisions of the Bill.” 20. The Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 took away the jurisdiction of the courts and vested this jurisdiction in tribunals established by the Act so as to ensure speedy recovery of debts due to the banks and fi nancial institutions mentioned therein.