(vi) The Special Court thus had no power to grant permission to conduct a further investigation. B (vii) The of Vinay Tyagi (supra) had not been brought to the attention of the High Court at the time of deciding Crl. O.P. No. 6371 of 2014. 23. It appears that the respondent No. 3 herein also filed Crl. O.P. No. 411 of 2016, seeking quashing of the chargesheet. The High Court C vide dated 08.01.2016 allowed the Crl. O.P. No. 411 of 2016 filed by D. Dwarakanadha Reddy in terms of the passed by it dated 15.12.2015, holding that the same principles and reasonings would apply to the petition filed by the D. Dwarakanadha Reddy too. 24. Thus, the High Court ultimately quashed the entire prosecution, D essentially on the ground that the Special Court (CBI) had no jurisdiction/ power to grant permission to the CBI to conduct further investigation. In other words, the High Court took the view that the chargesheet filed against the accused persons was the outcome of the materials collected during the course of the further investigation, which by itself was illegal E and, therefore, the criminal proceedings would not be maintainable in the eye of law. It appears that the High Court was also cognizant of the fact that a Co-ordinate Bench had earlier set at rest all the issues vide dated 11.09.2014 passed in the Crl. O.P. No. 6371 of 2014. However, the same was not looked into on the ground that the said passed by the Co-ordinate Bench was per incuriam and, therefore, not F binding to another Co-ordinate Bench. 25. In such circumstances referred to above, the CBI is herein before this Court with the present appeals. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE CBI G 26. Mr. Jayant K. Sud, the learned Additional Solicitor General of India, appearing for the CBI vehemently submitted that the High Court committed a serious error in passing the impugned s thereby leading to a serious miscarriage of justice. H 148 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 27. The learned counsel further submitted that the law is well settled that further investigation can be undertaken under sub section (8) of Section 173 of the CrPC even after the closure report is filed and accepted by the court concerned. He would submit that new material/ evidence surfaced and came in the hands of the CBI on the basis of which an appropriate application was filed before the Special Court, B seeking permission to undertake the further investigation. He further submitted that the application filed by the CBI was duly considered and the Special Court permitted the CBI to re-open the case and undertake further investigation. 28. The learned counsel further submitted that the respondent C No. 3 (Accused No. 1) had questioned the entire action on the part of the CBI in seeking to re-open the case and undertake further investigation before the High Court by filing Crl. O.P. No. 6371 of 2014 and the High Court by a detailed had declined to interfere.