in eff ect for the past hearings too. The Tribunal further stated that it was not known when this court would deliver its and also raised doubts about the applicability of the said decision on the present tribunal. 4. Afcons, by its e-mail dated 28.07.2022 informed Chennai Metro that it had paid the revised fee for fi ve hearings (i.e., for 10th to 14th virtual hearings). Chennai Metro therefore fi led an application before the Madras High Court on 10.08.2022. In this proceeding under Section 14, the relief sought was a declaration that the mandate of the tribunal (whose members were impleaded as second to the fourth respondents, hereafter collectively referred to as “the tribunal”) was terminated in respect of the disputes referred to them. It was highlighted in these proceedings, that the payment of the disputed increased amount by one party, placed Chennai Metro “in an embarrassing situation and cause the petitioner to be prejudiced and not be treated in an impartial manner by the Ld. Arbitral Tribunal, resulting in the Ld. Arbitral Tribunal to become de jure unable to perform its functions as required.”1 1 As per petition fi led by Chennai Metro before HC under section 14 and 15 of the Act. 100 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 5. On 15.09.2022, all three members of the tribunal fi led affi davits, in response to the Section 14 petition acknowledging that this court’s in ONGC v. AFCONS Gunasa JV2 (hereafter “ONGC”) delivered on 30.08.2022 had decided the issue and thus members of the tribunal decided to revert back to the originally agreed fee i.e., ₹1,00,000. In identically worded affi davits, members of the tribunal stated that s would not create any prejudice to any party and they were in agreement that they would continue to discharge their duty in an independent and impartial manner in deciding the dispute and that parties need not have any apprehensions. Afcons too resisted the application. Initially, the High Court granted an interim , staying the proceedings.3 However, after hearing counsel for the parties, and considering the materials on the record, the court dismissed the application, fi led by Chennai Metro through the impugned . Contentions of Chennai Metro 6. The learned Additional Solicitor General Mr. N. Venkataraman, (hereafter referred to as “ASG”) and Mr. Ritin Rai argued that the unilateral increase of fee by the tribunal despite the protests or objections of one of the disputing parties, is impermissible in law, which renders the tribunal being exposed to the charge that justifi able grounds about their continuing to be impartial, arises. Reliance was placed on the of this Court in ONGC (supra). In that the court had emphasized that the entire philosophy of arbitration is premised on party autonomy; thus parties are at liberty to fi x the fee payable to the Arbitrator. Furthermore, and importantly the court had stressed that once the terms of engagement are fi nalized it is not open to the tribunal to either vary the fee fi xed or the heads under which fee may be charged.