F 36. In the case of Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (supra), it has been held that the expression “prima facie true” would mean that the materials/evidence collated by the investigating agency in reference to the accusation against the accused concerned in the chargesheet must prevail, unless overcome or disproved by other evidence, and on the G face of it, materials must show complicity of such accused in the commission of the stated offences. What this ratio contemplates is that on the face of it, the accusation against the accused ought to prevail. In our opinion, however, it would not satisfy the prima facie “test” unless there is at least surface-analysis of probative value of the evidence, at the stage of examining the question of granting bail and the quality or H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 909 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] probative value satisfies the Court of its worth. In the case of the A appellants, contents of the letters through which the appellants are sought to be implicated are in the nature of hearsay evidence, recovered from co-accused. Moreover, no covert or overt terrorist act has been attributed to the appellants in these letters, or any other material forming part of records of these two appeals. Reference to the activities of the accused B are in the nature of ideological propagation and allegations of recruitment. No evidence of any of the persons who are alleged to have been recruited or have joined this “struggle” inspired by the appellants has been brought before us. Thus, we are unable to accept NIA’s contention that the appellants have committed the offence relating to support given to a terrorist organisation. C 37. The second set of materials include the witness statements. There also no covert or overt act of terrorism has been attributed to the appellants by the three witnesses. We have dealt with the summary of their statements earlier in this . We have also observed earlier that mere possession of the literature, even if the content thereof inspires D or propagates violence, by itself cannot constitute any of the offences within Chapters IV and VI of the 1967 Act. 38. We have already analysed Sections 38 and 39 of the 1967 Act. The interpretation given by us to the phrase “intention to further activities” of terrorist organisation could also apply in the same way in E relation to Section 39 of the same statute. There has been no credible evidence against the appellants of commission of any terrorist act or enter into conspiracy to do so to invoke the provisions of Section 43D (5) of the 1967 Act. 39.As far as raising funds for a terrorist organisation is concerned, F we do not think at this stage, in absence of better evidence, the account statement is credible enough to justify invoking the bail-restricting clause by attracting Section 40 of the 1967 Act. 40.We are returning these findings as the restrictions on the Court while examining the question of bail under the 1967 Act is less stringent G in comparison to the provisions of Section 37 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.