We may, for illustration, reproduce paragraph 49 of the of the Commercial Court where, in relation to the issue of variable charges, C after taking note of all the factual aspects and contentions of the parties, the Commercial Court held as under: - “49. Above facts clearly show that GOG clearly accepted and understood that the price of electricity was to be calculated on the basis of price of fuel and dollar conversion rate and that D letter dated 30.08.2013 and cabinet note were on a guiding factor to know the understanding between parties. The Ld. Arbitrator rightly appreciated that the cabinet of GOG took a decision clearly in favour of the stand of the claimant. Ld. Advocate General has argued that the cabinet decision was not binding because pursuant E to it no any decision was taken by the State Government nor any decision was conveyed to the claimant. Reference was made to in the case of Bachhittar Singh (supra) wherein it is held that unless the cabinet decision is followed by a formal drawn up by The State Government, it does not have binding effect. Ld. Advocate General also made reference to in the F case of Bombay Chemicals Ltd. v/s. Union of India – 2006(201) ELT 167 Bombay wherein cabinet note was considered on merits but it was held that the cabinet note was only to make budgetary provision. Without prejudice Ld. Advocate General also submitted that even if the cabinet note was to be considered it could at the G most be for an amount of Rs. 0.76 paise increase and nothing more than that. In the present case subsequent conduct of GOG in making payments based on variable fuel price shows that they implemented the said cabinet decision. In the present case even if the said cabinet note is considered to be internal note, it will have to be considered because GOG accepted variable fuel price and H 450 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A also made payments. Making of payments thereafter are variable factors which distinguish the above two s. For the reasons mentioned above, Point No.1 is answered in the Affirmative.” 36. The narrow scope of “patent illegality” cannot be breached B by mere use of different expressions which nevertheless refer only to “error” and not to “patent illegality”. We are impelled to reiterate what has been stated and underscored by this Court in Delhi Airport Metro Express(supra) that restraint is required to be shown while examining the validity of arbitral award by the Courts, else interference with the C award after reassessing the factual aspects would be defeating the object of the Act of 1996. This is apart from the fact that such an approach would render several judicial pronouncements of this Court redundant if the arbitral awards are set aside by categorizing them as “perverse” or “patently illegal” without appreciating the contours of these expressions. 37. In the passing, we cannot help noticing that in the impugned D , the High Court though referred to the principles laid down by this Court in Ssangyong Engineering (supra) but then, reproduced an analysis by a learned Single Judge of the High Court and proceeded to decide the matter with reference to the passages so extracted.