a. The purpose of the Tenth Schedule and the effect of disqualification 128. As discussed extensively in this judgement as well as in other judgements of this Court, the purpose of the Tenth Schedule is to G disincentivize and penalize the constitutional sin of defection.38 A violation of the anti-defection law results in a member of the House being: a. Disqualified from the House;39 38 Kihoto Hollohan (surpa); Nabam Rebia (supra) 39 Paragraph 2, Tenth Schedule, Constitution of India 1950 H 938 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A b. Disqualified from holding any remunerative political post for the duration of the period commencing from the date of their disqualification till the date on which the term of their office as a member of the House would expire or till the date on which they contest election to a House and are declared elected, whichever is earlier;40 and B c. Disqualified from being appointed as a Minister for the duration of the period commencing from the date of their disqualification till the date on which the term of their office as a member of the House would expire or till the date on which they contest election to a House and are declared C elected, whichever is earlier.41 129. These consequences ensure that a member of the House is unable to reap the fruits of defection within the House. Significantly, the Tenth Schedule does not have a bearing on the status of a disqualified member of a House vis-à-vis their political party. In other words, if a D member incurs disqualification under the Tenth Schedule, it does not automatically result in their expulsion from the political party to which they belong. It is up to the political party and its internal processes to determine whether to expel a member. b. The purpose of the Symbols and the effect of the E decision under Paragraph 15 130. The ECI issued the Symbols in 1968 in exercise of the powers conferred by Article 324 of the Constitution read with Section 29A of the Representation of the People Act 1951 and Rules 5 and 10 of the Conduct of Elections Rules 1961. The Symbols governs the F reservation and allotment of symbols to candidates for the purpose of elections. The preamble to the Symbols states that it is: “An to provide for specification, reservation, choice and allotment of symbols at elections in Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies, for the recognition of political parties in relation G thereto and for matters connected therewith.” 131. Political parties are classified into recognised political parties and unrecognised political parties under the Symbols .42 Recognised 40 Article 361-B, Constitution of India 1950 41 Article 75(1-B) and Article 164(1-B), Constitution of India 1950 H 42 Paragraph 6(1), Symbols SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 939 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] political parties are further classified into National Parties and State A Parties.43 The ECI recognizes political parties as National Parties or State Parties if they satisfy the requirements prescribed in the Symbols .44 132.