Explanation.—For the purposes of clause (e), if any approval of shareholders is required under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or any other law for the time being in force for the implementation of actions under the resolution plan, such approval E shall be deemed to have been given and it shall not be a contravention of that Act or law.” 8.1 The amendment introduced by Act No. 26 of 2019 ensures that the operational creditors under the resolution plan should be paid the amount equivalent to the amount which they would have been entitled to, F in the event of liquidation of the Corporate Debtor under Section 53 of the Code. In other words, the amount payable under the resolution plan to the operational creditors should not be less than the amount payable to them under Section 53 of the Code, in the event of liquidation of the Corporate Debtor. The amended provision also provides that the financial creditors who have not voted in favour of the resolution plan shall be paid G not less than the amount which would be paid to them in accordance with sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code, in the event of liquidation of the corporate debtor. Explanation (1) to clause (b) of the 30(2) of the Code, for the removal of doubts, states and clarifies that the distribution in accordance with this clause shall be fair and equitable to such creditors. H M/S VISTRA ITCL (INDIA) LTD v. MR. DINKAR 827 VENKATASUBRAMANIAN [M. R. SHAH, J.] 8.2 It is also the mandate of Section 31 of the Code7 that the A adjudicating authority should be satisfied that the resolution plan, as approved by the CoC under sub-section (4) of Section 30 meets with the requirement as referred to in sub-section (2) of Section 30. Only then, the adjudicating authority shall approve the resolution plan, which shall then be binding on the Corporate Debtor and its employees, members, B creditors, guarantors and other stakeholders involved in the resolution plan. 8.3 Section 30(2)(e) also requires the resolution professional to examine each resolution plan received by him/her and confirm that it does not contravene any provisions of law for the time being in force. C Thus, the amended Section 30(2) read with Section 31 of the Code, enunciates the manner in which the interests of the creditors who are not included in the CoC i.e., the operational creditors and the financial creditors who have not voted in favour of the resolution plan, must be protected in the resolution plan by the resolution professional and the adjudicating authority. D 8.4 It is in this context that the Appellant No. 1 - Vistra submits that the resolution plan in question does not meet the requirements of the Code, as it extinguishes and vaporises the pledge created in favour of the Appellant No. 1 – Vistra, and thereby, Appellant No. 1 – Vistra, a secured creditor, viz, the pledged shares, is left remediless and worse off than the E dissenting financial creditors, or even the operational creditors.