Thus, the total number of seats available now for holding elections to the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of J & K is 90. 23. Hence, as far as the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory D of J & K is concerned, Article 170 will have no application as it forms a part of Chapter III of Part VI which deals with only the State Legislature. It has no application to the Legislatures of Union Territories. The reason is that the Legislative Assemblies of the concerned Union Territories will be governed by the law made by the Parliament in accordance with E Article 239A and not by the provisions of Chapter III of Part VI. As Article 170 is not applicable to the Legislature of the Union Territory of J & K, the main thrust of the argument that certain provisions of the J&K Reorganisation Act and actions taken thereunder are in conflict with Article 170 and in particular Clause (3) thereof is clearly misconceived and deserves to be rejected. F The exercise of Delimitation 24. Now, we come to the issue of delimitation of constituencies of the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of J and K. There were two earlier enactments dealing with the establishment of the Delimitation G Commission. The first one was the Delimitation Commission Act, 1962 and the second one was the Delimitation Act, 1972. Both the Acts were not applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir as the definition of the State incorporated in both Acts specifically excluded the State of Jammu and Kashmir. The same is the case with the Delimitation Act, 2002. We may note here that Section 3 of the J&K RP Act laid down H HAJI ABDUL GANI KHAN & ANR. v. UNION OF INDIA & 535 ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] the requirement of the establishment of the Delimitation Commission A which provided that the Delimitation Commission shall distribute the seats in the Legislative Assembly to single member territorial constituencies and delimit them having regard to various factors mentioned in sub- section (2) of Section 3. Section 4-B of the J&K RP Act provided for the Delimitation Commission to pass an regarding the delimitation B of constituencies and publish the same. In fact, the Delimitation of Assembly Constituencies , 1995 was issued which was applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Section 4-C of the J&K RP Act conferred power on the Election Commission to correct any printing mistakes in the final of the Delimitation Commission or any error or omission. The Election Commission was also empowered to make C amendments when the boundaries or names of any district or any territorial division mentioned in the final of the Delimitation Commission were altered. 25. By virtue of sub-section (5) of Section 14 of the J&K Reorganisation Act, the said Delimitation of 1995 was amended D as provided in the Third Schedule thereof. The Third Schedule contains the details of the amendments to the delimitation of the assembly constituencies made by the said Delimitation of 1995 in relation to the existing 83 assembly constituencies out of a total 107 as provided in sub-section (3) of Section 14.