It does seem that the submission made by counsel on behalf of the appellant before the High Court had its own effect, although H 1180 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A it was far from being a relevant consideration for the purpose of grant of bail. 28. It also does not appear from the materials on record that the complainants have instituted any civil suit for recovery of money allegedly paid by them to the appellant. If at all the offence alleged against the B appellant is proved resulting in his conviction, he would be bound to suffer penal consequence(s) but despite such conviction he may not be under any obligation to repay the amount allegedly received from the complainants. This too is an aspect which the High Court exercising jurisdiction under section 438 of the Cr. PC did not bear in mind. C 29. Under the circumstances, we hold that the High Court fell in grave error in proceeding on the basis of the undertaking of the appellant and imposing payment of Rs.22,00,000/- (Rupees twenty-two lakh) as a condition precedent for grant of bail. 30. We are not unmindful of the fact that the High Court was led by the appellant himself to an granting bail with imposition of the D impugned condition; hence, we are inclined to remit the matter to the High Court in line with the approach adopted by this Court in Mahesh Chandra (supra) and direct re-consideration of the application for pre- arrest bail and a decision on its own merits in the light of the observations made herein, as early as possible but preferably within 31st August, 2023. E It is ed accordingly. 31. Till such time further s are passed by the High Court, the appellant’s liberty shall not be infringed by the investigating officer. In the meanwhile, however, the appellant shall be bound to cooperate with the investigating officer, as and when he is called upon to do so. F 32. Before concluding, we need to dispose of IA 94276 of 2023. It is an application for intervention at the instance of the complainants, who seek to assist the Court on the ground that any passed on the appeal without giving opportunity of hearing to them would cause grave prejudice. G 33. We hold that at this stage, the complainants have no right of audience before this Court or even the High Court having regard to the nature of offence alleged to have been committed by the appellant unless, of course, a situation for compounding of the offence under Section 420, IPC, with the permission of the Court, arises. H RAMESH KUMAR v. THE STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 1181 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 34. The appeal stands disposed of on terms as aforesaid. The A application for intervention stands dismissed. 35. There shall be no as to costs. Ankit Gyan Appeal disposed of. B (Assisted by : Mahendra Yadav, LCRA) C D E F G H