Programmes to reduce suicides and attempted suicides (envisaged by Section 29(2)) must include provisions which tackle queer identity and oppression arising from that identity as causes for suicidal tendencies or feelings. We direct the Union Government as well as the State Governments or governments of Union Territories (where they exist) to carry out the mandate of Section 29 in terms of the observations in this paragraph and to include appropriate modules or provisions which address the unique concerns of the queer community. 281. In exercise of the rights to dignity, autonomy, privacy and health an individual (regardless of their gender identity) may choose to enter into a union with a person (who may be of the same sex as them). Once they enter into an relationship as life partners, a couple has the right and the freedom to determine the signifi cance of that relationship as well as its consequences. A denial of this freedom would be a denial of the many facets of Article 21. b. The right of LGBTQ persons to freedom from coercion from their families, the agencies of the state, and other persons SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1387 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 282. The right to enter into a union would be an illusion without the conditions which permit the unrestricted exercise of that right. Various parts of this have detailed the violence and discrimination meted out to members of the LGBTQ community, either because of their gender identity or because of their sexual orientation. One form of this violence is that society often attempts to prevent LGBTQ persons from being with their partner, in a short-term relationship, a long-term relationship, a relationship where they choose to live together or any other kind of union. This happens in diff erent ways – the couple may be forcibly separated from one another, their families may fi le complaints with the police which lead to the registration of FIRs and the consequent harassment of one or both of them, or they may be married off to third parties without their consent. The families of LGBTQ persons as well as the police are the primary actors in such violence. 283. The fundamental rights and freedoms codifi ed by the Constitution demand that the LGBTQ community be left alone so that its members can live their lives as they see fi t, in accordance with law. This Court has discussed these rights and freedoms in detail in this . It is the duty of the state machinery (acting through any authority including the police) to protect these rights instead of participating in their violation. Unfortunately, the police often acts in concert with the parents of LGBTQ persons to prevent the latter from exercising their rights. This Court fi nds this to be unacceptable. 284. In Mansur Rahman v. Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore District,253 the petitioner was a man who had married a woman who happened to be transgender. He claimed that his parents and some persons who belonged to a political outfi t were harassing and threatening him and approached the Madras High Court seeking police protection.