A Ram Kishor Choudhary, Pulkit Agarwal, Atarup Banerjee, Sunando Raha, Abu Sohel, Nishant Kumar, Biswroop Bhattacharya, Golam Mohinddin, Anindo Mukherjee, Rameshwar Prasad Goyal, Ms. Madhumita Bhattacharjee, Ms. Arushi Mishra, Shamshad, Aditya Samaddar, M R Shamshad, Shashank Singh, Arijit Sarkar, Ms. Nabeela Jamil, Advs. for the appearing parties. B The of the Court was delivered by S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J. 1. Leave granted in SLP(C) No. 3352 of 2021. Permission to file Contempt Petitions in Civil Appeal No. 5808/ 2017 is granted. These are C taken along with the remaining above-mentioned Contempt Petitions. 2. This will dispose of several contempt petitions which complained of willful and deliberate violation of of this Court in Shaikh Md. Rafique v. Managing Committee, Conti Rahamania High D Madrasah & Ors1. This court had to consider the correctness of the view expressed by the Calcutta High Court which held that some provisions of the West Bengal Madrasa Service Commission Act, 2008 (hereafter, “the Act”) was unconstitutional. Those provisions regulated the process of appointment of teachers in aided Madrasas which were recognized as minority institutions. This court recorded its finding that E the provisions in question, i.e., Sections 8, 10, 11 & 12 of the Act were valid and constitutional. At the same time the court was conscious that some appointments were made by the madrasas during the pendency of the appeals and held as follows: F “58. In the end, we declare all nominations made by the Commission in pursuance of the provisions of the Commission Act to be valid and operative. However, if after the disposal of the matters by the High Court any appointments are made by the concerned Madarshas, such appointments of teachers shall be deemed to be valid for all purposes. But the G Commission shall hereafter be competent to select and nominate teachers to various Madarshas in accordance with the provisions of the Commission Act and the Rules framed thereunder.” 1 2020 (6) SCC 689 H SNEHASIS GIRI AND ORS. v. SUBHASIS MITRA 301 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 3. All the petitioners argued that even during the pendency of the A proceedings in appeal, contempt proceedings had been drawn seeking release of salaries of teachers who were appointed after the provisions of the Act were declared unconstitutional by the High Court. The petitioners advert to interim s dated 10.05.2016, 01.08.2016, 17.05.2018, directing that those recruited or working during the pendency B of the proceedings ought to be paid salary. It is argued that the effect of the judgement is that even while upholding the provisions of the Act, the court at the same time protected the recruitment of the petitioners. In these circumstances, denial of the benefit of regular service to them on one pretext or the other by the respondent contemnors amounts to C deliberate and willful disregard of the Act, and calls for appropriate stringent action. 4. After notice was issued in this contempt proceedings and considering the submissions of the parties, this Court had on 12.07.2022 directed the respondents (alleged contemnors) to consider and verify D the claims of the petitioners to examine whether they were legal and valid and release appropriate amounts.