However, paragraph 4.05 of the FTP defines categories for which AAs can be issued, somewhat expansively and prescribes that – “(c) Advance Authorization shall be issued for: H UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. COSMO FILMS LIMITED 219 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (i) Physical export (including export to SEZ); A (ii) Intermediate supply; and/ or (iii) Supply of goods to the categories mentioned in paragraph 7.02 (b), (c), (e), (f) (g) and (h) of this FTP. (iv) Supply of ‘stores’ on board of foreign going vessel / B aircraft, subject to condition that there is specific Standard Input Output Norms in respect of item supplied.” The definition extends in specific terms (under Chapter 4 of FTP) - supplies made to SEZ are considered as ‘physical exports’ despite not being an event in which goods are being taken out of India. The other C three categories defined under (c) (ii), (iii) & (iv) are ineligible as ‘physical exports’. Supplies of intermediate goods are covered by letter of invalidation, whereas supplies covered under Chapter 7 of the FTP are considered as ‘deemed exports’. These supplies are ineligible for being considered ‘physical exports’. Therefore, any category of supply, be it under letter of invalidation and/or to EOU and/or under International D Competitive Bidding (ICB) and/or to Mega Power Projects, other than actual exports to other country and supply to SEZ, cannot be considered as ‘physical exports’. One of the objects behind the impugned notifications was to ensure that the entire exports made under AAs towards discharge of export s were physical exports. In case E the entire exports were not physical exports, the AAs were automatically ineligible for exemption. 60. The introduction of the GST regime resulted in a substantial and fundamental overhaul of the indirect tax structure, at the State and Central levels. The GST regime is based on the idea of removing F cascading effect of the taxes. The cascading effect of taxes mean levy of tax on tax. The GST is levied on the net value added portion and not on the entire transaction value as the taxpayer would enjoy input tax credit. Barring few indirect taxes, all the major indirect taxes levied by the Central and State governments are subsumed into the GST. Consequently, taxpayers and suppliers are untroubled about paying G multiple indirect taxes under different laws. In the GST framework, simple rules have been prescribed to utilize the cross-sectional credit of input taxes. A trader who could not claim credit of tax paid on services, can seek and get credit on goods as well as services. This framework of seamless credit was introduced to safeguard that taxes on supplies are H 220 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A paid to the extent of value additions and net liability- and to avoid double taxation. 61. The introduction of GST meant considerable legislative exercise in the form of repeal of several enactments (in the wake of the 101st Amendment to the Constitution, introducing Articles 246A, 269A, 279A, B amendment to Articles 286 and 366, besides amending List I, II and III of the Seventh Schedule) and enactment of an entirely new set of laws.