It further observes that there H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 653 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] are approximately 23000 private plots of all categories within the sectoral A grid of the Chandigarh Master Plan. It assumes that each plot will eventually be built upto 3 storeys with one unit per floor, taking the number of dwelling units to 69000 approximately. 101. It also recognized that the “Corbusian Chandigarh” title given to Phase-I of the city, which is the most representative of Le Corbusier’s B thought and philosophy, is truly worthy of recognition for its Modern Heritage Value. It further records that Sectors 1 to 30 are planned and detailed out by the original team in fulfillment of the CIAM principles of Living, Working, Care of Body and Spirit and Circulation. 102. The CMP-2031 also recommends that concerted efforts C should be made for getting the world heritage status for Chandigarh in consultation with the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Archeological Survey of India. It also records that it has been perceived that Chandigarh’s inscription on the World heritage list would bring many benefits as the city would join a select list of other modern movement D cities/urban areas currently inscribed on the UNESCO’s heritage list. 103. It will be pertinent to note that in the appeal filed before this Court in the case of Chandigarh Administration (supra), which was filed by the Chandigarh Administration challenging the of the High Court holding Rule 14 of the 1960 Rules to be unconstitutional, it E was specifically submitted that Rule 14 of the 1960 Rules was enacted in to restrict the further growth of Chandigarh city. It had been submitted that the 1960 Rules provide a ban on fragmentation of sites and as such, was a reasonable restriction on the right of property. It is further to be noted that even in the reply filed on behalf of the Chandigarh Administration in the present proceedings before the High Court, it had F been averred thus: “10. That the contents of paragraph 10 as stated are wrong and denied. The Chandigarh Administration does not permit a residential house to be converted into an apartment on account of the fact that “The Chandigarh Apartment Rules 2001” now stand G repealed. However, the architectural controls and building bye-laws are of the highest standards, even otherwise the Estate Office maintains a strict vigil on the construction activities/ compliance of Rules and Building Bye-Laws in UT Chandigarh. Therefore, contrary to the claims of the petitioner, the character of Chandigarh is intact. H 654 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 11. That the contents of paragraph 11 as stated are wrong and denied. However, there is no bar on alienation/transfer of a share in a property by a true owner, as it is permissible as per the provisions of the enactments and the recognized principles of civil law referred above. Therefore, an owner of a freehold residential house is permitted to sell his share or a part of the shares in the B said house.