34. One may go to the extent to state that the rights of “access to justice” and “fair trial” cannot be exercised by an individual without an independent judiciary. Further, without fair and speedy trial, the remaining E rights, including fundamental and constitutional rights will not be enforced in a manner known to law. If these instrumental rights themselves are hindered, then all other rights within the Constitution would not be enforceable. V. Equivalence of Judicial Functions of District Judiciary F and Higher Judiciary 35. The essential function of the District Judiciary, as also the function of the High Courts and this Court is to administer justice impartially and independently. This Court in its Review observed: “14. Fourthly, the argument that an uniform IoR would equate G the district courts with constitutional courts is erroneous. A uniform multiplier is used for a uniform increment in pay and not for the purpose of uniform pay in itself. All Judges across the hierarchy of courts discharge the same essential function of adjudicating disputes impartially and independently. Thus, H ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 55 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] it would not be appropriate to apply graded IoR when SNJPC A has chosen to uniformly apply the multiplier.” 36. Together, the Courts constitute the unified judicial system performing for the core and essential function of administering justice. To be truly unified both in form and in substance, there must be integration in terms of pay, pension and other service conditions between the District B Judiciary, the High Courts and the Supreme Court. To this end, under Article 125 and 221 of the Constitution, the salaries etc. payable to the judges of the High Court and the Supreme Court are fixed by law as made by Parliament. The salaries for judges of the High Court are the same across the country by virtue of the High Court Judges (Salaries C and Conditions of Service) Act, 1954. 37. Given that in the hierarchy of the unified judicial system a Judge of the High Court is placed above a District Judge, it follows that a District Judge cannot have more pay more than a High Court judge. Therefore, the maximum ceiling of pay that a District Judge may earn is D the salary of a High Court judge which is fixed under the aforementioned statute. Once the salary of the District Judge is pegged against the High Court judge, it thus follows that any increase in the salary of the judges of the High Court must reflect in the same proportion to the judges in the District Judiciary. In the Review , this Court observed: E “16. The legitimacy of the principle that the increase of pay of the judicial officers must be commensurate with the quantum of increase in the pay of High Court judges has been raised previously and stands judicially settled. Therefore, any objection to the IoR on the ground that it has to be lower than that adopted for increase in the pay of the judges of the F High Court is without cogent basis.” 38.