30 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Article 20(1) of the Constitution and its applicability in the context of Section 6A of the DSPE Act (Question No. :1 & 2). 20. The Constitution Bench in the case of Subramanian Swamy (supra) was testing constitutional validity of Section 6A of DSPE Act. Section 6A has two sub-Sections (1) and (2). Sub-Section (1) provides of a protection from any enquiry or investigation into any off ence under the PC Act, 1988 without the previous approval of the Central Government where the allegation relates to employees of the Central Government of the level of Joint Secretary and above (Clause a) and also such offi cers as are appointed by the Central Government in corporations established by or under any Central Act, Government companies, societies and local authorities owned or controlled by the Government. Sub- Section (2) begins with a non-obstante clause stating that no such approval would be necessary for cases involving arrest of a person on the spot on the charge of accepting or attempting to accept any gratifi cation other than legal remuneration referred to in clause (c) of the Explanation to Section 7 of the PC Act, 1988. Sub-Section (2) takes away the protection to the Government servant of the category defi ned in sub-Section (1) where arrest of a person is to be made on the spot on the charge of accepting or attempting to accept any gratifi cation. 21. The Constitution Bench held that Section 6A(1) which required approval of the Central Government to conduct any enquiry or investigation into any off ence alleged to have been committed under the PC Act, 1988 to be invalid and unconstitutional and in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. As a necessary corollary, it was further declared that the provision contained in Section 26(c) of Act No. 45 of 2003 introducing the above provision was also invalid. 22. The reference dated 10.03.2016 required the retrospective application of the declaration by the Constitution Bench in Subramanian Swamy (supra) to be determined in the context of Article 20 of the Constitution. It would, therefore, be necessary to briefl y discuss the scope of Article 20 and whether or not it would have any applicability in the context of Section 6A of the DSPE Act. 23. Before proceeding to do that, it would be appropriate to examine whether Section 6A of the DSPE Act providing protection to certain categories of Government servants would, in any manner, amount to a conviction or CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 31 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] sentence or it would be a purely procedural aspect. Section 6A of the DSPE Act does not lay down or introduce any conviction for any off ence. It is a procedural safeguard only which is enumerated in Section 6A of the DSPE Act with regard to making of an investigation or enquiry of an off ence under the PC Act, 1988. Section 6A of the DSPE Act also does not lay down any sentence nor does it alter any existing sentence for an off ence.