This Court observed that whilst the high court admonished the concerned government pleaders for their negligence in prosecuting the appeal before it and not providing a suffi cient cause for delay, it nonetheless proceeded to condone the delay despite holding the same to be unjustifi able. 20. In Postmaster General & Ors. v. Living Media India Limited & Anr.6, this Court noted that in cases when there was no gross negligence, deliberate inaction, or lack of bona fi des, a liberal concession ought to be adopted to render substantial justice but on the facts before the Court, the appellant could not take advantage of the earlier decisions of this Court. Further, merely because the State was involved, no diff erent metric for condonation of delay could be applied to it. Importantly, it noted that the appellant department had off ered no proper and cogent explanation before this Court for condonation of a huge delay of 427 days apart from simply 5 (2011) 4 SCC 363. 6 (2012) 3 SCC 563. 752 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. mentioning various dates. The claim on account of impersonal machinery and inherited bureaucratic methodology of making fi le notes, it was held, not acceptable in view of the modern technologies being used and available. Also, holding that the law of limitation undoubtedly binds everybody, including the Government, this Court went on to reject the prayer for condonation. 21. This Court in Esha Bhattacharjee v. Managing Committee of Raghunathpur Nafar Academy & Ors.7, whilst referring to various precedents rejected the pleas of lack of knowledge and miscarriage of justice raised by the respondent/managing committee in challenging an interim of a Single Judge of the high court. It then proceeded to set aside the impugned condoning a delay of 2449 days in challenging the said interim based on lack of bona fi des. Paragraph 21 of the decision contains the principles culled out by this Court from the several precedents that it had considered in the process. 22. A Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court in State of Manipur & Ors. v. Koting Lamkang8 was faced with a delay of 312 days by the State in preferring its fi rst appeal before the high court. This Court, on grounds of public interest, the impersonal nature of governments, and the ramifi cations of individual errors on State interest, condoned the delay in fi ling the fi rst appeal on payment of costs of Rs. 50,000/-. 23. In Delhi University (supra), another Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court declined to condone the delay of 916 days by the appellant in challenging an of a Single Judge of the high court. This Court, whilst distinguishing Mst. Katiji (supra) on facts, observed that the consideration to condone could only be made on presentation of a reasonable explanation, and the same could not be done simply because the appellant therein was a public body. It then went on to note the conduct of the appellant in demonstrating delay and laches not only in fi ling the appeal, but also the original writ petition before the high court at the fi rst instance.