Constitutional Adviser B.N. Rau’s note on the draft provision explains the inclusion of the right to vote as a fundamental right: “Clause 12. This secures that the right to vote is not refused to any citizen who satisfies certain conditions. The idea of an Election Commission E to supervise, direct and control all elections is new.”12 34. KT Shah however objected to the idea of a centralized Election Commission. He argued that, “if adopted, would be a serious infringement of the rights of Provincial Autonomy; and as such, I think it ought to be either dropped or reworded, so as not to prejudice the rights of the F Provincial Legislature to legislate on such subjects.”13 The clause on right to vote and the creation of the Election Commission as part of the fundamental rights was then accepted by a majority vote by the Fundamental Rights Sub-Committee.14 The clause was then forwarded to the Advisory Committee in the “Report of the Sub-Committee on Fundamental Rights” dated April 16, 1947.15 G 12 Shiva Rao, page 148 13 ibid, page 155 14 Ibid, page 164 15 Ibid, p. 173. Furthermore, the ground for contrary views was only that the right was being extended the States/units. See “Minutes Of Dissent To The Report” dated April 17-20, 1947 by KM Panikkar, page 187 H 194 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 35. The draft prepared by the Fundamental Rights Sub-Committee was examined by the Minorities Sub-Committee to see if any rights proposed needed to be “amplified or amended” to protect minority rights.16 In the Minutes of the Meeting of the Minorities Sub-Committee dated April 17, 1947, there were two suggestions on the fundamental right to vote and Election Commission. S.P.Mukherjeeproposed, “Minorities B should be adequately represented on the Election Commissions proposed for the Union and the units”.17Jairamdas Daulatram suggested that “such bodies should be made neutral so that they may inspire confidence among all parties and communities. Separate representation for the minorities may not be workable.”18 It was also C decided by the Minorities Sub-Committee on April 18, 1947 “to mention in [their] report that the Election Commission should be an independent quasi-judicial body.”19 36. After the clause on the right to vote passed by the Fundamental Rights Sub-Committee and the Minorities Sub-Committee reached for D consideration before the Advisory Committee, there was a serious debate on whether to keep the clause in the fundamental rights chapter or not. Dr. Ambedkar argued for retaining it as a fundamental right.20 He stated: “… so far as this committee is concerned my point is that we should support the proposition that the committee is in favour of E adult suffrage. The second thing we have guaranteed in this fundamental right is that the elections shall be free and the elections shall be by secret voting. It shall be by periodical elections... The third proposition which this fundamental clause enunciates is that in that elections may be free in the real sense of the word, they shall be taken out of the hands of the Government of the day, F and that they should be conducted by an independent body which we may here call an Election Commission.”21 37.