The Magistrate cannot discharge his duty lightly or in a slip-shod manner. 32. Second Proviso : Identifi cation when suspect is mentally or physically disabled. - The second proviso to Section 54A has been inserted in the statute by the amending Act 13 of 2013 w.e.f. 03.02.2013. It relates to identifi cation of a suspect who is mentally or physically disabled. It appears that the requirements specifi ed in the fi rst proviso are not attracted for the second proviso. But it is obligatory that the process of identifi cation of the person arrested shall have to be videographed. Unless this requirement is complied with, the identifi cation shall fall to the ground and no reliance can be placed on it at any stage of the trial. 33. This Section is restricted to identifi cation of persons only. So this Section has no application where the question of identifi cation of articles arises. TIP is part of investigation and the investigation of a case is to be conducted by the investigating agency and it is their statutory prerogatives. There was no statutory provision authorizing the accused to pray for placing him in the test parade. Some High Courts approved this right, while some other High Courts took a contrary view. In State of Uttar Pradesh v. Rajju, AIR 1971 SC 708, this Court observed, “If the accused felt that the witnesses would not be able to identify them-they should have requested for an identifi cation parade.” This observation indirectly approves the right to ask for test parade by the accused. In another case, the accused voluntarily accepted the risk of being identifi ed in a parade but he was denied that opportunity. This Court observed that this was an important point in his favour - Shri Ram v. State of U.P., (1975) 3 SCC 495. MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 913 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 34. This provision for giving directions by the Court as to the manner in which test parade is to be conducted may be viewed as treating the Court as part of the investigating agency. Without having any provision like Section 54A there has been so long no diffi culty in holding test identifi cation parades. There are plenty of judicial pronouncements to show the safeguards to be followed while holding identifi cation parade. 35. Thus we are of the view that after the introduction of Section 54A in the CrPC referred to above, an accused is under an obligation to stand for identifi cation parade. An accused cannot resist subjecting himself to the TIP on the ground that he cannot be forced or coerced for the same. If the coercion is sought to be imposed in getting from an accused evidence which cannot be procured save through positive volitional act on his part, the constitutional guarantee as enshrined under Article 20(3) of the Constitution will step in to protect him. However, if that evidence can be procured without any positive volitional evidentiary act on the part of the accused, Article 20(3) of the Constitution will have no application.