We, therefore, conclude that the prosecution has failed to prove beyond H 24 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A reasonable doubt that the deceased was last seen alive in the company of the accused near the spot at the relevant time. 31. In so far as recovery of the country made pistol and knife from the person of the accused at the time of their arrest is concerned, the same does not inspire our confidence for the following reasons — According to PW-10, the investigating officer, while he was looking out B for the suspects/accused, received an information from an informer that the accused were to come to a specified place at 1600 Hours. But, there is no record of receipt of the said information even though it is stated to have been received few hours before the action. Assuming that such information was received, there appears no effort to rope in a public C witness even though a locality, as per statement of PW-10, was just 200 meters away from that spot. Lastly, what is most interesting is that the investigating officer, who investigated the case relating to the offence punishable under the Arms Act, prepared the site plan of the place of arrest/recovery on 06.12.2001 even though arrest was allegedly effected on 24.11.2001, which, in the facts of the case, would suggest that it was D an exercise to complete the formality. Moreover, the site plan does not disclose the place where the Jeep was hidden in the forest to ambush the accused. Having regard to the circumstances noted above, including the fact that Shabbir was not named as a suspect in the FIR and his name cropped up later in the statement of PW-5, whose statement was E recorded on the same day at his residence, even though, he was not cited as a witness in the FIR, bearing in mind the statement of PW-1 that the police made him to submit the second report indicting Shabbir, we are of the view that the police had shown extraordinary interest in implicating Shabbir and therefore, for all the reasons above, the alleged recovery of gun and knife shown from the appellants does not inspire F our confidence. In our considered view, it would be unsafe to rely on such recovery to sustain the conviction. 32. Insofar as forensic report/ballistic report is concerned, the same has not even been put to Shabbir, from whom the country made pistol was seized, while recording his statement under section 313 of G Cr.P.C., therefore, in any event, it would have to be eschewed from consideration. Conclusion:- 33. In light of the discussion above, we are of the considered view that the case in hand is a quintessential case where to solve out a H RAVI MANDAL v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 25 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] blind murder, occurring in a forest in the darkness of night, bits and A pieces of evidence were collected which warranted a strict scrutiny before basing a conviction thereupon.