On the other hand, the Electric Utilities submit that it is not even their case — in the absence of an express provision of law — that there is any mortgage or charge over the property D in the form that the licensee would be a secured creditor. 94. Section 100 of the Transfer of Property Act 1882 contemplates two types of charges: charges created by act of parties and charges arising by operation of law. It inter alia provides as follows: “100. Charges:Where immoveable property of one person E is by act of parties or operation of law made security for the payment of money to another, and the transaction does not amount to a mortgage, the latter person is said to have a charge on the property; and all the provisions hereinbefore contained 1[which apply to a simple mortgage shall, so far as may be, apply to such charge]. F Nothing in this section applies to the charge of a trustee on the trust property for expenses properly incurred in the execution of his trust, [and, save as otherwise expressly provided by any law for the time being in force, no charge shall be enforced against any property in the hands of a person to whom such G property has been transferred for consideration and without notice of the charge.” (emphasis supplied) 44 (1969) 1 SCC 573 H 45 (1971) 1 SCC 757 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 695 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 95. An encumbrance means a burden or charge upon property or A a claim or lien upon an estate or on the land. Encumbrance must be a charge on the property, which must run with the property. In terms of the first paragraph of Section 100, when an immovable property of one party is pledged as security for the payment of money to another, and the transaction does not constitute a mortgage, the latter would acquire B a charge over the property. All provisions that apply to a simple mortgage are applicable to a charge. A charge is neither a sale nor a mortgage because it creates no interest in or over an immovable property but it is only a security for the payment of money.46 In other words, a charge only results in the creation of a right of payment out of the property towards the satisfaction of the debt or obligation in question. C 96. The second paragraph of Section 100 provides an exception to the general proposition that a charge runs with the land and can be enforced even if the property has passed into the hands of a third party. It provides that a charge cannot be enforced against a property in the hands of a transferee without notice. The words “save as otherwise D expressly provided by any law for the time being in force” indicate that a charge can be enforced against a transferee without notice when an express provision of law exists.