Case Law Reference [2004] 3 SCR 738 referred to Para 16 C (2006) 4 SCC 254 referred to Para 18 [2007] 7 SCR 685 referred to Para 18 CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 1700 of 2023. D From the and dated 06.06.2018 of the High Court of Sikkim in IA Nos. 07, 01 and 05 of 2018. With Civil Appeal Nos. 1701 and 1702 of 2023. E Ravindra A. Lokhande, Baban Jeet Singh Mew, Sudarsh Menon, Satyam Singh, Samarendra Beura, Rajesh Rathore, Advs. for the Appellant. N. Venkataraman, ASG, Shiv Mangal Sharma, Ms. Vishakha, Shashank Bajpai, Mahaling Pandarge, Siddhartha Sinha, Raj Bahadur F Yadav, Sameer Abhyankar, Ms. Nishi Sangtani, Ms. Vani Vandana Chhetri, Ms. Rupal Agarwal, Narendra Kumar, Raghvendra Kumar, Anand Kumar Dubey, Ashish Kumar Sinha, Nishant Verma, Mrs. Anisha Mathur, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Bharat Bagla, Ms. Kirti Dadheech, Nishant Ramakantrao Katneshwarkar, Ms. Anisha G Mathur, Aaditya A. Pandae, Ms. Ranjeeta Rohatgi, Abhimanyu Tewari, Ms. Eliza Bar, Ms. K. Enatoli Sema, Ms. Limayinla Jamir, Amit Kumar Singh, Ms. Chubalemla Chang, Prang Newmai, Ajay Pal, Mayank Dahiya, Ms. Sugandh Rathor, Ms. Priyanka C, Ms. Astha Sharma, Ravinder Singh, Srisatya Mohanty, Ms. Raveesha Gupta, Ms. Mantika H THE STATE OF GOA v. SUMMIT ONLINE TRADE SOLUTIONS 249 (P) LTD & ORS. Haryani, Sanjeev Kaushik, Shreyas Awasthi, Himanshu Chakravarty, A Devvrat Singh, Ms. Muskan Surana, Advs. for the Repondents. The of the Court was delivered by DIPANKAR DATTA, J. Leave granted. B 2. The appellant is one of multiple respondents in W.P. (C) No. 36 of 2017, W.P. (C) No. 38 of 2017 and W.P. (C) No. 59 of 2017, pending on the file of the High Court of Sikkim (hereafter ‘the High Court’, for short). Separate applications in the said three writ petitions were filed by the appellant seeking its deletion from the array of respondents. The C appellant had pleaded in the said applications that, inter alia, a notification issued by it was under challenge in the writ petitions and that if, at all, such notification could be made a subject matter of challenge, the High Court of Bombay at Goa is the appropriate court where remedy ought to be pursued. According to the appellant, a notification issued under a statute enacted by a State legislature cannot be subjected to judicial D scrutiny within the jurisdiction of a high court of a different State, more so when no cause of action has arisen within the jurisdiction of that high court. It was further pleaded that since no part of the cause of action for invocation of the writ jurisdiction had arisen within the territorial limits of the High Court, the writ petitions ought not to proceed against the E appellant. One other fact brought to the notice of the High Court by the appellant was that the same notification was under challenge in W.P. (C) No. 759/2017 instituted by Serenity Trades Private Limited before the High Court of Bombay at Goa and that such writ petition after admission was pending for final hearing.