Accused are on bail. Their bail bonds and personal bonds stand B discharged. Since the confiscation proceedings were initiated by the Forest department, timber has been disposed of. Challan be consigned to records after due completion.” 8. Apart from the fact that the phrase “honourable acquittal” has not been defined anywhere in the Criminal Procedure Code, as transpiring C from the afore-stated passed in the criminal case for which the petitioner was tried, the petitioner was afforded a benefit of doubt in view of the contradictory evidence which had come on record, also as the investigating officer was not examined by the prosecution. 9. In case of Commissioner of Police, New Delhi and Another D Vs. Mehar Singh2, this Court on similar issues as involved in the present case observed as under: “25. The expression “honourable acquittal” was considered by this Court in S. Samuthiram [Inspector General of Police v. S. Samuthiram, (2013) 1 SCC 598 : (2013) 1 SCC (Cri) 566 : (2013) 1 SCC (L&S) 229] . In that case this Court was E concerned with a situation where disciplinary proceedings were initiated against a police officer. Criminal case was pending against him under Section 509 IPC and under Section 4 of the Eve-Teasing Act. He was acquitted in that case because of the non-examination of key witnesses. There was a serious flaw in the conduct of the F criminal case. Two material witnesses turned hostile. Referring to the of this Court in RBI v. Bhopal Singh Panchal [(1994) 1 SCC 541 : 1994 SCC (L&S) 594 : (1994) 26 ATC 619] , where in somewhat similar fact situation, this Court upheld a bank’s action of refusing to reinstate an employee in service on the ground that in the criminal case he was acquitted G by giving him benefit of doubt and, therefore, it was not an honourable acquittal, this Court held that the High Court was not justified in setting aside the punishment imposed in the departmental proceedings. This Court observed that the expressions 2(2013) 7 SCC 685 H 170 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A “honourable acquittal”, “acquitted of blame” and “fully exonerated” are unknown to the Criminal Procedure Code or the Penal Code. They are coined by judicial pronouncements. It is difficult to define what is meant by the expression “honourably acquitted”. This Court expressed that when the accused is acquitted after full consideration of the prosecution case and the B prosecution miserably fails to prove the charges levelled against the accused, it can possibly be said that the accused was honourably acquitted. 26. In light of the above, we are of the opinion that since the purpose of the departmental proceedings is to keep persons, who C are guilty of serious misconduct or dereliction of duty or who are guilty of grave cases of moral turpitude, out of the department, if found necessary, because they pollute the department, surely the above principles will apply with more vigour at the point of entry of a person in the police department i.e.