(2) If any person admitting the execution of a document refuses D to endorse the same, the registering officer shall nevertheless register it, but shall at the same time endorse a note of such refusal. “60. Certificate of registration.— (1) After such of the provisions of Sections 34, 35, 58 and 59 E as apply to any document presented for registration have been complied with, the registering officer shall endorse thereon a certificate containing the word “registered”, together with the number and page of the book in which the document has been copied. F (2) Such certificate shall be signed, sealed and dated by the registering officer, and shall then be admissible for the purpose of proving that the document has been duly registered in manner provided by this Act, and that the facts mentioned in the endorsement, referred to in Section 59 have occurred as therein mentioned.” G Sections 67 and 85 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, reads as under: “67. Proof of signature and handwriting of person alleged to have signed or written document produced.—If a document is alleged to be signed or to have been written wholly H 174 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A or in part by any person, the signature or the handwriting of so much of the document as is alleged to be in that person’s handwriting must be proved to be in his handwriting. 85. Presumption as to powers-of-attorney. –– The Court shall presume that every document purporting to be a power-of-attorney, B and to have been executed before, and authenticated by, a Notary Public, or any Court, Judge, Magistrate, [Indian] Consul or Vice- Consul, or representative of the [Central Government], was so executed and authenticated.” Section 17 of the Registration Act speaks about documents of which registration is compulsory, while Section 18 deals with documents C of which registration is optional. Clause (f) of Section 18 states that all other documents not required by Section 17 to be registered, may be registered at the option of the parties. In other words, the documents which are compulsorily registrable are listed under Section 17 and such list is exhaustive. The documents, registration of which is optional, are D specified in clauses (a) to (e) of Section 18 but this list is not exhaustive. Under clause (f) of Section 18 “all other documents” which do not require registration under Section 17 are also optionally registrable such as the power of attorney, document relating to adoption etc.. A power of attorney is not a compulsorily registrable document when it is duly notarized. It carries the presumption of being valid in view of Section 85 of Evidence E Act. Since, a power of attorney does not come within the ambit of Section 17 or clause (a) to (e) of Section 18, registration of a power of attorney is optional. An attorney holder may execute a deed of conveyance in exercise of the power granted under the power of attorney and convey title on behalf of the grantor or principal, provided he has been specifically F given power to sell the property of the principal.