A the Companies Act, 1956. The High Court may even appoint any officer of the operating agency as the liquidator of the sick industrial company. Section 21 of SICA 1985 requires the operating agency to prepare an inventory, if so directed by BIFR.” 11.8 Thus, the primary concern of the Board would be the revival B of the sick company and to save the sick company from winding up. That is why with a view to see that there is no impediment in framing the rehabilitation scheme and to get out the sick company from sickness. Section 22 provides for suspension of legal proceedings, contracts etc. On a bare reading of Section 22 and Section 22A of SICA, it appears that these two provisions primarily ensure that the scheme prepared by C BIFR does not get frustrated because of certain other legal proceedings and to prevent untimely and unwarranted disposal of the assets of the sick industrial company. These sections clearly state certain restrictions which will impact upon the implementation of the scheme as well as on the assets of the company. D 11.9 As observed and held by this Court in the case of Tata Motors Limited (supra), SICA, 1985 has been enacted to secure the principles specified in Article 39 of the Constitution of India. It seeks to give effect to the larger public interest and, therefore, it should be given primacy over other laws because of its higher public purpose. E 11.10 In the case of Raheja Universal Limited (supra), it is observed and held that the SICA, 1985 is a special law, giving overriding effect vis-à-vis other laws and the provisions of general laws like Companies Act for regulation, incorporation, winding up etc. of the companies would have still been overridden to the extent of inconsistency. In the case of NGEF Ltd. Vs. Chandra Developers (P) Ltd., (2005) F 8 SCC 219, it is specifically observed by this Court that the SICA, 1985 is a special statute, which is a complete code in itself. 11.11 As observed and held by this Court in the aforesaid decisions, the provisions of SICA, 1985 shall normally override other laws except the laws, which have been specifically excluded by the legislature under G Section 32 of SICA, 1985. 11.12 Keeping in mind the statement of objects and reasons for enactment of SICA, 1985 and the powers exercised by the BIFR and the primary concern to revive the sick industry for which the rehabilitation H MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1059 LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] scheme is to be framed under Section 18, the question posed is required A to be considered. 11.13 As per the statutory provisions under SICA, 1985, the rehabilitation scheme is provided under Section 18 of the SICA, 1985, which shall be made after making the inquiry under Section 16 by the Board. Section 18 reads as under:- B “18. Preparation and sanction of schemes.—(1) Where an is made under sub-section (3) of Section 17 in relation to any sick industrial company, the operating agency specified in the shall prepare, as expeditiously as possible and ordinarily within a period of ninety days from the date of such , a scheme C with respect to such company providing for any one or more of the following measures, namely:— (a) the financial reconstruction of the sick industrial company; (b) the proper management of the sick industrial company by change in, or take over of, management of the sick industrial D company; (c) the amalgamation of— (i) the sick industrial company with any other company; or E (ii) any other company with the sick industrial company; (hereafter in this section, in the case of sub-clause (i), the other company, and in the case of sub-clause (ii), the sick industrial company, referred to as “transferee company”; F (d) the sale or lease of a part or whole of any industrial undertaking of the sick industrial company; (da) the rationalisation of managerial personnel, supervisory staff and workmen in accordance with law; G (e) such other preventive, ameliorative and remedial measures as may be appropriate; (f) such incidental, consequential or supplemental measures as may be necessary or expedient in connection with or for the purposes of the measures specified in clauses (a) to (e).