This meaning is inevitable from the words “to the extent contemplated in this Article 13, which precedes the general words. In this regard, we may refer to the of this Court in Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd. &Anr.1. In the said , it has been relied upon understandably by the first G respondent also and which also arose under the same clause (Article 13.2), this Court has held inter alia as follows: “10. Article 13.2 is an in-built restitutionary principle which compensates the party affected by such change in law and which 1 Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Anr. v. Adani Power Limited & Ors. (2019) H 5 SCC 325 HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 57 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] must restore, through monthly tariff payments, the affected party A to the same economic position as if such change in law has not occurred. This would mean that by this clause a fiction is created, and the party has to be put in the same economic position as if such change in law has not occurred i.e. the party must be given the benefit of restitution as understood in civil law. Article 13.2, B however, goes on to divide such restitution into two separate periods. The first period is the “construction period” in which increase/decrease of capital cost of the project in the tariff is to be governed by a certain formula. However, the seller has to provide to the procurer documentary proof of such increase/ decrease in capital cost for establishing the impact of such change C in law and in the case of dispute as to the same, a dispute resolution mechanism as per Article 17 of the PPA is to be resorted to. It is also made clear that compensation is only payable to either party only with effect from the date on which the total increase/decrease exceeds the amount stated therein. D 13. A reading of Article 13 as a whole, therefore, leads to the position that subject to restitutionary principles contained in Article 13.2, the adjustment in monthly tariff payment, in the facts of the present case, has to be from the date of the withdrawal of exemption which was done by administrative s dated 6-4- E 2015 and 16-2-2016. The present case, therefore, falls within Article 13.4.1(i). This being the case, it is clear that the adjustment in monthly tariff payment has to be effected from the date on which the exemptions given were withdrawn. This being the case, monthly invoices to be raised by the seller after such change in tariff are to appropriately reflect the changed tariff. On the facts F of the present case, it is clear that the respondents were entitled to adjustment in their monthly tariff payment from the date on which the exemption notifications became effective. This being the case, the restitutionary principle contained in Article 13.2 would kick in for the simple reason that it is only after the dated 4- G 5-2017 [Adani Power Ltd. v. Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd., 2017 SCC OnLine CERC 66] that CERC held that the respondents were entitled to claim added costs on account of change in law w.e.f.