Secondly, the High Court had no reason to direct the election petitioner to file the said documents on record while dismissing applications filed by the appellant and the 6th respondent. It E was for the first respondent to seek permission to produce the documents. The first respondent never sought such permission. Even if the documents are produced, the same will be without any foundation in the pleadings. Therefore, it is very difficult to sustain the said direction as well. 21.As held earlier, paragraphs 3 and 4 are unnecessary, which do not deal with something which happened after the election was declared. F Therefore, the said paragraphs being irrelevant will have to be ed to be deleted under Rule 16 of VI of CPC. Paragraph 5 is not material for the alleged cause of action. Paragraphs 6, 7 and 9 do not disclose any material facts in relation to the allegations of corrupt practices. As material facts regarding allegations of corrupt practice G have not been pleaded, the election petition does not disclose any cause of action as far as the ground of corrupt practice is concerned. Therefore, even these paragraphs deserve to be deleted. As stated earlier, the ground of improper acceptance of the nomination paper is not supported by material facts. In any case, the ground of improper acceptance of the nomination paper is no longer relevant as the term of the appellant has H 562 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A already expired. Therefore, in view of the findings which we have recorded above, no purpose will be served by keeping the Election Petition pending. Accordingly, we set aside the impugned of the High Court and allow the applications filed by the appellant for rejection of the petition and/or for deletion of irrelevant paragraphs. Election Petition No.1 of 2017 pending before the High Court of Judicature at Madras B stands dismissed. There will be no as to costs. Divya Pandey Appeals disposed of. (Assisted by Varun Dhond and Shevali Monga, LCRAs] C D E F G H