Kim and Annexure P4 would reveal the repeated advice to the appellant not to have any contact in future with any external agency, such as Andong National G University, South Korea, without permission from appropriate authorities in ISRO. The further indisputable facts would reveal his persistent dealings with that University ignoring such instructions. In such circumstances, his continued association with a foreign agency/university, ignoring the fact that he is a responsible scientist in the ISRO, which is a highly sensitive and H DR. V. R. SANAL KUMAR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 775 strategic research and development organization under the A Department of Space, Government of India, if viewed suspiciously and thought that his further exposure to ISRO’s critical rocket technologies would create serious complications, it cannot be said to be bereft of substance and not a matter of concern in regard to the security of the State. Taking into account the B expertise of the appellant in the particular branch and that he has been working under ISRO since 1992, there cannot be any doubt with respect to the experience which he gathered in the subject from ISRO and in such circumstances leaving to a foreign country without prior permission and continuing there for a considerable long period despite advice and instructions to come back and C continuing to associate with such a foreign organisation/university researching on rocketry, the respondent organisation cannot be said to have committed a flaw or fault in entertaining suspicion on his honesty, integrity, reliability, dependability and trustworthiness and above all to treat such acts as a matter of D concern in relation to the security of the State. [Para 21][793-F- H; 794-A-H; 795-A-C] 1.3 Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules requires no analytical approach to understand that it contains two limbs. Firstly, to attract it requires the satisfaction of the President that “in the interest E of the security of the State” it is not expedient to hold any inquiry in the manner provided in the CCA Rules. The second limb enables the disciplinary authority to consider, having regard to the circumstances of the case to consider and make such s thereon, as it deems fit. In the instant case, in invocation of the provision of Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules, was passed F dismissing the appellant from service with effect from 01.09.2003 without conducting inquiry upon the satisfaction of the President that it is not expedient to hold any inquiry in the manner provided in the CCA Rules “in the interest of the security of the State”. [Para 22][795-D-F] G 1.4 There is no hesitation to hold that a bare perusal of the of the tribunal would reveal that the tribunal had considered the question not confining its consideration only to Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules but also taking into consideration the source of power derived from the second proviso to Article 311 (ii) of H 776 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A the Constitution of India.