In other words, the defect pointed out should have H THE SECRETARY MINISTRY OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS v. DR. 319 MAHINDRA BHASKAR LIMAYE [M. R. SHAH, J.] been cured such that the basis of the judgement pointing out the A defect is removed. c) Nullification of mandamus by an enactment would be impermissible legislative exercise [See: S.R. Bhagwat (supra)]. Even interim directions cannot be reversed by a legislative veto [See : Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (supra) and Medical B Council of India v. State of Kerala (2019) 13 SCC 185]. d) Transgression of constitutional limitations and intrusion into the judicial power by the legislature is violative of the principle of separation of powers, the rule of law and of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.” C 6.3 In the said decision, this Court struck down and declared that first proviso to Section 184(1) of the Finance Act, 2017, which provided for 50 years minimum age for appointment as Chairman or Member as unconstitutional by observing that the said first proviso to Section 184 (1) is in violation of the doctrine of separation of powers as the D of this Court in the case of Madras Bar Association Vs. Union of India & Anr. – MBA III - (2017) 7 SCC 369 decided on 27.11.2020, has been frustrated by an impermissible legislative override. 6.4 Taking into consideration the aforesaid decisions, the High Court in the impugned and has rightly observed and held E that Rule 3(2)(b), Rule 4(2)(c) and Rule 6(9) of the Rules, 2020 which are contrary to the decisions of this Court in the cases of UPCPBA (supra) and the Madras Bar Association (supra) are unconstitutional and arbitrary. 6.5 Even otherwise also we are of the opinion that Rule 6(9) F lacks transparency and it confers uncontrolled discretion and excessive power to the Selection Committee. Under Rule 6(9), the Selection Committee is empowered with the uncontrolled discretionary power to determine its procedure to recommend candidates to be appointed as President and Members of the State and District Commission. The transparency and selection criteria are absent under Rule 6(9). In absence G of transparency in the matter of appointments of President and Members and in absence of any criteria on merits the undeserving and unqualified persons may get appointment which may frustrate the object and purpose of the Consumer Protection Act. It cannot be disputed that the Commissions are empowered with the powers of court and are quasi- H 320 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A judicial authorities and empowered to discharge judicial powers with the adequate powers of the court including civil and criminal. Therefore, the standards expected from the members of the tribunal should be as nearly as possible as applicable to the appointment of judges exercising such powers. Under Rule 6(9) of Rules, 2020, the Selection Committee is having power to determine its own procedure. Such provisions are also B giving excessive and uncontrolled discretionary powers to the Selection Committee. As rightly observed and held by the High Court, considering the object on behalf of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, such uncontrolled discretion power to determine its procedure for making its recommendation for appointment of President and Members of the C District and the State Commissions is arbitrary and unreasonable.