Ltd. vs. New India Assurance Pvt. Co. Ltd. in Consumer Case No.278 of 2011 dated 21.03.2017 to persuade us to adopt the view taken therein. In the said case the facts reveal that the incident had been brought to the notice of the insurer and the policy was issued only thereafter. In that circumstance, it was held that it was not open for the insurance company to repudiate the claim inasmuch as the insurer had an opportunity to ask the proposer whether the said defects/defi ciencies in the vessel had been reported to the Classifi cation Society or not. Having noted the same we are of the opinion that the said decision would not be of assistance inasmuch as the defects which were existent was known to the insurance company. However, in the instant case though, there was an earlier damage to the engine crank shaft and on the recommendation for replacement, the insurer had reimbursed the amount for that purpose. Though the immediate voyage with repairs had been brought to the knowledge of the insurer, the replacement was to be made in due course. The entire onus cannot be on the insurer to check as to whether subsequently the engine had been replaced by utilising the amount received. In such situation when the replacement, in fact was not made, the onus was entirely on the appellant to bring it to the notice of the Classifi cation Society and in that circumstance when the Class Certifi cate was issued, the warranty class had in fact been violated by the appellant and the exclusion as indicated would apply and make it invalid. 19. The decision relied on by the learned Senior Counsel for appellant in the case of Marine Off shore Pvt. Ltd. vs. China Insurance Company (Singapore) Pvt. Ltd. & Anr., (2006) 4 SLR 689 is also not of assistance to the appellant since the consideration therein was entirely in a diff erent circumstance where the clause relating to the perils of the sea was the issue and, in that circumstance, whether the unseaworthiness could be considered. In the instant facts as noted the unseaworthiness alone is not the issue but the non-reporting of the damage/defects to the Classifi cation Society HIND OFFSHORE PVT. LTD. v. IFFCO – TOKIO GENERAL 975 INSURANCE CO. LTD. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] before issue of the certifi cate and the same rendering the Class Certifi cate invalid though issued earlier is the issue and in that circumstance whether the owner is to inform this aspect or as to whether the verifi cation by the insurer is warranted. 20. Further, the decision in the case of New India Assurance Company Ltd. vs. Pradeep Kumar, (2009) 7 SCC 787 relied on by the learned senior counsel for the appellant to contend that the word of the surveyor is not fi nal would not assist the appellant. In the instant case, the surveyor has recommended rejection of the claim mainly on the reason that the earlier defect with reference to seaworthiness had not been brought to the notice of the Classifi cation Society.