23 dated 27.07.2022 in WP(C) No.643/2015 at para 15 - 16. H 24 dated 05.04.2023 in Review Petition (Diary No) 34780/2022 at para 19. ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 61 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] or promotion or the date of financial upgradation. The sole change it A suggested was that judicial officers should have the benefit of increment falling due the next day following their retirement. The Commission suggested that this benefit of an additional increment shall be for the purposes of pension only and shall be subject to a vertical ceiling of Rs. 2,24,100/-. B 52. An additional increment can be given to a retiring officer when he is not in service on the date of accrual. This is because the increment is a benefit for the year of service already rendered. Therefore, the last pay, for the purposes of calculation of pension should include the increment payable to the judicial officer. C 53. Three sets of decisions had been rendered by different High Courts regarding this. The first view, which was taken by the High Courts of Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Allahabad, is that when the increment becomes due the next day after retirement, the employee ought not to be denied the benefit of the increment for the purposes of pay. The D second view, which was taken by the High Courts of Madras, Orissa and Delhi is that the increment would accrue to officers only for the purpose of pension alone. The third view, taken by the Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan High Courts is that the increment cannot be granted to the officers. E 54. The law has now been settled by this Court in a recent Director, KPTCL v. CP Mundinamani.25 This Court approved the of the High Court of Allahabad’s view in Nand Vijay Singh v. Union of India26 it was held: “24. … In the case of a government servant retiring on 30th of June the next day on which increment falls due/becomes F payable looses significance and must give way to the right of the government servant to receive increment due to satisfactory services of a year so that the scheme is not construed in a manner that if offends the spirit of reasonableness enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution of India.” G 55. In such circumstances, the recommendations of the Commission in so far as it notionally grants the increment for the purposes of pension is completely justified. As a consequence of the acceptance 25 (2023) SCC Online SC 401 at para 18. 26 Nand Vijay Singh v. Union of India (2021) SCC Online All 1090 at para 24. H 62 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A of the recommendation, the calculation of pension must notionally include the increment for the purposes of calculation of pension. This will also obviate any confusion. It is therefore directed that the High Courts amend the applicable rule to state that the increment which becomes due to the judicial officer on the day after his retirement may be notionally included in the calculation of his pension as his last pay, subject to the vertical B ceiling of Rs.