This conclusion is well supported by what the Constitution Bench held in paragraph 104 of its decision, which reads thus: “104. That apart, in most of such cases where death B penalty or life imprisonment is the punishment imposed by the trial court and confirmed by the Division Bench of the High Court, the convict concerned will get an opportunity to get such verdict tested by filing further appeal by way of special leave to this Court. By way of abundant caution and as per the prescribed law of the Code and the criminal C jurisprudence, we can assert that after the initial finding of guilt of such specified grave offences and the imposition of penalty either death or life imprisonment, when comes under the scrutiny of the Division Bench of the High Court, it is only the High Court which derives the power under the PenalCode, which prescribes the capital and alternate D punishment, to alter the said punishment with one either for the entirety of the convict’s life or for any specific period of more than 14 years, say 20, 30 or so on depending upon the gravity of the crime committed and the exercise of judicial conscience befitting such offence found proved E to have been committed.” 13. Hence, we have no manner of doubt that even in a case where capital punishment is not imposed or is not proposed, the Constitutional Courts can always exercise the power of imposing a modified or fixed-term sentence by directing that a life F sentence, as contemplated by “secondly” in Section 53of the IPC, shall be of a fixed period of more than fourteen years, for example, of twenty years, thirty years and so on. The fixed punishment cannot be for a period less than 14 years in view of the mandate of Section 433A of Cr.P.C.” G Holding so, this Court modified the sentence passed by the Trial Court and directed that the appellant should undergo imprisonment for life and should not be released till he completed 30 years of actual sentence. 14. Significantly, both Gouri Shankar (supra) and Shiva Kumar (supra) were cases wherein the Trial Court could have imposed a death H RAVINDER SINGH v. THE STATE GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI 491 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] sentence had the circumstances warranted it, as those cases arose under A Section 302 IPC. The question would then arise as to whether the power to pass a modified sentence of life imprisonment would be available to the High Courts and this Court even in cases where the law does not prescribe the death sentence as one of the punishments and limits the maximum punishment to imprisonment for life with nothing further, as in B the case on hand. In this context, we may note that the observations made in Swamy Shraddananda(supra) and V. Sriharan(supra) clearly indicate the existence of such power, though the Court stopped short of declaring so and linked the special category sentences passed in those cases to substitution for a death sentence.