In Harbour Assurance Co. (U.K.) Ltd. v. Kansa General International Insurance Co. Ltd.93, the Court of Appeal held that an arbitration agreement is “a self-contained contract collateral to the containing contract.” The separability presumption is also enshrined in Section 7 of the UK Arbitration Act 199694 in the following terms: “Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, an arbitration agreement which forms or was intended to form part of another agreement (whether or not in writing) shall not be regarded as invalid, non-existent or ineff ective because that other agreement is invalid, or did not come into existence or has become ineff ective, and it shall for that purpose be treated as a distinct agreement.” 97. Chitty on Contracts states that Section 7 of the UK Arbitration Act maintains the established common law principle which treats an arbitration agreement as distinct from the contract of which it forms part.95 According to Chitty, treating an arbitration agreement distinct and separate from the underlying contract has two consequences: fi rst, an arbitration agreement can be void or voidable only on the grounds which directly relate to it; and second, if the arbitration agreement is valid and binding and is suffi ciently wide in its terms, issues relating to the validity, existence, or eff ectiveness of the underlying contract are within the substantive jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal.96 93 [1993] Q.B. 701 94 “UKG Arbitration Act” 95 Chitty on Contracts, Hugh Beale (ed), (32nd edn, Sweet and Maxwell, 2015) para 32- 028 96 ibid IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1141 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] 98. In Premium Nafta Products Limited v. Fili Shipping Co. Ltd.,97 the House of Lords further explained the separability presumption in Section 7 of the UK Arbitration Act. In that case, the issue was whether a party was bound by an arbitration agreement contained in an underlying contract which was allegedly procured by fraud and bribery. Lord Hoff man, writing for the House of Lords, held that it could be enforced in view of the separability presumption. The Law Lord held that an arbitration agreement in terms of Section 7 of the UK Arbitration Act is a “distinct agreement” from the underlying contract and, therefore, can be void or voidable only on grounds which relate directly to the arbitration agreement. Lord Hoff man, built on his past decision in Harbour Assurance (supra), by holding that Section 7 protects an arbitration agreement from any indirect challenge. e. United States of America 99. The US Federal Arbitration Act presupposes that an arbitration agreement can be separate and distinct from the underlying contract.98 The separability presumption was subsequently reiterated by US courts with respect to both international and domestic arbitration. In Prima Paint Corporation v. Flood & Conklin Mfg. Co.,99 the Supreme Court of the United States affi rmed the separability presumption by observing that “arbitration clauses as a matter of federal law are ‘separable’ from the contracts in which they are embedded.” In reaching this conclusion, the court emphasized upon the presumptive desire of the parties to insulate the arbitration agreement from challenges directed at the underlying contract.