D 45. After receipt of the resolution plans in accordance with the Code and the Regulations, the resolution professional shall then provide the fair value and liquidation value to every member of the Committee of Creditors — see Regulation 35(2). Regulation 36 is important as it forms the basis for the E submission of a resolution plan. The information memorandum, spoken of by this regulation, must contain the following: “36. (2)(a) assets and liabilities with such description, as on the insolvency commencement date, as are generally necessary for ascertaining their values. F Explanation.—”Description” includes the details such as date of acquisition, cost of acquisition, remaining useful life, identification number, depreciation charged, book value, and any other relevant details. (b) the latest annual financial statements; G (c) audited financial statements of the corporate debtor for the last two financial years and provisional financial statements for the current financial year made up to a date not earlier than fourteen days from the date of the application; H 1018 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (d) a list of creditors containing the names of creditors, the amounts claimed by them, the amount of their claims admitted and the security interest, if any, in respect of such claims; (e) particulars of a debt due from or to the corporate B debtor with respect to related parties; (f) details of guarantees that have been given in relation to the debts of the corporate debtor by other persons, specifying which of the guarantors is a related party; (g) the names and addresses of the members or partners C holding at least one per cent stake in the corporate debtor along with the size of stake; (h) details of all material litigation and an ongoing investigation or proceeding initiated by Government and statutory authorities; D (i) the number of workers and employees and liabilities of the corporate debtor towards them; (j)-(k)*** (l) other information, which the resolution professional E deems relevant to the committee.”” (f) On the basis of the information memorandum, the resolution plan is submitted under Section 30(1) of the IBC. (g) It is important to note that the operational creditors are F mandatorily entitled to the liquidation value or the amount that the plan entitles them if distributed in accordance with the waterfall mechanism under Section 53 whichever is higher. (See Section 30 (2)(b)) (h) For dissenting financial creditors, they are mandatorily entitled to the amount under Section 53 in the event of liquidation. G (i) The constitutional validity of the said provision was upheld by this Court in the decision of Essar Steel India Limited (supra). (See paras 128-131) (j) If the plan fails to comply with the above, the resolution plan is liable to be mandatorily rejected. H AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1019 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (k) Section 31 of the IBC deals with the approval of the resolution A plan which shall bind everyone i.e. the corporate debtor, guarantors, creditors, other stakeholders etc.