But he strongly relies on Regulation 19(7)(xvi) of Maharashtra Regulations and contends that the said Regulation makes it obligatory for the G Municipal Council Hinganghat to follow the provisions, of the Code. It is for the State Government to frame the Code in whatever’ manner it likes but once the Code is in operation its provisions have to be followed by the Municipal Council Hinganghat under the mandate of Regulation 19(7)(xvi) of H Maharashtra Regulations. We see considerable force in the BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 291 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] argument of the learned Counsel. The Code has been framed A with the purpose of bringing security of service, uniformity, efficiency and discipline in the working of non-Government High Schools. It has to be applied uniformly to the schools run by various Municipal Councils in the State. It is no doubt correct that the Municipal Councils have the power to frame B bye-laws under the Maharashtra Municipalities Act, 1965 but if the field is already occupied under the mandate of statutory Maharashtra Regulations, the Municipal Council cannot frame bye-laws to the contrary rendering the mandate of the Maharashtra Regulations Nugatory. We are of the view that the Municipal Council Hinganghat has out stepped its C jurisdiction in framing bye-law 4 of the bye-laws. We, therefore, direct that the conditions of service of the appellants shall be governed by the Code as enforced by Regulation 19(7)(xvi) of the Maharashtra Regulations. Bye-law 4 of the bye-laws shall not be applicable to the appellants.” D 66. We fail to see how this decision assists Respondent No. 1. There was a reference made to the Secondary School Code in the Maharashtra Regulations but at no point of time was there an indication that the Code was designated as “statutory”. In fact, the legal force of the Code was bestowed upon it by the reference in Regulation 19(7)(xvi) E of the Maharashtra Regulations, which were statutory in nature. 67. This cannot, in any way, be extrapolated to affirm the proposition that references in legislations and statutory rules, infuses a “statutory flavour” to regulations that are not of such character. In the present case, Rule 12 of the 1959 Rules merely states that lands allotted to F RIICO will be further dealt with by the Corporation as per its 1979 Rules. At best, this imposes an obligation upon RIICO to abide by its own guidelines, which it had issued under Article 93 of its AoA. The obligation for RIICO to abide by the 1979 Rules stems from its own AoA under which those Rules came into being. By no stretch, does this make the 1979 Rules statutory in nature, as was accepted even in M.G. G Pandke (Supra). 68. Thus, it is clear to us that no statutory force underpins the 1979 Rules and there is no question of them prevailing over or governing the subject area. H 292 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A C.3 Whether failure to observe Principles of Natural Justice by the State Government vitiated its decision to annul the permissions/approvals granted by RIICO in favour of Respondent No.1?