It is about the documented performance of Rhinoplasty (for which Susruta was famous) witnessed and recorded in 1793 in Pune. A Parsee gentleman by the name of D Cowasjee, who was serving the English Army at the time of the Mysore War in 1792, was captured by the soldiers of Tipu Sultan. His nose and one hand was cut off. He and three of his friends, who had met with the same fate, consulted a person who was only a bricklayer by profession. The bricklayer performed a surgery, which was witnessed by Thomas E Cruso and James Findlay, Senior British Surgeons in Bombay Presidency. They described and drew the skin graft procedure and the same was published in the Madras Gazette. It was later reproduced in the October 1794 issue of the Gentleman’s Magazine of London. The surgery was described in the following words:- “A thin plate of wax is fitted to the stump of the nose so as to F make a nose of a good appearance, it is then flattened and laid on the forehead. A line is drawn around the wax which is then of no further use and the surgeon then dissects off as much skin as it had covered, leaving undivided a small slip between the eyes. This slip preserves the circulation till a union has taken place G between the new and old parts. The cicatrix of the stumps of the nose is next paired off and immediately behind the new part an incision is made through the skin which passes around both alae, and goes along the upper lip. The skin now brought down from the forehead and being twisted H 318 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A half around, is inserted into this incision, so that a nose is formed with a double hold above and with its alae and septum below fixed in the incision. A little Terra Japanica (pale catechu) is softened with water and being spread on slips of cloth, five or six of these are placed over B each other to secure the joining. No other dressing but this cement is used for four days. It is then removed and clothes dipped in ghee (clarified butter) are applied. The connecting slip of skin is divided about the twentieth day, when a little more dissection is necessary to improve the appearance of the new nose. Four, five or six days after the operation, the patient is made to lie on his C back and on the tenth day bits of soft cloth are put into the nostrils to keep them sufficiently open.” 46. The learned author of the Book Mr. Udwadia, goes on to say that the above occurrence caught the attention of J.C. Carpue, a 30 year old Surgeon in London. He successfully used the same skin graft D procedure for nose repair on a patient in 1814. According to the learned author, J.C. Carpue reported his successful results in 1816, introducing the “Hindu Surgical Technique” and with it, “The Indian Nose” to the West.