It would be unreasonable to suppose that section 3(1)(j) would nullify the eff ect of a provision contained in an earlier Act when either by express words or by necessary implication it does not do so.” The Division Bench held that children born of a void marriage and who are regarded as legitimate by virtue of the provisions of Section 16 of the HMA are entitled to the rights conferred upon them by Section 16(3) “irrespective of the apparent restricted defi nition of Section 3(1)(j) of the Hindu Succession Act”. The Division Bench held that children of a void marriage have been given a right in the property of their parents: “24… Since no child acquires a right in the property of its parents by birth, these rights can be exercised only by way of succession to the property For that purpose they are to be treated as heirs in Class I 47 1987 SCC OnLine Bom 9: 1987 Mah LJ 179 REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 363 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] of the Schedule to the Hindu Succession Act and they are entitled to succeed in accordance with the provisions contained in section 8 of the Hindu Succession Act.” I. Legitimacy and Coparcenary 50. As a matter of fi rst principle, it is necessary to emphasize that while conferring legitimacy on children born from marriages that are void or, as the case may be, voidable under sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of Section 16 of the HMA 1955, Parliament circumscribed the nature of the rights in property that such a child can seek. Such an individual does not ipso facto become a coparcener in the Hindu Mitakshara Joint Family. The basic principle which governs such an HUF is that a coparcener holds a property in common with others. The birth of a person who is a coparcener leads to the acquisition of an interest in the coparcenary property. Shares are liable to increase with birth and reduce with the death of a coparcener. As a result of the substitution of Section 6(3), devolution of the share of a Hindu male coparcener in the property of a HUF governed by Mitakshara law upon death takes place not by survivorship but by testamentary or intestate succession, as the case may be, under the Act. Section 6(3) has therefore after its substitution provides for devolution by testamentary or intestate succession under the Act and not by survivorship. Section 6 however, continues to recognize the existence of Mitakshara Hindu Joint families. 51. Prior to the enactment of the HMA 1955, the Hindu law did not render a second marriage of a male Hindu during the subsistence of an earlier marriage void. A three judge Bench of this Court recognized the position prior to the enactment of the legislation in its decision in Bhaurao Shankar Lokhande Vs State of Maharashtra48. The Court noted that “there is nothing in the Hindu law, as applicable to marriages till the enactment of the Hindu Marriage Act of 1955, which made a second marriage of a male Hindu, during the lifetime of his previous wife, void”.