xxx xxx xxx 7. In the absence of domestic law occupying the fi eld, to formulate eff ective measures to check the evil of sexual harassment of working women at all workplaces, the contents of international conventions and norms are signifi cant for the purpose of interpretation of the guarantee of gender equality, right to work with human dignity in Articles 14, 15 19(1)(g) and 21 of the Constitution and the safeguards against sexual harassment implicit therein. Any international convention not inconsistent with the fundamental rights and in harmony with its spirit must be read into these provisions to enlarge the meaning and content thereof, to promote the object of the constitutional guarantee. This is implicit from Article 51(c) and the enabling power of the Parliament to enact laws for implementing the international conventions and norms by virtue of Article 253 read with Entry 14 of the Union List in Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. Article 73 also is relevant. It provides that the executive power of the Union shall extend to the matters with respect to which Parliament has power to make laws. The executive power of the Union is, therefore, available till the Parliament enacts legislation to expressly provide measures needed to curb the evil.” (Emphasis supplied) 34. This Court in Vishaka (supra) further embarked on an innovative judicial process for the eff ective enforcement of the basic human right of gender equality and guarantee against sexual harassment and abuse by laying down the essential principles for preventing and redressing sexual harassment, including the creation of internal complaints committee at workplaces, awareness programs, and punitive measures against the off enders. These guidelines now popularly known as the ‘Vishaka Guidelines’ set a foundation for the development of comprehensive legislation on sexual harassment. The relevant observations are as under: - 516 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “16. In view of the above, and the absence of enacted law to provide for the eff ective enforcement of the basic human right of gender equality and guarantee against sexual harassment and abuse, more particularly against sexual harassment at work places, we lay down the guidelines and norms specifi ed hereinafter for due observance at all work places or other institutions, until a legislation is enacted for the purpose. This is done in exercise of the power available under Article 32 of the Constitution for enforcement of the fundamental rights and it is further emphasised that this would be treated as the law declared by this Court under Article 141 of the Constitution. 17. The GUIDELINES and NORMS pre-scribed herein are as under: HAVING REGARD to the defi nition of “human rights” in Section 2(d) of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993. TAKING NOTE of the fact that the present civil and penal laws in India do not adequately provide for specifi c protection of women from sexual harassment in work places and that enactment of such legislation will take considerable time, It is necessary and expedient for employers in workplaces as well as other responsible persons or institutions to observe certain guidelines to ensure the prevention of sexual harassment of women: 1.