From the terms and the tone of the letter and the circumstances, the arbitrator who is the chosen judge of the facts and the merits concluded that there was acceptance of the notice. It could be open to debate whether there was sufficient articulation F of the acceptance. Words such as “have taken note of your intention to resign from our dealership” could perhaps have been supplanted with the benefit of hindsight with different words. But the question which arises is when the letter is read in the context of the facts as a whole, particularly, in the light of the jurisdiction G of the Court to interfere with a finding of the arbitrator within his jurisdiction, the High Court palpably erred. Clause (3) permits either party to bring about a premature termination of the contract. By giving a notice of three months, if the notice is the IOC, IOC is enabled to make arrangements so that essential services provided by a dealer do not suffer abrupt disruption. In other H INDIAN OIL CORP. LTD. AND ORS. v. M/S. 685 SATHYANARAYANA SERVICE STATION words, alternate arrangements could be made. Likewise, a A termination by IOC would put the dealer on alert and it can appropriately take steps towards arranging its affairs in a fair manner. [Para 21][697-C-H; 698-A-C] 1.5 Proceeding on the footing that in the above sense a premature termination of the agreement would need acceptance, B the view taken by the arbitrator in the facts, cannot be characterised as being perverse. It is undoubtedly a plausible view. It closes the door for the court to intervene. The finding of the arbitrator cannot be described as one betraying “a patent illegality”. [Para 22][698-D-E] C 1.6 The High Court proceeded by adverting to draw a distinction between “termination of the agreement” and “resignation from dealership”. The High Court also proceeded on the basis that since the agreement does not prohibit the first respondent from withdrawing the case, the case has to be tested on the anvil of the Contract Act. A merit review was undertaken D to find that the offer of the first respondent to ‘resign’ was not accepted by letter dated 22.11.2006. [Para 23][698-E-F] 1.7 The clause in question did not provide for resignation from dealership. Indeed, it provides only for termination of the agreement. What the first respondent has indicated in letter dated E 25.09.2006, the contents of which have been reiterated in the notarised version dated 03.10.2006 and received on 16.11.2006 by the second appellant, is that the first respondent was ‘withdrawing’ from the dealership. The High Court cannot be supported on the basis that the clause in question did not F contemplate resignation. In fact, though not in all cases, a resignation may assume effect only upon acceptance by the employer. What, on the other hand, is contemplated in clause (3) is a notice of three months terminating the contract by either party. [Para 24][698-F-H] G 1.8 It was pointed out that acceptance by the management of IOC actually took place on 07.12.2006 and not on 22.11.2006.