However, those who exercise the State power are the Ministers, the Legislators H 52 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A and the Judges, and not the members of their staff who implement or assist in implementing their decisions. The council of ministers or the political executive is different from the secretarial staff or the administrative executive which carries out the decisions of the political executive. Similarly, the Legislators are different from the legislative staff. So also B the Judges from the judicial staff. The parity is between the political executive, the Legislators and the Judges and not between the Judges and the administrative executive. In some democracies like the USA, members of some State judiciaries are elected as much as the members of the legislature and the C heads of the State. The Judges, at whatever level they may be, represent the State and its authority unlike the administrative executive or the members of the other services. The members of the other services, therefore, cannot be placed on a par with the members of the judiciary, either constitutionally or functionally.”” D III. Independence of the District Judiciary is Part of the Basic Structure 30. This Court has repeatedly held that the independence of the judiciary is part of the basic structure of the Constitution.15 However, E the pronouncements of the Court have been in the context of the High Court and the Supreme Court and not in the context of the District Judiciary. The District Judiciary performs an important role in upholding the rule of law. As noted in the Review dated 05.04.2023: “15. The District Courts and courts forming a part of the district judiciary discharge a prominent role in preserving the rule of F law. Public confidence in the judicial system sustains the credibility of the judiciary. The district judiciary has a significant role in generating and fostering public confidence. The standards of ethics and professionalism expected of judges are more rigorous than those applied to other services/ G professions. Ensuring adequate emoluments, pension and proper working conditions for the members of the district 15 S.P. Gupta v. Union of India, 1981 Supp SCC 87; Supreme Court Advocates-on- Record Assn. v. Union of India, (1993) 4 SCC 441; Special Reference No. 1 of 1998, In re, (1998) 7 SCC 739; Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Assn. v. Union of India, H (2016) 5 SCC 1. ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 53 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] judiciary has an important bearing on the efficiency of A judicial administration and the effective discharge of the unique role assigned to the judiciary.” 31. The independence of the District Judiciary must also be equally a part of the basic structure of the Constitution. Without impartial and independent judges in the District Judiciary, Justice, a preambular goal16 B would remain illusory. The District Judiciary is, in most cases, also the Court which is most accessible to the litigant. The Amicus Curiae submitted that on a single day, the District Judiciary handled nearly 11.3 lakh cases.