If it is capable of having any probative value, the weight to be attached to it is a matter for the person to whom Parliament has entrusted the responsibility of deciding the issue. The supervisory jurisdiction of the High Court does not entitle it to usurp this responsibility and to substitute its own view for his.” (Emphasis supplied) 54. From the above case law, it becomes clear that it is open to the adjudicating authority to accept, rely and evaluate any evidence having probative value and come to its own conclusion, keeping in mind judicial approach and objectivity, exclusion of extraneous material and observance of the rule of natural justice and fair play. In short, the essence of the doctrine is that fair opportunity should be aff orded to the delinquent at the enquiry and he should not be hit below the belt. Moreover, the jurisdiction of the High Court in such cases is indeed limited. The High Court should not exercise appellate powers and substitute its fi ndings for the fi ndings recorded by the disciplinary authority. It is no doubt true that if there is “no evidence” or the decision is “so unreasonable that no reasonable man could have ever come to it”, or the decision is “so outrageous” in its defi ance of logic or of accepted moral standards that no sensible person who had applied his mind to the question to be decided could have arrived at it “or that it is so absurd that one is satisfi ed that the decision-maker must have taken leave of his senses”, it calls for interference by a competent court of law. 55. As discussed before, this Court in Apparel Export Promotion Council (supra) had held that in sensitive matters such as sexual harassment & misconduct, there is an obligation to look into the entire evidence of the complainant that inspires confi dence. What is discernible from the above is that in disciplinary proceedings documents and materials such as evidence or pleadings be it statement of defence or a complaint should be readily entertained by the courts and more so by the disciplinary & inquiry authorities irrespective of whether they are later actually relied or not in the ultimate decision making. Thus, it would be quite preposterous to hold that UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 545 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the complainant was precluded from making the second complaint before the Central Complaints Committee merely because she had already made one complaint to the IG, Frontier Headquarters, Guwahati. 56. In the context of the second complaint, the only relevant aspect that requires consideration is whether any serious prejudice was caused to the respondent. It is not in dispute that the respondent was provided with the copy of the second complaint. It is also not in dispute that the respondent was aware of the nature of the allegations levelled in the second complaint. It is also not in dispute that ample opportunity was given to the respondent to meet with the allegations levelled in the second complaint.