In other words, the Courts cannot invalidate the laws covered by the said Articles. We may agree with the appellants that apart from providing protection to the laws, the Directive Principles would B continue to govern ‘State’, which would include its instrumentalities, having regard to Article 12 read with Article 36. Here, we may notice one aspect. Even where State and its instrumentalities are obliged to follow the Directive Principles, it cannot, in their actions, act in an unfair or discriminatory fashion. Even the appellants agree that judicial review, C under Article 226, is permissible. 100. It is the appellants’ contention that Section 60 of the Act may not avail the respondents to contend that the Nationalisation Act would pale into insignificance and irrelevance when it cannot square with the provisions of the Act. Section 28 of the Nationalisation Act, on the other D hand, is set up to counter the argument. What is more, decisions of this Court in Employees Provident Fund Commissioner v. Official Liquidatorof Esskay Pharmaceuticals Limited23 and Sanwarmal Kejriwal v. Vishwa Coop. Housing Society Ltd. and Others24are enlisted in support. In Sanwarmal Kejriwal (supra), the question, which was considered was, whether the protection under Section 15A of a E rent control law would not be available to a person on whom a fictional status of tenant was conferred. This was as Section 91 of the Maharashtra Cooperative Society Act provided for eviction of a person from a flat. The Court harmonized both the Acts by holding that in matters governed by the earlier Rent Act, its provisions would continue to apply. F 101. In Employees Provident Fund Commissioner (supra), the question which arose was whether the priority given to the dues payable by an employer under the employees under Section 11A of the Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 was subject to Section 529A of the Companies Act, 1956. Under Section 529A, workers’ G dues and debts due to secured creditors was to be paid in priority to all other debts. This Court held that the EPF Act was a social welfare legislation. Section 11(2) of the EPF Act declared that any amount due under the Act shall be the first charge in priority to all other debts including 23 (2011) 10 SCC 727 24 (1990) 2 SCC 288 H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 879 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] debts due to a Bank which was found to be falling under the category of A a secured creditor. It is in the context of the statutes and the object sought to be achieved that this Court held that a non-obstante clause contained in the later Act, viz., the Companies Act, 1956, would not prevail. This Court held, in paragraphs-42 and 44, as follows: “42. The argument of Shri Gaurav Agrawal that the non obstante B clause contained in the subsequent legislation i.e. Section 529- A(1) of the Companies Act should prevail over similar clause contained in an earlier legislation i.e.