It is, thus, to be seen that Arbitration Act, 1940, from its inception and right through to 2004 (in P.S. Sathappan [(2004) 11 SCC 672]) was held to be a self-contained code. Now, if the Arbitration Act, 1940 was held to be a self-contained code, on matters pertaining to arbitration, the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, which consolidates, amends and designs the law relating to arbitration to bring it, as much as possible, in harmony with the Uncitral Model must be held only to be more so. Once it is held that the Arbitration Act is a self-contained code and exhaustive, then it must also be held, using the lucid expression of Tulzapurkar, J., that it carries with it “a negative import that only such acts as are mentioned in the Act are permissible to be done and acts or things not mentioned therein are not permissible to be done”. In other words, a letters patent appeal would be excluded by the application of one of the general principles that where the special Act sets out a self- contained code the applicability of the general law procedure would be impliedly excluded.” 85. The Arbitration Act is a self-contained code inter alia with respect to matters dealing with appointment of arbitrators, commencement of arbitration, making of an award and challenges to the arbitral award, as well as execution of such awards.83 When a self-contained code sets out a procedure, the applicability of a general legal procedure would be impliedly excluded.84 Being a self-contained and exhaustive code on arbitration law, the Arbitration Act carries the imperative that what is permissible under the law ought to be performed only in the manner indicated, and not otherwise. Accordingly, matters governed by the Arbitration Act such as the arbitration agreement, appointment of arbitrators and competence of the arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction have to be assessed in the manner specifi ed under the law. The corollary is that it is not permissible to do what is not mentioned under the Arbitration Act. Therefore, provisions of other statutes cannot interfere with the working of the Arbitration Act, unless specifi ed otherwise. 83 Pasl Wind Solutions (P) Ltd v. GE Power Conversion (India) (P) Ltd., (2021) 7 SCC 1; Kandla Export Corporation v. OCI Corporation, (2018) 14 SCC 715 84 Subal Paul v. Malina Paul, (2003) 10 SCC 361 113 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. iv. Principles of modern arbitration 86. The Stamp Act and the Indian Arbitration Act, 1899 came into force on the same day, that is, 1 July 1899. The Arbitration Act, 1899, which was enacted more than a century ago, did not have minimum judicial interference as its avowed object. However, the law on arbitration has undergone a sea change over the course of a century. 87. The Arbitration Act represents the principles of modern arbitration, which seeks to give eff ect to the mutual intention of the parties to resolve their disputes by a neutral third-party arbitral tribunal, whose decision is fi nal and binding on all the parties.