803 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] detention in terms of his representation. The detenue, in cases of A preventive detention under the COFEPOSA Act, has the right to submit a representation to the detaining authority, the Government, and the Advisory Board. These representations then, as per Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India, must be decided at the earliest opportunity possible. If the representation is accepted either by the Government or the detaining B officer, the detenue is released, however, if the representation is rejected, then the detention period is continued. 23. In the case at hand, the appellant herein, who is under preventive detention, submitted a representation to the Central Government, the detaining authority and the Advisory Board. It is the case of the appellant C that while the detaining authority considered the representation of the appellant authority in an expeditious manner, however, the Government took 60 days to consider the same. This delay of 60 days, as per the appellant, is fatal to the case of the prosecution, and constitutes sufficient grounds for quashing the impugned detention . D 24. The Government, however, claims that the delay of 60 days is completely fair, as the same was caused because the Central Government was waiting for the advice of the Advisory Board before deciding on the resolution. In light of this conflict, the overarching issue that needs to be answered is whether the central Government is bound to wait for the decision of the Advisory Board before coming to its decision or not. To E answer this, we must look at the relevant case laws that define the rights and duties of the Government, the detaining authority and the detenue in such circumstance. 25. In the Pankaj Kumar case (Supra), the petitioners therein filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court seeking for a quashing of a F detention passed against them under the Preventive Detention Act,1950, on grounds that the Government failed to consider the representation made by them and merely passed it on to the Advisory Board. After careful consideration, a Constitution Bench of this Court held that the Government must act Independently from the Advisory Board, and that there exists no mandate on the Government to wait for G the decision of the Advisory Board. The relevant paragraphs of the said are being extracted herein: “It is true that clause (5) does not in positive language provide as to whom the representation is to be made and by whom, when made, it is to be considered. But the expressions “as H 804 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A soon as may be” and “the earliest opportunity” in that clause clearly indicate that the grounds are to be served and the opportunity to make a representation are provided for to enable the detenu to show that his detention is unwarranted and since no other authority who should consider such representation is mentioned it can only be the detaining B authority to whom it is to be made which has to consider it.