To that extent Section 197 CrPC has to be construed narrowly and in a restricted manner. 39.3. Even in facts of a case when public servant has exceeded in his duty, if there is reasonable connection it will not deprive him of protection under Section 197 CrPC. There cannot be a universal rule to determine whether D there is reasonable nexus between the act done and official duty nor is it possible to lay down such rule. 39.4.In case the assault made is intrinsically connected with or related to performance of official duties, sanction would be necessary under Section 197 CrPC, but such E relation to duty should not be pretended or fanciful claim. The offence must be directly and reasonably connected with official duty to require sanction. It is no part of official duty to commit offence. In case offence was incomplete without proving, the official act, ordinarily the provisions F of Section 197 CrPC would apply. ….” 42. In D. Devaraja vs. Owais Sabeer Hussain9, this Court explained that sanction is required not only for acts done in the discharge of official duty but also required for any act purported to be done in the G discharge of official duty and/or act done under colour of or in excess of such duty or authority. This Court also held that to decide whether sanction is necessary, the test is whether the act is totally unconnected with official duty or whether there is a reasonable connection with the official duty. H 9 (2020) 7 SCC 695 A. SRINIVASULU v. THE STATE REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF 41 POLICE [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 43. Keeping in mind the above principles, if we get back to the A facts of the case, it may be seen that the primary charge against A-1 is that with a view to confer an unfair and undue advantage upon A-5, he directed PW-16 to go for limited tenders by dictating the names of four bogus companies, along with the name of the chosen one and eventually awarded the contract to the chosen one. It was admitted by the B prosecution that at the relevant point of time, the Works Policy of BHEL marked as Exhibit P-11, provided for three types of tenders, namely (i) Open Tender; (ii) Limited/Restricted Tender; and (iii) Single Tender. 44. Paragraph 4.2.1 of the Works Policy filed as Exhibit P-11 and relied upon by the prosecution laid down that as a rule, only works up to C Rs.1,00,000/- should be awarded by Restricted Tender. However, paragraph 4.2.1 also contained a rider which reads as follows: “4.2.1 … However even in cases involving more than Rs.1,00,000/- if it is felt necessary to resort to Restricted Tender due to urgency or any other reasons it would be open to the General D Managers or other officers authorised for this purpose to do so after recording reasons therefor.” 45. Two things are clear from the portion of the Works Policy extracted above. One is that a deviation from the rule was permissible.