We need not go into the issue of limitation any further. 115. The learned counsel appearing for the appellants have placed reliance on few decisions of this Court. We have looked into all those decisions. None of the decisions, is of any avail to the appellants. It is not necessary for us to deal with each and every relied upon on behalf of the appellants. We have extensively discussed the position of law on all the issues relating to contempt of court. 116. We may summarise our fi nal conclusion as under: (i) We hold that an assurance in the form of an undertaking given by a counsel / advocate on behalf of his client to the court; the wilful breach or disobedience of the same would amount to “civil contempt” as defi ned under Section 2(b) of the Act 1971. (ii) There exists a distinction between an undertaking given to a party to the lis and the undertaking given to a court. The undertaking given to a court attracts the provisions of the Act 1971 whereas an undertaking given to a party to the lis by way of an agreement of settlement or otherwise would not attract the provisions of the Act 1971. In the facts of the present case, we hold that the undertaking was given to the High Court and the breach or disobedience would defi nitely attract the provisions of the Act 1971. (iii) Although the transfer of the suit property pendente lite may not be termed as void ab initio yet when the court is looking into such transfers in contempt proceedings the court can defi nitely declare such transactions to be void in to maintain the majesty of law. Apart from punishing the contemnor, for his contumacious 1134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. conduct, the majesty of law may demand that appropriate directions be issued by the court so that any advantage secured as a result of such contumacious conduct is completely nullifi ed. This may include issue of directions either for reversal of the transactions by declaring such transactions to be void or passing appropriate directions to the concerned authorities to ensure that the contumacious conduct on the part of the contemnor does not continue to enure to the advantage of the contemnor or any one claiming under him. (iv) The benefi ciaries of any contumacious transaction have no right or locus to be heard in the contempt proceedings on the ground that they are bona fi de purchasers of the property for value without notice and therefore, are necessary parties. Contempt is between the court and the contemnor and no third party can involve itself into the same. (v) The apology tendered should not be accepted as a matter of course and the court is not bound to accept the same. The apology may be unconditional, unqualifi ed and bona fi de, still if the conduct is serious, which has caused damage to the dignity of the institution, the same should not be accepted.