61. Section 11(a)(1) of the Karanataka VAT Act as above specifi cally stipulates that where a sale of exempt goods takes place i.e., there is no output tax received on such sale, the input tax paid for manufacturing/processing such exempt goods cannot be credited while calculating the net tax. It is beyond any pale of doubt that the UP VAT Act does not provide for any such scheme or provision that aims at achieving the same. 62. Au contraire, Explanation (iii) to Section 13 read with Section 13(3)(b) UP VAT Act, as outlined above, seeks to create a deeming fi ction where during the manufacture of any taxable goods any exempt goods are produced as by-product or waste product, it shall be deemed that the purchased goods have been used in the manufacture of taxable goods. The scheme under the UP VAT Act therefore, is wholly distinct from the one provided in the Karnataka VAT Act. 63. The Karnataka VAT Act with the aid of Section 17 read with Rule 131 of the Karnataka VAT Rules seeks to provide a statutory mechanism for grant of partial rebate where a registered dealer deducting input tax makes sale of taxable goods as well as exempt goods. The apportionment and attribution of input tax deductible between such sales and dispatch of goods for such purpose, shall be made in accordance with Rule 131 of the KVAT Rules and any input tax deducted in excess becomes re-payable forthwith. Further, Rule 131 of the KVAT Rules specifi cally provides that all input tax directly relating to sale of goods exempt under Section 5 other than such goods sold in the course of export out of the territory of India, is non-deductible. 64. However, the scheme under the UP VAT Act is not the same as in Karnataka and no such provision regarding calculation of the apportionment etc., has been provided for under the UP VAT Act. The reliance by the High Court therefore on this decision is not correct. It is not applicable to the facts of the present case, and could not have been relied upon to deny the full ITC to the assessee. 65. Under Section 13(1)(a) read with S. No. 2 (ii) of the table appended and Section 13(3)(b) read with Explanation (iii) of Section 13, the scheme of ITC is concerned with the ‘manufacture’ of goods and not ‘sale’ as dealt with in M.K. Agro Tech (supra). M/S MODI NATURALS LTD. v. THE COMMISSIONER OF 773 COMMERCIAL TAX UP [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 66. Further, the deeming fi ction as provided by the Explanation (iii) to Section 13 makes all the diff erence. It says that where during the manufacture of any taxable goods, any exempt goods are produced as by-products or waste product, it shall be deemed that the purchased goods have been used in the manufacture of taxable goods, creating a wholly distinct scheme to the one envisaged under the Karnataka VAT Act. 67. The following illustration highlights the diff erence between the ITC scheme envisaged under the Karnataka VAT Act and the scheme under the UP VAT Act: I. Karnataka VAT Act, 2003 Total Sales = Rs.