Chapter Note 3 thereof reads as under: “In this Chapter, ‘tobacco’ means any form of tobacco, whether cured or uncured and whether manufactured or not, and includes the leaf, stalks and stems of the tobacco plant, but does not include any part of a tobacco plant while still F attached to the earth.” 13. Chapter Note 6 reads as follows: “In this Chapter, “Pan Masala containing tobacco”, commonly known as ‘Gutka’ or by any other name, means G any preparation containing betel nuts and tobacco and any one or more of the following ingredients, namely: (i) lime; and (ii) kattha (catechu), H M/S TRIMURTHI FRAGRANCES (P) LTD. THR. ITS DIRECTOR SHRI 1059 PRADEEP KUMAR AGRAWAL v. GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI THR. ITS PRINCIPAL SECRETARY (FINANCE) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] whether or not containing any other ingredients, such as A cardamom, copra and menthol.” Chapter 24 includes Heading No. 2404.49, which reads as under: “Pan Masala containing tobacco” 14. The appellants had urged before the High Court that “gutkha” B is “tobacco” and relied on Kothari Products Ltd. v. Government of A.P8 and State of Orissa v. Radheshyam Gudakhu Factory9. This court in RadheshyamGudakhu Factory (supra), noted that “tobacco” in Section 2(c) of the ADE Act means goods in Entry 9 of the First Schedule to the CET Act which is as follows: C “‘Tobacco’ means any form of tobacco, whether cured or uncured and whether manufactured or not, and includes the leaf, stalks and stems of the tobacco plant, but does not include any part of a tobacco plant while still attached to the earth.” D 15. In Radheshyam Gudakhu Factory (supra) the issue was whether ‘Gudaku’ was covered by the expression, ‘tobacco’ defined in ADE Act. The court held that “gudaku” is a form of smoking tobacco and is a product of tobacco, in common parlance. Before the Court there was no dispute that “gutkha” is not included in “tobacco”. Thus, it is clear that “Gutkha” and “Gudaku” are both covered by the expression E “tobacco” as understood in Chapter Note 3 of the CET Act. The appellants argued that when ‘Gudaku’ and ‘Gutkha’ are tobacco and fell within Entry No. 22 of the Third Schedule of the Act, local sales tax cannot be levied by introducing Entry No. 46 through a notification and by including it in the First Schedule. Kothari Products Ltd. (supra) was F relied on; the dealer was dealing in ‘Gutkha’ (under the brand “Pan Parag”). The introduction of Entry 194 (which taxed “pan masala including gutkha”) in the First Schedule to the A.P. General Sales Tax Act (APGST Act) was in issue. APGST Act had a provision10 like Section 7 of the DST Act which exempted goods in the Fourth Schedule. The Fourth Schedule referred to tobacco (Entry 7) and its explanation stated G that it shall be 8 (2000) 9 SCC 263 [hereafter ‘Kothari Products Ltd.’] 9 1988 (68) STC 92 (SC); (2018) 11 SCC 505 [hereafter ‘Radheshyam Gudakhu Factory’] 10 See Section 8.