In his cross-examination, he stated that he did not receive the specimen fingerprints of the accused through the Court but from the Investigating Officer. C Insofar as this fingerprint evidence is concerned, we find that the same was liable to be eschewed from consideration as the accused were already in custody by the time the so-called chance fingerprints were lifted from the scene of the offence. More importantly, the prescribed procedure was not followed in gathering this so-called D evidence. No report was drawn up at the time of lifting of these chance prints in the presence of credible witnesses. Similarly, no report was prepared even at the time the specimen fingerprints of the accused were taken. Therefore, PW-24’s evidence that two of the chance prints tallied with the fingerprints of the accused cannot be given any weightage. Failure in following the due procedure rendered the findings of PW-24 E wholly unreliable. 20. Shri R. Basant, learned senior counsel, would contend that there is no evidence of any light being available outside the house of PW-1, whereby the witnesses could have seen the accused running away with bags. We are of the opinion that it would not be open to the accused F to raise this factual aspect at this late stage. It was never put in issue that the area in question did not have adequate street lights, whereby the evidentiary value of the statements of witnesses as to what they had seen could be attacked.More so, as it has come on record that apart from the jewellery shop of PW-1, there were other jewellery shops in G the vicinity and the police station itself was just half a kilometer away. If that was so, it is difficult to believe that there would be no street lighting in such an area. In any event, this Court does not propose to initiate an inquiry into this factual aspect, which was not raised either before the Trial Court or before the High Court. H DAKKATA BALARAM REDDY & ANR. v. STATE OF ANDHRA 897 PRADESH & ANR. [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] 21. Undeniably, there are some discrepancies and contradictions A in the prosecution’s case. There is no clarity as to the sequence of events at the scene of offence on the fateful night. Witnesses gave differing versions of the time of the arrival of the police and as to what they saw and said. There is no corroboration of PW-1’s statement that it was PW-7 who informed him of the accused entering and exiting his house, B as PW-7 said nothing to that effect. Further, recovery of the clothes worn by the accused at that time is also shrouded in doubt. One version is that they were still wearing them at the police station and they were seized there by the police, after providing them other clothes, while the other is that A1 handed over blood-stained clothes to PW-26 along with the bag of ornaments at his house. However, some differences in the C testimonies of witnesses as to what they saw and said are to expected given the passage of time.