In relation F to and for the company, as its representative, Shri M.B. Patil was charged. The trial court record establishes these as undeniable facts. Yet, the consequence of such admission has to be considered keeping in mind that several other allegations need a trial. 24. It is a salutary position in law that there cannot be a partial rejection of the plaint (or petition, as in this case) in exercise of power G under VII Rule 11, CPC. This court had stated this principle, in Sejal Glass Ltd. vs. Navilan Merchants Pvt. Ltd9 in the following manner: 9 2017 [7] SCR557 H 1236 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “This cannot elevate itself into a Rule of law, that once a part of a plaint cannot proceed, the other part also cannot proceed, and the plaint as a whole must be rejected Under VII Rule 11. In all such cases, if the plaint survives against certain Defendants and/or properties, VII Rule 11 will have no application at all, and the suit as a whole B must then proceed to trial.” This principle was stated clearly, in D. Ramachandran v. R.V. Jankiraman10 which, in relation to an election petition, explained the position as follows: C “The election petition as such does disclose a cause of action which if unrebutted could void the election and the provisions of 7 Rule 11 (a) CPC cannot therefore be invoked in this case. There is no merit in the contention that some of the allegations are bereft of material facts and as such do not disclose a cause of action. It is elementary that under D 7 Rule 11(a) CPC, the Court cannot dissect the pleading into several parts and consider whether each one of them discloses a cause of action. Under the Rule, there cannot be a partial rejection of the plaint or petition.” 25. There is some authority for the proposition, that the court’s E power under XII Rule 6, CPC, is not only discretionary but requires exercise of caution and that unless an admission is unambiguous, enabling the court to draw a decree, the power would not be exercised. Thus, in Himani Alloys Ltd. v. Tata Steel Ltd.,11 this court held that: “It is true that a can be given on an “admission” F contained in the minutes of a meeting. But the admission should be categorical. It should be a conscious and deliberate act of the party making it, showing an intention to be bound by it. 12 Rule 6 being an enabling provision, it is neither mandatory nor peremptory but discretionary. The court, on examination of the facts and circumstances, has to exercise G its judicial discretion, keeping in mind that a on admission is a without trial which permanently denies any remedy to the Defendant, by way of an appeal on merits. Therefore unless the admission is clear, unambiguous 101999 [1] SCR 983 H 11 2011[7] SCR60 BHIM RAO BASWANTH RAO PATIL v. K. MADAN MOHAN 1237 RAO AND ORS.