It also recommended to amend the Act so that the Waqf Tribunal will be manned by a full time Presiding Officer appointed D exclusively for waqf properties. The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Waqf in its Third Report presented to the Rajya Sabha on the 4th March, 2008 made recommendations for a wide range of amendments relating to time bound survey of waqf properties, prevention and removal of encroachments, E making the Central Waqf Council a more effective and meaningful body, provisions for development of waqf properties, etc. In its Ninth Report presented to the Rajya Sabha on the 23rd October, 2008, the Joint Parliamentary Committee reconsidered certain issues. The recommendations of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Waqf were F considered by the Central Waqf Council. The various issues and the need for amendments to the Act have also been considered in consultation with other stakeholders such as the AllIndia Muslim Personal Law Board, representatives of the State Governments and the Chairmen and the Chief G Executive Officers of State Waqf Boards.” 16. In Ajay Agarwal (supra), the aggrieved party was not held guilty of committing any offence. He was also not subjected to any penalty. He was restrained by an for a period of five years from associating with any corporate body in accessing the securities market;he H had also been prohibited from buying, selling or dealing in securities for P. V. NIDHISH & ORS. v. KERALA STATE WAKF BOARD & 559 ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] five years. The court relied on the definition of “offence” under the A General Clauses Act, 1897 (i.e., any act or an omission made punishable by any law for the time being in force). In view of this definition, a limited suspension from dealing in securities for five years did not amount to an “offence”. The court also relied on the definition of offence, under Section 2 (n) Cr. PC: B “2. (n) ‘offence’ means any act or omission made punishable by any law for the time being in force and includes any act in respect of which a complaint may be made under Section 20 of the Cattle-Trespass Act, 1871 (1 of 1871);” 17. In the present case, there is no controversy that Section 52A C is a penal provision; a person proceeded against faces the prospect, in the event the charges are proved, of a prison sentence of up to two years; the offence is cognisable and non-bailable, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Cr. PC [Section 52A (2)]. 18. The injunction against punishing anyone for conduct which D was not an offence when it was committed, by an enactment, which creates one, subsequently, with retrospective effect¸ is enacted in our Constitution as a Fundamental Right [Article 20 (1)11]. A Constitution Bench of this court, in Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh v. State of Vindhya Pradesh12 had explained the purport of Article 20 (1): E “This article in its broad import has been enacted to prohibit convictions and sentences under ex post facto laws.