According to the plaintiff the appellants herein - original defendant nos. 1, 2 & 3 without complying with the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, constructed a road known as “Tikkari-Larot- Bodra Kwar road” on the land of the plaintiff, but no E compensation was paid to the plaintiff. The fruit bearing plants were also damaged. 2.1 The appellants herein – original defendants contested the suit contending inter alia that the suit is barred by law of limitation; that the plaintiff was working as Mate in the Department and in fact the road F was constructed on his request and as per the consent; the plaintiff waived off his claim of compensation as the road was constructed with his consent in the year 1987. The learned Trial Court framed the following issues: “Issue no.l :- Whether the plaintiff is entitled for the relief of G declaration, as prayed for? OPP Issue no.2:- Whether the plaintiff is entitled compensation as alleged? OPP Issue no. 3:- Whether the suit is not maintainable? OPD Issue no. 4:- Whether the suit is time barred? OPD H 584 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Issue no. 5:- Whether the plaintiff is estopped by his acts and conduct? OPD Issue No.6:-Whether the suit has not been valued properly for the purpose of court fee and jurisdiction? OPD Issue No. 7:-Whether the plaintiff has no cause of action? B OPD Issue No.8:-Whether the suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary parties? OPD Issue No.9:- Relief”. C 2.2 On appreciation of entire evidence on record and considering the fact that the road was constructed in the year 1987 and till 2002 no grievance was made by the plaintiff and as the cause of action arisen in the year 1987, the learned trial Court held the issue No.4 in favour of the defendants and held that the suit was barred by limitation taking into consideration Articles 58 and 72 of the Limitation Act. The learned Trial D Court also held the issue Nos.3, 5 & 7 against the plaintiff. Consequently, the learned Trial Court dismissed the suit. The and decree passed by the learned Trial Court dismissing the suit came to be confirmed by the First Appellate Court. By the impugned and the High Court has allowed the Second Appeal preferred by the original E plaintiff. The High Court framed the following substantial question of law: “Whether the findings or and decree passed by the Court below are a result of complete misreading, misinterpretation of the evidence and material on record and against the settled position F or law?” Holding aforesaid question of law in favour of the plaintiff the High Court without even considering the issue with respect to the limitation has allowed the Second Appeal and has quashed and set aside the concurrent findings recorded by both the Courts below and consequently G has decreed the suit. 2.3 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case the High Court has committed a very serious error in allowing the Second Appeal and quashing and setting aside the concurrent findings recorded H THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. CHANDERVIR 585 SINGH NEGI [M. R. SHAH, J.]