The observation of the court was without merit. The court erroneously granted primacy to paragraph 4.27 of the HBP over paragraph 4.03 of the FTP, when infact the FTP had pre- eminence over the HBP for laying down the procedures to be followed by an exporter or importer in terms of paragraph 1.03 of the FTP. E Therefore, provision of the HBP could not override the FTP in case of a conflict. It was argued that paragraph 4.27(d) limited and confined the scope of paragraph 4.27(a). The moment paragraph 4.27(d) came into picture, paragraph 4.27(a) became inoperative. 19. It was also urged that there was no conflict between paragraph F 4.03 of the FTP and that of 4.27(a) of the HBP. The scope and field of operation of individual paragraphs were completely different. Paragraph 4.03(a) of the FTP provided that: “(a) Advance Authorisation is issued to allow duty free import of input, which is physically incorporated in export product G (making normal allowance for wastage). In addition, fuel, oil, catalyst which is consumed / utilized in the process of production of export product, may also be allowed.”14 14 Paragraph 4.03(a) of the FTP. H 202 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 20. The object and spirit of the AA scheme to allow duty free import of input, which was to be physically incorporated in export product, was clear. The relevant customs notifications too, referred to paragraph 4.03, which provided that the AA was issued in terms of its provision for extending exemption. The provision of physical incorporation of the inputs in the export goods, was necessary for the purpose of the scheme, for B two reasons. One, that input materials actually imported were to be physically incorporated in the export goods and two, that the goods physically incorporated in the export goods only could be imported as input. As far as the first situation was concerned, there was no question of replenishment, because the inputs imported became part of the exports. C Such goods were to be imported prior to the commencement of export to enable the importer to manufacture finished goods from them. Therefore, for one had to follow the ‘pre-import condition’ and at the same time they could not avail the benefit of export in anticipation of authorization. In the second situation however, the importer could use materials procured otherwise, instead of duty-free materials to D manufacture export goods, but the nature of materials (so procured) had to be identical in all respects with the input materials to be imported. In other words, materials which were to be used in export goods could only be allowed for import. In this case, there was no need to follow the ‘pre- import condition’ - the importer could avail the benefit of export in E anticipation of authorization. The Revenue contended that therefore paragraph 4.03 of FTP was not in conflict with paragraph 4.27 of the HBP. In the absence of 4.27(d), these two provisions were considered as complementary rather than in conflict.