That although Section 20 permits denial of the remedy of specific performance where a decree of specific performance would involve some hardship to the defendant(s), the Explanation to Clause (c) of Section 20 (2) clarifies that mere insufficiency of consideration would not be deemed to constitute ‘hardship.’ Therefore, the consideration G guiding the decision of the High Court to deny the relief of specific performance, was extraneous. 9.3 It was next contended that the Court ought to have moulded the relief by having due regard to the conduct of the plaintiff. That the plaintiff’s conduct was reflective of the fact that he duly pursued the H C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 265 KURUP [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] execution of the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor and A therefore, was entitled to be awarded a decree of specific performance in his favour. That in the absence of any proof demonstrative of delay, unwillingness, unreadiness on the part of the plaintiff, the relief of specific performance could not have been denied. 9.4 Learned counsel for the appellant contended that this Court B has authoritatively laid down that in cases where specific performance of a contract is sought in relation to property, the market value of which has increased since the date on which contract of sale was entered into, it would be justified to award an additional amount of consideration to the seller, at the discretion of the Court, vide Pratap Lakshman C Muchandi and Ors. vs. Shamlal Uddavadas Wadhwa and Ors., (2008) 1 SCC 67. Therefore, the Trial Court had not erred in decreeing the suit for specific performance in favour of the plaintiff, by directing the plaintiff to pay additional sale consideration to the defendants. That the direction of the Trial Court to enhance the consideration did not amount to rewriting the terms of the agreement, but was done with a D view to balance the equities. That the direction of the Trial Court ought to be appreciated in light of the fact that the relief of specific performance is an equitable remedy. In that context it was further submitted that the plaintiff duly paid the enhanced sale consideration, which fact also would demonstrate the conduct of the plaintiff and his willingness to execute E the agreement of sale. 9.5 It was submitted that the reason the plaintiff did not tender the sale consideration in excess of 4% of the total consideration agreed upon was because the defendants had not made available any documents which would enable the plaintiff to satisfy himself as to the title of the F defendants. Therefore, the High Court had erred in holding that since only 4% of the sale consideration had been paid, it would not be a fit case to grant the discretionary remedy of specific performance, without appreciating the facts of the case in its true perspective. With the aforesaid averments, it was prayed that the impugned of the High Court be set-aside and the of the Trial G Court, be restored.