A Decree of the trial court to this extent has attained finality. 8. The defendants preferred appeals against the decree in respect of the Schedule ‘A’ property before the Gauhati High Court, which have been allowed by the impugned dated 17.05.2006. This of reversal inter alia holds that the plaintiff on the basis of evidence and B documents placed on record has not been able to discharge the burden of proof to establish legal ownership and title to the Schedule ‘A’ property. We will elaborate on the evidence and reasons recorded by the High Court subsequently. The also refers to the Tripura Land Revenue and Land Reforms Act which came into force in 1960, and C observes that certain rights may have accrued to the state government in respect of the Schedule ‘A’ property. Albeit the High Court clarified that the question pertaining to the right, title and interest of the defendants remains to be adverted, and the defendants could approach the appropriate forum. D 9. We would now proceed to examine the averments made in the pleadings, including the plaint, and the evidence led by the parties. 10. The plaint and the claim made by Smriti Debbarma, who had deposed as PW-1, is predicated on the Deed of Patta, marked as Exhibit- 12, executed by Maharaja Durjoy Kishore Debbarma, son of Maharaja E Birendra Kishore Debbarma in favour of Bidurkarta on 31.10.1951. Subsequently, Bidurkarta on 25.06.1952 had executed an Ekrarnama, marked as Exhibit-5, acknowledging that the rights granted to him under the Deed of Patta (Exhibit-12) actually belong to Maharani Chandratara Devi. To this extent, there is no dispute. 11. The plaint refers to and accepts that a charter executed by F Maharaja Bir Bikram Kishore Debbarma, incorporated a private limited company, on 24.01.1351 Tripura Era3 or 1941 A.D. , namely, M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited. Further, M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited, after its incorporation, had acquired huge properties in Agartala town. The plaintiff claims that she is one of the major shareholders of this company. G However, there is no evidence or material on record to show the shareholding of Maharani Chandratara Devi in M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited. As noted above, the plaintiff’s prayer for a decree in respect of shares and business of M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited was declined 3 For short, “T. E.”. H 362 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A by the trial court, which decree remains unchallenged by the plaintiff and has been accepted. Paragraph 7 of the plaint states that M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited was established after taking the land and building of Schedule ‘A’ property, which was given on lease by Maharani Chandratara Devi. The lease had expired long back. Date of execution and the term of the lease is not indicated. No lease deed or surrender B document was placed on record and proved. Nevertheless, we would record that the plaint accepts that M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited was in possession of the Schedule ‘A’ property. 12.