A (ii) increase its admission capacity in any course of study or training (including a post-graduate course of study or training), except with the previous permission of the Central Government obtained in accordance with the provisions of this section. B Explanation 1.—For the purposes of this section, “person” includes any University or a trust but does not include the Central Government. Explanation 2.—For the purposes of this section, “admission capacity”, in relation to any course of study or training (including C post-graduate course of study or training) in a medical college, means the maximum number of students that may be fixed by the Council from time to time for being admitted to such course or training. x x x D 10B. Non-recognition of medical qualifications in certain cases.— (1) Where any medical college is established except with the previous permission of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of section 10A, no medical qualification granted E to any student of such medical college shall be a recognised medical qualification for the purposes of this Act. (2) Where any medical college opens a new or higher course of study or training (including a post-graduate course of study or training) except with the previous permission of the Central F Government in accordance with the provisions of section 10A, no medical qualification granted to any student of such medical college on the basis of such study or training shall be a recognised medical qualification for the purposes of this Act. (3) Where any medical college increases its admission capacity G in any course of study or training except with the previous permission of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of section 10A, no medical qualification granted to any student of such medical college on the basis of the increase in its admission capacity shall be a recognised medical qualification for H the purposes of this Act. BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 971 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the criteria for A identifying a student who has been granted a medical qualification on the basis of such increase in the admission capacity shall be such as may be prescribed. x x x B 11. Recognition of medical qualifications granted by Universities or medical institutions in India.— (1) The medical qualifications granted by any University or medical institution in India which are included in the First Schedule shall be recognised medical qualifications for the purposes of this Act. C (2) Any University or medical institution in India which grants a medical qualification not included in the First Schedule may apply to the Central Government to have such qualification recognised, and the Central Government, after consulting the Council, may, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the First Schedule so as to include such qualification therein, and any such notification D may also direct that an entry shall be made in the last column of the First Schedule against such medical qualification declaring that it shall be a recognised medical qualification only when granted after a specified date.