The learned senior counsel also pointed out that initially, the election to the said Constituency was to be held in May 2016. By dated 14th May 2016, the Election Commission of India (“the Election Commission”) postponed the said election. There was a further E passed on 27th May 2016 by the Election Commission holding that the election of the said Constituency cannot be allowed to proceed and ought to be rescinded so that fresh elections could be held. Accordingly, on 17th October 2016, the Election Commission rescheduled the election to the said Constituency and declared that the polling will be held on 19th F November 2016. He pointed out that the first respondent filed a writ petition before the Madras High Court challenging acceptance of the nomination papers of the appellant and 6th respondent. He pointed out that by the and dated 18th November 2016, the High Court rejected the said writ petition filed by the first respondent and imposed costs on the first respondent. G 5. Inviting our attention to the averments made in the Election Petition filed by the first respondent, he pointed out that paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Election Petition give the history of the declaration of the poll and subsequent postponement. Paragraph 5 refers to the fact that the representation made by the first respondent for challenging the validity H 552 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of the nomination papers of the appellant and 6th respondent was rejected by the Returning Officer. He pointed out that in paragraph 6 of the Election Petition, the first respondent has relied upon four representations made from 17th November 2016 to 22nd November 2016 to the Returning Officer alleging that the appellant has committed electoral misconduct, corrupt practice, and acts of bribery. It is alleged that the first respondent B handed over audio and video clippings to the Returning Officer to prove the allegations in the representations made by email addressed to the Returning Officer. In paragraph 7, the allegation is that result of the election is vitiated due to improper acceptance of the nomination paper of the appellant. Paragraph 8 contains a chart showing the respective C votes polled by various candidates. In paragraph 9, it is alleged that the earlier election was cancelled due to misconduct on the part of the appellant and the 6th respondent and that they have suppressed the findings of the Election Commission recorded against them. He submitted that along with the Election Petition, copies of the representations made by the first respondent were filed. He urged that material facts and D particulars regarding the alleged corrupt practices are not found in the Election Petition. He submitted that on the basis of the applications made by the appellant, the High Court has directed the first respondent to file copies of emails, photographs, and video footage which do not find place in the list of documents filed along with the Election Petition. He urged E that the said direction is per se illegal.