Explanation.—For the purposes of this 1 [section], the term “assets” shall not include the following, namely:— (a) assets owned by a third party in possession of the corporate debtor held under trust or under contractual arrangements including bailment; (b) assets of any Indian or foreign subsidiary of the corporate debtor; and (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 596 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. mandate to make every endeavour to “protect and preserve the value of the property of the corporate debtor and manage the operations of the corporate debtor as a going concern”. 49. The other provisions of Part II indicate the further steps which are to be taken by the interim resolution professional, including constituting a Committee of Creditors17 as specified in Section 21. Several other consequences do follow upon the appointment of a CoC, including the preparation of an Information Memorandum under Section 29, the submission of a resolution plan under Section 30, and the approval of a resolution plan under Section 31. 50. Chapter III of Part II deals with a distinct eventuality, namely, the initiation of liquidation broadly in situations where the resolution plan has not been received or the resolution plan is rejected by the adjudicating authority for non-compliance of the requirements specifi ed for approval of the resolution plan in Section 31. These provisions elicit the vital role which is entrusted to the interim resolution professional initially and later to the resolution professional in cases involving corporate insolvencies. This role has to be contra-distinguished from the role which is ascribed to a resolution professional in Part III, who is appointed for the purpose of resolving insolvencies and bankruptcies for individuals and partnership fi rms. Sections 94 and 95, as we have noticed, provide for applications by the debtor or the creditor for the initiation of the insolvency resolution process in relation to these entities. The appointment of a resolution professional takes place under Section 97. In Part II, as we have noticed earlier, the adjudicating authority is contemplated to have an adjudicatory role right at the threshold. In contrast, in Chapter III of Part III, the appointment of a resolution professional is contemplated by Section 97. Under sub-section (5) of Section 97, the adjudicating authority has to appoint the resolution professional who is either recommended under sub-section (2) or nominated by the Board under sub-section (4). (c) such other assets as may be notifi ed by the Central Government in consultation with any fi nancial sector regulator. 17 “CoC” DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 597 51. The duties of a resolution professional in a process under Chapter III of Part III are contained in Section 99. The resolution professional is required, fi rstly, to examine the application within ten days of appointment. Secondly, they may require the debtor to prove that the repayment of the debt which is claimed to be unpaid by the creditor has taken place. The debtor may do so by evidencing an electronic transfer of the unpaid amount from a bank account of the debtor or produce evidence of the encashment of a cheque issued by a debtor or a signed acknowledgement by the creditor of the receipt of the dues.