(ix) The opinion of the Central Board of the Bankought to be an independent and frank opinion after a meaningful discussion by the Central Board of the Bankwhich ought to be given its due weightage having regard to the ramifications it may have on the Indian economy and the citizens of India C although it may not be binding on the Central Government. On receipt of a negative opinion from the Central Board of the Bank, the Central Government which has initiated the demonetisation process may still intend to go ahead with the said process after weighing the pros and cons only by D means of an Ordinance and/or Parliamentarylegislation butnot by issuance of a gazette notification.In other words, the Central Government in such circumstances cannot resort to exercise of power under sub-section(2) of Section 26 of the Act by issuing a notification in the Gazette of India as if it were exercising executive powers. Even if the E Central Board of the Bank concurs with the proposal of the Central Government, the Central Government would have to undertake a legislative process and not carry out the measure by simply issuing a gazette notification. (x) In view of the aforesaid conclusions, I am of the considered F view that the impugned notification dated 8th November, 2016 issued under sub-section(2) of Section 26 of the Act is unlawful. In the circumstances, the action of demonetisation of all currency notes of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- is vitiated. G (xi) Further, the subsequent Ordinance of 2016 and Act of 2017 incorporating the terms of the impugnednotification are also unlawful. (xii) However, having regard to the fact that the impugned notification dated 8th November, 2016 and the Act have H 230 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A been acted upon, the declaration of law made herein would apply prospectively and would not affect any action taken by the Central Government or the Bank pursuant to the issuance of the Notification dated 8th November, 2016. This direction isbeing issued having regard to Article 142 of the Constitution of India. Hence, no relief is being granted in B the individual matters. (xiii) In view of the above conclusions, I do not think it is necessary to answer the other questions raised in the reference . 22. Before parting, I wish to observe that demonetisation was an C initiative of the Central Government, targeted to address disparate evils, plaguing the Nation’s economy, including, practices of hoarding “black” money, counterfeiting, which in turn enable even greater evils, including terror funding, drug trafficking, emergence of a parallel economy, money laundering including Havala transactions. It is beyond the pale of doubt that the said measure, which was aimed at eliminating these depraved D practices, was well-intentioned. The measure is reflective of concern for the economic health and security of the country and demonstrates foresight. At no point has any suggestion been made that the measure was motivated by anything but the best intentions and noble objects for the betterment of the Nation.