In H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 977 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] fact, under Section 22 of the Act, each State Medical Council has to A supply to the Indian Medical Council, six printed copies of the State Medical Register on the first day of April of each year. On the receipt of report of the registration of a person in a State Medical Register or on application made in the prescribed manner by such person, enter his name in the Indian Medical Register vide Section 23 of the Act. Removal B of the names from the Indian Medical Register is dealt with in Section 24, while provisional registration is dealt with in Section 25 of the Act and registration of additional qualifications in Section 26 of the Act. Every person whose name is for the first time being borne in the Indian Medical Register shall be entitled, according to his qualifications, to practice as a medical practitioner in any part of India and to recover in due course of C law, in respect of such practice, any expenses, charges in respect of medicaments or other appliances, or any fees to which he may be entitled to. 18. It may be appropriate at this juncture to dilate on the Assam Act, 2004. D Assam Rural Health Regulatory Authority Act, 2004 (Assam Act): The relevant provisions of the said Act are as extracted as under: “2. Definitions.- In this Act unless the context otherwise requires: E (a) ‘Act’ means the Assam Rural Health Regulatory Authority Act, 2004; (b) ‘Authority’ means the Assam Rural Health Regulatory Authority established under Section 3; F (c) ‘Certificate’ means a certificate issued by the Authority under Section 17; (d) ‘Course’ means the prescribed course of education and training for the Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care; (e) ‘Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care’ means the G diploma awarded by the Authority on successful completion of the course of Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care under the provisions of the Act; x x x H 978 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (g) ‘Medicine’ means allopathic medicine but does not include veterinary medicine; (h) ‘Medicine and Rural Health Care’ means practice of allopathic medicine and health care system in rural areas in the State of Assam; B (i) ‘Medical institute’ means institute established under this Act for imparting medical education both theoretical and practical for the course of Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care; x x x C (l) ‘Rural areas’ means areas not included in a Municipal Corporation, a Municipal Board or a Town Committee or any other area notified as urban area; x x x D (n) ‘Rural Health Practitioners’ means a holder of the diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care who has registered himself as such with the Authority and obtained a certificate and a registration number. (o) ‘State Register of Rural Health Practitioners’ means the E register maintained under Section 17 and the expressions “Registered’ and ‘Registration’ shall be construed accordingly; x x x 7.