The accused while subjecting himself to the TIP does not produce any evidence or perform any evidentiary act. As explained very succinctly by the learned Judges of the Calcutta High Court as above, it may be a positive act and even a volitional act, but only to a limited extent, when the accused is brought to the place where the TIP is to be held. It is certainly not his evidentiary act. The accused concerned may have a legitimate ground to resist facing the TIP saying that the witnesses had a chance to see him either at the police station or in the Court, as the case may be, however, on such ground alone he cannot refuse to face the TIP. It is always open for the accused to raise any legal ground available to him relating to the legitimacy of the TIP or the evidentiary value of the same in the course of the trial. However, the accused cannot decline or refuse to join the TIP. 36. Thus, our aforesaid discussion answers two of the six questions framed by us i.e. (i) whether an accused can decline to submit himself to the TIP on the ground that the same is violative of Article 20(3) of the Constitution and (ii) the true purport of any that the Magistrate may pass in exercise of powers under Section 54A of the CrPC directing any person to subject himself or herself to the TIP. 914 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. IMPORTANCE AND EVIDENTIARY VALUE OF TIP 37. Facts which establish the identity of any person or thing whose identity is relevant are, by virtue of Section 9 of the Evidence Act, always relevant. The term ‘identifi cation’ means proving that a person, subject or article before the Court is the very same that he or it is alleged, charged or reputed to be. Identifi cation is almost always a matter of opinion or belief. 38. The identifi cation has by itself no independent value. As stated by Viscount Haldane L. C. in Rex v. Christie, (1914) A. C. 545 (551) (E):- “its relevancy is to show that the witness “was able to identify at the time and to exclude the idea that the identifi cation of the prisoner in the dock was an afterthought or a mistake.” 39. Lord Moulton (with whom Viscount Haldane L. J. agreed) said at page 558 : “Identifi cation is an act of the mind, and the primary evidence of what was passing in the mind of a man is his own testimony, where it can be obtained.” 40. During the investigation of a crime committed by persons unknown to the witnesses, the persons arrested on suspicion of their complicity in the crime have got to be confronted by the investigating authority with the witnesses so that they can fi nd out whether they are the persons who committed the crime or not. Before the investigating authorities send up a case to Court, they must be satisfi ed that the persons arrested by them are the persons accused of having committed the crime.