Two other similar occurrences dated 21st February 1995 regarding Rs.24,640 and Rs.27,412 were also alleged. 3.3 Three different FIRs stood registered against him, under which he was arrested but later released on bail. In his written show cause to this Memorandum, the Delinquent employee contended that the disciplinary proceedings should be either dropped or closed since criminal cases were pending him, arising from the same set of transactions. 3.4 The appellant-bank proceeded to appoint an inquiry officer who, in his report, submitted that three out of four charges stood established. The Delinquent Employee, again denying the charges, filed a response to that but was eventually dismissed from the services at the bank, vide the of dismissal dated 28th March 2003. The departmental appeal filed by him, after due opportunity of hearing, was dismissed on 16th August 2004. 4. Aggrieved by the dismissal of the departmental appeal, the delinquent employee filed Writ Petition (Civil) No.12 of 2005 before the Gauhati High Court. The question before the said Court was: whether, in view of the Memorandum of Settlement dated 10th April 2 Hereinafter, the “Appellant Bank” 744 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 20023, the disciplinary proceedings against the delinquent employee (respondent) herein ought to have been stayed or not. 5. Having recorded that post signing of the said MoS, the Shastri Award as confi rmed by the Desai Award “ceased to exist for all intents and purposes” the Court observed that clause 4 of the said document was clear and unambiguous and, therefore, it was not correct for the bank to have subjected him to disciplinary proceeding during the pendency of criminal proceedings. 6. However, it would be open for the disciplinary authority to act under the clauses of the MoS after the criminal cases against the delinquent employee having reached a conclusion, one way or the other. 7. Dissatisfi ed by the of the learned Single Judge, a Writ Appeal was fi led bearing No.03 of 2006. Having discussed the background of the case, the Division Bench discussed the contention on behalf of the bank regarding the applicability of the Shastri Award and observed that the continuation of the disciplinary proceedings during the pendency of criminal cases would be an infraction, given para 521(3) thereof. 8. In conclusion, the Division Bench upheld the of the learned Single Judge and confi rmed the setting aside of the disciplinary proceedings. The Present Appeal 9. We have heard Mr. Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel for the appellant bank and Mr. Jitendra Bharti for the delinquent employee. 10. Inviting attention to several decisions rendered by this Court, it is argued on behalf of the appellant-bank that (i) initiation of departmental proceedings binding criminal trial would not amount to an automatic stay unless, of course, a complicated question of law is involved in the matter; (ii) acquittal in a criminal trial in relation to the very same impugned action would not preclude the employer to initiate departmental proceedings; 3 Hereinafter referred to as “MoS”: between the Management of 52 ‘A’ Class Banks as represented by the Indian Banks’ Association and their workmen as represented by the All India Bank Employees’ Association, National Confederation of Bank Employees, Indian National Bank Employees’ Federation.