No doubt the courts need to be more sensitive and sympathetic towards the category of persons included in the fi rst proviso to Section 45 and similar provisions in the other Acts, as the persons of tender age and women who are likely to be more vulnerable, may sometimes be misused by the unscrupulous elements and made scapegoats for committing such Crimes, nonetheless, the courts also should not be oblivious to the fact that nowadays the educated and well placed women in the society engage themselves in the commercial ventures and enterprises, and advertently or inadvertently 864 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. engage themselves in the illegal activities. In essence, the courts should exercise the discretion judiciously using their prudence, while granting the benefi t of the fi rst proviso to Section 45 PMLA to the category of persons mentioned therein. The extent of involvement of the persons falling in such category in the alleged off ences, the nature of evidence collected by the investigating agency etc., would be material considerations. 25. In the instant case as discussed hereinabove, there is suffi cient evidence collected by the respondent Enforcement Directorate to prima facie come to the conclusion that the appellant who was Deputy Secretary and OSD in the Offi ce of the Chief Minister, was actively involved in the off ence of Money Laundering as defi ned in Section 3 of the PMLA. As against that there is nothing on record to satisfy the conscience of the Court that the appellant is not guilty of the said off ence and the special benefi t as contemplated in the proviso to Section 45 should be granted to the appellant who is a lady. 26. The Court also does not fi nd any substance in the submission of the learned Senior Counsel Mr. Siddharth Aggarwal for the Appellant that the scheduled off ences i.e. Section 384 and 120 B having been dropped from the chargesheet submitted against the accused Suryakant Tiwari in connection with the FIR No. 129 of 2022 registered at Kadugodi Police Station Bengaluru, and the ACJM Bengaluru vide the dated 16.06.2023 having taken cognizance for the off ence punishable under Section 204 and 353 IPC only, which are not the scheduled off ences under the PMLA Act, no scheduled off ence survived at the time of passing of the impugned and that the proceedings were/are without jurisdiction. 27. Apart from the fact that neither the Chargesheet dated 08.06.2023 nor the cognizance 16.06.2023 were placed on record during the course of arguments before the High Court as they never existed at that time, the I.O. in the Chargesheet fi led in connection with the said FIR no. 129 of 2022 against Suryakant Tiwari has categorically mentioned that “as the accused (Suryakant Tiwari) found to be committed off ence under Section 384 of IPC with his henchmen at Chhattisgarh State for which the report would be prayed to Chhattisgarh Police through proper channel.” Hence, the off ence under Section 384 could not be said to have been dropped by the I.O.