limb of it which relates to acting upon the instrument will obviously shut out any secondary evidence of such instrument, for allowing such evidence to be let in when the original admittedly chargeable with duty was not stamped or insuffi ciently stamped, would be tantamount to the document being acted upon by the person having by law or authority to receive evidence. Proviso (a) is only applicable when the original instrument is actually before the Court of law and the defi ciency in stamp with penalty is paid by the party seeking to rely upon the document. Clearly secondary evidence either by way of oral evidence of the contents of the unstamped document or the copy of it covered by Section 63 of the Indian Evidence Act would not fulfi l the requirements of the proviso which enjoins upon the authority to receive nothing in evidence except the instrument itself. Section 25 is not concerned with any copy of an instrument and a party can only be allowed to rely on a document which is an instrument for the purpose of Section 35. “Instrument” is defi ned in Section 2(14) as including every document by which any right or liability is, or purports to be created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or recorded. There is no scope for inclusion of a copy of a document as an instrument for the purpose of the Stamp Act. 14. If Section 35 only deals with original instruments and not copies Section 36 cannot be so interpreted as to allow secondary evidence of an instrument to have its benefi t. The words “an instrument” in Section 36 must have the same meaning as that in Section 35. The legislature only relented from the strict provisions of Section 35 in cases where the original instrument was admitted in evidence without objection at the initial stage of a suit or proceeding. In other words, although the objection is based on the insuffi ciency of the stamp affi xed to the document, a party who has a right to object to the reception of it must do so when the document is fi rst tendered. Once the time for raising objection to the admission of the documentary evidence is passed, no objection based on the same ground can be raised at a later stage. But this in no way extends the applicability of Section 36 to secondary evidence adduced or sought to be adduced in proof of the contents of a document which is unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped.” 120 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. This also holds that a copy of the instrument cannot be validated. It overruled the dictum that Section 36 will also apply where secondary evidence of an instrument unduly stamped, has been wrongly admitted. 18. In Hameed Joharan (਄ਅਁ਄) and Others v. Abdul Salam (਄ਅਁ਄) by LRs. and Others10, this Court observed that applicability of the Stamp Act stands restricted to the scheme of the Stamp Act. The Stamp Act being a true fi scal statute in nature, strict construction and not liberal interpretation is required to be eff ected .