Relying upon the case of Gurmit Singh (supra) this court in Raju and others v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2008) 15 SCC 133 held as under: “10. The aforesaid s lay down the basic principle that ordinarily the evidence of a prosecutrix should not be suspected and should be believed, more so as her statement has to be evaluated on a par with that of an injured witness and if the evidence is reliable, no corroboration is necessary. Undoubtedly, the aforesaid observations 80 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. must carry the greatest weight and we respectfully agree with them, but at the same time they cannot be universally and mechanically applied to the facts of every case of sexual assault which comes before the court. 11. It cannot be lost sight of that rape causes the greatest distress and humiliation to the victim but at the same time a false allegation of rape can cause equal distress, humiliation and damage to the accused as well. The accused must also be protected against the possibility of false implication, particularly where a large number of accused are involved. It must, further, be borne in mind that the broad principle is that an injured witness was present at the time when the incident happened and that ordinarily such a witness would not tell a lie as to the actual assailants, but there is no presumption or any basis for assuming that the statement of such a witness is always correct or without any embellishment or exaggeration.” 6. Does the testimony of the prosecutrix in the present case inspire confi dence? We are afraid it does not. Let us appreciate the facts once again. Although, the fi rst incident of rape is alleged to be of 12.09.2000, the prosecutrix does not disclose this to anyone immediately. She then alleges rape again on two or three diff erent occasions later, though no date and time are disclosed. She only discloses it to her mother after one and half months. It has then come in the evidence led by none other but the prosecution (in the school register submitted in the court by PW-2 i.e., Ram Sahay), that the prosecutrix had attended her classes in the school on 12.09.2000 at Dabwali, where she resides with her parents. We must note that she has alleged rape on the same day at village Sanwat Khera, where she was staying at the relevant time with her sister in her matrimonial house. This seems improbable, if not impossible. The other aspect is the admitted position of the prosecution itself that the FIR was ultimately fi led as the initial proposal of marriage was then turned down. All these facts do cast a doubt on the story of the prosecution. 7. The prosecution then has also relied upon the medical report of the prosecutrix given by Dr. Kulwinder Kaur as PW-1 which states that the hymen of the prosecutrix was ruptured, and therefore she was raped. To the contrary when we examine the same medical report in detail an entirely diff erent picture emerges.