Moreover, no alternative theory qua conspiracy has been even suggested, much less proved, by the prosecution. Undisputedly, the four persons in the car on the fateful date were (1) the 4 2023 SCC OnLine SC 610. SURESH THIPMPPA SHETTY v. THE STATE OF 1145 MAHARASHTRA [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] deceased; (2) PW1; (3) assailant/shooter, who is absconding, and (4) A3. In the background of the admitted position that the appellants were not present at the spot where the crime was committed i.e., in the car nor any direct/ specifi c role in commission of the off ence being attributed to them, their convictions cannot be upheld. 18. On a deeper and fundamental level, when this Court is confronted with a situation where it has to ponder whether to lean with the Prosecution or the Defence, in the face of reasonable doubt as to the version put forth by the Prosecution, this Court will, as a matter of course and of choice, in line with judicial discretion5, lean in favour of the Defence. We have borne in mind the cardinal principle that life and liberty are not matters to be trifl ed with, and a conviction can only be sustained in the absence of reasonable doubt. The presumption of innocence in favour of the accused and insistence on the Prosecution to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt are not empty formalities. Rather, their origin is traceable to Articles 21 and 14 of the Constitution of India. Of course, for certain off ences, the law seeks to place a reverse onus on the accused to prove his/her innocence, but that does not impact adversely the innocent-till-proven-guilty rule for other criminal off ences. 19. In Coffi n v United States, 156 US 432 (1895), the United States’ Supreme Court held: ‘The principle that there is a presumption of innocence in favor of the accused is the undoubted law, axiomatic and elementary, and its enforcement lies at the foundation of the administration of our criminal law.’ 20. We see no quarrel with the afore-noted statement as the same applies on all fours to our criminal justice system. The presumption of innocence is also a human right, per the pronouncement in Narendra Singh v State of Madhya Pradesh, (2004) 10 SCC 699. In Ranjeetsing Brahmajeetsing Sharma v State of Maharashtra, (2005) 5 SCC 294, a 5 Although in the context of bail jurisprudence, for a working idea as to what ‘judicial discretion’ entails, peruse the views of a learned Single Judge (sitting as Judge-in- Chambers) of this Court in Gudikanti Narasimhulu v Public Prosecutor, High Court of Andhra Pradesh, (1978) 1 SCC 240. 1146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 3-Judge Bench of this Court, at Paragraph 35, had opined that ‘… Liberty of a person should not ordinarily be interfered with unless there exist cogent grounds therefor. …’ 21. Accordingly, for reasons aforesaid, these appeals stand allowed. The appellants are discharged from the liabilities of their bail bonds. If any fi ne(s) pursuant to the s of the Sessions Court or High Court were deposited by/realised from either appellant, they shall be entitled to refund of the same.