1 herein C was always ready and willing to perform her part of contract by paying the balance sale consideration? 23. At the outset, we would like to mention that Section 16 (c) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 (along with its explanation) is the relevant provision of law which is attracted in the present case, and as has also been held by the High Court. The 2018 Amendment to the Specific D Relief Act made certain amendments to Section 16 as well. However, it has been clarified in the recent 3-Judge Bench5 of this Court in Katta Sujatha Reddy v. Siddamsetty Infra Projects (P) Ltd. & Ors.6, that the 2018 Amendment was not a mere procedural enactment, but it had substantive principles built into its working, and, as such, the E said Amendment is prospective in nature and cannot apply to those transactions that took place prior to its enforcement. Therefore, in the present case, Section 16, as it stood prior to the 2018 Amendment, would be applicable, since the matter dates back to 2002. Section 16 (as it then stood) is being reproduced hereunder:- F “16. Personal bars to relief.— Specific performance of a contract cannot be enforced in favour of a person— (a) who would not be entitled to recover compensation for its breach; or (b) who has become incapable of performing, or violates any G essential term of, the contract that on his part remains to be performed, or acts in fraud of the contract, or wilfully acts at 5 Coram: CJI N.V. Ramana (as he then was), Krishna Murari (Author) and Hima Kohli, JJ. H 6 (2023) 1 SCC 355 GADDIPATI DIVIJA & ANR. v. PATHURI SAMRAJYAM & 813 ORS. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] variance with, or in subversion of, the relation intended to be A established by the contract; or (c) who fails to aver and prove that he has performed or has always been ready and willing to perform the essential terms of the contract which are to be performed by him, other than terms of the performance of which has been prevented or B waived by the defendant. Explanation.— For the purposes of clause (c),— (i) where a contract involves the payment of money, it is not essential for the plaintiff to actually tender to the defendant C or to deposit in court any money except when so directed by the court; (ii) the plaintiff must aver performance of, or readiness and willingness to perform, the contract according to its true construction.” D 24. On a bare perusal of the aforementioned section, it becomes clear that prior to the 2018 Amendment, clause (c) of Section 16 laid down that the plaintiff is entitled for a specific performance of contract if he avers and proves that he has performed or has always been ready and willing to perform his obligation under the contract. The explanation attached to clause (c) further clarified that in a contract involving the E payment of money, the plaintiff need not actually deposit the money to the defendant, and that he must aver that he has performed, or is ready and willing to perform the contract according to its true construction.