A admittedly AHAHO is sold in packaging of 50ml, 100ml etc., is a new ground which was not a part of the show-cause notice; rather the respondent was never called upon to show-cause as to why the classification should not be changed. Therefore, all the proceedings are vitiated. It has, however, been submitted that even in relation to the assertions of the appellant, AHAHO would still remain under Chapter B 30 (Traffic Item 3004 90 14) which is meant for Homeopathic Medicament packed in packages for retail sale and, in any case, it would not fall under Chapter 33 (Tariff Item 3305 90 15); and, notwithstanding the change in sub-classification, the rate of duty would not change and the situation would remain revenue neutral. C 9.2. It has further been argued that the observations in Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhawan (supra) rather support the respondent’s case, because the ingredients, process of manufacture and uses of AHAHO having undergone no change from the beginning despite change in group of individual tariff entries. According to the learned counsel, no D case is made for treating AHAHO as ‘cosmetic’ by ignoring its recognition as drug/medicament by the Government authorities as well as by this Court on 27.02.2019 in Commissioner of Commercial Taxes v. M/S Aswini Homeo Pharmacy: Civil Appeal No.9494-9495 of 2011. E 9.3. Learned senior counsel has submitted that there is no need for invoking the common parlance test as the nature of the product is certified by competent authority as a medicament and that the appellant had not made any market enquiries to establish that the product is a cosmetic besides not disproving the factual evidence in favour of the respondent. F 9.4. Learned senior counsel has relied upon the decision in Commissioner of Central Excise, Calcutta v. Sharma Chemical Works: (2003) 5 SCC 60 to submit that merely because a product is sold across counters and without a prescription, it would not per se lead to the conclusion of it being not a medicament. The method of usage of G AHAHO is clearly stated on its label; and Materia Medica clearly states the therapeutic properties of ingredients used. It has also been submitted that several drugs like Anacin, Dolo 650, Cough syrups, etc. are available across the counter; and none of the Homeo drugs require any prescription for purchasing. Another decision of this Court in the case of Meghdoot H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 317 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Gramodyog Sewa Sansthan, U.P. v. Commissioner of Central Excise, A Lucknow: (2005) 4 SCC 15 has also been relied upon. 9.5. Learned senior counsel has distinguished the facts of the present case from the case of Alpine Industries (supra), as AHAHO is a therapeutic/prophylactic medicament in the medium of oil for the diseases relating to the scalp. The product is not advertised as “Hair B Oil” but is marketed only as “Aswini Homeo Arnica Hair Oil”. 9.6. With reference to the majority decision of the Tribunal in the case of Bakson Homeo Pharmacy (supra) in respect of a similar product, “Sunny Arnica Hair Oil”, learned senior counsel has submitted that the said decision having attained finality, and in the case of respondent C itself, the Department having four times accepted the classification of the product as medicament, the attempt to revisit the classification had been wholly unjustified and has rightly been disapproved by the Tribunal 9.7.