These rules B can operate only in areas not covered by any law validly made. In other words they do not supplant the law of the land but supplement it. The concept of natural justice has undergone a great deal of change in recent years. In the past it was thought that it included just two rules nameny: (1) no one shall be a judge in his own case (Nemo debet esse judex propria causa) and (2) no decision C shall be given against a party without affording him a reasonable hearing (audi alteram partem). Very soon thereafter a third rule was envisaged and that is that quasi-judicial enquiries must be held in good faith, without bias and not arbitrarily or unreasonably. But in the course of years many more subsidiary rules came to be D added to the rules of natural justice. Till very recently it was the opinion of the courts that unless the authority concerned was required by the law under which it functioned to act judicially there was no room for the application of the rules of natural justice. The validity of that limitation is now questioned. If the purpose of the rules of natural justice is to prevent miscarriage of E justice one fails to see why those rules should be made inapplicable to administrative enquiries. Often times it is not easy to draw the line that demarcates administrative enquiries from quasi-judicial enquiries. Enquiries which were considered administrative at one time are now being F considered as quasi-judicial in character. Arriving at a just decision is the aim of both quasi- judicial enquiries as well as administrative enquiries. An unjust decision in an administrative inquiry may have more far reaching effect than a decision in a quasi- judicial inquiry……….” G - [Emphasis supplied] I. FAIR ACTION AND IMPARTIALITY IN SERVICE JURISPRUDENCE: 50 (1969) 2 SCC 262 51 (1967) 1 All ER 226 H AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 803 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] 42. In the context of service law, it is, therefore mandatory to A afford a Government servant or an employee, a reasonable opportunity of being heard before an is passed. In Mangilal v. State of M.P.52, this Court declared that even if a Statute is silent and there are no positive words in the Act or the Rules made thereunder, principles of natural justice must be observed. This is what the Court has held: B “10….Where the statute is silent about the observance of the principles of natural justice, such statutory silence is taken to imply compliance with the principles of natural justice where substantial rights of parties are considerably affected. The application of natural justice becomes presumptive, unless found excluded by C express words of statute or necessary intendment. (See Swadeshi Cotton Mills v. Union of India53) Its aim is to secure justice or to prevent miscarriage of justice. Principles of natural justice do not supplant the law, but supplement it. These rules operate only in areas not covered by any law validly made.