Thus, in the instant case, even though the search under Section 132 was initiated prior to the amendment to Section 153C w.e.f. 01.06.2015, the books of D account or documents or assets were seized by the Assessing Officer of the non-searched person only on 25.04.2017, which is subsequent to the amendment, therefore, when the notice under Section 153C was issued on 04.05.2018, the provision of the law existing as on that date, i.e., the amended Section 153C shall be applicable. [Para 10.3][777-E-F] E 1.2. Section 153C of the Act is a machinery provision. The Courts, while interpreting machinery provisions of a taxing statute, must give effect to its manifest purpose by construing it in such a manner so as to effectuate the object and purpose of the statute. [Para 10.6][781-B] F 1.3. Even the unamended s.153C pertains to the assessment of income of any other person. The object and purpose of Section 153C is to address the persons other than the searched person. Even as per the unamended Section 153C, the proceeding against other persons (other than the searched person) was on G the basis of the seizure of books of account or documents seized or requisitioned “belongs or belong to” a person other than the searched person. However, it appears that as in the case of Pepsico India Holdings Private Limited, the Delhi High Court interpreted H 758 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the words “belong to” restrictively and/or narrowly and which led to a situation where, though incriminating material pertaining to a third party / person was found during search proceedings under Section 132, the Revenue could not proceed against such a third party, which necessitated the legislature / Parliament to clarify by substituting the words “belongs or belong to” to the B words “pertains or pertain to” and to remedy the mischief that was noted pursuant to the of the Delhi High Court. Therefore, if the submission on behalf of the respective respondents – assessees that despite the fact that the incriminating materials have been found in the form of books of account or documents or C assets relating to them from the premises of the searched person, still they may not be subjected to the proceedings under Section 153C solely on the ground that the search was conducted prior to the amendment is accepted, in that case, the very object and purpose of the amendment to Section 153C, which is by way of substitution of the words “belongs or belong to” to the words D “pertains or pertain to” shall be frustrated. Any interpretation, which may frustrate the very object and purpose of the Act/Statute shall be avoided by the Court. If the interpretation as canvassed on behalf of the respective respondents is accepted, in that case, even the object and purpose of Section 153C namely, for E assessment of income of any other person (other than the searched person) shall be frustrated. [Para 10.8][785-G-H; 786- A-E] 1.4 The impugned common and passed by the High Court is held to be unsustainable, and is quashed and F set aside.