BRIEF FACTS 2. The appellant, along with the co-accused (since deceased), was charged under Sections 302, 376, 511, 454, 380 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as “IPC”). The case of the prosecution is that PW1 while making a visit to his cow-shed on 17.06.2003 at about 3.15 pm heard the cries of the deceased frantically asking him for help stating “Mama ji Bachao”. He went to the house of the deceased, and called out the name of her husband (PW5) but received no response. Thereafter, he heard the hushed voices of the accused, two in number. He then saw both of them at the main gate. Accused No. 1 was found with blood stains on his shirt while smelling of alcohol. The accused threatened him with dire consequences and made an attempt to grab him. After extricating himself from the accused, he ran towards his house. PW1 informed one Chandrawati about the incident, who in turn advised him to wait till his wife joins. It was preceded by an enquiry with the mother-in-law of the deceased. 3. After the advent of PW2, his wife, he, along with her and Chandrawati made a visit to the house of the deceased. They saw two children of the deceased who were studying in 5th and 7th standards respectively, at the house. On inquiry they informed that their mother was sleeping. PW1 and PW2, along with Chandrawati, entered the room and saw the deceased in a pool of blood, half-naked. PW2 sent telephonic information to the police station, followed by the registration of the fi rst information report at about 6.30 pm at the instance of PW1. 4. The fi rst information report was sent after about 5 hours, despite the offi ce of the Magistrate being very near to the police station. The inquest was done on the same day. Of the two witnesses who signed the inquest report, HARVINDER SINGH @ BACHHU v. 1161 THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] one has not been examined. It was found that certain articles including gold jewels were missing while liquor bottles were recovered. 5. Though, fi ngerprints were lifted and sent to the expert, there was no report as it appears that there was no suffi cient indication of the availability of adequate marks. 6. A charge-sheet was fi led on 14.05.2004, primarily placing reliance upon the statement of PW1, who was incidentally a literate and presumably a God-fearing man. The children of the deceased gave their statement under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as “CrPC”) but they, along with scores of other witnesses, though, not seen the occurrence, have not been examined. 7. Both the accused were found absconding and curiously they have been arrested on the same day and at the same time – 16.01.2006, after they were declared as proclaimed off enders on 10.09.2003. Recovery of the stolen articles was made, inclusive of gold jewels, from the custody of PW6, a lady from Tibet, with whom they were allegedly pledged, though the prosecution was not very clear as to whether they were sold or pledged.