38.8 If criminal case was pending but not known to the candidate at the time of fi lling the form, still it may have adverse impact and the appointing authority would take decision after considering the seriousness of the crime. 38.9 In case the employee is confi rmed in service, holding Departmental enquiry would be necessary before passing of termination/ removal or dismissal on the ground of suppression or submitting false information in verifi cation form. 38.10 For determining suppression or false information attestation/ verifi cation form has to be specifi c, not vague. Only such information which was required to be specifi cally mentioned has to be disclosed. If information not asked for but is relevant comes to knowledge of the employer the same can be considered in an objective manner while addressing the question of fi tness. However, in such cases action cannot be taken on basis of suppression or submitting false information as to a fact which was not even asked for. 38.11 Before a person is held guilty of “suppressio veri” or suggestio falsi”, knowledge of the fact must be attributable to him.” 14. As per the said case, para 38.10 comes to the aid of the respondent, because in this case, the information sought in verifi cation roll was not specifi c and vague in nature. The respondent has specifi cally disclosed the 622 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. information which was required to be furnished. Considering the subsequent development of the clean acquittal of respondent for the petty off ences, it requires consideration objectively by the authority, about the question of fi tness, ignoring the issue of supressing the information. Even in case where the information regarding pending criminal case is truthfully furnished and on acquittal therein, an employer has the discretion to consider the antecedents while issuing the letter of appointment. The High Court could not have directed the issuance of the letter of appointment as per para 38.5 of the case of Avtar Singh (supra). In our view, the issuance of of appointment is required to be left on the discretion of the employer and the High Court ought not to have taken away the said discretion. Accordingly, we modify the passed by the High Court. 15. In view of the discussion made herein above, we confi rm the fi ndings of the Tribunal and the High Court on the issue of suppression of material information. As the respondent was not involved in heinous/serious off ence or any off ence involving moral turpitude, and the fact that in the said criminal case he has been honourably acquitted, therefore, modifying the of the High Court, we direct the appellant to consider the case of the respondent and issue of appointment to the post of constable in West Bengal Police Force within a period of four weeks from the date of passing of this . Needless to observe that the authorities shall take note of the discussion made herein above and shall exercise their discretion judiciously in assessing the suitability and antecedents of the prospective candidate.