Tribunal had rightly held that there were no objective materials before the Liquidator to cancel the auction process and to opt for another round of auction. 43. Learned senior counsel for the intervenor argued that Shri Vijay Kumar Ghidia who is the director and principal shareholder of the appellant was also one of the promotor director and principal shareholder of the corporate debtor. Therefore, he is a ‘related party’ of the corporate debtor and as such is not eligible; rather debarred from participating in the auction of the subject property of the corporate debtor. However, it was pointed out by learned senior counsel for the appellant that Shri Vijay Kumar Ghidia is no longer connected with the corporate debtor having retired from the said company way back in the year 2011. 44. At this stage, we may advert to Section 5(24) of the Code which defi nes the expression ‘related party’ in relation to a corporate debtor. Section 5(24) reads as follows:- 5. Defi nitions – In this part, unless the context other requires, - (24) “related party”, in relation to a corporate debtor, means— (a) a director or partner of the corporate debtor or a relative of a director or partner of the corporate debtor; (b) a key managerial personnel of the corporate debtor or a relative of a key managerial personnel of the corporate debtor; EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 895 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] (c) a limited liability partnership or a partnership fi rm in which a director, partner, or manager of the corporate debtor or his relative is a partner; (d) a private company in which a director, partner or manager of the corporate debtor is a director and holds along with his relatives, more than two per cent of its share capital; (e) a public company in which a director, partner or manager of the corporate debtor is a director and holds along with relatives, more than two per cent of its paid-up share capital; (f) anybody corporate whose board of directors, managing director or manager, in the ordinary course of business, acts on the advice, directions or instructions of a director, partner or manager of the corporate debtor; (g) any limited liability partnership or a partnership fi rm whose partners or employees in the ordinary course of business, acts on the advice, directions or instructions of a director, partner or manager of the corporate debtor; (h) any person on whose advice, directions or instructions, a director, partner or manager of the corporate debtor is accustomed to act; (i) a body corporate which is a holding, subsidiary or an associate company of the corporate debtor, or a subsidiary of a holding company to which the corporate debtor is a subsidiary; (j) any person who controls more than twenty per cent of voting rights in the corporate debtor on account of ownership or a voting agreement; (k) any person in whom the corporate debtor controls more than twenty per cent of voting rights on account of ownership or a voting agreement; (l) any person who can control the composition of the board of directors or corresponding governing body of the corporate debtor; 896 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.