14. After answering the aforesaid questions, we wish to answer the following questions emerging from the facts and circumstances of the appeal: a. Whether the appellant has made out any case for interference with the judicial s of the Magistrate and the learned Judge under challenge? b. Whether a company can be prosecuted for defamation when the alleged defamatory statements are made not by it (the company) but by its authorised agent? M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 231 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] c. Depending on the answers to the above, whether the benefi t of the Fourth Exception to section 499, IPC, as claimed, should be accorded to the appellant? ANALYSIS 15. A survey of the decisions of this Court which were cited and those mentioned in the cited decisions as well as some other decisions, which we had the occasion to read and consider while preparing this , would provide guidance and pave the way for us to decide the fate of this appeal. 16. We would fi rst consider the decisions cited by the parties and those decisions, though not cited by them, are traceable in such decisions, by maintaining the sequence of their origin. 17. In Balraj Khanna & Ors. v. Moti Ram10, the respondent lodged a complaint against the fi rst appellant and 6 (six) others under section 500, IPC, alleging that they had levelled allegations against him which were defamatory in character. On 2 (two) grounds, the Magistrate dismissed the complaint. The respondent unsuccessfully applied for revision of the of dismissal before the Additional Sessions Judge, whereafter he approached the High Court of Delhi with success. The High Court, while setting aside the s impugned, directed further inquiry. After considering various foreign decisions as well as decisions of the High Courts of Orissa, Nagpur, Allahabad and Mysore that were cited, this Court in paragraph 29 held as follows: “29. Before concluding the discussion, it is to be stated that the trial Magistrate has given an additional reason for dismissing the complaint. That reason is that the resolution passed by the Standing Committee on December 11, 1964 and the discussion preceding it by the members of the Standing Committee including the appellants, is covered by the Exceptions to Section 499 IPC. Unfortunately, the High Court also has touched upon this aspect and made certain observations. In our opinion, the question of the application of the Exceptions to Section 499 IPC, does not arise at this stage. Rejection of the complaint by the Magistrate on the second ground 10 (1971) 3 SCC 399 232 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. mentioned above cannot be sustained. It was also unnecessary for the High Court to have considered this aspect and diff ered from the trial Magistrate. It is needless to state that the question of applicability of the Exceptions to Section 499 IPC, as well as all other defences that may be available to the appellants will have to be gone into during the trial of the complaint.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 18.