[See : Dossibai Nanabhoy Jeejeebhoy v. P.M. Bharucha, (1956) 60 Bom LR 1208] 28. Thus, the only general principle one could state is that apportionment under sub-clause (4) of Section 3H of the Act 1956 is not E a revaluation but a distribution of the value already fixed among the several persons interested in the land acquired in accordance with the nature and quantum of the respective interests.In ascertainment of those interests, the determination of their relative importance and the manner in which they can be said to have contributed to the total value fixed are questions to be decided in the light of the circumstances of each case F and the relevant provisions of law governing the rights of the parties. The actual rule for apportionment has to be formulated in each case so as to ensure a just and equitable distribution of the total value or compensation among the persons interested in the land. 29. In the circumstances referred to above, the legislature thought G fit to assign such function to none other than the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction. 30. We are not impressed by the submission canvassed on behalf of the respondent Nos. 4, 6 and 16 that the dispute between the parties H 404 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A is not one of apportionment but the same is with regard to giving effect to the passed by the Civil Court in Civil Suit No. 63 of 1970 decided on 31.05.1976. What is perhaps sought to be argued is that the shares in the land acquired should be determined on the basis of some passed by the Civil Court referred to above. Thus, if the private respondents want to rely upon the passed by the Civil Court, they can do so B before the Court of the Principal Judge of original jurisdiction. We hold that the District Magistrate, Mau has no power or jurisdiction in regard to the apportionment of the amount. 31. We fail to understand on what basis the High Court in its impugned has observed that the District Magistrate is competent C to examine the passed by the Special Land Acquisition Officer and decide the dispute as to the apportionment of the amount. 32. In the decision in Sharda Devi v. State of Bihar, reported in 2003 MhLJ Online (S.C.) 23 = AIR 2003 SC 942, this Court had an occasion to consider the ambit and scope of Sections 30 and 31 resply of D the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. In analyzing and interpreting these provisions, this Court held as under:- “23. The two provisions contemplating power of the Collector to make reference as contained in Section 18 and Section 30 of the Act need a comparative study. Under Section 18 the E subject-matter of reference can be a dispute as to any one or more of the following: (i) as to the measurement of the land, (ii) as to the amount or the quantum of the compensation, (iii) as to the persons to whom the compensation is payable, (iv) as to the apportionment of the compensation among the persons interested.