It must grow out of the evidence in the case. 26. The concepts of probability, and the degrees of it, cannot obviously be expressed in terms of units to be mathematically enumerated as to how many of such units constitute proof beyond reasonable doubt. There is an unmistakable subjective element in the evaluation of the degrees of probability and the quantum of proof. Forensic probability must, in the last analysis, rest on a robust common sense and, ultimately, on the trained intuitions of the Judge. While the protection given by the criminal process to the accused persons is not to be eroded, at the same time, uninformed legitimisation of trivialities would make a mockery of administration of criminal justice.’ (emphasis supplied) 15. The principle in Krishna Gopal (supra) was reiterated in State of Madhya Pradesh v Dharkole, (2004) 13 SCC 308. On the above anvil, 1144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the prosecution story does not inspire confi dence to enable sustenance of the impugned convictions. 16. Insofar as reliance placed by learned counsel for the State on the in Firozuddin Basheeruddin (supra) is concerned, this Court would only observe that the same encapsulated a diff erent factual scenario – the main persons responsible for the death of the deceased in that case were convicted. However, in the present case, the prosecution story’s main conspirators stand acquitted. This is one stark diff erence in the foundational facts of the said case and the present one. But this is suffi cient to safely conclude that Firozuddin Basheeruddin (supra) would not apply to the case at hand. Recently, this Court in Sanjay Dubey v State of Madhya Pradesh, 2023 INSC 5194, restated the position that is no longer res integra: ‘18. … It is too well-settled that s are not to be read as Euclid’s theorems; they are not to be construed as statutes, and; specifi c cases are authorities only for what they actually decide. We do not want to be verbose in reproducing the relevant paragraphs but deem it proper to indicate some authorities on this point – Sreenivasa General Traders v State of Andhra Pradesh, (1983) 4 SCC 353 and M/s Amar Nath Om Prakash v State of Punjab, (1985) 1 SCC 345 - which have been reiterated, inter alia, in BGS SGS Soma JV v NHPC Limited, (2020) 4 SCC 234, and Chintels India Limited v Bhayana Builders Private Limited, (2021) 4 SCC 602.’ 17. Having considered the matter in extenso, including examining the facts and applicable law, we are of the clear view that suffi cient material is available on record, which has come out during the trial giving rise to reasonable doubt as to the involvement of the appellants in the crime. The appellants have been able to poke holes in the testimonies of PW1, PW2 and PW7. Our conclusion is only fortifi ed as A1 and A7 have been acquitted and thus, the conspiracy angle dehors the said main conspirators, who are the masterminds as per the prosecution, cannot be said to have been proved beyond reasonable doubt.