In view of the D discussions in preceding paras, we grant immunity from prosecution and penalty under the Income Tax Act only as regards issues arising from the application and covered by this . 9. Interest leviable, if any, shall be charged as per law. E 10. It is settled that the amount of tax along with interest shall be paid by the applicants within 35 days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Assessing Officer. 11. In view of the statutory time limit prescribed u/s 245 D(4A)of the Act, the Settlement Commission directs the F Commissioner of Income Tax to compute the total income, income tax, interest and penalty, if any, payable as per this and communicate to the applicant immediately along with the demand notice and challan under intimation to this office. G 12. In case of failure to adhere to the scheme of payment, the immunity granted under Section 245(H)(1) shall be withdrawn in terms of sub-section (1A) of the said section.” viii) That thereafter, in the light of the observations made in H para 7 by the Settlement Commission, the A.O. issued the JAGDISH TRANSPORT CORPORATION & ORS. v. UNION OF 325 INDIA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH J.] show cause notice for re-assessment on the various A transactions which are detected but were not disclosed by the appellants before the Settlement Commission. ix) The show cause notice was the subject-matter of Writ Petition before the High Court. However thereafter, during the pendency of the proceedings, the A.O. passed the B Assessment , which was challenged before the High Court by way of an amendment. x) By the impugned , the Division Bench of the High Court has dismissed the writ petition on the ground that the passed by the Settlement Commission dated C 31.03.2008 was a nullity as the Settlement Commission itself observed that it was not practicable for the Commission to examine the records and investigate the case for proper Settlement and even giving adequate opportunity to the applicant and the Department, as laid down in Section D 245D(4) of the Act is not practicable. 3. Having heard learned counsel appearing for the respective parties and considering the passed by the Settlement Commission dated 31.03.2008 and the manner in which the Settlement Commission disposed of the application under Section 245, as such, the High Court is E absolutely justified in observing that the passed by the Settlement Commission is a nullity and cannot be said to be an in the eye of law. It is required to be noted that, as such, the Settlement Commission specifically observed in para 5 of the dated 31.03.2008 that it is not practicable for the Commission to examine the records and investigate the case for proper Settlement and that even giving adequate opportunity F to the applicant and the Department, as laid down in section 245D(4) of the Act is not practicable. However thereafter, the Settlement Commission passed an to comply with the directions of the High Court to dispose of the application on or before 31.03.2008.