G b) In M/s. Misrilal Jain vs. State of Orissa, AIR 1977 SC 1686, this Court declared Orissa Taxation (on Goods Carried by Roads or Inland Waterways] Act, 1962 as invalid, since it did not cover the defect from which the Orissa Taxation (on Goods Carried by Roads or Inland Waterways] Act 7 of 1959 had suffered. It was further H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 1013 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] held that the State was not entitled to recover any tax. The A subsequent Act 8 of 1968 was upheld as the vice from which the earlier enactment suffered was cured by due compliance with the legal or constitutional requirements. c) In M/s. Tirath Ram Rajindra Nath, Lucknow vs. State of U.P., AIR 1973 SC 405, this Court held that there is a B distinction between encroachment on the judicial power and nullification of the effect of a judicial decision by changing the law retrospectively. The former is outside the competence of the legislature but the latter is within its permissible limits. In that case, the U.P. Sales Tax Act C (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1970 was upheld by this Court. d) In Govt. of A.P. vs. Hindustan Machine Tools Ltd., AIR 1975 SC 2037, I.N. Saksena vs. State of M.P., AIR 1976 SC 2250, Central Coal Fields Ltd., vs. Bhubaneswar D Singh, AIR 1984 SC 1733 and several other decisions this Court has upheld the amendments made to the respective Acts subsequent to the decision of a court of law thereby removing the basis of the . (e) In State of Himachal Pradesh vs. Narain Singh, (2009) E 13 SCC 165, this Court has held that Himachal Pradesh Land Revenue (Amendment and Valuation) Act, 1996 was sound as it removed the defect of the previous law. Hence, the amendment was not invalid just because, it nullified some provisions of the earlier Act. It was also held that the amendment was necessitated in the interest of land revenue, F land settlement and for the purpose of updating the same. The Legislature cannot directly overrule a judicial decision. But when a competent Legislature retrospectively removes the substratum or foundation of a to make the decision ineffective, the said exercise is a valid legislative exercise provided it does not transgress on G any other constitutional limitation. Such legislative device which removes the vice in previous legislation which has been declared unconstitutional is not considered an encroachment on judicial power but an instance of abrogation. The power of the sovereign legislature to legislate within its field, both prospectively and retrospectively cannot be questioned. It H 1014 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A would be permissible for the legislature to remove a defect in earlier legislation pointed out by a constitutional court in exercise of its powers by way of judicial review. This defect can be removed both retrospectively and prospectively by a legislative process and the previous actions can also be validated. But where there is a mere validation without the defect being legislatively removed, the legislative action will amount to overruling B the by a legislative fiat which is invalid.