But there is, however, unity of possession. The share does not fl uctuate by births and deaths. Thus it is seen that the recognition of the right to a defi nite share does not militate against the owners of the property being treated as belonging to a family in the Dayabhaga law.” Mitakshara law is founded on a community of interest which entails that the ownership of coparcenary property vests in the whole body of coparceners, jointly. The interest of a member of the coparcenary is a fl uctuating interest, one which is capable of being enlarged by deaths and diminished by births in the family. On partition, however, the coparcener’s share crystallizes, and they become entitled to a defi nite share. These principles have been reiterated in Vellikannu v. R Singaperumal40 and Rohit Chauhan v. Surinder Singh41. The interest of a coparcener is in that sense referred to as ‘an undivided coparcenary’ (see in this context, the decision of the Privy Council in Katama Natchier v. Rajah of Shivagunga42). The decision of the three judge Bench in Vineeta Sharma (supra) comprehensively analyses the precedents on the subject. G. Hindu Succession Act 1956 26. Section 6 of the HSA 1956 provides for the devolution of interest in coparcenary property in a joint Hindu family governed by Mitakshara law. Prior to its substitution by Act 39 of 2005, Section 6 provided as follows: “6. Devolution of interest in coparcenary property. - When a male Hindu dies after the commencement of this Act having at the time of his death an interest in a Mitakshara coparcenary property, his interest in the property shall devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with this Act: 40 (2005) 6 SCC 622 41 (2013) 9 SCC 419 42 1863 SCC OnLine PC 11 REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 347 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Provided that, if the deceased had left him surviving a female relative specifi ed in class I of the Schedule or a male relative specifi ed in that class who claims through such female relative, the interest of the deceased in the Mitakshara coparcenary property shall devolve by testamentary or intestate succession, as the case may be, under this Act and not by survivorship. Explanation 1. – For the purpose of this section, the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death, irrespective of whether he was entitled to claim partition or not. Explanation 2. – Nothing contained in the proviso to this section shall be construed as enabling a person who has separated himself from the coparcenary before the death of the deceased or any of his heirs to claim on intestacy a share in the interest referred to therein.” 27. Section 6, as it stood prior to the amendment, provided that the coparcenary interest of a male Hindu who died after the commencement of the Act, would devolve by survivorship.