Sub-section (3) of Section 156 provides for any Magistrate empowered under Section 190 to an investigation as mentioned in Section 156(1). In cases where a cognizable offence is suspected to have been committed, the officer in-charge of the Policestation, after sending a report to the H Magistrateempowered to take cognizance of such offence, is entitled KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 159 AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] under Section 157 to investigate the facts and circumstances of the case A and also to take steps for discovery and arrest of the offender. Clauses (a) and (b) of the proviso to sub-section (1) to Section 157 give discretion to the officer in-charge not to investigate a case, when information of such offence is given against any person by name and the case is not of serious nature; or when it appears to the officer in-charge of the B Policestation that there is no sufficient ground for entering the investigation. In each of the cases mentioned in clauses (a) and (b) to the proviso to sub-section (1) to Section 157, the officerin-charge of the Policestation has to file a report giving reasons for not complying with the requirements of sub-section (1) and in a case covered by clause (b) to the proviso, also notify the informant that he will not investigate the C case or cause it to be investigated. Section 159 gives power to a Magistrate, on receiving such report of the officer in-charge, to either direct an investigation or if he thinks fit, proceed to hold a preliminary inquiry himself or through a Magistrate subordinate to him, or otherwise dispose of the case in the manner provided by the Code. D 11. Sections 160 to 164 deal with the power of the Police to require attendance of witnesses, examination of witnesses, use of such statements in evidence, inducement for recording statement and recording of statements. Section 165 deals with the power of a Police officer to conduct search during investigation in the circumstances mentioned E therein. 12. The power under the Code to investigate generally consists of following steps: (a) proceeding to the spot; (b) ascertainment of facts and circumstances of the case; (c) discovery and arrest of the suspected offender; (d) collection of evidence relating to commission of offence, F which may consist of examination of various persons, including the person accused, and reduction of the statement into writing if the officer thinks fit; (e) the search of places of seizure of things considered necessary for investigation and to be produced for trial; and (f) formation of opinion as to whether on the material collected there is a case to place the accused before the Magistrate for trial and if so, taking the necessary G steps by filing a chargesheet under Section 173. 13. Section 173 provides that the investigation is to be completed without unnecessary delay and makes it obligatory on the officer in- charge of the Policestation to send a report to the Magistrate concerned containing the necessary particulars in the manner provided therein.