15. Termination of mandate and substitution of arbitrator.—(1) In addition to the circumstances referred to in section 13 or section 14,the mandate of an arbitrator shall terminate— (a) where he withdraws from offi ce for any reason; or (b) by or pursuant to agreement of the parties. (2) Where the mandate of an arbitrator terminates, a substitute arbitrator shall be appointed according to the rules that were applicable to the appointment of the arbitrator being replaced. [..]” CHENNAI METRO RAIL LTD. ADMIN. BUILDING v. 1007 M/S TRANSTONNELSTROY AFCONS (JV) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Analysis and fi ndings 18. Bias (an expression that the Act has deliberately avoided; instead the term used is justifi able doubts about the… impartiality of an arbitrator) is an expression with many facets: subject matter bias; pecuniary bias and personal bias.12 It is also described as a “predisposition to decide for or against one party, without proper regard to the true merits of the dispute is bias. There must be reasonable apprehension of that predisposition.”13 It has also been held, in G.N. Nayak v Goa University14 that: “Bias may be generally defi ned as partially or preference. It is true that any person or authority required to act in a judicial or quasi-judicial matter must act impartially.” 19. In S. Parthasarathi v. State of Andhra Pradesh (hereafter, “Parthasarathi”)15 this court observed that: “The tests of ‘real likelihood’ and reasonable suspicion’ are really inconsistent with each other. We think that the reviewing authority must make a determination on the basis of the whole evidence before it, whether a reasonable man would in the circumstances infer that there is real likelihood of bias. The Court must look at the impression which other people have.” Later, in Kumaon Vikas Mandal v Girija Shankar Pant (hereafter, “Kumaon Vikas Mandal”)16 the court while agreeing with the position taken in Parthasarathi (supra) relied on below observations of this court in Parthasarathi (supra): “If right-minded persons would think that there is real likelihood of bias on the part of an inquiring offi cer, he must not conduct the inquiry; nevertheless, there must be a real likelihood of bias. Surmise or conjecture would not be enough. There must exist circumstances 12 G. Sarana v University of Lucknow & Ors., 1977 (1) SCR 64 13 Secretary to Government, Transport Deptt., Madras v. Munuswamy Mudaliar & Anr.1988 (Supp) (2) SCR 673 14 2002 (1) SCR 636 15 1974 (1) SCR 697 16 2000 Supp (4) SCC 248 100 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. from which reasonable men would think it probable or likely that the inquiring offi cer will be prejudiced.” The court [in Kumaon Vikas Mandal (supra)], at the same time, remarked on the futility to ‘defi ne or list the factors which may or may not give rise to a real danger of bias.” The other important , which has enriched the discourse on what could be a reasonable apprehension of bias, is Ranjit Thakur v Union of India17: “The test of real likelihood of bias is whether a reasonable person, in possession of relevant information, would have thought that bias was likely and is whether respondent 4 was likely to be disposed to decide the matter only in a particular way’.