The deposition of PW-6 that he came out to witness the incident on alarm raised by accused Parasram’s mother that his son is being beaten by Ellahabadiya (the deceased) is inconsistent with his previous statement made during the course of investigation, with which he was confronted, wherein he stated that he came out on hearing loud noises coming from the street in front of the house of Anshram. His previous statement is refl ective of a mob attack on the deceased which is corroborated by PW-6’s conduct, inasmuch as, according to PW-6, after witnessing the incident, PW-6 went away without informing any one about the incident and returned back only when all the villagers congregated at Rupau temple near the dead body of the deceased. No doubt, diff erent people react diff erently to a given situation. But if it had truly been an issue between few individuals fi ghting in the street, natural course of human conduct would be to collect people to solve out issues. However, where villagers in general, and none 148 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. in specifi c, assault a person accused of his involvement with a lady, it is quite natural for by-standers not to intervene. 22. In addition to the above, what is of signifi cance is that if PW-6 had arrived at the spot later, when other villagers had collected near the body of the deceased, he could have informed PW-9 about the culpability of the accused but, PW-9 categorically states in her deposition that no one informed her about the perpetrator of the crime. 23. Further, PW-6 gives no indication as to how the body of the deceased was brought near the temple from the place where he was allegedly assaulted i.e. in front of the house of Anshram. It be noted that in paragraph 4 of his deposition, PW-6 categorically states that the distance between the temple where the body was found and the place where the deceased was assaulted is 300 feet. For all the reasons above, we do not fi nd the testimony of PW-6 to be of such a stellar quality that it may on its own form the basis of conviction of the accused for the off ence of murder. More so, because it leaves many gaps in the prosecution story, namely, as to how the body came near the temple and why a lathi was left near the dead body of the deceased when, as per the police story, all the three assailants had walked away with their respective lathis, which were later discovered at their instance. 24. In light of the discussion above, we are of the considered view that the prosecution has not been able to convincingly prove the genesis of the crime as also the manner in which the murder took place and by whom, inasmuch as the evidence led by the prosecution gives rise to a strong probability of the killing being a consequence of mob action on the deceased for his alleged involvement with a lady of the village.