The same is under challenge in these petitions. There are three categories of persons included within the expression ‘Sikkimese’ given in the Explanation to the aforesaid provision namely: - E A) an individual, whose name is recorded in the register maintained under the Sikkim Subjects Regulation, 1961 read with the Sikkim Subject Rules, 1961 (Register of Sikkim Subjects), immediately before 26th April, 1975; or B) an individual, whose name is included in the Register of Sikkim F Subjects by virtue of the Government of India No. 26030/ 36/90 - I.C.I., dated 7th August 1990 and of even number dated 8th April, 1991; or C) any other individual, whose name does not appear in the Register of Sikkim Subjects, but it is established beyond doubt G that the name of such individual’s father or husband or paternal grandfather or brother from the same father has been recorded in that register; 67. Therefore, it is necessary to analyse each of the aforesaid Regulations, Rules, Government of India s for the purpose of this H 354 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A case as a challenge is made by the petitioners to the definition of ‘Sikkimese’ in the Explanation to Section 10 (26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961 in respect of the three categories of individuals entitled to the benefit. 68. The first category of individuals are those individuals whose names are registered in the Register maintained under the Sikkim Subjects B Regulation, 1961 read with the Sikkim Subject Rules, 1961 (“1961 Regulation” and “1961 Rules” respectively): 68.1. An individual whose name is recorded in the Register of Sikkim Subjects immediately before 26th April, 1975 is a Sikkimese. The same is as per the 1961 Regulation read C with 1961 Rules. On a perusal of the 1961 Regulation, which was enacted during the period of the Chogyal in Sikkim, it is noted that Regulation (3) is relevant insofar as these petitioners are concerned. Regulation (3) reads as under: - “3. Certain persons domiciled in Sikkim Territory at the commencement of the Regulation to be Sikkim Subjects: D (1) Every person who has his domicile in the territory of Sikkim immediately before the commencement of this Regulation shall be a Sikkim Subject if he- (a) was born in the territory of Sikkim and is resident E therein, or (b) has been ordinarily resident in the territory of Sikkim for a period of not less than fifteen years immediately preceding such commencement: Provided that in counting the said period of fifteen years F any absence from the said territory on account of service under the Government of India shall be disregarded; or (c) is the wife or minor child of a person mentioned in clause(a) or clause (b): G Provided that a person shall not be a Sikkim Subject under this Section unless he makes a declaration to the effect that he is not a citizen of any other country at the time of inclusion of his name in the register of Sikkim Subjects to be maintained under this Regulation: H ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS.