B 88. In this connection, the following statement made by the Minister of Finance in the Lok Sabha on 18th April, 1964 in reply to some criticism that the provisions of this section might result in hardship to persons whose ornaments or jewellery were given to them by their forefathers, have to be borne in mind: C “Often times, people convert their black money into gold. They make gold jewellery or gold vessels and then say it is heirloom. This is the common way of bringing unaccounted money into something which is reputable and can be cashed….. Any way this (Section 69A) is not intended to hurt the middle class persons. Generally, it will be used in dealing with cases of persons who pay D wealth-tax, who probably have declared Rs.25,000 as jewels, and we could ask them ‘How did you get more jewels?’…. I can promise that this department shall not go and hurt any lower middle class man at all in this way, because we will get what is our due in other ways. They are not paying the taxes at all….. we will give E them notice….. we shall bring them on the tax rolls. But big assesses as are contemplated in this provision cannot be allowed to escape.” J. THE DEPARTMENTAL INSTRUCTIONS DATED 11.05.1994 F 49. This Court notices Departmental Instruction No. 1916 dated 11th May, 1994. “2. Departmental instructions. – Instruction read as under: “Seizure of Jewellery and Ornaments in Course of Search G Operations- Guidelines for.- Instances of seizure of jewellery of small quantity in course of operations under section 132 have come to the notice to the Board. The question of a common approach to situations where search parties come across items of jewellery, has been examined by the Board and following guidelines are issued for strict compliance:- H M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 563 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (i) In the case of a wealth-tax assessee, gold jewellery and A ornaments found in excess of the gross weight declared in the wealth-tax return only need be seized. (ii) In the case of a person not assessed to wealth-tax, gold jewellery and ornaments to the extent of 500 gms. Per married lady, 250 gms. Per unmarried lady and 100 gms. Per male member B of the family, need not be seized. (iii) The authorised officer may, having regard to the status of the family and the custom and practices of the community to which the family belongs and other circumstances of the case, decide to exclude a larger quantity of jewellery and ornaments from seizure. C This should be reported to the Director of Income-tax/ Commissioner authorising the search at the time of furnishing the search report. In all cases, a detailed inventory of the jewellery and ornaments found must be prepared to be used for assessment purposes.” D K. R. B. JODHA MAL DISTINGUISHED BY HIGH COURT 50. The High Court has distinguished the of this Court in R.B.