The loan account of the borrower became irregular. A recovery suit was instituted by PNB against the borrower and the guarantors for Rs. 42.29 lacs. Upon introduction of the Recovery of E Debts due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (for brevity “DRT Act”, hereafter) and constitution of the Debts Recovery Tribunals, the suit was transferred to the Debts Recovery Tribunal, Jaipur (for brevity “DRT, Jaipur”, hereafter). Consent decree was passed on 12th November, 1998 in favour of PNB and against the borrower and the guarantors. Part payment was made by the borrower towards F satisfaction of the decree, but balance payment was not made resulting in PNB levying execution of the recovery certificate for an amount of Rs.2,65,97,162.50 before the DRT, Jaipur on14th May, 1999. Subsequently, the proceedings for execution were transferred to the Debts Recovery Tribunal, Chandigarh (for brevity “DRT, Chandigarh”, hereafter) on G 2nd January, 2000. During pendency of the proceedings, the Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner, District Solan (for brevity “Commissioner”, hereafter), issued a notice in ‘The Tribune’ in its edition dated 12thFebruary, 2000 for auction of the property that was mortgaged by the borrower. Auction was fixed for 3rd March, 2001 for recovery of arrears of sales tax amounting to Rs.32,72,365/-, which was recoverable H STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. M/S A.J. 783 INFRASTRUCTURES PVT. LTD [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] as arrears of land revenue under the Himachal Pradesh Land Revenue A Act, 1954 (for brevity “HPLR Act”, hereafter). PNB moved an application before the Recovery Officer attached to the DRT, Chandigarh for stay of auction whereupon the said recovery officer considering the law laid downby this Court in State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur vs. National Iron & Steel Rolling Corporation and Ors.4 concluded that B the claim of PNB against the mortgaged property had become secondary in view of the auction initiated by the State for recovery of sales tax dues. This resulted in PNB invoking the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 by filing a writ petition5against the State, the Commissioner, the Recovery Officer of the Debts Recovery Tribunal, Chandigarh, the borrower and the guarantors. C 12. Prayer in the writ petition was for s restraining sale by auction of the mortgaged property of the borrower at Baddi, District Solan for recovery of arrears of sales tax dues, and to strike down section 16-B of the HPGST Act as ultravires the provisions of the Constitution, the DRT Act, the Transfer of Property Act, 1872, the Contract Act, D 1872 and the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (for brevity “Banking Companies Act”, hereafter). 13. The State and the Commissioner contested the writ petition by contending that the borrowerowed Rs. 32,72,365/ to the Government E of Himachal Pradesh on account of arrears of sales tax which had been declared as arrears under the HPLR Act. It was further contented that the State is competent to recover the amount as it has a first charge on the property of the dealer under section 16-B of the HPGST Act read with section 73(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure (for brevity “the CPC”, F hereafter).