There is no recorded instance nor was one pointed out where the court was asked to facilitate the creation of a social institution like in the present case. 68. There are observations from the of the (then Justice Chandrachud and) now Chief Justice) Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, in Navtej Johar (supra), of how social institutions must be arranged: “Social institutions must be arranged in such a manner that individuals have the freedom to enter into relationships untrammelled by binary of sex and gender and receive the requisite institutional recognition to perfect their relationships. The law provides the legitimacy for social institutions. In a democratic framework governed by the Rule of law, the law must be consistent with the constitutional values of liberty, dignity and autonomy.” 64 Ratilal Panachand Gandhi v. State of Bombay 1954 (1) SCR 1055 146 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. These observations underscored the need to respect and give worth to the choice of queer couples. The observations were in the context of criminalization of consensual sexual conduct between queer couples. The observations, however, have tended to point to the direction that there should be some social ing of institutions, which not merely accommodate such choice, but facilitate its meaningful exercise beyond the confi nes of their right to privacy and to live together. While the decision’s decriminalising impact is undoubted, and not contested, yet the broader observations obliging social institutions to accommodate and facilitate exercise of choice fully were not necessary. In one sense, they travelled beyond the scope of the court’s remit and have to be viewed as obiter dicta. That the State should or ought to such social institutions, is diff erent from a direction issued by this court, which they must carry out; the latter is what we take exception to, and place our reservations against. 69. Therefore, even if we were to, for argument sake, recognise an entitlement under the Constitution to enter into an abiding cohabitational relationship or union– in our opinion, it cannot follow to a claim for an institution. There are almost intractable diffi culties in creating, through judicial diktat, a civil right to marry or a civil union, no less, of the kind that is sought by the petitioners in these proceedings. “ing a social institution” or re-arranging existing social structures, by creating an entirely new kind of parallel framework for non-heterosexual couples, would require conception of an entirely diff erent code, and a new universe of rights and obligations. This would entail fashioning a regime of state registration, of marriage between non-heterosexual couples; the conditions for a valid matrimonial relationship amongst them, spelling out eligibility conditions, such as minimum age, relationships which fall within “prohibited degrees”; grounds for divorce, right to maintenance, alimony, etc. 70. As a result, with due respect, we are unable to agree with the conclusions of the learned Chief Justice, with respect to tracing the right to enter into or form unions from the right to freedom of speech and expression [Article 19(1)(a)], the right to form associations [Article 19 (1)(c)], along with Article 21 and any corresponding positive obligation.