Further, documentary evidence of possession could not be discarded merely because, (a) possession was taken before expiry of 30 days from the date of service of notice under Section 10(5) of the Ceiling Act, 1976, and (b) the possession memorandum did not bear signature of the landholder. In these circumstances, the writ petitioner should have been relegated to a suit, particularly when in the earlier two rounds of litigation the High Court refrained from addressing the issue of possession. (ii) The writ petition is highly belated, inasmuch as, after disposal of writ petition No. 9702 of 1987, the land which stood vested in the State was transferred to the Saharanpur Development Authority in the year 2003 and since then it has been in its possession whereas the writ petition was fi led in the year 2012. Such a belated petition ought to have been thrown out on the ground of delay alone. (iii) Once the land vests in the State and possession of the land has been taken, the State becomes absolute owner of the land and it cannot be divested of its title. (cid:0) MANOJ MISRA, J. (cid:1) 912 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Decisions Cited By Appellants’ Counsel. 14. In support of his submissions, the learned counsel for the appellants relied on several decisions, which are noticed, and discussed in brief, below: (i) Syed Maqbool Ali vs. State of U.P.10. In this case, in the context of a challenge to occupation of a piece of land without lawful acquisition and payment of compensation, it was observed that remedy of the landholder is either to institute a civil suit for recovery of possession and/or for compensation, or to fi le a writ petition if the action can be shown to be arbitrary, irrational, unreasonable, biased, mala fi de or without the authority of law, and seek a direction that the land should be acquired in a manner known to law. It was also observed that in such matters, the person aggrieved should approach the High Court diligently. If the writ petition is belated, unless there is good and satisfactory explanation for the delay, the petition is to be rejected on the ground of delay and laches. (ii) State of Assam vs. Bhaskar Jyoti Sarma, (supra). In this case, which arose out of proceedings under the Ceiling Act, 1976, it was held that a bare reading of Section 3 of the Repeal Act, 1999 makes it clear that repeal of the principal Act does not aff ect the vesting of any land under sub-section (3) of Section 10 of the principal Act, possession whereof has been taken over by the State Government or any person duly authorized by the State Government in that behalf or by the competent authority. Further, in the context of the argument that due procedure for taking of possession was not followed, while distinguishing this Court’s earlier decision in State of U.P. vs. Hari Ram (supra), it was observed /held: “16. ………………. Assuming that a person in possession could make a grievance, no matter without much gain in the ultimate analysis, the question is whether such grievance could be made long after the alleged violation 10 (2011) 15 SCC 383 STATE OF U.P.