8. Be that as it may, the facts in the present case are very glaring. Despite the fact that on 16.04.2021, the learned Special Judge allowed police custody of the respondent-accused for seven days i.e., up to D 22.04.2021, the respondent-accused got himself admitted in the hospital during the period of police custody, i.e., on 18.04.2021 and obtained interim bail on 21.04.2021 which came to be extended till 08.12.2021 when his interim bail came to be cancelled by the learned Special Judge by observing that the accused has misused the liberty shown to him and E during the interim bail he has not cooperated with the investigating agency. At the cost of repetition, it is observed that initial of grant of seven days police custody attained finality. However, due to the aforesaid reasons of having got the accused himself hospitalised on 18.04.2021 and thereafter obtaining the interim bail on 21.04.2021, the CBI could not interrogate the accused in the police custody though having a valid F in its favour. Thus, the respondent-accused has successfully avoided the full operation of the of police custody granted by the learned Special Judge. No accused can be permitted to play with the investigation and/ or the court’s process. No accused can be permitted to frustrate the judicial process by his conduct. It cannot be disputed that the right of G custodial interrogation/investigation is also a very important right in favour of the investigating agency to unearth the truth, which the accused has purposely and successfully tried to frustrate. Therefore, by not permitting the CBI to have the police custody interrogation for the remainder period of seven days, it will be giving a premium to an accused who has been successful in frustrating the judicial process. H CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. VIKAS MISHRA 331 @ VIKASH MISHRA [M. R. SHAH, J.] 9. Now so far as the submission on behalf of the accused about A the pendency of Special Leave Petition (Criminal) Nos. 1620-1621/2021 by the co-accused before this Court and the interim that “no coercive steps be taken against the petitioner therein” is concerned, it is required to be noted that the pendency of the special leave petitions at the behest of the co-accused has nothing to do with the present B proceedings. It is required to be noted that the accused in the present case - Vikas Mishra in fact filed a similar special leave petition, however, this Court declined to grant the permission to the respondent-accused to file the special leave petition by reserving liberty in his favour to pursue the remedies which were available in law. C 10. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the present appeal succeeds. The appellant-CBI is permitted to have the police custody remand of the respondent for a period of four days (taking into consideration that pursuant to dated 16.04.2021 passed by the learned Special Judge the police custody remand of seven days of the respondent-accused was granted, however for the reasons stated above, D the CBI could interrogate the respondent-accused only for a period of two and half days and therefore could not exercise the right of interrogation for the full period of seven days of police custody remand).