In the decision in SK. Bhikan v. Mehamoodabee5, this Court held that when court is called upon to interpret documents and examine their eff ect, depending upon the nature of controversy and the issues involved, it would constitute substantial question (s) of law. 15. Bearing in mind the aforesaid positions with respect to the exercise of power under Section 100, CPC, we will have to consider whether the reversal of the concurrent s of the Court below by the High Court as per the impugned invites interference under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. 16. Obviously, the High Court framed three questions of law, as under:- “1. Whether the courts below are right in law in construing Ex.A.1 sale deed dated 27.08.1928 in favour of Puliyankaladi, the predecessor - in - title of the suit property as alleged by the plaintiff / respondent contrary to the extent and boundaries described in the said sale deed? 2. Whether the courts below erred in law in presuming that the appellant/ fi rst defendant has admitted the title of the predecessor viz., Puliyankaladi in view of Exs.A.2, A.3, A.4 and other deeds. 3. Whether the courts below have erred in law in casting the burden 5 (2017) 5 SCC 127 534 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. of proof on the appellants / defendants to prove that the plaintiff is not entitled to the entirety of the suit property in a suit for declaration of title by the plaintiff ?” 17. As noted above, the High Court answered all of them in favour of the defendants and consequently reversed the concurrent s to the extent noted above. A scanning of the impugned would reveal the main reasons for such reversal as under:- (i) Exhibit A1, sale deed dated 27.08.1928 (produced as Annexure P1 in this appeal) was executed in favour of Puliyankaladi by the sons of Vellaiya Thevar. However, no document was produced by the plaintiff /the appellants herein, evincing as to how they obtained it under partition so as to have right to alienate it. (ii) Exhibit A1 would not attract the presumption of genuineness provided under Sections 90 and the presumptive proof of ownership under 110 of the Evidence Act, 1872 for the reason that it is only a registration copy of the registered sale deed dated 27.08.1928 and its genuineness is disputed.Furthermore, in the light of the decision in R. Nainar Pillai and Anr. v. Subbiah Pillai6 to admit such a document in evidence and to presume it as genuine it requires corroboration by an independent witness. (iii) Exhibits A2, A3 & A4 would not estop under Section 110 of the Evidence Act the appellants therein from disputing the title of the respondent therein - plaintiff as what was dealt with under Exhibit A1 is diff erent from what were dealt with under Exhibits A2 to A4. (iv) The Courts below did not place reliance on Exhibit B1, certifi ed copy of the sale deed dated 02.07.1977 executed by the appellant’s father and Perumal Nayakkar (mother of the plaintiff ) in favour of Pommi Nayakkar to an extent of 52 cents from the suit property which comprised in Survey No.845/1 in Thimmarasanaickanur village, Andipatti Taluk, Madurai District.