1400 hours, E vide Ex. P-12, another seizure was made from near the railway line of 5 blood-stained gravel (gitti - stone), 5 plain gravel (gitti - stone), blood stained red coloured saree and chappals. 7. On completion of the investigation, a charge-sheet was laid against the appellant and, after taking cognizance thereon, the case was committed to the Court of Session. The Sessions Court charged the F appellant for committing murder of his wife on 01.02.2010 at 2000 hours, punishable under section 302 IPC, and of concealing blood-stained stones/ shirt/pant and cycle used in the offence with a view to remove evidence thereof, punishable under Section 201 IPC. The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. G Prosecution Evidence 8. As there existed no eyewitness account of the murder, the prosecution rested its case on circumstances, inter alia, (a) the accused bore a grudge against his wife for keeping jewellery with her sister (PW8); (b) on the fateful day, during day time, accused on that count, quarrelled H STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH v. PHOOLCHAND RATHORE 607 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] with PW8 and threatened to kill the deceased and set the house on fire; A (c) in the evening of that fateful day, the accused quarrelled with the deceased and took her with him on a bicycle, while extending threats that he would kill her; (d) later, that evening, the deceased was found in a seriously injured condition; (e) the deceased died on account of those injuries; and (f) blood-stained clothes etc. were recovered at the instance B of the accused thereby making the chain complete. To prove these circumstances, the prosecution examined 12 witnesses. Gist of their testimony is noticed below: (i) PW-1 - Ganga Bai She is the aunt of the accused. She did not support the C prosecution case and was accordingly declared hostile. Nothing much turns on her testimony. (ii) PW-2 – Kamla Singh Rathore (the informant) He deposed about — receipt of information, at 1900 hours, of the quarrel that took place on the fateful day during D day time; search operation; discovering the deceased, at around 2000 hours, in an injured condition near railway track; rushing her to the hospital; the deceased succumbing to her injuries on way to the hospital; and lodging of the FIR. During cross-examination, PW2 admitted that no E quarrel/fight took place in his presence. On being questioned as to how PW2 communicated with PW4 on that fateful day, PW2 stated that PW4 had used mobile of some third person but could not disclose his name or number. (iii) PW-3 – Mathura Prasad Rathore F He corroborated PW2’s statement that the deceased was found lying near the railway tracks and from there she was rushed to Hospital though she succumbed to her injuries on way. (iv) PW-4 – Madhuri Singh Rathore (Daughter of the G deceased) She is the star witness. She deposed about — fights between her father (the accused) and mother (the deceased); her returning from maternal uncle’s home at 1630 hours and noticing her father and mother fighting/ H 608 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.