He may be (C.L. Mathew) arrested while he is on the move, after committing the crime, before he reaches his place of residence in another State. It cannot be that he can be armed with s of anticipatory bail from every High Court; it cannot also be that confl icting s are issued by diff erent High Courts in respect of the same offence and in respect of the same alleged off ender. A balance has therefore to be struck keeping in view the constitutional guarantee under Articles 21 and 22, the procedural safeguards under the Criminal Procedure Code and the jurisdiction conferred on the High Courts in India. It was concluded that the High Court of the State will have to restrict the scope of the relief of anticipatory bail to arrests made within that State. Arrests made outside the State will thus not be protected by an under S. 438 of CrPC unless the off ence itself is alleged to be committed within the State. 5. N.K. Nayar Bombay High The High Court laid emphasis on the vs. State of Court with expression ‘apprehension of arrest’ Maharashtra, respect to an and held that if the arrest is likely to be 1985 Cri LJ FIR registered in aff ected within a jurisdiction beyond that 1887 Haryana. of the High Court, then the concerned person may apply to the High Court for (N.K. Nayar) anticipatory bail even if the off ence is committed in some other State. PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 563 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Case Name High Court Outcome and Reasoning 6. Syed Zafrul Patna Bench of The High Court denied the relief and Hassan vs. State, the Patna High reasoned that an application under Sec. 1986 Court with respect 438 of CrPC cannot be entertained in to FIR registered respect of off ences committed in another SCC Online Pat 3 at Jhinkpani territory for want of jurisdiction. The High (Syed Zafrul police station Court laid emphasis on ‘the deliberate Hassan) which falls in designed phraseology’ of Section 438 the district of of CrPC and reasoned that “the High Singhbhum and Court” or “the Court of Session” cannot comes squarely be confl ated with “any High Court” or within the “any Court of Session”. Denying that jurisdiction of the the word ‘the’ could be substituted with Ranchi Bench of ‘any’, the High Court reasoned that such the Patna High a substitution would be doing ‘plain Court. violence to the specific language’ of Section 438 of CrPC. 7. Sailesh Jaiswal Calcutta High The Full Bench of Calcutta High Court vs. State of West Court held that an application under Sec. 438 Bengal, 1998 of CrPC cannot be entertained in respect SCC Online Cal of off ences committed in another State 215 (Sailesh for want of jurisdiction. The High Court Jaiswal) reasoned that the exercise of jurisdiction of anticipatory bail by any other Court namely the High Court or the Court of Session beyond the local limits of their jurisdiction is limited to the extent of consideration of bail for the transitional period.