The documents relating to acknowledgement claiming benefi t of Section 18 were introduced at appellate stage, and such documents being balance sheets and settlement off ers. It was held that the same could be accepted even at the appellate stage and a settlement off er akin to an OTS proposal would be an acknowledgment of debt for the purpose of Section 18 of Limitation Act. The only caveat AXIS BANK LIMITED v. NAREN SHETH & ANR. 597 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] was that such acknowledgments should be before the expiry of limitation prescribed under law. Para 22 of the said judgement refers to the facts in brief which are similar to the facts of the present case where the balance sheet and one-time settlement proposal were introduced. The same is reproduced herein: “22. In other words, the main question involved in this appeal is, whether a petition under Section 7 IBC would be barred by limitation, on the sole ground that it had been fi led beyond a period of 3 years from the date of declaration of the loan account of the corporate debtor as NPA, even though the corporate debtor might subsequently have acknowledged its liability to the appellant Bank, within a period of three years prior to the date of fi ling of the petition under Section 7 IBC, by making a proposal for a one-time settlement, or by acknowledging the debt in its statutory balance sheets and books of accounts.” 22. Ultimately, in paragraph 142 of the report, it was held that additional documents could be introduced at the stage of appeal also. The said para is reproduced hereunder: “142. There is no bar in law to the amendment of pleadings in an application under Section 7 IBC, or to the fi ling of additional documents, apart from those initially fi led along with application under Section 7 IBC in Form 1. In the absence of any express provision which either prohibits or sets a time-limit for fi ling of additional documents, it cannot be said that the adjudicating authority committed any illegality or error in permitting the appellant Bank to fi le additional documents. Needless however, to mention that depending on the facts and circumstances of the case, when there is inordinate delay, the adjudicating authority might, at its discretion, decline the request of an applicant to fi le additional pleadings and/or documents, and proceed to pass a fi nal . In our considered view, the decision of the adjudicating authority to entertain and/or to allow the request of the appellant Bank for the fi ling of additional documents with supporting pleadings, and to consider such documents and pleadings did not call for interference in appeal.” 23. The above discussion takes care of the arguments raised by the appellant regarding admissibility of documents in appeal to be without any 598 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. merit. The judgement in the case of Dena Bank (supra) has been later on relied upon in the case of Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd.(supra).