This Court observed: “16.2. Where, as in cases of the E-auction notice in question, the existence of electricity dues, whether quantified or not, has been specifically mentioned as a liability of the purchaser and the sale F is on “AS IS WHERE IS, WHATEVER THERE IS AND WITHOUT RECOURSE BASIS”, there can be no doubt that the liability to pay electricity dues exists on the respondent (purchaser).” 141. To conclude, all prospective auction purchasers are put on G notice of the liability to pay the pending dues when an appropriate “as is where is” clause is incorporated in the auction sale agreement. It is for the intending auction purchaser to satisfy themselves in all respects about circumstances such as title, encumbrances and pending statutory dues in respect of the property they propose to purchase. In a public auction 67 “SARFAESI Act” H 716 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A sale, auction purchasers have the opportunity to inspect the premises and ascertain the facilities available, including whether electricity is supplied to the premises. Information about the disconnection of power is easily discoverable with due diligence, which puts a prudent auction purchaser on a reasonable enquiry about the reasons for the disconnection. When electricity supply to a premises has been disconnected, it would B be implausible for the purchaser to assert that they were oblivious of the existence of outstanding electricity dues. 142. In terms of the legal doctrine of caveat emptor, it becomes the duty of the buyer to exercise due diligence. A seller is not under an obligation to disclose patent defects of which a buyer has actual or C constructive notice in terms of Section 3 of the Transfer of Property act, 1882. However, in terms of Section 55(1)(a), in the absence of a contract to the contrary, the seller is under an obligation to disclose material defects in the property or in the seller’s title thereto of which he is aware and which a buyer could not with ordinary care discover for himself. D 143. While examining the effect of an “as is where is” clause, the facts and circumstances of each case individually, along with the terminology of the clauses governing the auction sales must be taken into consideration, to arrive at an equitable decision. G. Application: Facts of Individual Cases E 144. Before we apply the above analysis to the facts of the individual cases, it needs to be clarified that each case involves, in one way or another, application of the conditions of supply or Electricity Supply Code. At the outset, we note that the relevant date to determine the applicability of the conditions of supply or Electricity Supply Code is F the date on which the auction purchaser applied for a fresh connection or reconnection for supply of electricity to the premises. The cause of action arises when a fresh connection or reconnection is sought by the auction purchaser. This has also been reiterated in the decision of this Court in Paramount Polymers (supra).