But where there has been a failure in putting those circumstances to the accused, the same would not ipso facto vitiate the trial unless it is shown that its non-compliance has prejudiced the accused. Where there is a delay in raising the plea, or the plea is raised for the fi rst time in this Court, it could be assumed that no prejudice had been felt by the accused. 45. In the instant case, though we could not fi nd that the incriminating circumstance pertaining to appellants exhorting the main accused Babu Ram was specifi cally put to the appellants, they were aware of the prosecution case against them as, vide question no. (i), they were apprised of the FIR lodged by PW-2 which delineated their role as the ones who exhorted the main accused Babu Ram to fi re gunshots. Further, vide question no. (iv) it was clarifi ed that gunshots were fi red by Babu Ram. And questions (ii) and (iii) indicated that the appellants were being proceeded against as they had participated in the crime by sharing common intention with the main accused. Taking the above into account as also that the appellants were throughout represented by their counsel and had cross-examined the prosecution witnesses, yet they raised no such plea, either before the trial court or the High Court, it can safely be assumed that the appellants had suff ered no prejudice on that count. More so, when the case of the appellants was of complete denial i.e., that they were not present at the time of occurrence, SUNIL v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 413 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] which was disbelieved by the trial court as well as the High Court. We are therefore of the considered view that the conviction of the appellants is not vitiated for alleged non-compliance of the provisions of Section 313 CrPC. Conclusion 46. In view of our discussion above, though we fi nd the conviction of the appellants under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the I.P.C. unsustainable, we uphold the conviction of the appellants under Section 307 read with Section 34 of the I.P.C. and hereby affi rm the sentence awarded to the appellants for the off ence punishable under Section 307/34 of the I.P.C. Consequently, the appeals are partly allowed. The conviction and sentence of the appellants under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the I.P.C. is set aside and the appellants are acquitted of the said charge. However, their conviction and sentence under Section 307 read with Section 34 of the I.P.C. as awarded by the trial court and affi rmed by the High Court is maintained and hereby affi rmed. The appellants are reported to be on bail. Their bail bonds are cancelled. They shall surrender forthwith to serve out the remaining sentence, if any, as awarded by the trial court under Section 307/34 of the I.P.C. If the appellants have already served out the sentence awarded to them under Section 307/34 I.P.C., they need not be taken into custody, after verifi cation of the records/custody certifi cates.