Hence, in this background directing the respondent to execute the sale deed in respect of the offi ce premises would not arise, which is also not the claim of the claimant and only prayer which can be considered for being examined would relate to refund of the amount. It is not in dispute that in all the respondent has received a sum of Rs.51,10,117/- which is also admitted by the respondent in its counter affi davit but contending that instalments which was due and payable had not been remitted on time and as such interest is payable on the delayed payments. However, the receipt of the amount of Rs. 51,10,117/- is not disputed by respondent. There being no plea with regard to the building or commercial complex being ready for being occupied, having been raised by the respondent in its counter affi davit and the communication dated 25.01.2016 also not disclosing that the offi ce premises proposed to be sold in favour of the appellants being ready to be occupied but only evidencing the fact that the permissive possession of premises was being off ered, it cannot be presumed that possession of offi ce premises which is ready to off er was being delivered to the appellants. Hence, to balance the equities, it would be appropriate to direct the respondent to refund the amount it has received from appellants with interest calculated @ 12% per annum which would ROHIT CHAUDHARY & ANR. v. M/S VIPUL LTD. 411 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] not only meet the ends of justice but would also off set the interest loss if at all, if any caused to the respondent on account of delayed payments of the instalments by the appellants and keeping in mind the appreciated value of the asset namely offi ce premises which was proposed to be sold by the respondent to the appellant. 17. For the reasons afore-stated we allow this appeal, set aside the dated 11.05.2015 passed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in consumer complaint No.276 of 2015 and allow the complaint in part by directing respondent to refund sum of Rs.51,10,117/- with interest @ 12% per annum from the date of complaint till date of payment with litigation cost of Rs. one lakh. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Ankit Gyan