In the said case, a Bench of this this Court speaking through Raveendran J. laid down as follows: C (i) No amount of evidence can be looked into, upon a plea which was never put forward in the pleadings. A question which did not arise from the pleadings and which was not the subject matter of an issue, cannot be decided by the Court. D (ii) A Court cannot make out a case not pleaded. The Court should confine its decision to the question raised in pleadings. Nor can it grant a relief which is not claimed and which does not flow from the facts and the cause of action alleged in the plaint. E 20. Therefore, notwithstanding the amendment to Section 16 of the Act whereby the expression “who fails to aver and prove” has been substituted with the phrase “who fails to prove,” the law remains that no evidence can be let in on a plea that was never put forward in the plaint/ pleadings. But, it is necessary to sound a caveat. Even the absence of the words “ready and willing to perform the contract” in the plaint would F now not have an adverse impact on the plaintiff’s case, so long as plaintiff’s readiness and willingness to perform the essential terms of the contract could be gathered on a holistic reading of the plaint. 21. In fact, even in relation to the earlier scheme of Section 16 of the Act which required a plaintiff seeking the remedy of specific G performance to ‘aver and prove’ that he was ready and willing to perform his obligations under an agreement, this Court had observed that it was sufficient if the averments in substance indicate continuous readiness and willingness on the part of the person suing, to perform his part of the contract vide Motilal Jain vs. Ramdasi Devi, A.I.R. 2000 SC 2408. H C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 273 KURUP [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Further, it had been declared that language in Section 16 (c), as it stood A prior to the Amendment Act of 2018, did not require any specific phraseology to be followed in relation to the averments as to readiness and willingness. That the compliance of requirements of readiness and willingness have to be in spirt and substance and not in letter and form vide Syed Dastagir vs. T.R. Gopalakrishna Shetty, (1999) 6 SCC B 337. That is why the deletion of the words “who fails to aver” in Section 16 (c) of the Act does bring about any real change in the position of law as it stood prior to the amendment. 22. Further, readiness and willingness cannot be considered in a C straitjacket formula; it has to be inferred on a consideration of the entire facts and circumstances of each case and the intention and conduct of the parties concerned. Even if a party to the contract is ready and has the requisite funds he may not be willing to perform his part of the contract and vice versa.