The reasoning of the Karnataka High Court in State Bank of Mysore v. Commissioner of I.T., Karnataka-I, Bangalore11 that discounting of a bill is a form of advance or loan and hence, compensation paid on delayed payment of money due thereon is interest on loans and advances, was overruled as C overlooking the limited coverage in Section 2(7) of the Act. There is a distinction between loans and advances, and discounted bills of exchange drawn or made in India. If discounted bills of exchange were also to be treated as loans and advances made in India, there would be no need to extend the definition of “interest” to include discount on bills of exchange. D This Court, accordingly, agreed with the views expressed by some other High Courts, including Madras High Court in Commissioner of Income Tax v. Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Co. Ltd.12, that the character of an overdue bill is not synonymous with the loans and advances and, therefore, it will not fall within the ambit and scope of interest under part one of Section 2(7) of the Act. It was observed that E the right to charge for overdue interest by the assessee Banks therein did not arise on account of any delay in repayment of any loan or advance, but arose on account of default in the payment of amounts due under a discounted bill of exchange. A subject can be brought to tax only by a clear statutory provision in that behalf. Interest is chargeable to tax under F the Act only if it arises “directly” from a loan or advance and not otherwise. Accordingly, interest payable “on” a discounted bill of exchange cannot be equated with interest payable “on” a loan or advance. 13. The decision in State Bank of Patiala Through General Manager (supra) also draws distinction between the broad definition of G the expression “interest” in the Income Tax Act, 1961 vide Section 2(28- A), to observe that the expression used under the Act, that is the Interest- Tax Act, 1974, is much narrower and restricted. Under the Income Tax 11 (1989) 175 ITR 607. 12 (2008) 296 ITR 601. H M/S. MUTHOOT LEASING AND FINANCE LIMITED v. 329 COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] Act, 1961, interest can be payable in any manner whatsoever. Secondly, A the expression “in respect of” includes interest arising even indirectly out of a money transaction, unlike the word “on” contained in Section 2(7) of the Act, which connotes a direct arising of payment of interest out of a loan or advance. Thirdly, “any moneys borrowed” must be contrasted with “loan or advances”. The former expression would include B moneys borrowed by means other than by way of loans or advances. Thus, the Act, unlike the Income Tax Act, 1961, is focused on a very narrow taxable event which does not include within its ken interest payable on default in payment of amounts due under a discounted bill of exchange. 14. A hire-purchase agreement has two elements – an element of C bailment and an element of sale.