B 13. In the instant case, the question before the Court was whether having regard to the averments made by Ms Renuka in her complaint, the appellant and his parents were entitled to bail under Section 438 of the Code. When the High Court had found that a case for grant of bail under Section 438 was made out, it was not C open to the Court to direct the appellant to pay Rs. 3,00,000 for past maintenance and a sum of Rs. 12,500 per month as future maintenance to his wife and child. In a proceeding under Section 438 of the Code, the Court would not be justified in awarding maintenance to the wife and child.” D 22. Sumit Mehta vs. State (NCT of Delhi)4 arises out of a decision of the High Court granting anticipatory bail but inter alia on the condition that the appellant, accused of commission of offences punishable under sections 420/467/468/471 of the IPC, deposits an amount of Rs.1,00,00,000/- (Rupees one crore) in fixed deposit in the name of the complainant. The point that fell for consideration is captured in paragraph E 6, which reads as follows: “6. The only point for consideration in this appeal is whether the condition of depositing an amount of Rs 1,00,00,000 in fixed deposit for anticipatory bail is sustainable in law and whether such condition is outside the purview of Section 438 of the Code?” F After hearing the parties, this Court made the following pertinent observations: “11. While exercising power under Section 438 of the Code, the court is duty-bound to strike a balance between the individual’s right to personal freedom and the right of investigation of the police. G For the same, while granting relief under Section 438(1), appropriate conditions can be imposed under Section 438(2) so as to ensure an uninterrupted investigation. The object of putting such conditions should be to avoid the possibility of the person hampering 4 (2013) 15 SCC 570 H 1176 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the investigation. Thus, any condition, which has no reference to the fairness or propriety of the investigation or trial, cannot be countenanced as permissible under the law. So, the discretion of the court while imposing conditions must be exercised with utmost restraint. B 12. The law presumes an accused to be innocent till his guilt is proved. As a presumably innocent person, he is entitled to all the fundamental rights including the right to liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. 13. We also clarify that while granting anticipatory bail, the courts C are expected to consider and keep in mind the nature and gravity of accusation, antecedents of the applicant, namely, about his previous involvement in such offence and the possibility of the applicant to flee from justice. It is also the duty of the court to ascertain whether accusation has been made with the object of injuring or humiliating him by having him so arrested. It is needless D to mention that the courts are duty-bound to impose appropriate conditions as provided under sub-section (2) of Section 438 of the Code.