A Section 324 read with Section 34 of Indian Penal Code for the assault on the witness No. 1, the complainant. It is also observed that the death of Abbas was due to multiple injuries though as opined by the Medical Officer, P.W. No.7, the main injury which could have in the normal course caused death of Abbas, is injury No.9 mentioned in the Post Mortem report. B In other words, it must be said that all the injuries sustained by Abbas were the cause of his resultant death and that a role was attributed to the accused Appellants using the respective weapons i.e. Article No.16 sickle and Article No. 17 a sword.” 30. In the exercise of the power under Article 136 of the C Constitution of India, this Court, normally would not interfere with the concurrent findings of fact, except in very special circumstances or in the case of a gross error committed by the courts below. Only where the High Court ignores or overlooks “crying circumstances” and “proven facts” or “violates and misapplies well established principles of criminal D jurisprudence” or refuses to give benefit of doubt to the accused persons, etc., would this Court step in to correct the legally erroneous decisions. We are also not to interfere only for the reason that we may arrive at a different conclusion, unless, of course, there are compelling circumstances to tinker with conclusions drawn and that the accused were innocent/ guilty. Undoubtedly, there are limitations in interfering with the findings E of conviction, concurrent in nature. 31. In the course of hearing of this appeal, we also noticed something very important, going to the root of the matter. 32. We noticed that in the cross-examination of the original first informant, PW 1 Asgar Shaikh (Exh.7), few suggestions were put to F him by the defence counsel. We quote the relevant part of the cross- examination of the first informant: “The attack on us was sudden. The first blow was hit on my head. I was assaulted severely on the head. Due to assault, I suffered a bleeding injury. It is not true that I felt giddy due G to assault. Yes I however suffered pain. At that time, I did not feel that I should save my life. I did not feel that I should run away or I should try to hide myself. I went towards the side of Lohiya Nagar Police Chowkey. I did feel that I was being assaulted without any reason. Abbas was screaming while he H was being assaulted. …” BALU SUDAM KHALDE & ANR. v. THE STATE OF 871 MAHARASHTRA [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 33. We are of the view from the aforesaid that the suggestions A put by the defence counsel in the cross-examination of the eyewitnesses establishes the presence of PW 1 Asgar Shaikh at the scene of offence and the factum of assault could also be said to have been admitted. The reply to the suggestions answers the submission canvassed by the learned counsel for the appellants that PW1 Asgar Shaikh should not be believed B or relied upon as there is nothing on record to indicate that he was an injured eyewitness.