The Black's Law Dictionary, Sixth Edition, at page 1599, defi nes “willful” as hereunder: "Proceeding from a conscious motion of the will; voluntary; knowingly; deliberate. Intending the result which actually comes to pass; designed; intentional; purposeful; not accidental or involuntary. Premeditated; malicious; done with evil intent, or with a bad motive or purpose, or with indiff erence to the natural consequences; unlawful; without legal justifi cation. An act or omission is "willfully" done, if done voluntarily and intentionally and with the specifi c intent to do something the law forbids, or with the specifi c intent to fail to do something the law requires to be done; that is to say, with bad purpose either to disobey or to disregard the law. It is a word of many meanings, with its construction often infl uenced by its context. In civil actions, the word (willfully) often denotes an act which is intentional, or knowing, or voluntary, as distinguished from accidental. But when used in a criminal context it generally means an act done with a bad purpose; without justifi able excuse; stubbornly, obstinately, perversely." 52. This Court in Niaz Mohammad and Othersv. State of Haryana and Others reported in (1994) 6 SCC 332, explaining the expression “wilful disobedience” had held:— “9. Section 2(b) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Act’) defi nes “civil contempt” to mean “wilful disobedience to any , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court …”. Where the contempt consists in failure to comply with or carry out an of a court made in favour of a party, it is a civil contempt. The person or persons in whose favour such or direction has been made can move the court for initiating proceeding 1100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. for contempt against the alleged contemner, with a view to enforce the right fl owing from the or direction in question. But such a proceeding is not like an execution proceeding under Code of Civil Procedure. The party in whose favour an has been passed, is entitled to the benefi t of such . The court while considering the issue as to whether the alleged contemner should be punished for not having complied with and carried out the direction of the court, has to take into consideration all facts and circumstances of a particular case. That is why the framers of the Act while defi ning civil contempt, have said that it must be wilful disobedience to any , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court. Before a contemner is punished for non-compliance of the direction of a court, the court must not only be satisfi ed about the disobedience of any , decree, direction or writ but should also be satisfi ed that such disobedience was wilful and intentional. The civil court while executing a decree against the -debtor is not concerned and bothered whether the disobedience to any , or decree, was wilful. Once a decree has been passed it is the duty of the court to execute the decree whatever may be consequence thereof.