Though the shorter tenure and the choice given to the Central Government to fix the tenure, to some extent, undermines the ability of the incumbents of office to be absolutely independent, the statutory scheme nevertheless provides for independence to the institution as such. Therefore, we do not accept the C argument that a policy decision taken by RBI does not warrant any deference.” d) This Court acknowledged the pivotal position of the Bank in the economy of the country. That the powers of the Bank, may be exercised by way of preventive as well as curative D measures. That such powers may be exercised to take pre- emptive action. However, such measures must be proportional and must be prompted by some semblance of any damage suffered by its regulated entities. The relevant observations have been reproduced as under: E “224. It is no doubt true that RBI has very wide powers not only in view of the statutory scheme of the three enactments indicated earlier, but also in view of the special place and role that it has in the economy of the country. These powers can be exercised both in the form F of preventive as well as curative measures. But the availability of power is different from the manner and extent to which it can be exercised. While we have recognised elsewhere in this , the power of RBI to take a pre-emptive action, we are testing in this part of the the proportionality of such measure, for the G determination of which RBI needs to show at least some semblance of any damage suffered by its regulated entities. But there is none. When the consistent stand of RBI is that they have not banned VCs and when the Government of India is unable to take a call despite H 180 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A several committees coming up with several proposals including two draft Bills, both of which advocated exactly opposite positions, it is not possible for us to hold that the impugned measure is proportionate.” 13.2 Shri Jaideep Gupta appearing for the Bank has brought to B our notice the following decisions to emphasize on the importance of the Reserve Bank of India: a) In Joseph Kuruvilla Vellukunnel vs. The Reserve Bank of India AIR 1962 SC 1371, this Courtobserved that the most important function of C the Bank is to regulate the banking system. The Bank has been described as a Banker’s Bank. Under the Act, the scheduled banks maintain certain balances and the Bank can lend assistance to those banks as a “lender of the last resort”. The Bank has also been given certain advisory and regulatory functions, but D in its position as a central bank, it acts as an agency for collecting financial information and statistics. The Bank is also entrusted with the role of advising the Government and other banks on financial and banking matters, and for this purpose, the Bank keeps itself E informed of the activities and monetary position of scheduled and other banks and inspects the books and accounts of Scheduled banks and advises the Government after inspection of the said books and accounts as to whether a particular bank should be included in the Second Schedule or not.