He placed reliance upon two s of this Court, namely (i) Mohan Lal Vs. State of Punjab47 and, (ii) Varinder Kumar Vs. State of Himachal Pradesh48. 14. Having considered the submissions advanced on behalf of the parties, the following questions require consideration: (i) Whether Section 6A of the DSPE Act is part of procedure or it introduces a conviction or sentence? 47 (2018) 17 SCC 627 48 (2020) 3 SCC 321 26 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (ii) Whether Article 20(1) of the Constitution will have any bearing or relevance in the context of declaration of Section 6A of the DSPE Act as unconstitutional? (iii) The declaration of Section 6A of the DSPE Act as unconstitutional and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution would have a retrospective eff ect or would apply prospectively from the date of its declaration as unconstitutional? 15. At the outset, it may be noted that during the course of arguments, it was made clear to the counsels that this Bench would be answering the specifi c question referred to it and would not be enlarging the scope of the reference made. Although learned counsels and the party in person were allowed to make their submissions and were not checked during the course of the arguments from raising points beyond the scope of the reference in to enlarge its scope, that would not mean that the Court would deal with all such submissions. It was also made clear that the Bench would not be dealing with the merits of the individual cases and post answering the questions, the matters would be reverted to the regular Bench assigned of such jurisdictions for hearing and disposal. 16. Before commencing to analyse the respective arguments and legal position on the questions so framed, a brief narration of the history of obtaining sanction before launching prosecution may be referred to. 16.1. In 1969, the Central Government issued Single Directive which is a consolidated set of instructions issued to the CBI by various Ministries/ Departments and has been amended from time to time. Directive No.4.7(3) contained instructions regarding modalities of initiating an enquiry or registering a case against certain categories of civil servants and provided for a prior sanction of the Designated Authority to initiate investigation against offi cers of the Government and public sector undertakings & Nationalized Banks above a certain level. The same reads as follows: “4.7(3)(i) In regard to any person who is or has been a decision making level offi cer (Joint Secretary or equivalent of above in the Central government or such offi cers as are or have been on deputation to a Public Sector Undertaking; offi cers of the Reserve Bank of India of the level equivalent to Joint Secretary of above in the Central Government, CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 27 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] Executive Directors and above of the SEBI and Chairman & Managing Director and Executive Directors and such of the Bank offi cers who are one level below the Board of Nationalised Banks), there should be prior sanction of the Secretary of the Ministry/Department concerned before SPE takes up any enquiry (PE or RC), including ing search in respect of them.