The said petition came to be disposed of by the High Court vide dated 04.02.2021 directing the Collector, Cuttack to consider his representation. While the matter was pending with the Collector, the appellant herein filed Writ Petition (C) No.14241 of 2021 H 76 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A which came to be disposed of on 19.04.2021. In the said , it was noted that on 08.03.2021, the Tehsildar, Narasinghpur had cancelled the solvency certificate produced by respondent no.1 herein with his bid and that against the said cancellation , an appeal had been filed before the Collector. A direction was issued to the Collector to also dispose of the representation of the appellant herein questioning the solvency B certificate which was issued in favour of the original writ petitioner, not later than 12.05.2021. In the meanwhile, the respondent no.1 was permitted to operate the sairat and then it was stopped at the instance of the Tehsildar. On 02.03.2021 a letter was written by the Tehsildar, Narasinghpur to the Sub-Collector, Athagarh stating that the respondent C no.1 herein – original writ petitioner was the Chairman of the GurukrupaCharitable Trust. He had filed an application for issuance of a solvency certificate in his own name, but since he was the Chairman of the GurukrupaCharitable Trust, the solvency certificate that had to be issued in the name of the Trust was issued in his name. It was stated therein that the notice had been issued to the party and necessary steps D have been taken for correction of the said certificate. 2.4 Subsequently, another letter was sent by the Tehsildar on 08.03.2021 to the Collector, Cuttack stating that the earlier solvency certificate issued in favour of the original writ petitioner – Respondent no.1 herein stood cancelled and another certificate was asked to be E issued in favour of the “Gurukrupa Charitable Trust, Chairman of Village Kendupali”. 2.5 That meanwhile, on 29.01.2021, the original respondent no.1 herein - original writ petitioner wrote to the Tehsildar, Sadar Cuttack to substitute/exchange the solvency certificate given with his bid with another F one in the value of Rs.4.6 crores which had been issued on 27.01.2021. That thereafter on the representation made by the appellant herein, the Collector cancelled the lease in favour of respondent no.1 herein -original writ petitioner by observing and concluding that the solvency certificate which was required to be issued in favour of the “Gurukrupa Charitable G Trust Chairman of Village Kendupali”, was issued in the name of respondent no.1 and therefore, the solvency certificate had not been issued following the stipulated provisions of the law and hence, the utilization of the same by respondent no.1 herein - original writ petitioner in auction of the sairat is illegal. The passed by the Collector dated 24.03.2021 was the subject matter of the present writ petition before the H High Court at the instance of Respondent no.1 herein. DEBIDUTTA MOHANTY v. RANJAN KUMAR PATTNAIK & 77 ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 2.6 Before the High Court it was the case on behalf of respondent A no.1 herein - original writ petitioner that under the provisions of the OMMC Rules, 2016 the competent authority in regard to minor minerals is the Tehsildar and therefore, the lease deed could not have been cancelled by the Collector.