F Transfer of Property Act, 1882 – s.6(a) – Spes successonis – Chance of an heir apparent succeeding to an estate, the chance of a relation obtaining a legacy on the death of a kinsman or other mere possibility of a like nature – Held: Cannot be transferred – A G living man has no heir – Equally, a person who may become the heir and entitled to succeed under the law upon the death of his relative would not have any right until succession to the estate is opened up – Unlike a co-parcener who acquires right to joint family H ELUMALAI @ VENKATESAN & ANR. v. M. KAMALA 263 AND ORS. & ETC. property by his mere birth, in regard to the separate property of the A Hindu, no such right exists – Transfer by an heir apparent being mere spes successonis is ineffective to convey any right. Estoppel – Effect of – Held: The effect of estoppel cannot be warded off by persons claiming through the person whose conduct B generated the estoppel – The impact of estoppel applies irrespective of the personal law applicable to the party concerned – On facts, ‘C’, having received valuable consideration and allowed his father ‘S’ to proceed on the basis that the latter was free to deal with his self-acquired property without the prospect of being haunted by C any claim whatsoever as regards the property by ‘C’, a clear estoppel sprang into existence following the receipt of consideration by ‘C’ – Estoppel would shut out in equity any claim otherwise either by ‘C’ or his children, viz., the appellants. Dismissing the appeals, the Court D HELD: 1. Section 6(a) of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 declares that a chance of an heir apparent succeeding to an estate, the chance of a relation obtaining a legacy on the death of a kinsman or other mere possibility of a like nature cannot be transferred. E A living man has no heir. Equally, a person who may become the heir and entitled to succeed under the law upon the death of his relative would not have any right until succession to the estate is opened up. When ‘S’, the father of ‘C’ was alive, ‘C’ had at best a spes successonis. Unlike a co-parcener who acquires right to F joint family property by his mere birth, in regard to the separate property of the Hindu, no such right exists. Thus, there can be no doubt that the Release Deed may not by itself have the effect of a transfer of the rights of ‘C’ in favour of either his father or the minor son of his father from the second marriage. [Para 10][271-D-F] G 2. The property in question was not the ancestral property of ‘C’. ‘C’ would have acquired rights over the same only if his father had died intestate. He was, thus, only a heir apparent. H 264 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Transfer by an heir apparent being mere spes successonis is ineffective to convey any right.