Hence, for the. aforesaid reasons, the allegations of the promoters that their Section 12A Application was not considered by the RP and the CoC do not hold any merits and stands overruled.” 15.3. As regards the alleged procedural irregularities, the C Adjudicating Authority found the objections to be of no substance where the objectors had failed to establish any prejudice caused to them while also observing that a statutory provision regulating a matter of practice and procedure would generally be read as directory and not mandatory. The Adjudicating Authority observed that the objections in relation to the D procedural irregularities were not so grave as to defeat the resolution plan. It was also observed that some of the objectors were, in fact, getting 100% of the claimed amount in the resolution plan and it raised a suspicion if the objections by them were rather motivated. 15.3.1. The Adjudicating Authority, in relation to the question of E procedural irregularities, observed and held as under: - “(II) PROCEDURAL IRREGULARITIES: - 89. Another major objection in relation to the Resolution Plan was that the IRP I RP has violated umpteen provisions of the Regulations by not adhering to the timelines framed thereunder. F In this regard, it is to be seen that the model timelines given under the IBBI Regulations were designed by keeping into mind the CIRP period of 180 days; however in many cases the CIRP period has exceeded more than 330 days and still continues. Thus, it cannot be gainsaid that the IRP or the RP as the case may be has to strictly adhere to the model timelines stipulated under the G Regulations. For instance, an avoidance Application as found in Section 43, 45 and 50 can be filed either by the RP or by the Liquidator and the model timeline prescribed under the attendant Regulations states that the same should be filed in T+75 days. If the said model timelines is construed as mandatory then the H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 813 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] avoidance transactions which entitle the Liquidator to file an A Application, would be rendered as nugatory. 90. It is significant to note here that, a statutory provision regulating a matter of practice or procedure will generally be read as directory and not mandatory. Thus, even though the objectors to the Resolution Plan have alleged many procedural irregularities in B relation to the conduct of the proceedings in relation to the CoC; however those objectors have miserably failed to establish as to what prejudice has been caused to them in respect of the same. Further, a person who has been inducted as a member of the CoC in its 6th meeting cannot be allowed to question the actions taken C by the CoC in the past meetings. However, in relation to the objections raised by the Applicants in IA/181/CHE/2021 and IA/ 183/CHE/2021, this Tribunal is unable to comprehend their objections in relation to the plan, especially when they are getting 100% of their claim amount to be paid by the Resolution Applicant.