[2023] 15 S.C.R. 344 : 2023 INSC 886 CASE DETAILS M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LIMITED v. M/S. GAYATRI SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LIMITED AND ANOTHER, ETC. (Civil Appeal Nos. 8527-8529 of 2009) OCTOBER 09, 2023 [SANJIV KHANNA AND M. M. SUNDRESH, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Eligibility criteria for a Captive Generating Plant (CGP)/captive user u/r.3(1)(a) of the Electricity Rules, 2005; Interpretation of the second proviso u/r.3(1)(a) of the Rules and the words “association of persons”; Whether a company set up as a Special Purpose Vehicle for generating electricity is an, “association of persons”, in terms of the second proviso to r.3(1)(a) of the Rules. Electricity Act, 2003 – ss.2(8), 9 – Electricity Rules, 2005 – r.3 – Interpretation – Captive Generating Plant (CGP) and use of electricity by the captive users – Confl icting s of the APTEL: Held: To qualify as a CGP u/s.9, r/w s.2(8) of the Act, the requirements of paragraphs (i) and (ii) to r.3(1)(a) of the Rules have to be satisfi ed – The defi nition of a CGP u/s.2(8) of the Act uses the words, “primarily for his own use” – This expression has been given statutory grail vide r.3 of the Rules – It incorporates two separate requirements- (i) that the captive user(s) should have not less than 26% of the ownership in the CGP – Lower limit or minimum of 26% ownership is prescribed – Upper limit of ownership is not prescribed – The second requirement relates to the minimum electricity consumption – 51% of aggregated or more of the generated electricity should be consumed by the user(s) who meets the ownership requirement – Proviso to clause (b) to Explanation 1 to r.3 states that consumption by a subsidiary, or holding company as defi ned in the Companies Act, 2013, when one of them is a captive user, shall be also admissible as captive consumption by the captive user – Clause (b) to Explanation 1 to r.3 states 344 M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 345 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. that captive user is the end user of the electricity – Captive user is the actual consumer who uses electricity for his own use – The fi rst proviso to r.3(1) (a) applies in case of a CGP set up by a registered cooperative society – In such cases, the requirements under paragraphs (i) and (ii) to r.3(1)(a) are treated as satisfi ed collectively by the members of the cooperative society – The second proviso to r.3(1)(a) of the Rules applies in cases where the captive user(s) is an, “association of persons” –Clause (c) to Explanation 1 to r.3 states that ownership in relation to the generating station or power plant set up by a company or body corporate means the equity capital with voting rights – In other cases, ownership means proprietary interest and control over the generating station or power plant – “person”, as defi ned u/s.2(49) includes, inter alia, body corporates and association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not – Transfer of ownership in case of companies and association of persons is a normal occurrence and incidence of business – Interpretation and logic in Kadodara Power case of the APTEL agreed with – A CGP does not lose its captive status due to transfer of its ownership or any part of its ownership, provided that the transferee, that is, a new captive user, complies with eligibility criteria specifi ed u/r.3 – Dealing with the generation of electricity being vital for the economy of the country, a narrow interpretation will ignore realities, leading to irrational results – s.2(8) and s.9(2) to be read harmoniously with s.9(1) – A purposive interpretation would include a subsequent owner of the CGP, who is an owner as per clause (c) to Explanation 1 to r.3 – However, the holding by APTEL in Tamil Nadu Power case, that the minimum ownership and consumption criteria for captive users are required to be satisfi ed only on the last day of the fi nancial year, that is, 31st is not agreed with – The minimum threshold of ownership, which is 26%, is to be met and satisfi ed throughout the year and not at the end of the fi nancial year alone.