PW-1 to PW-7 are mentioned as witnesses in the chargesheet. It is interesting to note that their statements are almost identical. The opening line is that they were giving this evidence on their own free will; that they had not come to depose under any coercion or threat; that nobody has kidnapped them and brought them for giving evidence. Very unusual opening of deposition by all these seven witnesses. 42. They further stated that on 25.03.1995 which is the date of incident, at about 09-09:30AM, they were returning after casting their votes when they heard shots being fi red; that they did not see who fi red the shots; Daroga Rai, Rajendra Rai and Smt. Devi had received fi re arm injuries; that they were returning along with the injured after casting their votes; that Police did not record their statements. 43. The prosecution requested for these seven witnesses to be declared as hostile and sought permission to cross-examine them, which was granted. HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 425 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] The cross-examination by the prosecution of PW-1, PW-2, PW-4, PW-5, PW-6 and PW-7 is similar. However, insofar as PW-3 Kadama Ram is concerned, he was neither sought to be declared hostile nor was he cross- examined. All six witnesses denied having narrated to the Police regarding the incident supporting the prosecution story. 44. It would further be relevant to mention here that PW-1 was re- examined on 24.09.2008 pursuant to the directions issued by the Division Bench of the High Court on 13.03.2007. This time, he again came up with a similar statement that he had come to depose on his own accord and that he was not giving the statement under any coercion. The prosecution again was trying to further help the accused and tried to make up for the lacuna left earlier, as this time PW-1 mentioned the names of the persons he was accompanied with and deliberately did not take the name of CW-1. He further stated that all of a sudden fi ring started from the fi elds of Raher as a result of which Rajendra Rai, Smt. Devi and Daroga Rai received injuries. He further stated that the fi elds of Raher were dense and one feet higher than his height and as a result he could not see the persons who were fi ring. He further stated that he took the injured to the hospital at Panapur where the Doctor had referred them to the Chapra Sadar Hospital. He further states that the Police did not make any further inquiry from him. He further denied that he had not given any statement that it was Prabhunath Singh of BPP who had come in the car. At this stage, on the request of the Special Public Prosecutor, he was sought to be declared hostile with liberty to cross-examine. In the cross-examination, he denies his statement recorded by the Police during the investigation. Rest of the statement is with respect to the treatment provided to the injured at diff erent stages.