Though the notifi cation was purportedly issued for implementation of the 2006 Ordinance, but the said Ordinance having been substituted by the amendment in Section 4(1) (c) of the 1977 Act with more or less identical expressions, the Notifi cation, referred to above, caters the legal necessity of requirement of a Notifi cation under the Act. Hence, resumption of the Subject Land and re-transfer of its ownership rights to the State, does not suff er from any legal infi rmity. 70. It may also be relevant to mention that the High Court in Dharma Reddy28 has already upheld the retrospective application of Section 4(1)(c) of the 1977 Act. Pertinently, this Court too in Manchegowda v. State of Karnataka29 upheld the constitutional validity of retrospective application given to Karnataka Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prohibition of Transfer of Certain Lands) Act of 1978, which is a statute whose scheme is akin to 1977 Act. These amended provisions are thus deemed to be in force at the time of violation of assignment conditions in the year 1992. The only irresistible conclusion would thus be that the resumption dated 27.01.2007 does not suff er from any legal infi rmity. C.5 COMPENSATION FOR RESUMPTION 71. Finally, we consider the aspect of compensation in respect of the Subject Land, which has been pressed into aid by learned senior counsel Mr. Reddy by relying on the decision of the High Court in Mekala Pandu30to contend that in case any assigned land is resumed for public purpose as sought to be done in the instant case, then market value of the said land must be paid as compensation. The relevant paragraphs of the cited decision are extensively reproduced as follows:– 28 Dharma Reddy (n 12). 29 Manchegowda v. State of Karnataka (1984) 3 SCC 301. 30 Mekala Pandu (n 10). 654 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. “80. The question that falls for consideration is whether the terms of grant or patta enabling the State to resume the assigned lands for a public purpose without paying compensation equivalent to the market value of the land to the assignees are valid in law? Whether such restrictive conditions or covenants suff er from any constitutional infi rmity? 81. The State while directing no compensation be paid equivalent to the market value of the assigned lands never took into consideration and had any regard to the length of time the land held by the grantee or assignee, the social objectives for which the assignment had been made by the State in discharge of its constitutional obligation of providing public assistance to the weaker sections of the society, the improvements or developments upon the land made by the assignees on any legitimate expectation of continuance of the assignment, heritable nature of the right under the grant, etc. 82. The question is whether the ‘no compensation clause’ imposed in the grant of assignment, in eff ect, requires the assignee to relinquish some constitutional right? Whether the conditions imposed at the time of assignment are “unconstitutional conditions”?