3 to make himself aware about the F encumbrances, if any, in respect of assets of the company in liquidation, which he intended to purchase. 8.4. As regards the applicability of Section 530 of the Companies Act, the Division Bench observed that the said provision had nothing to do with payment of taxes which might have mounted between the date G of the of winding up and the date of the sale of its assets. Similarly, Rule 154 of the Rules of 1959, providing for the manner of estimation of value of debts and claims on the date of the of winding up of the company was held to be of no application. 8.5. The Division Bench of the High Court observed and held as under:- H OFFICIAL LIQUIDATOR v. UJJAIN NAGAR PALIKA NIGAM 1093 & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] “There is no express provision in the sale notice that the liability to A bear charges on account of water and property taxes must be borne by the purchaser. We are unable to comprehend that the expression “as is where is whatever there is basis” comprises within its ambit the liability to clear statutory charges as might have accrued and are in arrears. The terms and conditions of the B sale do specify that the Official Liquidator shall not provide any guarantee and/or warranty as to quality, quantity or specification of the assets sold and the intending purchaser is required to satisfy himself in this regard after physical inspection of the assets of the company in liquidation and no complaint as to defects, if any, in the description, quality or quantity of the assets sold would be C entertained after the sale is over and that any mistake in the notice inviting tender shall not vitiate the sale. These, per se, in our opinion, would not tantamount to a representation being made to an intending purchaser that while bidding for the assets put up for sale he is also to bear the expenses towards arrear dues of the D Nigam. Guarantee and/or warranty as to quality, quantity or specification of the assets sold cannot be equated with the liability attached to the same. The terms and conditions of the tender only protect the Official Liquidator to the extent of quality, quantity and specification and would not extend to claiming of immunity to clear taxes claimed by the Nigam. E The Official Liquidator has laid much stress on Section 530 of the Companies Act and Rule 154 of the Companies (Court) Rules. We have failed to find the materiality of the said provisions for a decision on the present dispute. Section 530 provides for preferential payments. According to clause (a) of sub-section (1) F of Section 530 read with clause (c) of sub-section (8) thereof, all revenues, taxes etc. due from the company in liquidation to a local authority on the date of the winding up and having become due and payable during the preceding 12 months thereof would be entitled to priority over all other dues.