This organ, with the Apex Court being at the helm of it, though functions within the state, in cases of violations of fundamental rights, also combats against it. 16. Further, the Constitution of India, amongst all the other rights B conferred by it, has placed civil and individual liberties at the highest pedestal. These civil and individual liberties, that act as a sword and a shield against the state, find their translation from ideal to enforceable rights through Part III of the Constitution. 17. One such right under Part III of the Constitution, which shields C its people from the tyranny of the state, is Article 32 of the Constitution, which in itself is a fundamental right falling within part III of the constitution, that exists to protect other fundamental rights. By way of Article 32, any action of the state that violates the fundamental rights of a person, or causes harm to civil or individual liberties, is within the D purview of scrutiny of the Court. 18. During the constituent assembly debates, when the question of the ambit of Article 32, which was then Article 25 of the draft constitution, was posed, the makers of the Constitution deliberated extensively on the scope of the said article and the extent of its powers. E It was during these debates when Dr. B.R Ambedkar, very famously stated that Article 32 is the very soul of the constitution. The said quote by Dr. B.R Ambedkar is being extracted herein:- “Now, Sir, I am very glad that the majority of those who spoke on this article have realised the importance and the significance of this article. If I was asked to name any F particular article in this Constitution as the most important– an article without which this Constitution would be a nullity– I could not refer to any other article except this one. It is the very soul of the Constitution and the very heart of it and I am glad that the House has realised its importance.” G 19. Further, Father Jerome D’Souza, a Member of the Constituent Assembly, while emphasizing on the importance of Article 32 of the Constitution of India stated as follows:- “I should like to draw the attention of the House, Sir, to the implications of this article, implications which possibly are H 922 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A not obvious at the first reading. This House, and through this House the Legislatures that have to rule this country in future, by a laudable and significant act of self-denial or self- abnegation, places under the power of a Supreme Judicature the enforcement of certain laws and certain principles, and remove them from the purview and the control of the B Parliaments which will be elected in future years. They wish to put these rights beyond the possibility of attack or change which may be brought about by the passions and vicissitudes of party politics, by placing them under the jurisdiction of judges appointed in the manner provided for later on in this C Constitution.