This provision empowers the state commission to modify, alter or vary the terms of PPAs, to ensure their compliance in accordance with the regulatory framework. Secondly, under the Multi Year Tariff Regulations, D 2011 (hereafter “GERC (Multi Year Tariff) Regulations”) notified by the State Commission, , PPAs are to be mandatorily approved in for them to be considered effective and enforceable. Learned counsel relied on provisions of the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (Multi Year Tariff) Regulations, 2019, (Regulation 21); Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission Comprehensive (Conduct of E Business) Regulations 2001 (Regulation 45) and Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Distribution Licensee) Regulations, 2013 (Regulation 36) to support the contention that prior filing and approval of PPAs is necessary and was not undertaken in this case, which undermines its legal efficacy. F 27. It was submitted that pooled purchased cost of power to be taken into consideration under the REC mechanism has to be the APPC of the previous financial year- which has to be modified / increased on a regular basis. When pooled purchase cost increases, the floor price of REC will decrease as the floor price and forbearance price of RECs are G subject to fluctuation, at the end of each control period. Thus, wind power projects under the REC mechanism will be viable, only when the realization from the power component increases to compensate for the reduction in prices of RECs. It was submitted that if the APPC computed is lower than what has been taken by the CERC for the determination of the REC price band, there could be a viability gap problem for RE H GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 691 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] generators under the REC mechanism, especially in cases where the A price discovered in the power exchange is closer to the floor price. 28. It was further submitted that the Second Amendment to REC regulations specifically replaced the words “at a price not exceeding” to “at the pooled cost”, which meant that the cost of electricity purchased could neither be lower nor higher than the power purchase cost. Counsel B further placed reliance on Statement of Reasons dated 10.07.2013 issued by the Central Commission regarding the Second Amendment to contend that REC contracts cannot be fixed price contracts as they would affect the viability of REC projects as the price band (floor price / forbearance price) are subject to periodic revision. Relevant extracts of the said C statement of reasons are reproduced below: “4.3 Analysis and decision Some of the stakeholders have suggested to clarify as to whether the PPAs executed at price lower than APPC would become ineligible under REC Mechanism. It is felt that the D tariff for electricity component lower or higher than APPC may lead to avoidable loss or profit to RE generator. The Commission would like to clarify that the intention is not to debar the projects that have executed PPA at tariff lower than APPC. This amendment will apply prospectively and as such E will not affect the already executed PPAs at lower than APPC.