The State Government has categorically taken a decision that the issue as to whether non-transport vehicles should be permitted to be used as transport vehicles including for aggregation and ride pooling merits detailed consideration. Pending the decision of the Committee, the State Government has taken a decision H 580 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A to prohibit the use of non-transport vehicles for the purpose of aggregation. 17. There was no challenge before the High Court to the notification dated 19 January 2023. Two petitions have now been instituted before this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution for the purpose of B challenging the notification of the State Government. We are not inclined to entertain the challenge to the notification dated 19 January 2023 of the Home Department of the State Government in proceedings under Article 32 of the Constitution. The petitioners would be at liberty to pursue the alternate remedy under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court. The correctness of the of the RTO dated 21 C December 2022 stands subsumed by the decision which has been taken by the High Court to entrust the examination of the entire issue by the Committee, before it decides on the use of non-transport vehicles for the purposes of aggregation and ride pooling. 18. During the course of the hearing, Mr Mukul Rohatgi submitted D that while, on the one hand, the observations in paragraph 57 of the impugned of the High Court reserve liberty to the petitioners to challenge the notification dated 19 January 2023, the observations in a subsequent part of the , namely, paragraph 59 would preclude such a challenge. E 19. In to allay the above grievance, it needs to be clarified that while considering a challenge to the notification dated 19 January 2023, the High Court shall not consider itself bound by its observations in paragraph 59. At any rate, the latter observations are only in the context of the challenge to the decision of the RTO dated 21 December 2022 which alone was a subject matter of the proceedings before the High F Court. 20. In the above backdrop, we grant liberty to the petitioners to move the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution for the purpose of challenging the notification of the State Government dated 19 January 2023. The High Court shall consider any such challenge uninfluenced by G the observations contained in the impugned and dated 20 January 2023. 21. The of the RTO dated 21 December 2022 indicates that it has been passed on the ground that the provisions of the Guidelines of 2020 were not complied with. Once the State Government takes a final H ROPPEN TRANSPORTATION SERVICES PVT LTD v. UNION OF 581 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] decision on the submission of the report of the Committee, the petitioners A would be entitled to pursue their legal remedies after complying with such terms and conditions as may be prescribed in the decision of the State Government.