EXPERION DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. v. HIMANSHU 1127 DEWAN AND SONALI DEWAN [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 13. The appellant, relying upon Section 98 of the Limitation Act, 1963, which provides that once limitation starts running no subsequent disability or inability to institute a suit or make an application would stop it, have argued that the ‘cause of action’ arose and commenced on 27.04.2017, which is when the appellant had intimated the increase in the sale area and, consequently, the enhancement of price. Accordingly, in terms of Section 69 of the Act, which prescribes the limitation of two years from the date on which the ‘cause of action’ has arisen, the limitation had come to an end on 26.04.2019. Therefore, the respondents would not be entitled to the benefi t of exclusion of the period from 15.03.2020 to 28.02.2022. 14. Having gone through the wording of the communication/letter dated 27.04.2017, we do not fi nd any merit in the submission of the appellant. The communication/letter dated 27.04.2017 by the appellant states that the construction work was in progress and that the appellant would soon be starting the occupation certifi cate process. Further, with the project reaching the handover stage, the appellant had got clarity on the overall areas and subsequent impact on the respective units. As per the calculation, the sale area of the apartment had increased by the square feet as indicated in the communication dated 27.04.2017. We do not read the communication/letter as the starting point of the ‘cause of action’. ‘Cause of action’ being the foundation of the claim refers to the entire set or bundle of facts necessary and material to prove in to get a . It refers to a defi nite point of time when the requisite ingredients constituting that ‘cause of action’ are complete. The ‘cause of action’ is complete when they provide the aggrieved party with the right to invoke jurisdiction of the court/forum. The test is to determine when the aggrieved person could have fi rst maintained action for a successful result. In our opinion, the communication/letter dated 27.04.2017 was an assertion, albeit without any specifi c details or particulars. The appellant, as per the contractual terms, is well within their right to ask for enhanced 8 9. Continuous running of time.—Where once time has begun to run, no subsequent disability or inability to institute a suit or make an application stop it: Provided that, where letters of administration to the estate of a creditor have been granted to his debtor, the running of the period of limitation for a suit to recover the debt shall be suspended while the administration continues. 1128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. sale consideration on increase in the sale area as defi ned. The respondents have not questioned and challenged this right of the appellant. They have challenged the computation and calculations. The respondents have the right to ask for calculations and details, when the appellant had stated that the sale area had increased. On being satisfi ed with the calculation, the respondents could have accepted the increase in the sale area, if the same was in accordance with the agreement.