Finally, three resolution plans were received, from Mr. Madhav Dhir, Mr. M.K. E Rajagopalan (the resolution applicant – appellant herein) and Kotak Special Solutions. 12.5. In the fourth CoC meeting held on 12.10.2020, IRP apprised the members about the valuers visiting the properties of the corporate debtor and the valuation being in process. F 12.6. On 27.10.2020, the appellant Mr. M.K. Rajagopalan submitted his resolution plan alongwith a demand draft in the sum of Rs. 2 crore. On 02.11.2020, the Tribunal approved the appointment of Mr. Radhakrishnan Dharmarajan as the resolution professional. 12.7. In the fifth CoC meeting held on 12.11.2020, in the first item G on the agenda, the members took note of the appointment of Mr. Radhakrishnan Dharmarajan as the resolution professional. Thereafter, on the second item, the CoC approved that the resolution professional shall file an application before NCLT to seek extension of time period H 18 ‘IBBI’, for short. M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 799 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] from 05.05.2020 to 31.10.2020 under Section 12(2) of the Code due to A Covid-19 and lockdown. In the third agenda item as regards updates from RP and to decide on the resolution plan deadline extensions/possible reissuance of Form G, various views were expressed by various stakeholders which culminated in the following observations and resolution: - B “Since there were mixed views of CoC the process and way forward, RP declared that it is the CoC who needs to decide on the commercial viability of the Resolution Process to its best advantage, be it re issuance of the Form G and or extension of the timelines and he will act as per the directions of the CoC. C CoC members further discussed on the Form G, receipt of Resolution Plans and any potential requests from any of the RA’s about extension of time. With the consensus of CoC members, it was decided that no extension of timeline for submission of Resolution Plan D should be done and the RP was directed to expedite the valuation process and check the feasibility and viability of the Resolution Plans already submitted and present the eligible Resolution Plans before the CoC for consideration.” 12.8. In the sixth CoC meeting held on 16.12.2020, the RP apprised E the CoC members about three resolution plans having been received out of which, the plan received from Kotak Special Solutions did not meet the criteria laid down under the Code. The RP also informed that there had been a revision in the claims and composition of financial creditors and as it was mandatory to give the revised details to the two resolution applicants, the formal presentation and the resolution applicants could F be called after they revise the plans. In this meeting, the RP also apprised the CoC members about filing of time exclusion application, which was heard on 15.12.2020 and was reserved. 12.8.1. In the said sixth meeting, the RP also informed that he had provided the CoC members with the fair value and liquidation value to G all those who had submitted the confidential undertaking and that that due to significant difference in the value of land and building submitted by the valuers appointed by IRP, he shall have to appoint third valuer in accordance with Regulation 35 of the CIRP Regulations.