Same sentiments were expressed earlier by this Court in K.T. Plantation (P) Ltd. [K.T. Plantation (P) Ltd. v. State of B Karnataka, (2011) 9 SCC 1 : (2011) 4 SCC (Civ) 414] in the following words : (SCC p. 58, para 205) “205. Plea of unreasonableness, arbitrariness, proportionality, etc. always raises an element of subjectivity on which a court cannot strike down a statute or a statutory provision, especially when the right to property is no more a C fundamental right. Otherwise the court will be substituting its wisdom to that of the legislature, which is impermissible in our constitutional democracy.” A fortiori, a law cannot be invalidated on the ground that the legislature did not apply its mind or it was prompted by some D improper motive. 83. It is, thus, clear that in exercise of power of judicial review, the Indian courts are invested with powers to strike down primary legislation enacted by Parliament or the State Legislatures. However, while undertaking this exercise of judicial review, the E same is to be done at three levels. In the first stage, the Court would examine as to whether impugned provision in a legislation is compatible with the fundamental rights or the constitutional provisions (substantive judicial review) or it falls foul of the federal distribution of powers (procedural judicial review). If it is not found to be so, no further exercise is needed as challenge would fail. On F the other hand, if it is found that legislature lacks competence as the subject legislated was not within the powers assigned in the List in Schedule VII, no further enquiry is needed and such a law is to be declared as ultra vires the Constitution. However, while undertaking substantive judicial review, if it is found that the G impugned provision appears to be violative of fundamental rights or other constitutional rights, the Court reaches the second stage of review. At this second phase of enquiry, the Court is supposed to undertake the exercise as to whether the impugned provision can still be saved by reading it down so as to bring it in conformity with the constitutional provisions. If that is not achievable then H DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 571 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] the enquiry enters the third stage. If the offending portion of the A statute is severable, it is severed and the Court strikes down the impugned provision declaring the same as unconstitutional. 84. Keeping in view the aforesaid parameters we, at this stage, want to devote some time discussing the arguments of the petitioners based on the concept of “limited Government”. B xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx 88. Undoubtedly, we are in the era of liberalised democracy. In a democratic society governed by the Constitution, there is a strong C trend towards the constitutionalisation of democratic politics, where the actions of democratically elected Government are judged in the light of the Constitution. In this context, judiciary assumes the role of protector of the Constitution and democracy, being the ultimate arbiter in all matters involving the interpretation of the Constitution.