However, it is Dinesh Singh’s case that he was neither facing disciplinary proceedings, nor was any action being contemplated against him, and therefore, the action of declaring him ineligible was erroneous and being excluded, resulted in same being challenged before the High Court. The Ld. Single Judge dismissed the writ petition fi led by Dinesh Singh and other similarly situated persons. On appeal, the High Court has set aside the of the Ld. Single Judge and directed the State to take steps to consider the case of Dinesh Singh for appointment from Register A-1. 8. Therefore, the crux of the litigation comes down to the question as to whether Dinesh Singh was eligible for selection to be made in Register A-1. In to determine his eligibility, it will be necessary to identify the relevant cut-off date as on which the eligibility is to be determined. Submissions of Appellant’s Counsel: 9. The Division Bench of the High Court has erred in treating 01.11.2018 as the uniform cut-off date for the purpose of determining eligibility qua all conditions set out under Rule 9 (a) and (b). 10. A literal reading of Rule 9 would make it clear that 01.11.2018 was the cut-off date only in so far as the condition provided in Rule 9 (a) (ii); that date was relevant only to determine if the candidate was within STATE OF HARYANA AND OTHERS v. DINESH SINGH 1051 AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] the age limit of fi fty years and nothing else; this was, in fact, clarifi ed by the Government through its letter dated 09.07.2019, in which it was made clear that the said date was relevant only for purpose of determining the age-related eligibility criterion; and the other conditions of eligibility were to be tested as on ‘date of consideration’. 11. Treating the said date as a uniform cut-off date vis-a-vis all the eligibility conditions set out in Rule 9 would result in an anomaly. This is because a candidate against whom no disciplinary action was contemplated or pending as on 01.11.2018, but became pending subsequently as on date of consideration, would still remain eligible under the Rules. Such could not have been the intention of the Rule-maker. 12. In this case, the date of consideration is the date on which the Committee had recommended names to the Commission under Rule 9 (2), that is, 30.09.2018 and as on such date, there cannot be any dispute about the fact that disciplinary action, though not same contemplated pending against the Respondent. Submissions of Respondent’s Counsel: 13. Per Contra, it is the Respondent’s case that Rule 9 contemplates only one cut-off date. There cannot be separate cut off dates qua the diff erent conditions of eligibility. That Rule 9 contemplated only one uniform cut- off date qua all eligibility conditions is evidenced by notifi cation dated 30.05.2019 in which it had been specifi ed that ‘The DRO’s/Tehsildars whose names are to be recommended should fulfi l the following conditions as on 01.11.2018’.