C 10.2 Therefore, this Court in the present reference is required to consider the correctness of the decisions of this Court in Raneef (supra), Arup Bhuyan (supra) and Indra Das Singh (supra) to the extent as above. 10.3 Section 10 of the UAPA, 1967 reads as under: D “Section 10 in The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 1[10. Penalty for being member of an unlawful association, etc.— Where an association is declared unlawful by a notification issued under section 3 which has become effective under sub--section E (3) of that section,— (a) a person, who-— (i) is and continues to be a member of such association; or (ii) takes part in meetings of such association; or F (iii) contributes to, or receives or solicits any contri-bution for the purpose of, such association; or (iv) in any way assists the operations of such association, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, and shall also be liable to fine; and G (b) a person, who is or continues to be a member of such association, or voluntarily does an act aiding or promoting in any manner the objects of such association and in either case is in possession of any unlicensed firearms, ammunition, explosive or other instrument or substance capable of causing mass destruction and commits H 534 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A any act resulting in loss of human life or grievous injury to any person or causes significant damage to any property,— (i) and if such act has resulted in the death of any person, shall be punishable with death or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine; B (ii) in any other case, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. ]” 10.4 Having gone through the decision of this Court in the case of Raneef (supra), it appears and cannot be disputed that in the said case C this Court was considering the bail application. The constitutional validity of Section 10 more particularly Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA, 1967 was not under challenge before this Court. It is also required to be noted that even the Union of India was not a party and/or the Union of India was not even heard while deciding the case of Raneef (supra). Despite the above, this Court while deciding the bail application has made certain D observations that mere membership of a banned organization will not make a person a criminal and/or mere membership of a banned organization cannot be an offence. In the case of Raneef (supra) this Court has heavily relied upon and followed the American Supreme Court decisions which were dealing with the relevant provisions of the American E Laws and/or the laws prevailing in the America. If the entire in the case of Raneef (supra) is seen except following the American Supreme Court decisions in the case of Scales vs. United States [6 L Ed 2d 782]; Elfbrandt vs. Russell [16 L Ed 2d 321] and Joint Anti- Fascist Refugee Committee vs. McGrath, [95 L Ed 817], there does not appear to be any further discussion on the constitutional validity F and the validity of Section 10(a)(i) of UAPA which specifically provides that if a person was and continues to be a member of the banned organization, he can be said to have committed an offence and he can be punished.