The Conditions of Supply are contained in a contract and to constitute a charge, H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 667 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] it must be registered under Section 17 of the Indian A Registration Act 1908; and d. Enforcement of a charge against the property in the hands of the transferee for consideration without notice of the charge does not arise. Electricity dues are simply an unsecured debt. B f. Civil and Statutory remedies to recover electricity arrears of the Utilities a. Under Section 56 of the 2003 Act, the right to disconnect the supply in default of payment is relatable to the default C committed by the defaulting consumer. Electric Utilities cannot recover dues over and above what is provided for in the Section 56 (2) of the 2003 Act; and b. To the extent that the monies realised from sale of the company in liquidation were insufficient to clear the unsecured debts such as electricity dues, they would D abate. The Electric Utilities allowed the dues to mount up instead of taking effective steps to recover the dues. Conditions of Supply cannot be used to resurrect a time-barred debt. g. Implication of an auction-sale of premises on “as is where E is” basis (i) A condition such as “as is where is and whatever there is” is a feature of physical properties and does not extend to claims that are not charges, mortgages, or other encumbrances running with the land; and F (ii) There was no obligation on the applicants to ascertain the electricity dues and more so in view of the judgement in Isha Marbles (supra), which held the field then, and which continues to hold the field in all cases where there is no statutory imposition of liability for past dues G of previous owners on subsequent purchasers. F. Analysis I. Universal Service Obligation is not absolute H 668 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 27. The Electric Utilities have argued that the duty to supply electricity under Section 43 of the 2003 Act is not absolute. It has been submitted that under Section 43, an applicant has to fulfil the obligation to pay the ‘price’ as determined by the State Commission to become entitled to receive supply of electricity. The ‘price’, it is urged, includes application fees as well as arrears of unpaid electricity dues of the B previous owner or occupier. The Electric Utilities argue that in case there are outstanding dues of the previous owner they are entitled to refuse a new connection or decline to commence the supply of electricity until the dues owed by the previous owner are cleared. On the contrary, the auction purchasers have urged that Section 43 obligates the distribution C licensees to supply electricity when demanded by the auction purchaser. It is further urged that the ‘price’ in Section 43 can only mean the price at which electricity is supplied to the distribution licensee, and cannot include the arrears of the previous owner or occupier of the premises.