This distinction is “conscious, deliberate and intentional”, more so evident from the fact that this exception appears thrice in the Code. 6.3 For Question 3 – In both Vinayak M Dessai and Purushottam (supra) a situation where a document was sought to be produced at the time of cross-examination of a party, who was a witness in his own case, was considered and not during the cross-examination of a witness either called or summoned by the parties. This is why the production of documents at this stage of cross-examination was held to be impermissible as that would amount to a surprise which is impermissible under the provisions of the Code. Therefore, both decisions lay down the correct view in law. 6 Hereinafter, C.P.C MOHAMMED ABDUL WAHID v. NILOFER & ANR. 877 7. In the above backdrop, the questions we have been called upon to adjudicate on are:- a) Whether under the Code of Civil Procedure, there is envisaged, a diff erence between a party to a suit and a witness in a suit? In other words, does the phrase plaintiff ’s/ defendant’s witness exclude the plaintiff or defendant themselves, when they appear as witnesses in their own cause? b) Whether, under law, and more specifi cally, VII Rule 14; VIII Rule 1-A; XIII Rule 1 etc, enjoin the party under-taking cross examination of a party to a suit from producing documents, for the purposes thereof, by virtue of the use of the phrase(s) plaintiff / defendant’s witness or witnesses of the other party, when cross examining the opposite party? SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES 8. Mr. Huzefa Ahmadi, learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner made the following submissions:- (i) The conclusion reached by the High Court is in contravention of various provisions of the CPC such as VII Rule 14 (4), VI Rule 21, VIII Rule 1(A) (4) (a) (b), etc. per illustration it is submitted that sub-Rule of Rule 14 states that its provisions shall not apply to cross-examination of plaintiff ’s witnesses (documents produced therefor) or those produced to refresh a witnesses memory. The legislature has therefore carved out a deliberate exception. (ii) The expression “plaintiff’s witnesses” has not been used to exclude the plaintiff from this rule and is instead intended to apply to all witnesses introduced at the instance of the petitioner which may include himself. (iii) The impugned herein, it is submitted erroneously states that in teeth of sub-rule (1) to (3), all documents as opposed to only those relied on in the plaint, shall be prohibited from being used in the cross-examination unless fi led earlier. (iv) Further, reference is made to VIII Rule 1 which is the general rule of production of documents and the exception carved there under 878 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. in sub rule 3 which states that the rule of prior production shall not apply to documents produced for the above two instances. (v) VI Rule 21 negates the reasoning of the High Court under which it has adopted a distinction between a party and a witness.