Liberty Fund 1967). 68 Rai Sahib Ram Jawaya Kapur v. State of Punjab, (1955) 2 SCR 225 69 Kalpana Mehta v. Union of India, (2018) 7 SCC 1 70 S P Sampath Kumar v. Union of India, (1987) 1 SCC 124 71 State of W.B. v. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights, (2010) 3 SCC 571 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1289 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] for the power of judicial review. Being aware of its existence and what it postulates, they chose to adopt Article 32 which vests this Court with broad powers. The doctrine of separation of powers cannot, therefore, stand in the way of this Court issuing directions, s, or writs for the enforcement of fundamental rights. The directions, s, or writs issued for this purpose cannot encroach upon the domain of the legislature. This Court cannot make law, it can only interpret it and give eff ect to it. 68. The existence of the power of judicial review cannot be confl ated with the manner in which the power is exercised. The exercise of the power of judicial review abides by settled restraints which acknowledge that the power of law making is entrusted to democratically elected legislative bodies and that the formulation and implementation of policy is entrusted to a government which is accountable to the legislature. In the exercise of its the legislative function the legislature may incorporate policies which will operate as binding rules of conduct to operate in social, economic and political spaces. Judicial review is all about adjudicating the validity of legislative or executive action (or inaction) on the anvil of the fundamental freedoms incorporated in Part III and on the basis of constitutional provisions which structure and limit the exercise of power by the legislative and executive arms of the State. 69. Judicial review is a constitutionally entrenched principle which emanates from Article 13. It is not a judicial construct. The power of judicial review has been expressly conferred by the Constitution. In the exercise of the power of judicial review, the Court is cognizant of the fact that the legislature is a democratically elected body which is mandated to carry out the will of the people. It is in furtherance of this mandate that Parliament and the State legislatures enact laws. Courts are empowered to adjudicate upon the validity of legislation and administrative action on the anvil of the Constitution. In the exercise of the power of judicial review, the Court does not design legislative policy or enter upon the legislative domain. This Court, will hence not enter into the legislative domain by issuing directions which for all intents and purposes would amount to enacting law or framing policy. c. The power of this Court to enforce rights under Article 32 is diff erent from the power of the legislature to enact laws 129 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 70. In Powers, Privileges and Immunities of State Legislatures, In re,72 a seven-Judge Bench of this Court held: “…whether or not there is distinct and rigid separation of powers under the Indian Constitution, there is no doubt that the Constitution has entrusted to the Judicature in this country the task of construing the provisions of the Constitution and of safeguarding the fundamental rights of the citizens … If the validity of any law is challenged before the courts, it is never suggested that the material question as to whether legislative authority has been exceeded or fundamental rights have been contravened, can be decided by the legislatures themselves.