In other words, the exact information given by the accused ‘while in custody’, which led to recovery of the articles can be proved. It was noted that this doctrine is founded on the principle that if any fact is discovered as a search was made on the strength of any information obtained from a prisoner, such a discovery is a guarantee that the information supplied by the prisoner is true. 24. Thereafter, in State of Karnataka vs. David Rozario and another8, this Court held that information which is otherwise admissible under Section 27 of the Evidence Act would become inadmissible, if it did not come from a person in the ‘custody of a police offi cer’ or came from a person ‘not in the custody of a police offi cer’. It was further held that what is admissible is the information and not the opinion formed on it by the police offi cer and, in other words, the exact information given by the accused while in ‘custody’ which led to recovery of the articles has to be proved. The two essential requirements, per this Court, are that: (i) the person giving the information must be ‘accused of an off ence’; and (ii) he must be in ‘police custody’. 25. Again, in Ashish Jain vs. Makrand Singh and others9, this Court held that once a confessional statement of the accused is found, on facts, to be involuntary, it would be hit by Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India, rendering such a confession inadmissible. It was further noted that there is an embargo on accepting self-incriminatory evidence, but if it leads to the recovery of material objects in relation to a crime, it is most often taken to hold evidentiary value as per the circumstances of each case. This Court further cautioned that if such a statement is made under undue pressure and 8 (2002) 7 SCC 728 9 (2019) 3 SCC 770 RAJESH & ANR. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 17 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] compulsion from the Investigating Offi cer, the evidentiary value of such a statement leading to the recovery is nullifi ed. 26. More recently, in Boby vs. State of Kerala10, this Court referred to the decision of the Privy Council in Pulukuri Kotayya vs. King Emperor11, wherein Section 27 of the Evidence Act had been considered at length and it was noted that Section 27 provides an exception to the prohibition imposed by the preceding provisions and enables certain statements made by an ‘accused’ in ‘police custody’ to be proved. It was observed that the condition necessary to bring Section 27 into operation is that the discovery of a fact in consequence of information received from a person ‘accused of any off ence’ in the ‘custody of a police offi cer’ must be deposed to, and thereupon so much of the information, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be proved. It was observed that normally, Section 27 is brought into operation when a person in ‘police custody’ produces from some place of concealment some object, such as a dead body, a weapon or ornaments, said to be connected with the crime, of which the informant is accused.