In the month of December 2011, Bisu had told that 4 ½ acres of farm land of Kafan is for sale. Lijo had told Bisu about this. In to obtain advice regarding the purchase of the said farm land, I, Lijo and my brother-in-law Bisu met Nagaraj, who is an advocate. Lijo had the documents. The advocate examined the documents. Lijotold that Mr. F Jose Kafan has expired. By looking at the documents, advocate told that the death certificate of Kafan is required and for identification purpose his ID card or License is required and Kafan’s son has to come in to sell the land. Later we went to bus stand from the house of advocate. I also went to the bus G stand. Lijo and Bisu went in bike. Later, after 5 minutes Lijo made a phone call to me and told me to be in bus stand only saying Kafan’s son had called and they could talk directly with him. They came to bus stand. They made a phone call and gave mobile to me. The person who made a phone call asked to give advance H 426 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A amount of one lakh rupees to Binu. The person who made a phone call stated that he is Kafan’s son Sajith. He told that the value of land is 10 lakhs. I told that I would get the advance amount to Kerala. At that time he asked me to give advance amount to Binu. Lijo asked for commission. He asked to give one lakh rupees to Lijo. Around 2-3 days after this, my brother-in-law Bisu had B been to Mankalale, where Kolathur Jose was residing. He is the relative of Jose Kafan. Lijo told Kolathur Jose that Jose Kafan has expired and his sons are selling his land. Then Kolathur Jose told that Jose Kafan is not dead and he would talk to Kafan’s children and let us know C about it.” PW-9:‘‘When we went to Kafan’s land, the accused was there. The accused told in Malayalam that he would sell the equipments and Keriyappa understood little bit of Malayalam language. Keriyappa explained by understanding little bit of Malayalam. He D told that rubber roller machine is for sale. Since the price of it was costly, I refused to buy and when we were returning, he had piled up the equipments in front of the house. He said that he would sell that also. He wrote and showed the price of those equipments as Rs. 2,500/- I wrote and showed Rs. 2,000/-. The accused agreed E for it and sold the equipments. We purchased it. I have purchased 12 spades one iron rod, one handsaw, two water drums wherein on had lid and the other one was not having and pest control spraying machine. We shifted all the items and I gave the drum that had no lid to Keriyappa. I took the remaining.” PW-11: “In the month of December 2011, it was told about rubber F roller machine.