Their challenge was premised on the relaxation granted earlier in connection with the exercise under the fi rst advertisement for Post Code 447. Their case was that once relaxation to the eligibility conditions prescribed in the 2014 Rules was allowed qua the fi rst advertisement, the recruitment to the same post, advertised as Post Code 556, under the same set of Rules, must be subject to same relaxation. These candidates, therefore, challenged rejection of their candidature and prayed that the merit-list be re-drawn by treating their candidature as valid. 7. In respect of the third advertisement dated 21.09.2020, the challenge was confi ned to 531 posts that were carried forward as unfi lled vacancies notifi ed under the second advertisement for Post Code 556. In this category of cases, the claim was that vacant posts of JOA, advertised as Post Code 556, should not have been left unfi lled as eligible candidates were available had the benefi t of the relaxation been provided. They, therefore, claimed that those carry forward posts, now advertised as Post Code 817, be segregated and fi lled as part of the second advertisement by taking into consideration those candidates who would be eligible by virtue of the relaxation. ANKITA THAKUR & ORS. v. THE H.P. STAFF SELECTION 829 COMMISSION & ORS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] Findings / Observations of the High Court in the impugned 8. The High Court found / held / observed: (i) The essential qualifi cations prescribed in the 2014 Rules as “one year diploma in Computer Science / Computer Application / Information Technology from a recognized University / Institution” is ambiguous and creates confusion, fi rstly, because expression “recognized University / Institution” is not defi ned, and, secondly, diploma qualifi cation may be held under diff erent nomenclatures. The High Court held that though there could be no dispute regarding a recognized University but as regards the authority competent to recognize an institution to award a diploma, there is no clarity. Therefore, the decision to relax the essential qualifi cations dated 21.08.2017 was within the powers of the State Government conferred by Rule 18 of the 2014 Rules. Hence, it was rightly applied on the recruitment exercise carried out under the fi rst advertisement dated 13.02.2015. (ii) Computer Science / Information Technology are subjects of wide amplitude and are admissible to diff ering nomenclatures and cannot be restricted to the one found in the 2014 Rules / Advertisement. Thus, in absence of any clarity as to the kind of curricula required to obtain the required diploma / certifi cate to become eligible, the decision of the State Government dated 21.08.2017 cannot be faulted, particularly, when there is no clarity as to the authority competent to accord recognition. While holding so, the High Court took note of the essential qualifi cations prescribed in the 2020 Rules for the post of JOA (IT), which were more specifi c as regards the authority competent to recognize. (iii) Advent of computerization and wide use of information technology has caused a sense of urgency for appointment(s) on the posts advertised across various departments of the State Government.