Democracy postulates that there should be periodical election, so that people may be in a position either to re-elect the old representatives or, if G they so choose, to change the representatives and elect in their place other representative. Democracy further contemplates that the elections should be free and fair, so that the voters may be in 43 Article 21, Universal Declaration of Human Rights 44 Vishakha v. State of Rajasthan, AIR 1997 SC 3011 45 AIR 1975 SC 2299 H 208 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A a position to vote for candidates of their choice. Democracy can indeed function only upon the faith that elections are free and fair and not rigged and manipulated, that they are effective instruments of ascertaining popular will both in reality and form and are not mere rituals calculated to generate illusion of deference to mass opinion. Free and fail elections require that the candidates and B their agents should not resort to unfair means or malpractices as may impinge upon the process of free and fair elections.” 75. For conducting free and fair elections, an independent body in the form of Election Commission is a must. In Mohindhr Singh Gill, a Constitution Bench was called to interpret Article 324 and Article 329(b) C of the Constitution. emphasized on the connection between elections and the role of the Election Commission. Justice Krishna Iyer (speaking for Chief Justice Beg, Justice Bhagwati, and himself) stated: “Democracy is government by the people. It is a continual participative operation, not a cataclysmic, periodic exercise. The D little man, in his multitude, marking his vote at the poll does a social audit of his Parliament plus political choice of this proxy. Although the full flower of participative Government rarely blossoms, the minimum credential of popular Government is appeal to the people after every term for a renewal of confidence. So E we have adult franchise and general elections as constitutional compulsions. “The right of election is the very essence of the constitution” (Junius). It needs little argument to hold that the heart of the Parliamentary system is free and fair elections periodically held, based on adult franchise, although social and economic democracy may demand much more.” F 76. It was emphasized by Justice Krishna Iyer: “The Election Commission is an institution of central importance and enjoys far-reaching powers and the greater the power to affect others’ right or liabilities the more necessary the need to hear.” G 77. Justice PK Goswami in his concurring opinion (for himself & PN Singhal) held: “Elections supply the visa viva to a democracy. It was, therefore, deliberately and advisedly thought to be of paramount importance that the high and independent office of the Election Commission H should be created under the Constitution to be in complete charge ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 209 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] of the entire electoral process commencing with the issue of the A notification, by the President to the final declaration of the result.” 78.