C. Rights in or to the property of parents 16. Sub-section (3) of Section 16 commences with a non-obstante provision (“nothing contained in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)”). Parliament while enacting sub-section (3) intends to ensure that the legislative conferment of legitimacy will not confer upon such a child born from a void or voidable marriage as the case may be, “any rights in or to the property of any person other than the parents” where, but for the passing of the legislation, the child would have been incapable of possessing or acquiring any such rights by reason of their not being the legitimate child of the parents. There are two crucial expressions in sub-section (3): the fi rst is “any rights in or to the property of any person other than the parents”; and the second is “where but for the passing of this Act such child would have been incapable of possessing or acquiring any such rights by reason of his not being the legitimate child of his parents”. Sub-section (3), in other words, circumscribes the consequence of the legislative protection of the legitimacy of the child in relation to the conferment of rights in property. But for sub-section (3), the conferment of legitimacy on a child from a void or voidable marriage would have placed the child, for all intents and purposes, at par with a legitimate child in matters relating to property. The frame of sub-section (3), however, indicates that the conferment of legitimacy will not confer upon the child rights in or to the property of a person other than the parents. Sub-section (3) implicitly recognizes that the child conferred REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 337 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] with legitimacy by virtue of the provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) would be entitled to rights in or to the property of the parents of the child. But the provision equally indicates that the conferment of legitimacy will not operate to confer rights in or to the property of persons who are not the parents of the child. This stipulation is, however, conditioned by the last part of sub-section (3) which provides that such a child would not have rights in or to the property of a person who is not a parent where but for the passing of the Act the child would have been incapable of possessing or acquiring such rights by reason of not being the legitimate child. This last part of sub-section (3), takes us back to the position as it stood before the passing of the Act. If, but for the enactment of the provision the child would not have been capable of possessing or acquiring rights over the property of any person other than the parents by virtue of the ‘illegitimacy’, the child will not have rights to or in the property of a third party (other than the parents). By its plain terms, Section 16(3) indicates that Parliament, while conferring legitimacy on a child born from a void or voidable marriage, confi ned the rights of the child to or in the property of the parents and nota party other than the parents.