It is submitted that even the learned Arbitral Tribunal also observed and held that the IRCON was not justified in rescinding the contract under Clause 60.1. It is submitted that however, thereafter the F Arbitral Tribunal justified the termination of the contract under Clause 17.4, which as rightly held by the learned Single Judge / Division Bench was not permissible. 5.1 It is submitted that the finding recorded by the learned Arbitral Tribunal that the contract could not have been rescinded under Clause G 60.1 had attained the finality. It is submitted that therefore the learned Arbitral Tribunal was not justified in rejecting the claim Nos.33 and 34 which has rightly been set aside by the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench, which are not required to be interfered with by this Court in exercise of limited jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. H 720 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 5.2 It is further submitted by learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – NBCC that in absence of any specific provision in the contract / supplementary Agreements on interest on the amount advanced against hypothecation of equipments, the Division Bench of the High Court has rightly set aside the same. B Making above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. 6. We have heard learned Counsel appearing for the respective parties at length. 7. As observed hereinabove, challenge to the award by the learned C Arbitral Tribunal before the learned Single Judge and now before this Court is with respect to Claim Nos.33 and 34 and Counter Claim No.3 (Partly). 7.1 The learned Arbitral Tribunal rejected the Claim Nos.33 and 34 which were with respect to forfeiture of the security deposits on D termination / rescind of the contract. The Counter Claim No.3 of the IRCON was for a total sum of Rs.3,65,38,806/- towards interest on various advances given to NBCC, more particularly, with regard to two specific advances being (1) Special Advance and (2) Advance against hypothecation of equipment. The learned Arbitral Tribunal allowed the Counter Claim No.3 and awarded interest at the rate of 18% per annum E in favour of the IRCON being interest on special advance and advances against hypothecation of equipments. The Division Bench of the High Court has partly allowed the appeal and allowed the interest in favour of IRCON at the rate of 18% so far as special advance is concerned. 7.2 While considering the findings recorded by the learned Arbitral F Tribunal and while appreciating the submissions made by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties, relevant clauses of the Agreement, more particularly, Clause Nos.17.4, 59.1, 60.1 are required to be referred to, which are as under: “TIME TO BE OR THE ESSENCE OF THE CONTRACT: G 17.4 The time for completion of the works by the date or extended date fixed for completion shall be deemed to be the essence of the contract and if the contractor shall fail to complete the works within the time prescribe the Company IRCON shall, if satisfied that the works can be completed by the contractor within a H INDIAN RAILWAY CONST.