The information filled in the online application form will be considered as correct E and provisional admission will be given in the examination. Therefore, the applicant himself/herself will be responsible for the information filled in the online application form. 3. Only the applications filled by the last date of online application will be accepted. In case all the entries are not complete and F correct, the application will be rejected by the Rajasthan High Court. 4. No change can be made in the entries once finally entered in the online application, nor will any application in this regard be accepted for consideration. G 19 to 21. ….. 22. Other Important Instructions:- 1…. 2…. H 618 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 3. The candidates will be required to produce all the relevant original documents/certificates, on the basis of which they make any claim, if required by the Rajasthan High Court or the concerned appointing authority. 4 to 8…… B 9. Only such applicants, who have successfully deposited the examination fee by applying online till the last date, will be provisionally allowed to appear in the examination by the Rajasthan High Court. Merely issuing the admit card to an applicant to appear in the examination would not mean that C his candidature has been finally accepted by the Rajasthan High Court or that the entries made by the applicant in the application form have been treated as correct and true. While checking the eligibility of the applicant from the original documents by the Rajasthan High Court and as per rule, if his/her ineligibility is detected on the ground of non-fulfilment D of other essential conditions of eligibility on the basis of age, educational qualification and SC/ST/OBC/More Backward Class/EWS/PH/Women/ Widow/Abandoned (Divorced) etc., his/her candidature for this examination is liable to be cancelled at any stage, the responsibility of which will be that of the E applicant himself.” 5.All the appellants claiming to be the members of OBC/MBC- NCL/EWS, appeared in the main examinations conducted by the respondent and successfully cleared the same. They having been provisionally qualified to be called for the interview, were invited by the respondent for the interview between 20.08.2022 to 27.08.2022, vide F the notice dated 04.08.2022. In the said notice it was directed that the candidates had to bring all the original documents along with the attested/ certified photocopies at the time of interview. The precise directions contained in the said notice are reproduced as under: “The candidates are required to remain present for Interview on G the date and reporting time mentioned above in the temporary office of Registrar (Examination), at Rajasthan State Judicial Academy, Jodhpur, Near Jhalamand Circle, Old Pall Road, Jodhpur (Rajasthan) with their original documents/certificates for verification. The candidates are directed to bring all the following H SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 619 OTHERS [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] original documents along with two attested/certified photo copies A of each document: - i…. ii…. iii. Certificate relating to category:- B (a) OBC/MBC (Non Creamy layer) certificate issued not prior to one year from the last date of submission of the application form i.e.