As per SOP the Blood was screened tor HIV infection at 166 MH and then issued to 171 MH Samba. 171 MH only stored the blood being issued for Transfusion. (e) 74141570 B Ex-Cpl Ashish Kumar Chauhan contracted HIV in May, 2014 which may be for reasons other than blood tansfusion.” 64. These fi ndings were accepted. However, those conclusions were not in fact acted upon: as is evidenced by the fact that the appellant’s 640 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. categorization as a person discharged on account of disability attributable to service, entitling him to pension has not been revoked or cancelled. Now, as far as manifestation of the HIV positive condition is concerned, medical opinions, and those of organizations such as WHO appear to be unanimous that after the point of infection (known as Stage 1), the second phase (Stage 2) can be for a long period. At Stage 1 “the virus replicates using the body’s CD4 T cells and spreads throughout the body. In doing so, it destroys CD4 T cells. Eventually, this process stabilizes. The immune system reduces the number of viral particles, and levels of CD4 T cells may rise. However, the number of these cells may not return to its original level.”52 The second stage is described as follows: “After the acute stage has ended — and if the person has not received treatment — the virus remains active, reproducing at very low levels but continuing to damage immune cells. At this stage, there are usually no symptoms or very mild ones. This is why doctors sometimes call stage 2 “asymptomatic HIV infection” or “clinical latency.” The virus can still pass to others during this stage, even if it causes no symptoms. Without treatment, this stage can last for 10 years or more before the person develops stage 3 HIV.” 65. The Guidelines on HIV Testing issued by Central Government53, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, National Aids Control Organization (NACO), March 2007 similarly describes the second phase as the “latent phase” and “the asymptomatic stage”, a “period on average lasts for 8-10 years.” According to those guidelines, the long-term survival of most affl icted persons (80-90%) was 10 years or more, and a small percentage (5%) “do not experience clinical progression of HIV.” Such persons are described as “long term non-progressors (LTNPs)”. The respondents strongly relied on the Ministry of Defence’s Guide to Military Offi cers (Military Pensions), 2008, which contained a tabular chart (in 52 https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/316056, HIV timeline: What are the stages, (last accessed on 16.09.2023 at 05.17 AM). 53 Guidelines on HIV Testing issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, National Aids Control Organization (NACO), 2007 CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 641 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Appendix to Chapter VI titled “INCUBATION PERIODS IN RESPECT OF CERTAIN INFECTIOUS DISEASES”). Against the column containing HIV, the initial “usual incubation period” was described to be 4 to 6 weeks. The “minimum and maximum period for deciding attributability” against HIV was “1 year”.