The language of Section 35 and Section 46 of the Act are D not pari materia. Under Section 35, an arbitral award shall be final and binding on parties and persons claiming under them respectively meaning that, to a non-party claiming under the party to the agreement, the arbitral award would be binding, whereas under Section 46 of the Act a foreign award would be binding for all E purposes on the persons as between whom it was made and not against non-party even though claiming under the party to the agreement. Sections 35 and 46 of the Act are reproduced below: “35. Finality of arbitral awards.- Subject to this Part F an arbitral award shall be final and binding on the parties and persons claiming under them respectively. 46. When foreign award binding.- Any foreign award which would be enforceable under this Chapter shall be treated as binding for all purposes on the persons as G between whom it was made, and may accordingly be relied on by any of those persons by way of defence, set off or otherwise in any legal proceedings in India and any references in this Chapter to enforcing a foreign award shall be construed as including references to relying on an award.” H ARUN DEV UPADHYAYA v. INTEGRATED SALES SERVICE 733 LTD. & ANR. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] (ii) In the impugned this aspect of the matter has A not been considered although it was a vital issue and goes to the root of the matter as to whether a foreign award could be treated as binding and enforceable against the non-party to the agreement. (D) Lastly, according to the Review Petitioner, damages were B calculated not in any quantified manner but only on basis of Mr. Peteete’s intimate understanding of the business, not supported by any documentary material. 7. On the other hand, Sri Naphade, learned Senior Counsel appearing for respondent No.1 sought to justify the impugned C referring to various findings therein. He also submitted that this being a review petition, there was limited scope for this Court to examine the arguments of the petitioner as they would tantamount to a fresh hearing of the appeal. Further, according to him, all the points now sought to be argued have already been considered by this Court, no case for review D is made out and the review petitions deserve to be dismissed. 8. Before proceeding to deal with the arguments on merits of the review petitions, it would be appropriate to briefly comment on the scope of review. 8.1. The review petitions have been filed under Article 137 of the E Constitution of India read with Rule 1 of XLVII of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013. Article 137 of the Constitution of India provides for review of s or s by the Supreme Court. The same is reproduced hereunder: “137. Review of s or s by the Supreme F Court.— Subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament or any rules made under article 145, the Supreme Court shall have power to review any pronounced or made by it.” 8.2.