Dipak Misra, C.J., who wrote the F opinion for himself and A. M. Khanwilkar, J. and Dr. D. Y. Chandrachud, J. (as then he was), in their separate opinions concurred on the interpretation of the concept of morality under Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution. They also dealt with the issue of the interplay between the rights under Article 26 and the other rights under part III of the Constitution. The conclusions in the separate opinions of Dipak Misra, G C.J. and Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, J. can be summarized as under: (a) The expression ‘morality’ used in Articles 25 and 26 has an overarching position similar to public and health; (b) The term ‘morality’ cannot be viewed with a narrow lens H so as to confine the definition of morality to what an individual CENTRAL BOARD OF DAWOODI BOHRA COMMUNITY 311 v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] or a religious sect may perceive to mean. Morality naturally A implies Constitutional morality and any view that is ultimately taken by the Constitutional Courts must be in conformity with the basic tenets of Constitutional morality. ‘Morality’ for the purposes of Articles 25 and 26 must mean that which is governed by fundamental Constitutional principles; B (c) The expression ‘subject to’ is in nature a condition and therefore, public , morality and health control Article 26; (d) There is no convincing reason to allow provisions of Article C 26 to tread in isolation. Even if Article 26 is not specifically made subject to other fundamental rights, there would still be a ground to read both together so that they can exist in harmony. Absence of specific words in Article 26 making it subject to other fundamental rights cannot allow freedom of religious denomination to exist in an isolated silo; and D (e) The freedom of religious denominations under Article 26 must be read in a manner that requires the preservation of equality, and other individual freedoms which may be impacted by unrestricted exercise; E 26. Nariman, J in paragraph 176.7, stressed that the term ‘morality’ refers to that which is considered abhorrent to civilized society, given the mores of the time, by reason of harm caused by way, inter alia, of exploitation and degradation. 27. In his opinion rendered in Sabrimala Temple–5JJ 6, Dr. D.Y. F Chandrachud, J. (as he then was) has dealt with the engagement of essential religious practices with Constitutional values. While dealing with the said issue, in paragraph 289, he has observed thus: “289. For decades, this Court has witnessed claims resting on the essentiality of a practice that militate against the constitutional G protection of dignity and individual freedom under the Constitution. It is the duty of the courts to ensure that what is protected is in conformity with fundamental constitutional values and guarantees and accords with constitutional morality. While the Constitution is solicitous in its H 312 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A protection of religious freedom as well as denominational rights, it must be understood that dignity, liberty and equality constitute the trinity which defines the faith of the Constitution.