But even in the context of Article 32(2) of the Constitution, it may not be proper to E restrict the said remedy only as against the State but the same may be made available even as against private persons, in which event the power exercised by this Court could be in accordance with Article 142 (1) of the Constitution to do complete justice in the matter. For ease of reference Article 142(1) may be extracted as under: F vi) “142. Enforcement of decrees and s of Supreme Court and unless as to discovery, etc. - ( 1 ) The Supreme Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction may pass such decree or make such as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it, and any decree so passed or s so made shall be G enforceable throughout the territory of India in such manner as may be prescribed by or under any law made by Parliament and, until provision in that behalf is so made, in such manner as the President may by prescribe.” H 788 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Therefore, a writ of habeas corpus could be issued by this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution, not only against the ‘State’ as defined under Article 12 of the Constitution but also against a private individual. This is because illegal detention by a private person is a tort and of a nature similar to a constitutional tort. The reason for saying so is because an illegal detention whether by a State or a private person has a direct B and identical effect on the detainee. The detainee loses his liberty and there may be a threat to his life. Directions in the nature of writs of habeas corpus have been issued by this Court on previous occasions, against private individuals, particularly in cases of kidnapping, child custody etc. [See for instance: Nirmaljit C Kaur (2) vs. State of Punjab, (2006) 9 SCC 364] In such cases, resorting to the process of instituting a criminal case before a police station, may prove to be futile because the need of the hour in such cases is swift action. The writ of habeas corpus under Article 226 as well as Article 32 of the Constitution, is festium remidium, i.e., a speedy D remedy, and such remedy needs to be made available even as against a private individual. It is appropriate that the High Court concerned under whose jurisdiction the illegal detention has occurred should be approached first. In to invoke jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 of the E Constitution by approaching this Court directly, it has to be shown by the Petitioner as to why the concerned High Court has not been approached. In cases where it would be futile to approach the High Court, and where satisfactory reasons are indicated in this regard, a petition seeking issuance of a writ of habeas corpus, may be entertained. However, in the absence of such circumstances, filing a petition under Article 32 of F the Constitution is not to be encouraged, vide Union of India vs. Paul Manickam, (2003) 8 SCC 342.