To further clarify this position, it must be noted that the authorities have treated the landowner as a “subject” of medieval India, but not as a “citizen” under our Constitution. * * * * LOONKARAN GANDHI (D) THR. LR. v. STATE OF 177 MAHARASHTRA AND ORS.[J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] 17. Depriving the appellants of their immovable properties was a clear violation of Article 21 of the Constitution. In a welfare State, statutory authorities are bound, not only to pay adequate compensation, but there is also a legal obligation upon them to rehabilitate such persons. The non-fulfi lment of their obligations would tantamount to forcing the said uprooted persons to become vagabonds or to indulge in anti-national activities as such sentiments would be born in them on account of such ill-treatment. Therefore, it is not permissible for any welfare State to uproot a person and deprive him of his fundamental/constitutional/ human rights, under the garb of industrial development. 18. The appellants have been deprived of their legitimate dues for about half a century. In such a fact situation, we fail to understand for which class of citizens the Constitution provides guarantees and rights in this regard and what is the exact percentage of the citizens of this country, to whom constitutional/statutory benefi ts are accorded, in accordance with the law. 19.…..Even under valid acquisition proceedings, there is a legal obligation on the part of the authorities to complete such acquisition proceedings at the earliest, and to make payment of requisite compensation……” 30. The said has been referred in the case of “Bhimandas Ambwani (Dead) through LRs Vs. Delhi Power Company Limited, (2013) 14 SCC 195”, wherein this Court had considered the aspect of inordinate delay of about fi ve decades in not granting the compensation to the land loser from the date of taking over of possession and directed the respondent to make the award treating the date of Section 4 notifi cation as on the date of passed by this Court. For ready reference, the relevant paragraph is reproduced as thus – “14. The instant case is squarely covered by the aforesaid in Tukaram case [(2013) 1 SCC 353] and thus, entitled for restoration of possession of the land in dispute. However, considering the fact that the possession of the land was taken over about half a century ago and stood completely developed as Ms Ahlawat, learned counsel has submitted that a full-fl edged residential colony of the employees of DESU has been constructed thereon, therefore, it would be diffi cult 178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. for Respondent 1 to restore the possession. In such a fact situation, the only option left out to the respondents is to make the award treating Section 4 notifi cation as, on this date i.e. 12-2-2013 and we direct the Land Acquisition Collector to make the award after hearing the parties within a period of four months from today. For that purpose, the parties are directed to appear before the Land Acquisition Collector c/o the Deputy Commissioner, South M.B.