That on completion of enquiry as contemplated under the Registration Act, the registering authority may direct registration and issuance of a certificate in terms of Section 60(1) and 60(2) of the Act. Therefore by virtue of Section 60(2) of the Registration Act, there is a statutory presumption which arises to the effect that the document has been registered in the manner provided by the Act, which means D that it has been registered after due compliance of the enquiry contemplated under Section 33(1) (c) and 36 of the Registration Act. 4.6 It is submitted that in the present case plaintiff No.2 had executed the first sale deed dated 3.9.1968 which is a registered document. That on the foundation of the said sale deed, the second sale deed dated E 29.09.1968 had been executed in favour of plaintiff No.1 and therefore the owner of the property is plaintiff No.1. It is contended that on the foundation of the aforesaid registered document, the title has to flow. Otherwise, it would lead to a situation wherein a registered document will have no effect. That in the present case there is no challenge to the F sale deeds. Therefore, the legal effect of the execution of the sale deeds has been proved. 4.7 It is submitted that the defendants are asking for production of a PoA which was used by the predecessor-in-interest of plaintiff No.1 to execute the sale deed in his favour. This burden to provide the PoA on the foundation of which the first sale deed was executed is an G onerous burden and not contemplated in law. That as such the defendants are nothing but rank tress-passers. They have never set up their title in the property. They have never asserted that they have obtained possessory right from a person with title. Therefore, they have no right to challenge the title of plaintiff No.1. H 158 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 4.8 Relying upon the recent decision of this Court in the case of Amar Nath (supra), it is submitted that as observed and held by this Court that when a PoA holder executes the sale deed, he executes in terms of Section 32(a) of the Registration Act and therefore he does not need to produce the PoA. Only when the PoA holder executes a further PoA, then only the second PoA holder will have to produce the PoA B between him and the first PoA and not otherwise. 4.9 Making the above submissions and relying upon the above decision, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. 5. I have heard learned counsel for the respective parties at length. C At the outset, it is required to be noted that in the present case, the plaintiffs instituted the suit for declaration of title, to which they were laying claim by virtue of the two sale deeds, one dated 3.9.1968 (executed by plaintiff No.2 in his favour on the basis of the alleged PoA alleged to have been executed by the original land owner – Braja Mohan Dey) and D the second sale deed dated 29.09.1968 (executed by plaintiff No.2 in favour of plaintiff No.1 as a PoA holder of the original owner).