That is not the scenario which even the petitioners want to be in. 68 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 50. Hence, the contention that Rules 13, 27 and 28 of the CSE- Rules, 2022 cannot be given a status of rules cannot be countenanced. Additionally, these are rules traceable to the executive power of the Union which are duly traceable to Article 73. These rules are duly gazetted. These rules are set out well before the selection process begins and candidates are put to notice before the commencement of the process. Hence, it is too late in the day to contend that these rules have no sanctity or the force of an enforceable law. Impermissibility of Selective Relaxation: 51. In this case, rules clearly exist in the form of CSE-2022. It has also been settled that determination of eligibility cannot be left uncertain till the fi nal stages of selection, since that would lead to uncertainty. [See A.P. Public Service Commission v. B. Sarat Chandra (1990)2 SCC 669, para 7] Further, it is well settled that if rules prescribe the last date on which eligibility should be possessed, any relaxation would prejudice non-applicants who for want of possession of eligibility would not have applied. Relaxation would then be selective, leading to discrimination [See Yogesh Kumar (supra)] 52. As is clear from Rule 13, in the present case, by 15.07.2022, the certifi cates disclosing eligibility had to be uploaded with DAF-I and it was expressly stipulated by the rule that delayed submission of the DAF-I or documents in support will not be allowed. 53. Quite apart from the above, much water has also fl own under the bridge. The UPSC has made the cadre allocations and the EWS candidates against the 298 vacancies have also been allotted their respective cadres. Today, it is legally not permissible and administratively not feasible for the UPSC to unscramble the egg. Accepting the contention of the petitioners would also result in administrative chaos and will prolong the selection process indefi nitely. 54. The strong reliance placed on Ram Kumar Gijroya case (supra) also does not impress us. Not only was there no rule, like we have in the present case, it was only while declaring the result, the requirement of submitting the OBC certifi cate before the cut-off date was introduced by the Selection Authority there. Moreover, unlike the present, there was no contention or issue raised in that case that eligibility enures or crystallizes DIVYA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 69 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] only on the issuance of the certifi cate and on possession of the certifi cate, before the prescribed cut-off date. 55. The in Ram Kumar Gijroyacase (supra) is also directlyin confl ict with the of three Hon’ble Judges in Ashok Kumar Sharma and Others vs. Chander Shekhar and Another (1997) 4 SCC 18 wherein in para 6, it was held as under:- “… So far as the fi rst issue referred to in our dated 1-9- 1995 is concerned, we are of the respectful opinion that majority (rendered by Dr.T.K.