C 8. The appellants argued that the High Court was wrong in inferring that the injuries were caused due to a sudden fight. Counsel highlighted that the accused who were convicted concurrently, had deliberately gone near the informant/victims’ house to cause deadly injuries- in fact, one of the informant parties died as a consequence. Having regard to the established facts, the object of the assembly was for use of such force, D which resulted in death. Therefore, the sentencing in the present case had to be fit and appropriate, and the impugned gravely erred in adopting the standard of sentence undergone, which resulted in widely different and disparate results. At one end of the spectrum, one of the accused (Sundar s/o Rajpal) suffered incarceration for a little over 11 E months, whereas Krishan had undergone 09 years, 05 months and 04 days. The appellant informants urged that this court should adopt a somewhat uniform sentencing standard when the role of each accused was practically indistinguishable. 9. On behalf of the accused, it was pointed out that the High F Court had, in fact, gone by the salutary principles indicated by this court, in that the relative ages of the accused, their family circumstances, the length of time they spent in custody, as well as the length of time that had elapsed since the commission of the crime, all were considered. 10. This court has, time and again, stated that the principle of G proportionality should guide the sentencing process. In Ahmed Hussein Vali Mohammed Saiyed v. State of Gujarat,4 it was held that the sentence should “deter the criminal from achieving the avowed object 4 2009 [8] SCR 719 H 80 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A to (sic break the) law,” and the endeavour should be to impose an “appropriate sentence.” The court also held that imposing “meagre sentences””merely on account of lapse of time” would be counterproductive. Likewise, in Jameel v. State of U. P.,5 while advocating that sentencing should be fact dependent exercises, the court also emphasised that “the law should adopt the corrective machinery or B deterrence based on factual matrix. By deft modulation, sentencing process be stern where it should be, and tempered with mercy where it warrants to be. The facts and given circumstances in each case, the nature of the crime, the manner in which it was planned and committed, the motive for commission of the crime, the conduct of C the accused, the nature of weapons used and all other attending circumstances are relevant facts which would enter into the area of consideration.” 11. Again, in Guru Basavaraj v. State of Karnataka,6 the court stressed that it “is the duty of the court to see that appropriate sentence is imposed regard being had to the commission of the crime D and its impact on the social ” and that sentencing includes “adequate punishment”. In B.G. Goswami v. Delhi Administration7, the court considered the issue of punishment and observed that punishment is designed to protect society by deterring potential offenders as well as prevent the guilty party from repeating the offence; it is also designed to E reform the offender and reclaim him as a law-abiding citizen for the good of the society as a whole.