However, the separate and distinct treatment of amounts payable to secured creditor on the one hand, and dues payable to the government on the other clearly signifies Parliament’s intention to treat the latter differently - and in the present case, having lower priority. As noticed earlier, this intention is also evident from a D reading of the preamble to the Act itself. 51. According to the principles of statutory interpretation, when an enactment uses two different expressions, they cannot be construed as having the same meaning. It was held in Member, Board of Revenue v. Anthony Paul Benthall36 that: E “When two words of different import are used in a statute, in two consecutive provisions, it would be difficult to maintain that they are used in the same sense…” This idea is reflected in a subsequent in Brihan Mumbai Mahanagarpalika & Anr. v. Willington Sports Club & Ors.37 F 52. The views expressed by the present finds support in the decision reported as Sundaresh Bhatt, Liquidator of ABG Shipyard v. Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs38. In that case, Section 142A of the Customs Act 1962 was in issue – authorities had submitted that dues payable to it were to be treated as ‘first charge’ on the property G 36Member, Board of Revenue v. Anthony Paul Benthall(1955) 2 SCR 842. 37Brihan Mumbai Mahanagarpalika & Anr. v. Willington Sports Club & Ors., (2013) (16) SCR 216. 38Sundaresh Bhatt, Liquidator of ABG Shipyard v. Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, 2022 SCC Online SC 1101. H 1264 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A of the assessee concerned. In the resolution process, it was argued that the Customs Act, 1962 acquired primacy and had to be given effect to. This court, after noticing the overriding effect of Section 238 of the IBC, held as follows: “55. For the sake of clarity following questions, may be B answered as under: (a) Whether the provisions of the IBC would prevail over the Customs Act, and if so, to what extent? The IBC would prevail over the Customs Act, to the extent that once moratorium is imposed in terms of Sections 14 or C 33(5) of the IBC as the case may be, the respondent authority only has a limited jurisdiction to assess/determine the quantum of customs duty and other levies. The respondent authority does not have the power to initiate recovery of dues by means of sale/confiscation, as provided under the Customs Act. D (b) Whether the respondent could claim title over the goods and issue notice to sell the goods in terms of the Customs Act when the liquidation process has been initiated? Answered in negative. 56. On the basis of the above discussions, following are our E conclusions: (i) Once moratorium is imposed in terms of Sections 14 or 33(5) of the IBC as the case may be, the respondent authority only has a limited jurisdiction to assess/determine the quantum of customs duty and other levies. The respondent authority F does not have the power to initiate recovery of dues by means of sale/confiscation, as provided under the Customs Act.