The first enactment relating to motor vehicles in India was the Indian Motor Vehicles Act, 1914. It was replaced by the second enactment which came in 1939 as Motor Vehicles Act, 1939. After the coming of the Constitution in 1950, a new Motor Vehicles Act G was enacted by the Parliament in 1988, the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. The Parliament enacted the 1988 Act drawing its source from Entry 35 of the List III (the Concurrent List). The subject covered by the above entry is mechanically propelled vehicles including the principles on which taxes on such vehicles are to be levied. The Parliament as also the Legislature of States were thus competent to make laws H 898 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A regarding the mechanically propelled vehicles including the principles on which taxes could be levied on such vehicles. Thus, the Concurrent List, insofar as taxes concerned, is limited to the principles on which taxes are to be levied. But the power to frame laws relating to imposition of tax exclusively vests with the State Legislatures under Entries 56 and 57 of List II. Entry 56 covers the subject of laying B down law on imposition of taxes on goods and passengers being carried by road or on inland waterways. Whereas Entry 57 covers laws related to taxation on vehicles, whether mechanically propelled or not however such vehicles being suitable for use on roads. The laws so framed would remain subject to the provisions of entry 35 of C List III. 16. Chapter V of the 1988 Act deals with Control of Transport Vehicles. Section 66 makes it mandatory for owners of motor vehicles to use such vehicles as a transport vehicle whether actually carrying passengers or goods only with a valid permit granted as provided D therein. Section 66 reads as follows: “66. Necessity for permits.—(1) No owner of a motor vehicle shall use or permit the use of the vehicle as a transport vehicle in any public place whether or not such vehicle is actually carrying any passengers or goods save in accordance with the conditions of a permit granted or countersigned by a Regional E or State Transport Authority or any prescribed authority authorising him the use of the vehicle in that place in the manner in which the vehicle is being used: Provided that a stage carriage permit shall, subject to any conditions that may be specified in the permit, authorise the use of the vehicle as a contract F carriage: Provided further that a stage carriage permit may, subject to any conditions that may be specified in the permit, authorise the use of the vehicle as a goods carriage either when carrying passengers or not: Provided also that a goods carriage permit shall, subject to any conditions that may be specified in the permit, authorise the use of the vehicle for the carriage of G goods for or in connection with a trade or business carried on by him. (2) The holder of a goods carriage permit may use the vehicle, for the drawing of any trailer or semi-trailer not owned by him, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed: 1[Provided H THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. GOEL BUS SERVICE 899 KULLU ETC.