We do not know whether the complainants would have entered into a compromise in July, 2021 if he had not become a Minister again in the F new regime. 45. The decisions in Janata Dal vs. H.S. Chowdhary9 and Simranjit Singh Mann vs. Union of India10, relied upon by the learned senior counsel for questioning the locus standi of the appellants, will not go to their rescue. This Court has already dealt with the question of G locus in its dated 08.09.2022 in Criminal Appeal Nos.1514- 1516 of 2022 in P. Dharamaraj (supra). 46. Interestingly, we have two appeals challenging the correctness of the of the High Court dated 31.10.2022 directing de novo 9 (1992) 4 SCC 305 H 10 (1992) 4 SCC 653 Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1065 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] investigation, one of which is by the complainant V. Ganesh Kumar in A FIR No.298 of 2017 and other by the accused R. Sahayarajan, who was arrayed as Accused No.3 in the complaint of the V. Ganesh Kumar. Both of them entered into a compromise and successfully trapped the High Court to quash the proceedings on the basis of the compromise. Fortunately, the quashing the complaint was reversed by this Court. B Yet both of them have the audacity to come before this Court attacking the of de novo investigation. 47. What is worrisome is the fact that V. Ganesh Kumar is an employee of the Transport Corporation. In the charge-sheet filed on his complaint, which has been taken on file as CC No.19 of 2020, this V. C Ganesh Kumar is stated to have collected amounts ranging from Rs.2,00,000/- to Rs.4,50,000/- for every post of Driver, Conductor or Mechanic, as the case may be. We do not know whether the Transport Corporation has at least placed him under suspension and initiated departmental proceedings. If they have not done so far, the Corporation should initiate disciplinary action against this V. Ganesh D Kumar not only for being party to a job-for-cash scam but also for turning turtle and supporting the accused and thereafter coming to this Court to assail the of de novo investigation, despite being an employee of the Corporation. Interestingly, his attack on the of de novo investigation is not to achieve the same purpose as the victims E want to achieve, by assailing the same . The victims assail the of de novo investigation for the purpose of ensuring that the offences under the PC Act are properly investigated and tried. But the object of V. Ganesh Kumar is not the same. 48. This is why we made repeated queries to Ms. V. Mohana, F learned senior counsel appearing for V. Ganesh Kumar as to what V. Ganesh Kumar eventually wants. The only answer that we got to this question was that the power to de novo investigation should be exercised sparingly and that this is not the case where the power requires to be exercised. Thus, it is clear that V. Ganesh Kumar is in a different camp as of now.