13. On the strength of the aforesaid submissions, the learned counsel for the appellants prayed that the and of the High Court 702 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. be set aside and if the plaintiff -respondent has any grievance against the and decree of the trial court, she may take recourse to the remedy of an appeal under Section 96 of the CPC. Submissions on behalf of the respondent 14. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondents submitted: (i) Against an rejecting a review application, no appeal lies (See XLVII, Rule 7(1) of the CPC). The term “Case”, used in Section 115 of the CPC, is a word of comprehensive import and includes civil proceedings other than the suit, therefore, there can be no legal bar in entertaining a revision against rejection of a review application; (ii) The Explanation to Section 115 of the CPC makes it clear that “any case which has been decided” includes any made, or any deciding an issue, in the course of a suit or other proceeding, which means that the expression “any case which has been decided” is all inclusive and not exclusive; (iii) The revisional powers vested in the High Court under Section 115 of the CPC are wide enough to correct jurisdictional errors and while correcting such jurisdictional errors, the High Court can pass such s as may be required to serve the ends of justice; (iv) The concluding part of trial court’s on the basis whereof decree was drawn is contradictory to the body of the , inasmuch as, if the gift deed dated 24.04.1982 is invalid and the sale-deed in favour of the plaintiff is valid, the plaintiff would be entitled to exclusive ownership and possession of the property in dispute. Thus, there was an error apparent on the face of the record which ought to have been corrected in the review. However, since it was not corrected, the High Court in exercise of its powers under Section 115 of the CPC was justifi ed in modifying the decree. 15. To buttress his submission that the High Court justifi ably exercised revisional power, the learned counsel for the respondent relied on several decisions enumerated and discussed below: RAHIMAL BATHU & OTHERS v. ASHIYAL BEEVI 703 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] (i) Major S.S. Khanna v. Brig. F.J. Dillon1; which we shall deal with at a later stage. (ii) Shankar Ramchandra Abhyankar v. Krishnaji Dattatreya Bapat2. This is a decision which lays down the conditions in which revisional powers could be exercised and clarifi es that if there are two modes of invoking the jurisdiction of the High Court and one of them is chosen and exhausted it would not be proper and sound exercise of discretion to grant relief in the other set of proceedings in respect of the same of the subordinate Court. It holds that though Section 115 of the CPC circumscribes the limits of that jurisdiction but the jurisdiction exercised thereunder is a part of the general appellate jurisdiction of the High Court as a superior Court.