To simplify, Clause (b) merely states that whatever appointments, notifications, notices, rules E or by-laws etc. are already in force in the existing ‘larger urban area’ will mutatis mutandis come into force in the “additional area” which is included by issuing a notification under Clause (a) of Section 3(3) of the MMC Act. The purpose of Clause (b) is to ensure that any statutory or administrative decision which has already been enforced by a Municipal Corporation in its existing F larger urban area shall stay in force and will become applicable automatically in the newly added area also. The expression ‘appointments’ has to be understood in this context only. The scope of Clause (b) as a provision is meant to facilitate the inclusion of newly added additional areas and to ensure that such G areas do not remain in a vacuum for want of statutory or administrative decisions following the cessation of its status as part of the ZP. Clause (b) of Section (3)(3) is not concerned with the protection of conditions of service of the employees of the ZP who are absorbed into a Municipal Corporation. When the H MAHARASHTRA RAJYA PADVIDHAR PRATHAMIK SHIKSHAK VA 983 KENDRA PRAMUKH SABHA v. PUNE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION AND ORS. Legislature never intended to regulate terms and conditions of A the employees who are merged in a Municipal Corporation due to expansion of ‘larger urban area’, no inference in relation thereto can be drawn from the plain wording of Section 3(3)(b) of the MMC Act. The reliance placed by the Appellants on the said provision is, thus, completely misplaced and is liable to be B rejected. [Paras 15-17][992-D-H; 993-A-F] 1.2 The provisions of Appendix (IV) shall apply to the constitution of the Corporation and other matters specified therein. Clause (1) of Appendix (IV) pertains to ‘construction of reference in other enactments’ whereas Clause 2 provides that C all rights of the municipality or any other local authority shall, on the date in question, vest in the Corporation constituted for the said area. Clauses (3) and (4) deal with ‘sums due’ and ‘debts, obligations, contracts and pending proceedings’, respectively. Clause 5 deals with ‘continuation of appointments’, taxes, budget estimates, assessments etc.’ and its Sub-Clause (C) specifically D says that all officers and servants under the employment of a municipality or local authority immediately before the appointed day shall be officers and servants employed by the Corporation under this Act and shall, subject to other provisions made in accordance with the provisions of this Act, receive salaries and E allowances and be subject to the conditions of service which were operative on such date. The first proviso provides, crucially, that service rendered by such officers and servants before the appointment date shall be deemed to be service rendered in the service of the Corporation itself. There is no dispute regarding the fact that Clause 5(c), including its first proviso, occupies this F field of law till date. The provision explicitly deals with protection of conditions of service of the officers and servants who were earlier employed in a local authority like a ZP, and who have been subsequently absorbed into a Municipal Corporation.