Further, upon his appointment, E the Speaker issued notice only on the disqualification petitions instituted by the respondents. The Speaker has behaved contrary to the spirit of neutrality and independence. Allowing the Speaker to decide the disqualification petition would amount to incentivising defection. Thus, this Court and not the Speaker must decide the disqualification F petitions; c. The Governor could not have directed a trust vote when the legality of the disqualification petitions was pending consideration; d. The letter of the Governor dated 28 June 2022 recognises G a split in the Shiv Sena. He does not have the authority to recognise a split; e. The majority in SR Bommai v. Union of India17 held that it would be open to the Court to restore status quo ante H 17 (1994) 3 SCC 1 SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 893 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] before the issuance of the proclamation if the presidential A proclamation was invalid. It was held that status quo ante could be restored even if the proclamation is approved by both the Houses of Parliament. It was also held that it would be open to the court to mould the relief while restoring status quo ante. Thus, this Court has the power to mould relief by B holding that legislations passed in the intervening period would not be invalid but other actions during the pendency of the disqualification proceedings such as the election of the Speaker would be invalid if those who voted for the Speaker are held to have incurred disqualification; C f. Article 189(2) extends only to situations where there is a challenge to the proceedings solely because of the eligibility of the members and there is no per se challenge to the validity of the proceedings. However, in the instant case, there is a prior challenge to the decision of the Governor to direct a trust vote. This action of the Governor cannot be D immunised from judicial review by virtue of Article 189(2); g. The resignation of Mr. Uddhav Thackeray on 29 June 2022 cannot dilute the illegality of the action of the Governor in directing a trust vote; E h. The decision of the ECI under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols will have prospective effect. The decision of the ECI recognising one of the factions as the Shiv Sena for the purposes of the Symbols cannot be applied retrospectively to the pending disqualification petitions. Such an interpretation would also be contrary to settled law that F disqualification relates back to the date when the actions constituting defection were committed; and i. MLAs who are dissatisfied with the status quo of the political party are entitled to resort to a merger under paragraph 4, or resign and re-contest elections, or apply to the ECI under G Paragraph 15 of the Symbols for recognition of their faction as the political party and await the decision of the ECI. The members ought to be disqualified if they have chosen to act in a manner that is prohibited under the Tenth Schedule.