For example, a contract which was from its inception illegal, such as a contract with an alien enemy, would be avoided by s.2(g), and one which became illegal in the course of its performance, such as a contract with one who had been an alien friend but later became an alien enemy, would be avoided by s.2(j). A mere failure to sue within F the time specified by the statute of limitations or an inability to sue by reason of the provisions of one of the s under the Civil Procedure Code would not cause a contract to become void.” 60. A Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court, while dealing with the effect of inclusion of non-transferable occupancy rights, along with G other properties, which were transferable in a registered mortgage deed and, after referring to Section 23 of the Contract Act, held, in Dip Narain Singh v. Nageshar Prasad and another24, inter alia, as follows: 23 AIR 1939 PC 110 H 24 AIR 1930 ALL 1 (FB) / 1929 SCC OnLine ALL 1 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 343 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “There is a clear distinction between an agreement which may be A forbidden by law and one which is merely declared to be void. In the former case the legislature penalises it or prohibits it. In the latter case, it merely refuses to give effect to it. If a void contract has been carried out and consideration has passed, the promisor may not in equity be allowed to go back upon it without restoring B the benefit which he has received. But if the promise comes to court to enforce it he would receive no help from a court of law. As pointed out above, the transfer of an occupancy tenancy is not actually forbidden by law but is declared to be void.” (Emphasis supplied) C 61. To the extent that N.N. Global (supra) proceeds on the basis that the Stamp Act is a fiscal enactment and the object is to raise revenue, there may not be any serious room for objection. As far as the finding in paragraph-28 of N.N. Global(supra) that the decision in SMS Tea Estates (supra) does not lay down the correct D law, when it holds that an Arbitration Agreement, in an unstamped commercial contract, cannot be acted upon or is rendered unenforceable, we are of the view that the finding in N.N. Global (supra) does not appear to be correct. A perusal of paragraph-29 would show that the Court in N.N. Global (supra) proceeded on the basis that the Arbitration E Agreement, being an independent contract is not chargeable to payment of stamp duty and it would not invalidate the Arbitration Clause or render it unenforceable, since it had an independent existence of its own, cannot hold good in view of the admitted position before us that an Arbitration Agreement, in its own right, is exigible to stamp duty.