MPF 7567, which was insured with R- 1 at the time of the accident; B (b) that the accident occurred during the course of employment; (c) that at the time of accident, age of the appellant was 30 years and monthly wages were Rs.3000; and (d) that though the Board declared her permanently disabled to the extent of 50%, but certified that she is ‘unfit’ for labour. C 24. Section 4(1)(b) of the Act, at the relevant time, read as under:- “4. Amount of compensation.- (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the amount of compensation shall be as follows, namely:- D E Provided that the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, from time to time, enhance the amount of compensation mentioned in clauses (a) and (b). F Explanation I.— For the purposes of clause (a) and clause (b), “relevant factor”, in relation to a workman means the factor specified in the second column of Schedule IV against the entry in the first column of that Schedule specifying the number of years which are the same as the completed years of the age of the workman on his last birthday immediately preceding the date on which the compensation fell due.” G 25. “Total disablement” is defined by section 2(1)(l) as follows:- “ “total disablement” means such disablement, whether of a temporary or permanent nature, as incapacitates a workman for all work which he was capable of performing at the time of the H accident resulting in such disablement: 856 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Provided that permanent total disablement shall be deemed to result from every injury specified in Part I of Schedule I or from any combination of injuries specified in Part II thereof where the aggregate percentage of the loss of earning capacity, as specified in the said Part II against those injuries, amounts to one hundred per cent or more;” B 26. In Pratap Narain Singh Deo v. Srinivas Sabata and Another5, decided by a four-Judge Bench of this Court, the injured workman was a carpenter by profession and by loss of left hand above the elbow, he was evidently rendered unfit for the work of carpentry and, therefore, the Commissioner awarded compensation by considering C permanent disability as total i.e., 100%. The employer raised an argument that the injury did not result in permanent total disablement of the workman and therefore, the Commissioner committed a gross error of law in taking a view that there was total disablement. In that context, this Court held:- “5. The expression “total disablement” has been defined in section D 2(1)(l) of the Act as follows: “ “total disablement” means such disablement, whether of a temporary or permanent nature, as incapacitates a workman for all work which he was capable of performing at the time of the accident resulting in such disablement.” E It has not been disputed before us that the injury was of such a nature as to cause permanent disablement to the respondent, and the question for consideration is whether the disablement incapacitated the respondent for all work which he was capable of performing at the time of the accident.