The decision in Dhadi Sahu [CIT v. Dhadi Sahu, 1994 Supp (1) SCC 257] propounded a position that : (Dhadi Sahu case [CIT v. Dhadi Sahu, 1994 Supp (1) SCC 257] , SCC p. 262, para 21) “21. … no litigant has any vested right in the matter of procedural law but where the question is of change of forum it ceases to be a question of procedure only. The forum of appeal or proceedings 100 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. is a vested right as opposed to pure procedure to be followed before a particular forum. The right becomes vested when the proceedings are initiated in the tribunal.” (emphasis supplied) In taking this view, the two-Judge Bench did not consider binding decisions. Dhadi Sahu [CIT v. Dhadi Sahu, 1994 Supp (1) SCC 257] failed to consider that the saving of pending proceedings in Mohd. Idris [Mohd. Idris v. Sat Narain, (1966) 3 SCR 15 : AIR 1966 SC 1499] and Manujendra Dutt [Manujendra Dutt v. Purnedu Prosad Roy Chowdhury, (1967) 1 SCR 475 : AIR 1967 SC 1419] was a saving of vested rights of the litigants that were being impacted by the repealing Acts therein, and not because a right to forum is accrued once proceedings have been initiated. Thereafter, a line of decisions followed Dhadi Sahu [CIT v. Dhadi Sahu, 1994 Supp (1) SCC 257] , to hold that a litigant has a crystallised right to a forum once proceedings have been initiated. A litigant’s vested rights (including the right to an appeal) prior to the amendment or repeal are undoubtedly saved, in addition to substantive rights envisaged under Section 6 of the General Clauses Act. This protection does not extend to pure matters of procedure. Repeals or amendments that eff ect changes in forum would ordinarily aff ect pending proceedings, unless a contrary intention appears from the repealing or amending statute.” COURT MUST SATISFY ITSELF AS TO THE EXISTENCE OF JURISDICTION Section 9 of the Code “9. Courts to try all civil suits unless barred.—The Courts shall (subject to the provisions herein contained) have jurisdiction to try all suits of a civil nature excepting suits of which their cognisance is either expressly or impliedly barred. Explanation I.—A suit in which the right to property or to an offi ce is contested is a suit of a civil nature, notwithstanding that such right may depend entirely on the decision of questions as to religious rites or ceremonies. MUMTAZ YARUD DOWLA WAKF v. M/S BADAM 1003 BALAKRISHNA HOTEL PVT. LTD. & ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] Explanation II.—For the purposes of this section, it is immaterial whether or not any fees are attached to the offi ce referred to in Explanation I or whether or not such offi ce is attached to a particular place.” 20. On a proper construction of Section 9 of the Code, it is clear that the court has to prima facie satisfy itself as to the existence of the jurisdiction. Such an exercise will avoid putting the parties to unnecessary risk and diffi culty.