These classifi cations in Urmin Products were at the behest of the assessee himself. In Flakes-n-Flavourz, the assessee was alleged to be manufacturing ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ and clearing it as ‘chewing tobacco’, and on facts it was found that there COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 655 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] were additives added to the tobacco. In the said case this Court on facts held that there was no wilful suppression attributable to the assesssee and the Revenue had failed to establish the product as ‘zarda scented tobaccot’. 139. In the instant case the assessee had clearly declared his product as ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ falling under sub-heading 2403 9930 in Form 1 fi led and based on the said declaration, capacity determination dated 04.03.2015 under rule 6(2) had been passed re-classifying the product as ‘chewing tobacco’. Accordingly, for the period April 2015 in Form-1 the assessee had described the product as ‘Jayanti Zarda Scented- 2403 9910’. However, in the capacity determination dated 05.05.2015, the Deputy Commissioner classifi ed the goods as ‘chewing tobacco’. As such, there was no misstatement or suppression of facts, collusion, or fraud in the instant case and hence on facts, the principles enunciated in Urmin’s case is distinguishable. It may be noted that this court in the case of CCE vs. Damnet Chemicals Private Ltd. (2007) 7 SCC 490 had held: “26. In the circumstances, we fi nd it diffi cult to hold that there has been conscious or deliberate withholding of information by the assessee. There has been no wilful misstatement much less any deliberate and wilful suppression of facts. It is settled law that in to invoke the proviso to Section 11-A(1) a mere misstatement could not be enough. The requirement in law is that such misstatement or suppression of facts must be wilful. We do not propose to burden this with various authoritative pronouncements except to refer the of this Court in Anand Nishikawa Co. Ltd. v. CCE [(2005) 7 SCC 749 : (2005) 188 ELT 149] wherein this Court held : (SCC p. 759, para 27) “27. … we fi nd that ‘suppression of facts’ can have only one meaning that the correct information was not disclosed deliberately to evade payment of duty. When facts were known to both the parties, the omission by one to do what he might have done and not that he must have done, would not render it suppression. It is settled law that mere failure to declare does not amount to wilful suppression. There must be some positive act from the side of the assessee to fi nd wilful suppression.” (emphasis supplied) 656 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 27. It is clear from the material available on record that the Excise Authorities had inspected the manufacture process, collected the necessary information and details from the respondent assessee and even collected the samples and sent for chemical analysis. The authorities were aware of the tests and analysis reports of the products manufactured by the respondent assessee.