[C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] of Arbitrators’ is filed, by one party asserting the existence of an arbitration A agreement or arbitration clause in an ‘instrument’ executed between the parties concerned. Therefore, invariably what is to be decided, in invocation of the said powers, is the asserted factum of existence of arbitration agreement or arbitration clause in the said instrument and invariably, in this regard the party who invoked the said power under B Section 11(6), has to produce that very relied on instrument for inspection. The question is whether while passing an the Court exercising the power under Section 11 (6) receives any evidence, for the limited purpose of ascertaining the truth of the assertion that the document thus produced is an arbitration agreement or an instrument containing arbitration clause. In this regard it is only apposite to refer to the meaning ascribable to the C term ‘evidence’. As per Peter Murphy in ‘A Practical Approach to Evidence (Second Edition), 1985, ‘evidence’ may be defined as any ‘material’ which tends to persuade the Court of the truth or probity of same fact asserted before it. As noted hereinbefore, in such an application under Section 11 (6), invariably the fact to be asserted would be the D existence of ‘arbitration agreement’ and in proof thereof the material viz., the document would be produced. I will refer to the relevant provision in the statutory scheme viz., the Appointment of Arbitrators by the Chief Justice of India Scheme, 1996, later. Now, when that is received, it is nothing but receiving evidence to that limited purpose for deciding the question whether the ‘instrument’ produced is one executed between E the parties is an arbitration agreement or whether the instrument contained an arbitration clause. Necessarily, if the answer is in the affirmative, an appointing Arbitrator(s) would be passed and an answer in the negative would be the end of such proceedings. In that view of the matter, it can safely be said that what is to be decided while performing F the function under Section 11 (6) is relating a ‘jurisdictional aspect’ as only on returning a finding that there exists an arbitration agreement or arbitration clause, in the material so produced, that arbitrator(s) would be appointed. The answering of that question, on receiving the ‘instrument’, is the performance of the function describable as “acting upon” the document thus produced. In other words, as discernible from G the statement of law by M.C. Desai, J. in Mt. Bittan Bibi & Anr. v. Kuntu Lal & Anr..2, (the relevant paragraph 8 extracted in the opinion of learned brother Justice K.M. Joseph), ‘acting upon’ is not included in 2 ILR [1952] 2 All 984 H 378 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the act of admitting an instrument, though it can be acted upon, later, subject to permissibility in law therefor. 3. The cleavage in opinion occurs on the issue as to whether the Court called upon to invoke the power under Section 11 (6) should or could exercise the power coupled with duty under Section 33 of the B Indian Stamp Act, 1899, when the document carrying the arbitration agreement or arbitration clause is found unstamped or insufficiently stamped or without going into such matter, should it confine its exercise of power in the matter of appointment of Arbitrator(s) only and refrain itself from proceeding further in view of the mandate under Section 33 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899.I have already recorded my agreement C with the opinion of my learned brother K.M.