936 SUPR[2E0M23E] C10O SU.RCT.R R. E9P3O6 R: T2S023 INSC 5[250023] 10 S.C.R. A STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS (Civil Appeal No. 4983 of 2009) B MAY 18, 2023 [SURYA KANT AND J. K. MAHESHWARI, JJ.] Tenancy laws: Title claim – On facts, land leased out to one in 1924 for thirty years under the 1895 Act, who sold it to predecessor-in-interest of the respondents vide sale deed of 1947 C and thereafter the land was recorded in his name and on his death his successor, and they are continuously recorded as Bhumidhar of the said land – Different set of legal proceedings which proceeded in parallel – Issues pertaining to sale of ownership rights or leasehold rights to the respondents; status of the respondents under D the applicable tenancy law and if the status entitled them for ownership of the suit land; if the leasehold rights validly transferred under the 1924 lease deed; determination of the 1924 lease deed, breach of the condition of prior approval and expiry of initial lease deed period; and was it possible for predecessor of respondents to be accorded the status of ‘Occupancy Tenant’ under the 1939 Act, E which resulted in them being subsequently accorded the status of ‘Sirdar’ under the Zamindari Notification – On appeal, held: High Court while deciding the issue of ownership in favour of the respondents on the strength of the Sale Deed, have come to different conclusions as such to the nature of the instrument – Both these F parallel findings by the High Court have been without any serious examination of the nature of the Sale Deed itself – Reasoned finding on both the nature of Sale Deed as well as whether the same was violative of conditions of the 1924 Lease Deed very important, because of which the issue of determination of lease remains unanswered – High Court made sweeping remarks in respect of the G tenancy status without any serious consideration as to whether the same were legally tenable or not – No reference is made to any proceedings wherein the status as an occupancy tenant was ever granted to the predecessor of the respondent and, if so, how and when the same culminated into the status of ‘Sirdar’ under the H Zamindari Notification – Thus, there are compelling circumstances 936 STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR 937 (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS which have been left unanswered by the courts below, because of A which determination of several factual issues have been left in limbo – In dearth of appropriate records, ownership rights in respect of an immovable property cannot be decided casually – Thus, the Court is reluctant to give a final opinion on the matter until the Court is satisfied on the basis of the entirety of documents – Matters remanded B to the High Court for a fresh adjudication on the issues formulated, even though pending before this Court for more than 15 years – Government Grants Act of 1895 – U.P.