Other contentions E 21. Assailing the impugned of the High Court, it is contended on behalf of the State that the recommendations of Tikku Pay Commission for enhancement of the scales of pay were per se applicable only to MBBS doctors; that the revision of scales of pay in favour of Allopathy doctors was warranted by the perennial shortage of Allopathy doctors; F that the State Government had to fulfil its Constitutional obligation of providing adequate healthcare infrastructure to the citizens by recruiting qualified MBBS doctors, but the State could not attract sufficient talent, due to the poor pay structure; that in contrast, the State was never running short of AYUSH doctors and hence there was no necessity to lure qualified G AYUSH doctors to come to service; that there is no impediment in law for providing different scales of pay to persons employed in the same cadre, based upon the qualifications; and that the High Court miserably failed to appreciate the completely different nature of duties and responsibilities performed by Allopathy doctors and AYUSH doctors and that therefore the impugned is wrong, both in law and on facts. H 310 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 22. In response, it is contended by the learned counsel for the respondents that both Allopathy doctors and AYUSH doctors are appointed to the post of Medical Officer falling in Class-II of Gujarat Medical Services; that once persons with different qualifications are appointed to one unified cadre with a common pay scale and governed by one set of rules, then at a later stage, the Government cannot make a B classification; that all Medical Officers, irrespective of their qualifications were discharging the same duties and responsibilities; that by the Government Resolution dated 01.01.1999, the recommendations of the Tikku Pay Commission were made applicable to non-MBBS degree holders working in the ESI Scheme; that it was only after the learned C Single Judge allowed the writ petitions, that the State issued another Resolution dated 31.07.2013 withdrawing the Resolution dated 01.01.1999; and that the findings of fact recorded by the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court that both categories of doctors are performing equal work, does not call for any interference under Article 136 of the Constitution and that therefore the appeals are D liable to be dismissed. 23. We have carefully considered the above submissions. 24. Two questions, in our opinion, arise for consideration in these appeals. They are: E (i) Whether different scales of pay can be fixed for officers appointed to the same cadre, on the basis of educational qualifications possessed by them? (ii) Whether Allopathy doctors and doctors of indigenous F medicine can be said to be performing “equal work” so as to be entitled to “equal pay”? Question No.1: Whether different scales of pay can be fixed for officers appointed to the same cadre, on the basis of the educational qualifications possessed by them? G 25. The first issue arising for consideration is as to whether persons appointed to the same post in a cadre can be given different scales of pay on the basis of educational qualifications?