C Item 101.18: Damodar Valley Corporation v. Sree Ramdoot Rollers Private; SLP (C) No. 15723 of 2020 317. On 30 June 2012, the appellant electricity utility, Damodar Valley Corporation, and Capricorn Ispat Udyog Private Limited, the previous owner, entered into an agreement for supply of electrical energy. D The bank guarantees furnished by the respondent expired on 4 June 2014. The electricity connection to the previous owner was disconnected on 21 September 2016 for default in payment of electricity dues to the suit premises. On 14 August 2018, the State Bank of India advertised the property for e-auction under SARFAESI Act for default of dues on “as is where is basis”. The relevant terms and condition of e-auction E sale are as follows: 1. “E-auction is being held on AS IS WHERE IS and will be conducted online. *** 2. [To] the best of knowledge and information of the authorised officer there is no encumbrance of the properties. However, F the intending bidders should make their own independent enquiries regarding the encumbrance title of properties put on auction and claim rights dies affecting the properties [prior] to submitting their bid. The E-auction advertisement does not constitute and will not be deemed to constitute G any commitment or any representation of the bank. The properties is being sold with all the existing and future encumbrance whether known or unknown to the bank and authorised officer secured creditor shall not be responsible in any way for the third party claims, rights, dues. H *** 778 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 7. It shall be the responsibility of the interested bidders to inspect and satisfy themselves about the properties before submission of the bid.” Clause 1 of the terms and conditions provided that the e-auction was being held on an “as is where is basis”. Clause 2 provided that the B property was being sold with all present and future encumbrances, whether known or unknown to the bank. Clause 7 provided that it was the responsibility of interested bidders to inspect and satisfy themselves about the properties before submission of the bid. 318. On 31 August 2018, the assets of the previous owner were C taken over by Magnum Tradelink Private Limited through an e-auction. The registration of property was done in the name of Shree Ramdoot Rollers Private Limited, who is the respondent herein. On 04 October 2018, the respondent filed an application seeking a new connection from the appellant. When the appellant refused, the respondent filed a writ petition before the High Court of Calcutta. On 17 April 2019, the Single D Judge allowed the petition and ed the appellant to process the respondent’s application within a period of three weeks. However, by its letter dated 10 May 2019 the appellant refused to grant a connection in view of the electricity dues of Rs. 22.05 crores payable by the erstwhile owner in respect of premises. The respondent again approached the E High Court seeking a direction for the supply of electricity to their premises.