What comes out of this provision is that the Office of the Chief Election Commissioner stands on a higher constitutional pedestal, F as he is given equivalence to a Judge of the Supreme Court in matters of removal. The other thing which comes out is that “the conditions of service of the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment.” That is to say, the independence cannot be indirectly diluted by creating unwarranted conditions of service. G Lastly, a wide discretion has been vested with the Chief Election Commissioner to seek removal of any other Election Commissioner or a Regional Commissioner. 86. It has been argued before us that there exists a constitutional vacuum in the method of selection of the Chief Election Commissioner H and other Election Commissioners, and nothing has been provided under ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 211 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] Article 324. It has been argued that as the Executive (through President) A is making these appointments, it reduces the independence of the Election Commission. Furthermore, it was pointed out that the term and tenure of the Election Commissioners also need to be streamlined in to ensure absolute independence of the Election Commission and to prevent any arbitrary or biased decision to be taken by the Chief Election B Commissioner. 87. It has been argued by the learned Attorney General that the conditions of service and tenure of the Chief Election Commissioner and Election Commissioners is already governed by the Act, 1991. 88. The Act provides “the conditions of service of the Chief C Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners to provide for the procedure and for transaction of business by the Election Commission and for matters] connected therewith or incidental thereto”. The Act deals with salary (Section 3), tenure/term of office (Section 4), leave (Section 5), pension (Section 6), and other conditions of service (Section D 8). 89. The term of office provided under Section 4 for the Chief Election Commissioner or an Election Commissioner is “of six years from the date on which he assumes his office”, subject to the proviso that “where the Chief Election Commissioner or an Election Commissioner E attains the age of sixty-five years before the expiry of the said term of six years, he shall vacate his office on the date on which he attains the said age”. Section 4 thus does not provide a mandatory 6 years of term. 90. An analysis of the provisions of the Act also indicates that there is nothing provided in terms of the selection process of the Chief Election Commissioner or the Election Commissioners. Thus, what F emerges from this discussion is that both Article 324 and the Act, 1991 are silent on the selection process of the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners. There also appears to be a lacunae in ensuring independence as the Actindirectly provides a discretion to the Executive to appoint someone close to retirement at the age of 65 as the G Chief Election Commissioner or the Election Commissioner, and thus will not be able to take the full term of 6 years.