b) Amenities such as schools, medical centre/dispensary, creche, other health centers and the like. c) Dwelling units for the economically weaker sections as prescribed under Applicable Laws. d) Car Parking Spaces” 5. According to the appellant, there was an increase in the sale area, earlier provisionally allotted to the respondents, and therefore vide communication/letter dated 27.04.2017, the respective allottees were informed about the increase and revision in the sale area of their apartments. Accordingly, the diff erential demand letters on account of such increase were issued by the appellant to the allottees of the apartments, including the respondents. The respondents/their respective previous allottees made payments towards the diff erential demand without any demur or protest between the period December 2017 to August 2018, and the appellant executed the conveyance deeds in their favour between the period April 2018 to September 2019. 6. Subsequently, the respondents on 25.02.2022 fi led a complaint being Consumer Case No. 34/2022 before the National Commission seeking a refund of the amounts paid by them towards the increased sale area alleging, inter alia, that there was neither increase in the carpet area nor in the built- up area, and that the demand towards increase in the sale area made by the appellant was illegal. The respondents relied upon the decision dated 26.08.2020 rendered by the National Commission in the case of Pawan Gupta v. Experion Developers Private Limited.6 6 2020 SCC OnLine NCDRC 788. EXPERION DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. v. HIMANSHU 1125 DEWAN AND SONALI DEWAN [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 7. The case was resisted by the appellant by fi ling a reply challenging the very maintainability of the consumer case and contending, inter alia, that no ‘cause of action’ had arisen. According to the appellant, respondent nos. 1, 2 and 5 were the subsequent allottees, who came into picture much after the increase in the sale area and raising of demand therefor. Even the payments for the same were made by their concerned predecessor allottees without any protest. In case of respondent no. 6, the predecessor allottee was already intimated about the increase in the sale area and had not objected to the increase. Respondent no. 6 was, thus, well aware of the increase in the sale area and had made payments towards the same without any protest. Other respondents also had made payments towards the increase in the sale area without any protest. It was further contended that as per Section 69 of the Act, a consumer complaint could be fi led within two years from the date when the ‘cause of action’ arises. In the instant case, the ‘cause of action’ had arisen on 27.04.2017, when the demand for the increased area was raised by the appellant. The complaint was fi led before the National Commission on 25.02.2022, that is, about fi ve years after the ‘cause of action’ had arisen and three years after the lapse of limitation period. Relying upon the certifi cates, reports and affi davits of the architects, it was contended that there was an actual increase in the sale area of the apartments as mentioned therein and therefore, the charges demanded were valid and legal, in terms of Clause 8 of the agreement.