He had also moved the DRT for extension of time, which was not granted. The C DRT, however, granted him liberty to participate in the auction to be held on 5th January, 2018 but without waiving any condition. These are circumstances which certainly are adverse to the contesting respondent. 28. Also, the terms of the auction notice made it clear that the auction sale would be conducted in terms of the provisions contained in D the SARFAESI Act. All prospective bidders were, therefore, put on guard as to what could follow in case of a default or neglect. Notwithstanding the proceedings that were initiated before the DRT by Stallion of which the contesting respondent became aware on 10th October, 2017, nothing prevented him from making full payment of the balance amount and have the sale certificate issued in his favour. It can E be inferred from the facts and circumstances that the contesting respondent was seeking to buy time. Counsel for the contesting respondent has not shown how the Authorized Officer acted in derogation of the statute. Indeed, it was open to the Authorized Officer to extend the time further; equally, he was also free not to grant further extension F having regard to the conduct of the contesting respondent. When two options are legally open to be exercised in a given set of facts and circumstances and one option is exercised, which does not appear to be wholly unreasonable, it is not for the writ court to find fault on the specious ground that the secured creditor has not suffered any financial loss. That such creditor had not suffered financial loss cannot be the sole G determinative factor in view of the special law that the SARFAESI Act is. As noted above, efforts made by recalcitrant borrowers to stall sale proceedings at any costs is not uncommon. Many a time, when a sale does not fructify because of an injunction, the time taken and efforts made together with costs incurred by the secured creditor to put up the H secured asset (immovable property) for sale once again and close the AUTHORISED OFFICER STATE BANK OF INDIA v. 1089 C. NATARAJAN & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] transaction by itself may result in prejudicial affectation of its interest in A enforcement of the security interest. While dealing with a case covered by rule 9 of the Rules, an of forfeiture of sale price should not be lightly interfered. The contesting respondent was not genuinely interested in proceeding with his part of his obligations and we see no arbitrariness in the action of the Authorized Officer in forfeiting Rs. 30,75,000/- being B 25% of the sale price. 29. The first question is answered accordingly. 30. Moving on to the second question, we find the High Court to have committed an error of law in directing refund on the ground that the Bank “should not be permitted to enrich by forfeiting the amount C from the writ petitioner”. It is not a question of the Bank’s enrichment or deriving any undue advantage that the Court was really concerned with.