4.4 It is further submitted by Ms. Diwan, learned ASG that Section 3(1) is the charging section under the TST Act, which provides for imposition of tax and makes the dealer liable for payment of the same. 4.5 It is submitted that the TST Act provides for delegated C legislation and rule making power is provided under Section 44 of the TST Rules. 4.6 It is submitted that Rule making power under Rule 44 is inclusive and wide enough to cover the procedure for recovery including tax deduction at source. It is submitted that therefore Rule 3A(2) which D provides for tax deduction at source at the hands of the transferee of the right to use goods is a machinery provision which can be provided in the Rules. It is submitted that further, all rules framed in furtherance of Section 44 are placed before the state legislature. 4.7 It is further submitted that the impugned Rule 3A(2) does not E in any manner change the liability to pay the tax from the dealer and the dealer continues to remain liable to pay the tax. 4.8 It is submitted that thus Rule 3A(2) provides is only for a machinery/mechanism where the person buying the goods deducts tax at source and deposits the same with the Revenue. It is submitted that it F does not in any manner change the chargeability of tax or liability to pay the tax. It is submitted that therefore, the provisions relating to tax deduction at source are machinery provisions. Being a machinery provision, the same can be provided in rules. 4.9 It is submitted that even the tax deducted at source is neither G the final payment of tax nor assessment of tax. It is submitted that in the present case, the payment and assessment of tax continues to be of the dealer. Reliance is placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of PILCOM vs. CIT, (2020) 19 SCC 409 (paragraphs 36 to 38). 4.10 Ms. Madhavi Diwan, learned ASG has further submitted that in the case of CIT vs. Eli Lilly & Co. (India) (P) Ltd., (2009) 15 H THE STATE OF TRIPURA & ANR. v. CHANDAN DEB & ORS. 1141 [M. R. SHAH, J.] SCC 1, this Court has been pleased to consider the issue whether A provisions pertaining to deduction of tax at source are independent of charging provisions on the premise that the same is only a machinery provision. 4.11 Ms. Diwan, learned ASG has further submitted that in the present case the TST Act and the Rules clearly fulfil all the requirements B for a valid taxing statute and provide for all components required for a taxing statute. It is submitted that as observed and held by this Court in the case of CCE & Customs vs. Larsen & Toubro Ltd., (2016) 1 SCC 170 there shall be four components for a valid levy of tax namely (i) character of the imposition known by its nature which C prescribed the taxable event attracting the levy; (ii) a clear indication of the person on whom the levy is imposed and who is obliged to pay the tax; (iii) the rate at which the tax is imposed and; D (iv) the measure or value to which the rate will be applied for computing the tax liability.