Fourth, under our Constitution such restrictions have to be in the interest of eight designated subject-matters— that is, any law seeking to impose a restriction on the freedom of speech can only pass muster if it is proximately related to any of the eight subject-matters set F out in Article 19(2).” 17. So far as the second apparent difference is concerned, the American Supreme Court has included “expression” as part of freedom of speech and this Court has included “the press” as being covered under Article 19(1)(a), so that, as a matter of judicial interpretation, both the US and India protect the freedom of speech G and expression as well as press freedom. Insofar as abridgement and reasonable restrictions are concerned, both the US Supreme 26 249 US 47 (1919) 27 Paragraph 8. 28 Paragraph 9 - 11. H 570 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Court and this Court have held that a restriction in to be reasonable must be narrowly tailored or narrowly interpreted so as to abridge or restrict only what is absolutely necessary. It is only when it comes to the eight subject-matters that there is a vast difference. In the US, if there is a compelling necessity to achieve an important governmental or societal goal, a law abridging freedom B of speech may pass muster. But in India, such law cannot pass muster if it is in the interest of the general public. Such law has to be covered by one of the eight subject-matters set out under Article 19(2). If it does not, and is outside the pale of Article 19(2), Indian courts will strike down such law.” C 18. American s have great persuasive value on the content of freedom of speech and expression and the tests laid down for its infringement. It is only when it comes to subserving the general public interest that there is a world of difference.” (Emphasis Supplied) D 22. The abovementioned decision in Shreya Singhal (supra), has been followed recently in Kaushal Kishor (supra) by Justice B.V. Nagarathna in her erudite concurring opinion while analyzing the freedom of speech and expression under Article 19.29 23. The distinction as noted by this Court in various decisions E between the American Constitution, specifically the First Amendment therein and Article 19 of the Indian Constitution have been noted hereinabove. 24. There have been, however, cases where this Court has, taken into consideration, s of the Supreme Court of the United States F of America. For instance, the Constitution Bench in Express Newspapers (Pvt.) Limited and Another v. Union of India and Others30 (five-Judge Bench) wherein the constitutionality of the Working Journalists (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955 was in question. G Justice N.H. Bhagwati writing for the Court, observed, that since Article 19(1)(a) of our Constitution is based on the First Amendment of the American Constitution, it would be “legitimate and proper” to refer to 29 Paragraph 202(iii) & 203. H 30 (1959) SCR 12 ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR.