It was thereafter that an application was fi led under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. for recalling M. Krishna (PW-189) and produce the certifi cate under Section 65-B of the Act on record. The same was rejected by the Trial Court vide dated 18.01.2018. 14. From the aforesaid facts, it cannot be inferred that there was delay of six years in producing the certifi cate. In fact, report received from CFSL, Hyderabad on the basis of the contents of electronic devices dated 29.11.2010 was already placed before the Trial Court on 16.10.2012. In fact, the stand of the prosecution was that when the original electronic devices were already produced and marked MOs, there was no need to produce the certifi cate under Section 65-B of the Act. Still, as a matter of abundant caution, the same was produced that too immediately after objection was raised by the accused against the production of CFSL report prepared on the basis of the electronic devices seized. 15. Fair trial in a criminal case does not mean that it should be fair to one of the parties. Rather, the object is that no guilty should go scot-free and no innocent should be punished. A certifi cate under Section 65-B of the Act, which is sought to be produced by the prosecution is not an evidence which has been created now. It is meeting the requirement of law to prove a report on record. By permitting the prosecution to produce the certifi cate under Section 65B of the Act at this stage will not result in any irreversible prejudice to the accused. The accused will have full opportunity to rebut the evidence led by the prosecution. This is the purpose for which Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. is there. The object of the Code is to arrive at truth. However, the power under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. can be exercised to subserve STATE OF KARNATAKA v. T. NASEER @ NASIR @ THANDIANTAVIDA 239 NASEER @ UMARHAZI @ HAZI [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] the cause of justice and public interest. In the case in hand, this exercise of power is required to uphold the truth, as no prejudice as such is going to be caused to the accused. 16. For the aforesaid reasons, the appeal is allowed. The s passed by the courts below are set aside. Resultantly, application fi led by the prosecution under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. is allowed. The Trial Court shall proceed with the matter further. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Ankit Gyan