4.9 It is submitted that the UNICITRAL Legislative Guide on G Insolvency Law was instructive for the Indian experience on drafting the IBC which provided critical guidance on what an insolvency law represents. It is submitted that a reading together of the UNICITRAL Legislative Guide on Insolvency Law and Bankruptcy Law Report clarifies in no uncertain terms, that the procedure designed for the insolvency process under the IBC is critical for allocating economic H 106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A coordination between the parties who partake in or are bound by the process. It is submitted that this Hon’ble Court has looked at overarching object and economic balance achieved by IBC and as such has appreciated the working and operation of IBC in unlocking value for all its stakeholders including financial institutions in the case of Innoventive Industries Limited Vs. ICICI Bank and Anr., (2018) 1 SCC 407, B followed in Arcelormittal India Private Limited Vs. Satish Kumar Gupta and Ors., (2019) 2 SCC 1; Arun Kumar Jagatramka Vs. Jindal Steel and Power Limited and Anr., (2021) 7 SCC 474 and Sesh Nath Singh and Anr. Vs. Baidyabati Sheoraphuli Co-operative Bank Limited and Anr., (2021) 7 SCC 313. C 4.10 It is submitted that as per the objectives of the IBC, it is clear that corporate death of a Corporate Debtor is inevitable. However, every effort should be made to resuscitate the Corporate debtor in the larger public interest, which includes not only the workmen of the corporate debtor, but also its creditors and the goods it produces in the D larger interest of the economy of the country. 4.11 It is submitted that in the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee (Volume 1) (November, 2015), it was agreed that the assets held in by the entity in trust (such as employee pensions), assets held as collateral to certain financial market institutions and assets held as part E of operational transactions where the entity has right over the asset but is not the owner of the same shall be excluded from the liquidation estate. It is further submitted that it was also debated with respect to the waterfall mechanism under the IBC and was agreed that the workmen dues capped up to 3 months will be given the second priority with the secured creditor after the costs of the corporate insolvency and resolution process and F liquidation. 4.12 It is submitted that subsequently, a report of the Joint Committee on the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2015 was prepared and presented in Lok Sabha on 28.04.2016 wherein the issue of exclusion of Provident Fund, Pension Fund and Gratuity Fund from the liquidation G estate assets and estate of bankrupt was debated. It is submitted that the Committee, after an in-depth examination, was of the view that Provident Fund, Pension Fund and Gratuity Fund provide the social safety net to the workmen and employees and hence, need to be secured in the event of liquidation of a company or bankruptcy of partnership firm.