[2023] 14 S.C.R. 100 : 2023 INSC 852 CASE DETAILS BALWINDER SINGH (BINDA) v. THE NARCOTICS CONTROL BUREAU (Criminal Appeal No. 1136 of 2014) SEPTEMBER 22, 2023 [B.R. GAVAI, HIMA KOHLI AND PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Matter pertains to admissibility in evidence of the confessional statement recorded by the Narcotics Control Bureau officers u/s. 67 of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985; and proving of possession of contraband by the prosecution beyond reasonable doubt. Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – s. 67 – Confession statement made by an accused u/s. 67 before an offi cer of Narcotics Control Bureau – Admissibility in evidence: Held: Statement made by an accused and recorded u/s. 67 cannot be used as a confessional statement in the trial of an off ence under the NDPS Act – Any confessional statement made by an accused to an offi cer invested with the powers u/s. 53 of the NDPS Act, is barred for the reason that such offi cers are “police offi cers” within the meaning of s. 25 of the Evidence Act – Evidence Act, 1872 – s. 25. [Para 10] Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – s. 54 – Presumption from possession of illicit articles – “Proof beyond reasonable doubt vis-a-vis “preponderance of probability”: Held: Initial burden is cast on the prosecution to establish the essential factors on which its case is premised – After the prosecution discharges the said burden, the onus shifts to the accused to prove his innocence – However, the standard of proof required for the accused to prove his innocence, is not 100 BALWINDER SINGH (BINDA) v. THE NARCOTICS 101 CONTROL BUREAU as high as expected of the prosecution – For attracting the provisions of s. 54, it is essential for the prosecution to establish the element of possession of contraband by the accused for the burden to shift to the accused to prove his innocence – This aspect of possession of the contraband has to be proved by the prosecution beyond reasonable doubt. [Paras 15 and 16] Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – ss. 67 and 54 – Two persons convicted for possession of commercial quantity of heroin – Out of the two, only accused was apprehended by Narcotics Control Bureau-NCB from the spot where Naka laid and co-accused was arrested later – Co-accused being repeated off ender sentenced to death u/s. 21(c) rw s. 31A(1a) which was modifi ed to 14 years of rigorous imprisonment – Accused sentenced u/s. 21(c) to rigorous imprisonment for twelve years with fi ne, by the courts below – Sustainability of: Held: Confessional statement of the accused recorded by the NCB offi cers u/s. 67, who had attributed a role to co-accused and subsequently statement of co-accused was recorded u/s. 67 are rejected as it cannot be used as a confessional statement having been recorded by the NCB offi cials who are to be treated as “police offi cers” u/s. 25 of the Evidence Act – Furthermore, no other independent incriminating evidence for convicting co-accused, thus, his conviction cannot be sustained – As regards the accused, the conviction does not hinge solely on his confessional statement made to the NCB offi cials – His case rests on the testimonies of prosecution witnesses, which are consistent and there are no material contradictions in their depositions to extend any benefi t to the accused – Plea by the accused that the prosecution failed to establish a prima facie case against him and thus, the burden of proving his innocence did not shift back to him cannot be accepted – As regards the plea of failure to establish foundational facts, the prosecution was able to discharge the onus cast on it to prove the foundational facts – Prosecution produced adequate evidence to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused had the knowledge of the car being used for transporting narcotics, the presumption u/s.