Therefore, the regulatory mechanism is meant to work both ways, in both directions and the Court must bear in mind the unique nature of a D regulated contract. (35) Shri Amit Kapoor also referred to the theory of incomplete contracts. This is explained as meaning that being a long term contact, the parties may not expect and factor in all possible developments which may take place. This also necessitates the Commission being endowed E with sufficient power to reach the contractor as also the employer a just tariff bearing in mind the regime under Section 61 of the Act. (36) Upon being queried as to what would be the position at law outside of the PPA and of the jurisdiction of the Commission and if the matter were to be considered with reference to the law of contract, Shri F Amit Kapoor drew our attention to Sections 18 and 19 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. He would point out that even an innocent representation within the meaning of Section 18 can result in the contact becoming voidable under Section 19. Section 19 contemplates that the party whose consent is obtained by misrepresentation within the meaning G of Section 18 can insist upon the other side to perform the contact. But the wronged party retained the right to insist that it shall be put in the same position it would have occupied if there was no misrepresentation. Therefore, it is pointed out that there is foundation even in the law of contract for contending that the Commission armed with its powers under Section 79(b) could compensate the contractor in the situation we are H concerned with. HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 39 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (37) The of this Court reported in Uttar Pradesh Power A Corporation Limited v. National Thermal Power Corporation Limited and Others (2009) 6 SCC 235 rendered by a Bench of three learned judges with Justice S. B. Sinha speaking for the Court had occasion to consider the impact of regulations made purporting to act under the Electricity Regulatory Commission Act, 1998. In the said , it B has been inter alia held that there is power under regulation 92, in particular, to revise the tariff (see para 35 read with 38 and 40) (38) Noticing this aspect, when we sought assistance from the learned counsel. We heard the following submissions. Mr. M. G. Ramachandran, learned senior counsel, would point out that the C observations relating to the power under Section 92 must be understood as confined to the situation obtaining under Section 61 read with Section 62 of the Act. The said power may not be available when the tariff is fixed under Section 63 of the Act. When we queried as to whether the provisions of Section 61 are totally unconnected with Section 63, Mr. M. G. Ramachandran, learned senior counsel, would submit that Section 61 D may not be entirely inapplicable. He would submit that particular provisions of Section 61 may, in fact, apply.