Particulars of any ongoing or past legal proceedings with respect to maintenance or child support between the Applicant and Non-Applicant. 2. Whether any maintenance has been awarded in any proceeding arising under the DV Act, CrPC, HMA, HAMA, etc.? If yes, provide details of the quantum of maintenance awarded in the proceedings. 3. If so, provide particulars thereof, along with a copy of the (s) passed. 4. Whether the of maintenance passed in earlier proceedings has been complied with. If not, arrears of maintenance. 5. Whether any voluntary contribution towards maintenance has been made/will be made in the future? If yes, provide details of the same. C. Details of dependent family members 1. Details of dependent family members, if any. (a) Relationship with dependants: 254 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (b) Age and sex of dependant(s): 2. Disclose if any independent source(s) of income of the dependants, including interest income, assets, pension, tax liability on any such income and any other relevant details. 3. The approximate expenses incurred on account of the dependant. D. Medical details if any, of the deponent and/or dependent family members 1. Whether either party or child/children is suff ering from any physical/mental disability, or any other serious ailment. If yes, produce medical records. 2. Whether any dependent family member has serious disability, requiring continuous medical expenditure. If yes, produce disability certifi cate and approximate medical expenditure incurred on such medical treatment. 3. Whether either party or child/children or any other dependent family member is suff ering from life-threatening diseases, which would entail expensive and regular medical expenditure? If yes, provide details of the same along with summary of previous details of hospitalisation/medical expenses incurred. E. Details of children of the parties 1. Number of children from the existing marriage/marital relationship/previous marriage. 2. Name and age of children. 3. Details of the parent who has the custody of the children. 4. Expenditure for maintenance of dependent children. (a) Towards food, clothing and medical expenses. (b) Towards expenses for education, and a summary of general expenses. ADITI ALIAS MITHI v. JITESH SHARMA 255 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] (c) Towards expenses, if any, of any extra educational, vocational or professional/educational course, specialised training or special skills programme of dependent children. (d) Details of any loan, mortgage, charge incurred or instalment plan (being paid or payable), if any, on account of any educational expenses of children. 5. Whether any voluntary contribution by either of the parties is being made towards these educational expenses? If yes, provide details of the same. Also provide an estimate of any additional contribution that may be required. 6. Whether any fi nancial support is being provided by a third party for the educational expenses of the children? F. Details of Income of the Deponent 1. Name of employer: 2. Designation: 3. Monthly income: 4. If engaged in government service, furnish latest salary certifi cates or current pay slips or proof of deposit in bank account, if being remitted directly by employer. 5. If engaged in the private sector, furnish a certifi cate provided by the employer stating the designation and gross monthly income of such person, and Form 16 for the relevant period of current employment.