11.17 At the cost of repetition, it is observed that the primary object and purpose of SICA, 1985 is revival of a sick industrial company even by providing rehabilitation scheme under Section 18. A reading of G the statement of objects and reasons says that the effect of the ill effects of sickness in industrial companies was a serious concern not only to the Government but also to the society at large. Therefore, it was found that there is a need to fully utilise the productive industrial assets; afford maximum protection of employment and optimize the use of the funds of H 1066 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A the banks and financial institutions and it is imperative to revive and rehabilitate the potentially viable sick industrial companies. Considering Section 20 of the Act it becomes clear that winding up of a company is only resorted to as a last resort and only when it is just and equitable to wind up the sick industrial company. B 11.18 Thus, minority creditors and that too some unsecured creditors cannot be permitted to stall the rehabilitation of the sick company by not accepting the scaled down value of its dues. Unless and until there is a sacrifice by all concerned, including the creditors, financial institutions, unsecured creditors, labourers, there shall not be any revival of the sick industrial company / company. C 12. Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the unsecured creditors that the unsecured creditors should have an option not to accept the scaled down value of its dues and to wait till the scheme for rehabilitation of the sick company has worked itself out, with an option to recover the debt post such rehabilitation is concerned, the same has D no substance and cannot be accepted. It is required to be noted that in a given case, because of the scaling down of the value of the dues of the creditors, the company survives. The company has survived in view of the rehabilitation scheme because of the sacrifice / scaling down the value of the dues of the creditors including the financial institutions. How E such a benefit can be permitted to be given to the unsecured creditors, who does not accept the scaled down value of its dues. Such an unsecured creditor cannot be permitted to take the benefit of the revival scheme, which is at the cost of other creditors including the financial institutions and even the labourers. 13. Now, so far as the view taken by the High Court that the F unsecured creditor had an option not to accept the scaled down value of its dues and can wait till the scheme for rehabilitation of the company has worked itself out with an option to recover the debt with interest post such rehabilitation is accepted, in a given case, the sick company, which has been able to revive because of the scaling down the value of G the dues, may again become sick, if the entire dues of the unsecured creditors are to be paid thereafter.