Furthermore, in the case on hand, there was no claim for right of redemption by the borrower either before the publication of the auction notice or even thereafter. The borrowers entered into the fray only after coming to know of the confi rmation of auction. Be that as it may, once the Section 13(8) stage was over and auction stood concluded, it could be said that there was an intentional relinquishment of his right of redemption under Section 13(8), whereby the Bank declared the appellant as the successful auction purchaser having off ered the highest bid in accordance with the terms of the auction notice. 64. The SARFAESI Act is a special law containing an overriding clause in comparison to any other law in force. Section 60 of the Act 1882, is a general law vis-a-vis the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act which is special law. The right of redemption is clearly restricted till the date of publication of the sale notice under the SARFAESI Act, whereas the said right continues under Section 60 of the Act 1882 till the execution of conveyance of the mortgaged property. The legislative history has been covered in the preceding paragraphs of this and how the Parliament desired to have express departure from the general provision of Section 60 of Act 1882. The SARFAESI Act is a special law of recovery with a paradigm shift that permits expeditious recovery for the banks and the fi nancial institutions without intervention of Courts. Similarly, Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act is a departure from the general right of redemption under the general law i.e. the Act 1882. Further, the legislature has in the objects and reasons while passing the amending Act specifi cally stated “to facilitate expeditious disposal of recovery applications, it has been decided to amend the said Acts….”. Thus, while interpreting Section 13(8) vis-à- vis Section 60 of the Act 1882, an interpretation which furthers the said 122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. object and reasons should be preferred and adopted. If the general law is allowed to govern in the manner as sought to be argued by the borrowers, it will defeat the very object and purpose as well as the clear language of the amended Section 13(8). 65. In Mathew Varghese (supra) this Court had interpreted the unamended section 13(8) of SARFAESI Act and Section 60 of Act 1882 respectively. However, thereafter the legislature amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act. Thus, on this score, the decision in Mathew Varghese (supra) could be said to have been partially legislatively overruled as the substratum of the verdict stands altered / amended. 66. Even otherwise, we should not lose sight of the fact that in Mathew Varghese (supra) the court held in regard to the right of redemption that both the SARFAESI Act and Act 1882 are complimentary to each other and equally applicable. It had held this because, the words “before the date fi xed for transfer” in the unamended Section 13(8), amongst other things also means and connotes the date of conveyance of the secured asset by a registered instrument (which is the ordinary process of extinguishment of right of redemption under Act 1882).