5. The position in law in this regard is somewhat unsettled as has been noticed and dealt with by this Court in Jitendra Singh alias 6 (2018) SCCOnline SC 3655 H 606 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Babboo Singh and another versus State of Uttar Pradesh wherein in paragraphs 24 to 27 four categories of cases have been culled out where apparently different approaches had been adopted by this Court. The net result is summed up in paragraph 28 of the aforesaid report which explains the details of the categorization made in the earlier paragraphs of the said report. Paragraph 28 of B the said report, therefore, would require a specific notice and is reproduced below: “28. The sum and substance of the above discussion is that in one set of cases this Court has found the juvenile guilty of the crime alleged to have been committed by him but he has gone C virtually unpunished since this Court quashed the sentence awarded to him. In another set of cases, this Court has taken the view, on the facts of the case that the juvenile is adequately punished for the offence committed by him by serving out some period in detention. In the third set of cases, this Court has D remitted the entire case for consideration by the jurisdictional Juvenile Justice Board, both on the innocence or guilt of the juvenile as well as the sentence to be awarded if the juvenile is found guilty. In the fourth set of cases, this Court has examined the case on merits and after having found the juvenile guilty of the offence, remitted the matter to the jurisdictional Juvenile E Justice Board on the award of sentence.” 6. The validity of the conviction in respect of the incident which occurred almost two decades back, in our considered view, ought to be decided in these appeals and the entire of the proceedings including the punishment/sentence awarded should not be interfered F with on the mere ground that the accused appellants were juveniles on the date of commission of the alleged crime. Judicial approaches must always be realistic and have some relation to the ground realities. We, therefore, adopt one of the possible approaches that has been earlier adopted by this Court in the four categories of G cases mentioned above to examine the correctness of the conviction of the accused appellants under the provisions of the IPC, as noticed above. 7. In this regard, having perused the materials on record we find no ground whatsoever to take a view different from what has been recorded by the learned trial Court and affirmed by the High H KARAN @ FATIYA v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 607 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] Court. The conviction of the accused appellants under Sections A 323, 324, 325, 427, 455 read with Section 149 IPC accordingly shall stand affirmed.” 25. In the case of Satya Deo alias Bhoorey vs. State of Uttar Pradesh7, following the ratio and legal position laid down in Jitendra Singh (supra), this Court upheld the conviction and after setting aside B the sentence of life imprisonment awarded to the appellant, it was directed that the jail authorities would produce the appellant before the JJB within seven days, and thereafter, the JJB would pass appropriate s regarding the detention and custody with respect to the appellant therein.