They are to be paid wages and unpaid dues only for a period of twelve months preceding the liquidation commencement date, and that too only if surplus funds are available after making payment in terms of Clause (a) and C (b) of Sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code. Clause (d) of Sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code relates to financial debts owed to unsecured creditors. The amounts due to the Central Government and the State Government, etc., and the debts owed to a secured creditor for any amount that remains unpaid following the enforcement of security interest, have D been clubbed together in Clause (e) of Sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code, and have to be ranked equally between and among both of them. The remaining debts and dues fall in Clause (f) of Sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code. Preference shareholders fall under Clause (g) of Sub- E section (1) to Section 53 of the Code, and equity shareholders or partners fall under Clause (h) of Sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code. Sub-section (2) to Section 53 of the Code states that any contractual arrangements between recipients Under Sub-section (1) with equal ranking, if disrupting the of priority under the said Sub-section will be F disregarded by the liquidator. 71. The waterfall mechanism is based on a structured mathematical formula, and the hierarchy is created in terms of payment of debts in of priority with several qualifications, striking down any one of the provisions or G rearranging the hierarchy in the waterfall mechanism may lead to several trips and disrupt the working of the equilibrium as a whole and stasis, resulting in instability. Every change in the waterfall mechanism is bound to lead to cascading effects on the balance of rights and interests of the secured H creditors, operational creditors and even the Central and State PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1255 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Governments. Depending upon the facts, in some cases, the A waterfall mechanism in the Code may be more beneficial than the hierarchy provided Under Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 and vice-versa. Therefore, we hesitate and do not accept the arguments of the Petitioners. 72. The Code is based on the organic evolution of law and is B a product of an extensive consultative process to meet the requirements of the Code governing liquidation. It introduced a comprehensive and time-bound framework to maximise the value of assets of all persons and balance the interest of the stakeholders. The guiding principle for the Code in setting C the priority of payments in liquidation was to bring the practices in India in line with global practices. In the waterfall mechanism, after the costs of the insolvency resolution process and liquidation, secured creditors share the highest priority along with a defined period of dues of the workmen. The unpaid dues of the workmen are adequately and significantly D protected in line with the objectives sought to be achieved by the Code and in terms of the waterfall mechanism prescribed by Section 53 of the Code.