She stated in paragraph 12 that Munna Pandey (appellant) was virtually residing somewhere else and usually he was visiting to his room (place of occurrence). She further stated that she was not knowing about the rented house of Munna Pandey (appellant). Again, in paragraph 12 itself, she deposed that earlier there was no complaint against Munna Pandey (appellant). It is necessary to indicate that there was no complaint against the appellant prior to the occurrence, which suggests that it 1026 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. was not a case of false implication due to any old animosity. Of course, her attention to her previous statement was drawn in paragraph 13 of her cross-examination, but while the investigating offi cer was being examined, no contradiction was drawn and as such, there is no need to take note of such so called minor inconsistencies. She denied the suggestion that she had given false evidence and falsely implicated the appellant. On examination of entire evidence of P.W.3, it is evident that though this witness was cross-examined at length, nothing could be extracted to create any doubt on her evidence. 11. … Munna Pandey (appellant) was also called by villagers. When the villagers asked Fuchan to open lock, Fuchan replied that he was not having key. Villagers thereafter started to assault Munna Pandey and asked him to break the lock. When villagers broke one of the lock, then Munna Pandey (appellant) took out the key and from that key, lock of Fuchan’s door was opened, however; the room was closed from inside. When the door was pushed, it was opened by Pritam and he concealed himself. All villagers entered into the house. Police also arrived. Pritam was apprehended. When Pritam was being assaulted, police had arrived there. Lock of room of Munna was also opened by the villagers. From the room of Munna Pandey (appellant), dead body of the victim was recovered. Age of victim was 11 years old and dead body was kept beneath the bed and police took out the dead body from beneath the bed. The informant started crying. She further stated that the cloth of her daughter from lower portion was removed. She noticed that urinal portion of her daughter was ruptured and she also noticed potty there. She stated that the anus was also ruptured. The face was swollen and on cheek also, there was sign of injury. Villagers thereafter started to assault Munna, Pritam and Fuchan. Pritam, in presence of the Police, stated that he and Munna Pandey both jointly had committed the crime. This witness stated that her fardbeyan was recorded by the police at the place of occurrence itself and she identifi ed her signature as well as signature of Babloo (P.W.1) on the fardbeyan. Signature was identifi ed as Ext. 1/1. she claimed to identify Pritam and Munna Pandey (appellant). At the time of cross- examination, it was noticed by the Trial Judge that this witness was very much nervous and also she was repeatedly weeping and this was MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1027 [J.