We may usefully reproduce the summation of the findings by the High Court as regards variable charges on 4 MW power as follows:- E “137. The circumstance that there was a specific clause excluding the payment of fixed costs, could not lead to the inference that the Appellant had agreed to bear the variable costs in respect of this 4 MW power, which variable costs were even otherwise not payable by the Appellant to the Respondent in terms of the original F PPA or PSA and the supplementary PPAs. If there was any proposal for encumbering the Appellant with any charges over and above the charges undertaken by it under the contract, then surely this ought to have been specified. Such an additional burden cannot be imposed by implication. Therefore, the reasoning that because there was no reference to variable charges in the G communication dated 19.1.2009, the same was agreed to be paid by the Appellant is quite perverse and constitutes patent illegality on the face of the record. According to us, the impugned Award to the extent it so unjustly enriches the Respondent to the extent of Rs. 3.94 crores conflicts with the most basic notions of morality H and justice. The impugned Award, to this extent, is also vitiated by RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 445 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] unreasonableness, perversity, and patent illegality apparent on the A face of the record.” 29. The High Court has once again stepped into the arena which is reserved for the Arbitral Tribunal. It is noticed that the parties had agreed to a particular methodology of billing for supply of 15.8 MW power but, at the same time, retained with them the right to revert back B to 19.8 MW supply at any future point of time. With reference to the dealings of the parties, the Arbitral Tribunal has taken a particular view of the matter. It cannot be said that the view as taken by the Arbitral Tribunal was entirely impermissible or implausible. There was no scope for interference by the Court. C The award relating to netting-out principle 30. The aspect of netting-out, again, depended on the terms of contract of the parties and the deductions to be drawn from the evidence on record. The Arbitral Tribunal had drawn the particular conclusion on the basis of notes dated 13.09.2014 and 18.09.2014. The Arbitral Tribunal D considered the documentary evidence before it, as well as the provisions of the contract relating to supply of backup power by Government of Goa to the claimant when the power station was under shutdown for the period May 2014 to August 2014. The Arbitral Tribunal further referred to the communications which also include the decision of the Government E of Goa as to the rate at which power during the shut down period was to be supplied to the claimant and on this basis, came to the finding that a fixed rate which was not to be multiplied as per the provisions of the PPA was agreed between the parties.