9. Section 26, Cr.PC, in so far as it is relevant reads thus:- “26. Courts by which off ences are triable.—Subject to the other provisions of this Code,— (a) any off ence under the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) may be tried by− (i) the High Court, or (ii) the Court of Session, or (iii) any other Court by which such off ence is shown in the First Schedule to be triable;…” (underline supplied) 10. Thus, going by the First Schedule to Cr. PC, an off ence under Section 409, IPC is triable by “Magistrate of the fi rst class”. It is in this context that the phrase ‘subject to the other provisions of this code’ appearing in Section 26 of Cr.PC, and its impact on the ‘First Schedule to Cr.PC’ invites serious discourse. As noted above, off ence under Section 409, IPC is punishable with imprisonment for life or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to 10 years and also with fi ne. However, sub-section (1) of Section 29, Cr.PC, limits the power of punishment of the Court of a Chief Judicial Magistrate and it empowers the Court to pass any sentence short of a sentence of death or imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term exceeding 7 years. Sub-section 2 thereof provides that Court of a Magistrate of the First Class may pass a sentence of imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or of fi ne exceeding 10,000/- Rupees or of both. Evidently, in this case, after completion of the investigation a report under Section 173 (2), Cr. PC was fi led before the Court AMANDEEP SINGH SARAN v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 443 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] of Chief Judicial Magistrate, not merely by taking note of the accusation of having committed off ence under Section 409 IPC, but owing to Section 9 of the Banning Act. Though the chargesheet was fi led on 15.10.2015 the trial has progressed only upto the stage of examination of only a very few prosecution witnesses and in the meanwhile, the appellant had to remain in custody as an undertrial prisoner for more than 8 years which period is indisputably in excess of the maximum term of imprisonment imposable by a Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate. The disturbing fact is that even then the stage of prosecution evidence has reached only up to the examination of 10 out of 86 witnesses of the prosecution. The trial if permitted to continue in the Court where the appellant is presently under trial, may, in all the aforesaid circumstances, lead to a situation enabling either of the parties to contend that it was not a fair trial. On acquittal or conviction, either of the parties may call in question the verdict on the ground that it was conducted before a Court lacking competence to try the off ence under Section 409, IPC as both the parties are ad idem on the point that the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate is not competent to try the off ence under Section 409, IPC.