It is required to be noted that before the High Court it was the specific case on behalf of the appellant that the land belongs to Gram Sabha and therefore the original writ petitioner had no locus to pray for declaration that the acquisition with respect to subject land is deemed to have lapsed by F virtue of Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013. However, without deciding the question of ownership and keeping the same open, the High Court has entertained the said writ petition preferred by the respondent no.1 – original writ petitioner. At this stage, it is required to be noted that even before the High Court the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the G original writ petitioner did not dispute that the land belongs to Gram Sabha. In that view of the matter when the land belongs to Gram Sabha which was even admitted on behalf of the original writ petitioner, the High Court ought not to have entertained the said writ petition at the instance of the original writ petitioner who was not even the recorded owner. Even the question with respect to the compensation to be paid H GOVT. OF NCT DELHI v. DHANNU 399 [M. R. SHAH, J.] would arise only in favour of recorded owner and/or in favour of a person A who had a title. 2.1 Even otherwise it is required to be noted that the decision of this Court in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation and Anr. (supra), which has been relied upon by the High Court has been specifically over-ruled by the Constitution Bench of this Court in the B case of Indore Development Authority versus Manoharlal and others reported in (2020) 8 SCC 129. In paragraphs 365 and 366, the Constitution Bench of this Court has observed and held as under:- “365. Resultantly, the decision rendered in Pune Municipal Corpn. [Pune Municipal Corpn. v. Harakchand Misirimal Solanki, C (2014) 3 SCC 183] is hereby overruled and all other decisions in which Pune Municipal Corpn. [Pune Municipal Corpn. v. Harakchand Misirimal Solanki, (2014) 3 SCC 183] has been followed, are also overruled. The decision in Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Assn. [Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Assn. v. State D of T.N., (2015) 3 SCC 353] cannot be said to be laying down good law, is overruled and other decisions following the same are also overruled. In Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra [(2018) 3 SCC 412], the aspect with respect to the proviso to Section 24(2) and whether “or” has to be read as “nor” or as “and” was not placed for consideration. Therefore, that decision E too cannot prevail, in the light of the discussion in the present . 366. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we answer the questions as under: 366.1. Under the provisions of Section 24(1)(a) in case the F award is not made as on 1-1-2014, the date of commencement of the 2013 Act, there is no lapse of proceedings. Compensation has to be determined under the provisions of the 2013 Act.