For the first time, vide Notification of the Chhattisgarh State Government, Department of Forest, under 53 the provisions of Chhattisgarh Transit (Forest Produce Rule) 2001, a fee at the rate of Rs.7 per ton was levied. Undisputedly, the said Notification is issued by the Forest Department of the C Government of Chhattisgarh, which is an instrumentality of the State. As such, no error can be found with the finding of the learned APTEL in that regard. [Para 107][221-D-E] 6. Insofar as ‘Add on premium price’ is concerned, undisputedly, ‘add on premium’ was required to be paid on account D of cancellation of captive coal blocks and inordinate delay on account of Go-No-Go policy. As such, it cannot be said that the reasoning adopted by the learned APTEL is perverse and arbitrary. [Para 108][221-F] 7. EFC was imposed by CIL vide its Circular dated 19th E December 2017. CIL is an instrumentality of the State. It is thus clear that, on the cut-off date, there was no requirement of EFC, which has been brought into effect only on 19th December 2017. As such, the circular of CIL dated 19th December 2017 would also amount to ‘Change in Law’. It is also not in dispute that EFC has been paid by the generators while paying the base price, F other charges and statutory charges at the time of delivery of coal. As such, no interference would be warranted with the said finding. [Paras 109-111][221-G-H; 222-A] 8. A perusal of Article 11.3.4 of the PPA would reveal that in the event of delay in payment of a monthly bill by any procurer G beyond its due date, a late payment surcharge shall be payable by the procurer to the seller at the rate of 2% in excess of the applicable State Bank Advance Rate (“SBAR” for short) per annum, on the amount of outstanding payment, calculated on a day to day basis (and compounded with monthly rest), for each H 188 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A day of the delay. Article 11.8 of the PPA deals with Payment of Supplementary Bill. It enables either party to raise a supplementary bill on the other party for payment on account of certain events. Clause (iii) of Article 11.8.1 of the PPA deals with ‘Change in Law’ as provided in Article 13. It requires the bill to be paid by the other party. Article 11.8.3 of the PPA also provides B that in the event of delay in payment of a supplementary bill by either party beyond one month from the date of billing, a late payment surcharge shall be payable at same terms applicable to the monthly bill in Article 11.3.4. This Court in the case of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (UNHVNL) and another v. C Adani Power Limited and others has held that insofar as the “operation period” is concerned, compensation for any increase/ decrease in revenues or costs to the seller is to be determined and effected from such date as is decided by the appropriate Commission.