476 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 3E PSO.CR.RT.S 476 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SANTOSH KARNANI & ANR. (Criminal Appeal No. 1148 of 2023) B APRIL 17, 2023 [SURYA KANT AND J. K. MAHESHWARI, JJ.] Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 – ss. 7, 13(1), 13(2) – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 41A, 438 – Constitution of India – Art. 21 – Tax Department initiated search and seizure action C against the complainant’s company – Respondent- Additional Commissioner of Income Tax was handling the case of the complainant – Allegation against the respondent that he made a demand of illegal gratification to help the complainant with his case – The said conversation of demand between the complainant and D the respondent was recorded in a digital voice rec – A trap was then laid – Respondent had asked to deposit an amount in a firm’s account – Complainant’s employee was sent to the firm with the bribe amount along with personnel from the ACB trap team and the bribe amount was deposited with the firm and it was E acknowledged by the respondent to the complainant over a call – Thereafter, when an ACB team went to arrest the respondent, he along with the staff members physically assaulted the ACB team and escaped the office – FIR was registered u/ss. 7, 13(1) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 – Respondent preferred an application for grant of anticipatory bail before the Special F Judge, which was rejected – However, the same was allowed by the High Court with a direction that despite anticipatory bail, the CBI could apply for police remand of the respondent and that upon the completion of the police remand, the respondent would be set free immediately – On appeal, held: The purported recording of G conversation between the complainant and respondent wherein he thanked the complainant, after the deposit of amount in the firm’s account, is a reasonable link to connect respondent with the deposit of illegal gratification in firm, thereby prima facie showing acceptance thereof – The manner in which respondent forcefully evaded his arrest with the help of his colleagues and got the evidence H 476 CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SANTOSH 477 KARNANI & ANR. destroyed, is a strong circumstance to indicate his complicity at this A stage – There appears to be a well-organised syndicate comprising officers and officials of the Income Tax Department, businessmen and Hawala traders, who are in tandem – Such a nexus needs to be unearthed through investigation – Therefore, the impugned and of the High Court set aside and the anticipatory bail B application of respondent dismissed. Bail – Anticipatory bail – Relevant factors for grant or refusal of anticipatory bail – The judicial discretion of the Court shall be guided by various relevant factors and largely it will depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case – The Court must draw a C delicate balance between liberty of an individual as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution and the need for a fair and free investigation, which must be taken to its logical conclusion.