extension was bad in law and therefore, the accused acquired right to A get the default bail on 10.05.2022. The learned Trial Court rejected the said application(s). The Division Bench of the High Court by the impugned and has dismissed the appeals. Hence, the present appeals at the instance of the original accused. 4. Shri Mehmood Pracha, learned counsel has appeared on behalf B of the appellant and Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General has appeared on behalf of the respondent – State of Gujarat. 4.1 Shri Pracha, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused has vehemently submitted that as such the and which has been relied upon by the Division Bench of the High Court has C been subsequently set aside by this Court in the case of Jigar alias Jimmy Pravinchandra Adatiya Vs. State of Gujarat 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1290. 4.2 It is further submitted by Shri Pracha, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused that it is admitted by the prosecution that the D appellant was not produced before the learned Trial Court at the time of consideration of application for first extension of period of investigation. It is submitted that in the case of Hitendra Vishnu Thakur and Ors. Vs. State of Maharashtra and Ors. (1994) 4 SCC 602 and in the case of Sanjay Dutt Vs. State through CBI, Bombay (II) (1994) 5 E SCC 410, notice to the accused at the time of consideration of application for extension of period of investigation has been held to be mandatory. It is submitted that in the case of Sanjay Dutt (supra), this Court has further interpreted to mean that a written notice is not mandatory but the presence of the accused suffices. It is submitted that therefore, even as F per the law laid-down by this Court in the case of Sanjay Dutt (supra) at the time of consideration of application for extension of period of investigation, the presence of the accused is must. It is submitted that therefore, in the present case when the first extension was granted on 22.04.2022 admittedly the accused was not produced before the learned Trial Court, the first extension before itself is illegal and not an extension G in the eye of law and therefore, thereafter when the accused filed the application(s) under Section 167(2) of the Cr.PC for default bail/statutory bail, the accused had acquired a indefeasible right for release on statutory bail as by the time 90 days period was over and the first extension is to be ignored. H 828 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 4.3 It is further submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused that as observed and held by this Court in the case of Sayed Mohd. Ahmed Kazmi Vs. State (2012) 12 SCC 1 extension of period of investigation from retrospective effect, after the initial has been set aside, is not permissible. B 4.4 It is further submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused that recently in the case of Jigar (supra) this Court after taking into consideration the decisions of this Court in the cases of Hitendra Vishnu Thakur (supra) and Sanjay Dutt (supra), has specifically reiterated the proposition that failure to produce the accused at the time of extension of period of investigation renders such extension C bad in law and entitles the accused to statutory bail.