PW14/ D A which bears my signatures at point A. Blood and viscera of the deceased was preserved in common salt to rule out common poisoning. At this stage, I have seen the viscera report which is Ex. PW14/ E B in which no common poison have been detected. After perusal of the viscera report and PM report I am of the final opinion the cause of death is asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation inflicted by other party. On 4.05.09 I also conducted the postmortem of the dead body F of Sunny s/o Prem Singh aged about 6 years sent by SI Sunil Kumar of PS Prashant Vihar with the alleged history of found dead in Haiderpur Water Plant. I observed following external injuries on the dead body of the deceased. G 1. Left hand has washerman appearance. 2. Both feet were wet and smeared with sand particles. 3. Three scratch abrasion of size 1cm x0.5 cm on front two in numbers and on left side one in number. H 826 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A On internal examination of neck, the neck tissue was bruised on front end sides and laceration over thyroid cartilage. After postmortem examination I opined cause of death as asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation. All the signs were ante-mortem in nature and neck injury was sufficient to cause death in ordinary course of nature. Time since death was approximately 19 hours. B My detailed PM report is Ex. PW14/C which bears my signatures at point A. Blood and viscera of the deceased was preserved in common salt to rule out common poisoning. C At this stage, I have seen the viscera report which is Ex. PW14/ B in which no common poison have been detected. After perusal of the viscera report and PM report I am of the final opinion the cause of death is asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation inflicted by other party. xxxxx By Ms. Sudhna Bhatia amicus curiae for accused. D It is incorrect to suggest that I have not conducted the postmortem of dead body of Jitesh and Sunny. It is incorrect to suggest that I have signed the report and manipulated the same at the instance of police.” E 6.5. The other prosecution witnesses had essentially been the police personnel related with the process of investigation. Of these witnesses, PW-18 SI Sunil Kumar asserted that upon receiving the information about drowning of the children, he reached the water treatment plant where the dead bodies were taken out from the canal and were identified by the appellant. He further stated to have sent the dead bodies for post- F mortem examination. He also testified to the facts regarding recording of the statements of other witnesses including mother of the deceased and, after registration of the case, having handed over investigation to PW-17 Inspector Pratap Singh. The witness further asserted that the appellant made a disclosure statement and memos and site plans were G prepared as per his statement.