The purpose of Clause (2) was to subject the exercise of power by the emergency administration to the democratic will of the people exercised through the members of the Constituent Assembly. The Constitution Bench of this Court in Sampath Prakash (supra) has recognised that the power under Article 370 extends even after the Constituent Assembly ceased to exist. II. The structure of Article 370(3) 342. Article 370(3) vested the President with two powers: fi rst, the power to declare that Article 370 ceases to exists; and second the power to declare that Article 370 shall be operative with exceptions and modifi cations. The eff ect of the President declaring under Clause (3) that Article 370 ceases to exist is that provisions of the Constitution which apply to every other State in the First Schedule would equally apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Article 370(3) was introduced with the purpose of enhancing constitutional integration and not disintegration. The necessary consequence of the exercise of this power is that the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir would cease to exist. Under Clause (3), the President also has the power to modify Article 370. This includes the power of the President to remove the distinction between matters in the IoA and otherwise or the power to apply all provisions of the Constitution to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. c. Inference 343. The proviso to Article 370(3) states that the “recommendation of the Constituent Assembly referred to in Clause (2) shall be necessary IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 209 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] before the President issues such a notifi cation”. The petitioners argue that the President cannot exercise the power under Article 370(3) after the Constituent Assembly of the State has ceased to exist because: a. the recommendation is necessary before the President exercises power under Article 370(3); b. The recommendation of the Constituent Assembly is binding on the President; and c. the recommendation must be of the Constituent Assembly referred to in Clause (2) of Article 370 which refers to the Constituent Assembly convened for the “purpose of framing the Constitution of the State”. Thus, the recommendation of that Constituent Assembly cannot be substituted with the recommendation of any other body. 344. The Constituent Assembly in exercise of the power under the proviso to Article 370(3) did not recommend that Article 370 should cease to exist. The Constituent Assembly recommended one modifi cation of the Explanation to Article 370 before it ceased to exist. The Government of the State was defi ned as the person recognised by the President as the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir acting on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. This explanation was substituted to read that the Government of the State would mean that person recognised as the Sadar-i-Riyasat by the President on the recommendation of the Legislative Assembly of the State. 345. The petitioners argue that since the Constituent Assembly did not recommend that Article 370 must cease to exist, the provision has attained permanence.