2. There is an acute shortage of doctors in the district hospitals in the hill districts. The doctors deputed by the health ministry (see para 22.4 of the status report – Annexure ‘A’) and those promised by the Hon’ble Home Minister (see PIB Notifi cation dt. 01.06.2023 – Annexure ‘B’) may be sent to the district hospitals in the hill districts to address this shortage. 3. There is shortage of essential medicines, Dialysis Machines, CT Scan Machines in the district hospitals in the hill districts which must be addressed. 4. Arrangement has been made for students of Churachandpur Medical College to attend classes in Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences, Imphal (JNIMS) (see notification attached - Annexure ‘C’). Similar arrangement may be made for medical students of JNIMS, Regional Institute of Medical Sciences, Imphal (RIMS) and other medical colleges in Imphal to attend classes in other institutions of similar standing outside the state (for example see proposal sent by RIMS, Imphal to the Union of India - Annexure ‘D’). 5. Manipur University has decided to conduct examinations in all its affi liated colleges (see para 14 of the Status Report). These examinations need to be deferred since schools and colleges in the hill districts have been converted into relief camps and a large number of students and university staff have been forced to fl ee their homes. 6. Helicopter Services have been provided between Churachandpur, Kangpokpi and Tengnoupal and Imphal (see para 22.3 of the Status Report). Such services are in fact required between Churachandpur, Kangpokpi and Tengnoupal and Aizawl, Guwahati and Dimapur as tribals from the hill districts are still afraid to come to Imphal even to use the airport. 1092 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 7. Jio and Vodafone Cellular Services have not been functioning in the State for the last several weeks and need to be restored. 8. The State Government has issued a circular on 26 th June 2023 (see Annexure ‘E’) asking all government employees to immediately report to work and threatening disciplinary action against employees who fail to do so. This circular may be withdrawn as a large number of persons have either fl ed the State or are living in relief camps. 9. There are 105 relief camps in Churachandpur, 56 in Kangpokpi, 10 in Chandel and 15 in Tengnoupal being run by community self-help groups. There is acute shortage of drinking water, food, sanitation, shelter and bedding at these for the displaced persons staying at these relief camps. The Petitioner be allowed to submit a list of items urgently required at these camps and the Respondents State/Central Government be directed to supply these items at the earliest. 10. Direction be issued by this Hon’ble Court that appropriate restraint be exercised by persons holding offi cial positions from making inciting or provocative remarks directed at any particular community that may exacerbate the confl ict as per the directions issued by this Hon’ble Court in the case of Kaushal Kishor v. State of U.P., (2023) 4 SCC 1.