On this basis, Mr. Ramachandran has submitted that the reference would not be warranted. 11. Mr. R Venkataramani, Attorney General for India agrees with Mr. Raju Ramachandran that a reference is not warranted, though they disagree on the applicability of the judgement in PV Narsimha Rao to the present case. According to Mr. Venkataramani, the correctness of PV Narsimha Rao does not arise as an election to the Rajya Sabha cannot be considered as a “proceeding of the House”. Mr. Venkataramani primarily relies on the decisions of this Court in: (i) Pashupati Nath Sukul Vs Nem Chandra Jain & Ors;5 (ii) Madhukar Jetly Vs Union of India & Ors6; and (iii) Kuldip Nayar & Ors Vs Union of India & Ors.7 12. Apart from the signifi cance of the issues raised, which shall be explained in brief a little later in the course of this , we are not inclined to accept the plea that the correctness of the decision in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) does not arise in this case. Firstly, it is common ground that the impugned of the High Court relied on the of the majority 5 (1984) 2 SCC 404 6 (1997) 11 SCC 111 7 (2006) 7 SCC 1 758 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. in PV Narasimha R ao. Secondly, it is beyond doubt that the defence itself relies on the decision of the majority. The correctness of the view which has been propounded in the of the majority in PV Narasimha Rao would, therefore, have to be enquired into during the course of the hearing of the present case. 13. It is a settled position of judicial discipline that only a bench of coequal strength may express an opinion doubting the correctness of a view taken by an earlier Bench of coequal strength. If such a doubt is expressed, the matter may be placed before a Bench consisting of a quorum larger than the one which the pronounced the decision in challenge.8 Having determined that the correctness of the decision in PV Narasmiha Rao does arise in the present case, it becomes necessary for us to determine as to whether prima facie reconsideration of the in PV Narasimha Rao is warranted, and if the matter should be placed before a larger bench. 14. The controversy in PV Narasimha Rao and the present case, turns on the interpretation of the provisions of Article 105(2) of the Constitution and the equivalent provision, Article 194(2) of the Constitution. The former deals with the powers, privileges and immunities of the members of the Houses of Parliament, while the latter confers a similar immunity to members of the State Legislatures. 15. Article 105(2) of the Constitution provides as follows: “105(2) No member of Parliament shall be liable to any proceedings in any court in respect of anything said or any vote given by him in Parliament or any committee thereof, and no person shall be so liable in respect of the publication by or under the authority of either House of Parliament of any report, paper, votes or proceedings.” 16.