What is necessary to rebut is the proof of non-access at the time when the child could have been begotten, that is, at the time of its conception. [Paras 8.1-8.7][704-D-G; 705-B-H; 706- E A-E] Sham Lal vs. Sanjeev Kumar, (2009) 12 SCC 454 : [2009] 5 SCR 1049; Kamti Devi vs. Poshi Ram, (2001) 5 SCC 311 : [2001] 3 SCR 729 – relied on. F 2.1 For the purpose of reaching one conclusion, the Court can rely on a factual presumption unless the presumption is disproved or dispelled or rebutted. However, Illustration (h) to Section 114 has given enough discretionary power to the Court to draw certain inferences from the facts. The presumption under the section is discretionary and not mandatory. The use of the G phrase “may presume” in the said provision indicated that that the Courts of Justice are to use their own sense and experience in judging the effect of particular facts, and in determining whether a presumption is to be drawn therefrom. Presumptions are established on the basis of facts, and the Court enjoys the discretionary power, either to presume a fact or not. The facts in H 686 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Dipanwita Roy were so compelling, so as to justify a direction to conduct a DNA test. In the said case, the husband had taken a specific plea of non-access. Further, the Court accepted that a DNA test would be the only manner in which the case of adultery could be proved. Having regard to the compelling need for a DNA test in the said case, in to establish the truth, this B Court directed that if the appellant-wife therein refused to comply with the direction of the Court regarding DNA test, the allegations of adultery as against her would be determined by drawing an adverse inference as contemplated under Illustration (h) of Section 114 of the Evidence Act. However, such an observation made in the said case cannot be regarded as a precedent which C can be applied to all cases in a strait jacket manner wherein the wife refuses to comply with the direction of the Court regarding DNA test. Facts of the present case neither warrant a direction to conduct a DNA test of Master ‘X’, nor do they justify drawing an adverse inference as against the appellant-wife, under Section D 114 of the Evidence Act, on her refusal to subject her son to a DNA test. Inferences, whether adverse or otherwise, are to be drawn by the Court, on consideration of facts and circumstances of each individual cases. Hence, the of this Court in Dipanwita Roy is to be read in the aforesaid context. In the instant case, there is no dispute about the paternity of Master ‘X’ as E even during the course of arguments it was admitted that Master ‘X’ was born during the continuous cohabitation of the parties and thus during the subsistence of a valid marriage. The issue of paternity of Master ‘X’ is alien to the issue of adultery on the part of the appellant herein.