6.5. As regards second issue, the Adjudicating Authority in the D first place observed that classification of the product in question under Tariff Item 3003 90 14 was itself questionable inasmuch that item covered only the medicaments not put up in measured doses or packing whereas AHAHO was indisputably put up for sale in packing of 50ml, 100ml, 200ml and 400ml bottles for retail sale. The Adjudicating Authority E observed that the claim of the respondent for classifying the product in question under the said heading remained baseless. However, the Adjudicating Authority proceeded to observe that Tariff Item 3004 90 14 was covering similar goods put up in measured doses and packings and hence, the matter required consideration vis-à-vis Tariff Item 3305 90 19. Thereafter, the Adjudicating Authority pointed out that the main F prerequisite for the classification as a ‘medicament’ was that the product must be for ‘therapeutic’ or ‘prophylactic’ use; and with reference to the dictionary meaning, observed that a medicament with ‘therapeutic’ or ‘prophylactic’ use would mean that it was for healing or for preventing a disease. The Adjudicating Authority also referred to Circular No. 333/ G 49/97-CX dated 10.09.1997 issued by the Central Board of Excise and Customs9, which laid down certain criteria for the classification of products under the Act of 1985, which are claimed by the manufacturers as ayurvedic medicines whereas claimed by Department as cosmetics. The Board gave overriding effect to this circular over all previous H 9 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the Board’. COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 303 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] circulars/instructions unless specified otherwise by Courts/Tribunal. The A Adjudicating Authority made reference to the basis laid down by the Board to decide the classification of product to be a medicament or not in the following terms: - “- whether the product has substantial therapeutic or prophylactic properties and whether it is prescribed as a medicine by a Medical B Practitioner for curing of a disease and is prescribed for a limited time & use; - how the product is construed in the popular sense i.e., how it is advertized and how it is understood by the people who normally sell it or use it; C - the drug license is only a guiding factor and not a decisive one since in terms of Chapter note under Chapter 33, goods falling under sub-headings 3303 to 3307 would merit classification under these headings, irrespective of the subsidiary therapeutic properties of the product.” D 6.6. The Adjudicating Authority was of the view that AHAHO did not qualify the first criteria as specified by the Board as, though availability of AHAHO in General Stores cannot be sole criteria but, it was common knowledge that one was not required to go to Homeo Stores or Homeo Physician to buy AHAHO; it did not contain the E mandatory conditions as prescribed under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 194010 on contents of the label; there were no specifications relating to its dosage and duration of use and no contra-indications were stated irrespective of quantum or duration of use, which was against the basic concept of a medicament whose overdose result in contra-indications like diarrhoea, acidity, ulceration, rashes, etc.