A (vi) a supply, by way of or as part of any service or in any other manner whatsoever, of goods, being food or any other article for human consumption or any drink (whether or not intoxicating), where such supply is for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration, B and such transfer, delivery or supply shall be deemed to be a sale and the word “purchase” or “buy” shall be construed accordingly; Explanation.– Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where any goods are sold in packing, the packing C material in such case shall be deemed to have been sold with the goods; (36) “sale price” means the amount paid or payable to a dealer as consideration for the sale of any goods less any sum allowed by way of any kind of discount or rebate D according to the practice normally prevailing in the trade, but inclusive of any statutory levy or any sum charged for anything done by the dealer in respect of the goods or services rendered at the time of or before the delivery thereof, except the tax imposed under this Act; E Explanation I. – In the case of a sale by hire purchase agreement, the prevailing market price of the goods on the date on which such goods are delivered to the buyer under such agreement, shall be deemed to be the sale price of such goods; F Explanation II. – Cash or trade discount at the time of sale as evident from the invoice shall be excluded from the sale price but any ex post facto grant of discounts or incentives or rebates or rewards and the like shall not be excluded; G Explanation III. – Where according to the terms of a contract, the cost of freight and other expenses in respect of the transportation of goods are incurred by the dealer for or on behalf of the buyer, such cost of freight and other expenses shall not be included in the sale price, if charged separately in the invoice;” H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1333 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 42. Under Section 4 of the Act, a contract of sale of goods is a A contract whereby the seller transfers or agrees to transfer the property in goods to the buyer for a price. The expression “price” is defined in Section 2(10) of the said Act to mean a money consideration for sale of goods, i.e., whether the sale is for cash or credit, it must be in terms of money. If any consideration other than money is given, it is not a sale, B but only an exchange or barter. If no consideration is given, then it will be a gift. 43. However, under Section 2(g) of the Central Sales Tax Act or the Sales Tax Act of the respective states under consideration, sale, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means any C transfer of property in goods by one person to another for cash or deferred payment or for any other valuable consideration.