Introductory Facts: D 2. On 01.11.2001, Man Singh (PW-1), father of Chhotu @ Surjeet (the deceased), on finding his son’s dead body in a forest, 150 meters west of Government Inter College, lodged a first information report (FIR) at P.S. Lalkuan, Haldwani, district Nainital at about 7.30 hrs, alleging therein that, — on 31.10.2001, at about 2100 Hours, the deceased was E with his friends Govind and Ravi Bangali (later identified as Ravi Mandal); Govind, a criminal, had been influencing his son to choose a wrong path; therefore, he suspects that these persons have killed his son and concealed his body in the forest. Thereafter, on 10.11.2001, PW-1 gave a written information to the police stating that it was not Govind but Shabbir who F along with Ravi and one Mazhar Khan were with the deceased on that fateful night. In this written information, it was alleged that Babloo (PW- 7) had misled him to take the name of Govind. 3. During the course of investigation, the police effected arrest of the two accused, namely, the appellants herein, and disclosed recovery of a 12 bore country made pistol with one live cartridge from Shabbir G and a knife from Ravi Mandal, giving rise to two separate cases against each of the two accused under the Arms Act. 4. On completion of investigation three charge sheets were laid giving rise to three sessions trials which were connected with each other H 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A and decided by a common , which has been affirmed by the High Court. Prosecution Evidence: 5. To appreciate the arguments advanced in this case, it would be apposite to notice the testimony of the prosecution witnesses in brief. B The prosecution examined 10 witnesses, the gist of their testimony is as under: (i) PW-1 – Man Singh - Informant (father of the deceased) He is not an eyewitness of the murder. He, however, proved lodging of the FIR on 01.11.2001 and stated that, — C on 31.10.2001 in the evening Babloo (PW-7) came to his residence, told him that the deceased, Ravi Bangali and Govind were asking for food and have sent him to fetch food for them; on that request, PW-1’s wife (Urmila Devi- PW-3) cooked food, packed it and gave it to Babloo, who D left with the food; next day, he came to know that dead body of his son was lying in the forest; he then visited the place, brought the dead body to Lalkuan Police Station and lodged the report; later, when he came to know that Govind was not with his son, rather it was Shabbir along with others who were there, he gave the second report (Ex. Ka-2) to E the police on 10.11.2001. During cross examination, PW-1 admitted that there were three or four criminal cases against his son (the deceased) wherein, he was on bail. With regard to the sequence of events on the date of lodging the FIR, PW-1 stated that, — a constable with two F men came in the morning to inform him that dead body of his son is lying in the forest; on getting the information he went to that place and brought the body to the police station to lodge the FIR whereafter, the body was sealed and sent to Haldwani Hospital for autopsy.