25. However, it was also pointed out that in cases which warrant interference, to contend that the Adjudicating Authority-NCLT has no jurisdiction to decide any dispute with respect to valuation and take remedial steps to correct an erroneous valuation exercise would not be the correct proposition in view of the powers conferred under Section 60(5) of the Code. 26. With regard to the impact of pendency of avoidance applications on the approval of the Resolution Plan, the stand was that it has no bearing on the approval by the NCLT of the Resolution Plan approved by the CoC as it has been provided in the Resolution Plan that proceeds of avoidance transactions, if any, will go to the FC(s) and thus, on this score, the Resolution Applicant (appellant) will not be benefi tted as it is the FC(s) who will get the benefi t of such realisation. As regards the uncertainty of Plot/Site No.GH 38 (Land) in Sector 1, IMT Manesar, Haryana, which was allotted by the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation to the Corporate Debtor, it was submitted that the Resolution Plan itself provisions that proceeds from monetisation thereof will go to the FC(s). ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 27. Having considered the matter in depth, the Court is unable to uphold the decisions rendered by the Adjudicating Authority-NCLT as also the NCLAT. The moot question involved is the extent of the jurisdiction and powers of the Adjudicating Authority to go on the issue of revaluation in the background of the admitted and undisputed factual position that no objection was raised by any quarter with regard to any defi ciency/irregularity, either 688 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. by the RP or the appellant or the CoC, in fi nally approving the Resolution Plan which was sent to the Adjudicating Authority-NCLT for approval. Further, the statutory requirement of the RP involving two approved valuers for giving reports apropos fair market value and liquidation value was duly complied with and the fi gures in both reports were not at great variance. Signifi cantly, the same were then put up before the CoC, which is the decision-maker and in the driver’s seat, so to say, of the Corporate Debtor. K Sashidhar (supra) and Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Ltd. (supra) are clear authorities that the CoC’s decision is not to be subjected to unnecessary judicial scrutiny and intervention. This came to be reiterated in Maharashtra Seamless Limited (supra), which also emphasised that the CoC’s commercial analysis ought not to be qualitatively examined and the direction therein of the NCLAT to direct the successful Resolution Applicant to enhance its fund fl ow was disapproved of by this Court. Thus, if the CoC, including the FC(s) to whom money is due from the Corporate Debtor, had undertaken repeated negotiations with the appellant with regard to the Resolution Plan and thereafter, with a majority of 88.56% votes, approved the fi nal negotiated Resolution Plan of the appellant, which the RP, in turn, presented to the Adjudicating Authority-NCLT for approval, unless the same was failing the tests of the provisions of the Code, especially Sections 30 & 31, no interference was warranted.