[2023] 8 S.C.R. 85 85 MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION A COMPANY LIMITED v. ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LIMITED & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 684 of 2021) B MARCH 03, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI AND VIKRAM NATH, JJ.] Power – Long-term Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) – Supply of coal to power producers – Change of New Coal C Distributional Policy, 2007 (NCDP, 2007) by New Coal Distributional Policy, 2013 (NCDP 2013) – Claim for ‘Change in Law’ relief compensation – Operating parameters – Held: In the Energy Watchdog case as well as in Adani Rajasthan case, the Supreme Court held that on account of the Change in Law, the generating companies were entitled to compensation so as to restore D the party to the same economic position as if such Change in Law had not occurred – Had the Change in Law not occurred, the generating companies would have been entitled to the supply as assured by the Coal India Ltd. (CIL)/Coal Companies under the Fuel Supply Agreement (FSA) – The submission that when the bidders E submitted their bids, this was a risk they knowingly took, is without substance – The generators are not claiming compensation on the basis of rise in price of coal or on the ground of force majeure – Their claims, in fact, are on the basis of the Change in Law, which this Court, in the case of Energy Watchdog as well as in Adani Rajasthan case, has upheld on the ground of Change in Law – The F contention of the Distribution companies (DISCOMS) that the Adani Rajasthan case is not applicable to the facts of the present case inasmuch as in Adani Rajasthan case, the State of Rajasthan had assured 100% coal supply and that it was not a case of FSA, is without substance – In the present case also, the NCDP 2007 had G assured 100% fuel/coal supply of the normative value – The restitutionary principle has been stated by this Court in the case of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (UHBVNL) – Undisputedly, the claim of respondent no.1-APML stands on the basis of the Change in Law – The DISCOMS, which are instrumentalities of the State, cannot be expected to argue contrary to the stand of the Government, H 85 86 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A which clearly provides that the generators would be entitled to pass- through for the coal required to be imported or purchased from the open market on the ground of Change in Law – The stand taken by the DISCOMS that, since the loss being sustained by the generating companies is on account of non-fulfillment of obligation by CIL/ Coal Companies, they should be relegated to the remedy available B to them in law against the CIL/Coal Companies, is totally unreasonable – The claim is based on change of NCDP 2007 by NCDP 2013, which, undisputedly, is covered by the term ‘Change in Law’ – Compensation – ‘Change in law’ compensation. Judicial Review – Of decision taken by expert bodies – Central C Electricity Authority (CEA), Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) and Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) –Held: – These bodies are bodies consisting of experts in the field – Courts should be slow in interfering with the decisions taken by the experts in the field and unless it is found that the expert bodies have failed to take into consideration the mandatory statutory D provisions or the decisions taken are based on extraneous considerations or they are ex facie arbitrary and illegal, it will not be appropriate for the Court to substitute its views with that of the expert bodies.