Not only this, the High Court further proceeded to award costs in the sum of Rs. 1 lakh to the writ petitioner with liberty to the appellant-University to recover the amount from the examiner concerned, after such inquiry as provided in law. Yet further, the High D Court provided that if any student who had appeared in the examination of the University in the preceding three years were to apply for re- assessment/re-evaluation, the same be not declined only on the ground that no such procedure was prescribed in the Statute of the University. The High Court further directed that a copy of the be forwarded E to the Secretaries of Higher Education and Secondary Education Departments to look into the matter and to ensure that evaluators were deployed ‘in a reasonably efficient manner’. 4. With reference to the subject-matter of the writ petition, the nature of passed by the High Court and challenge thereto in the F present appeal, we may take note of the relevant background aspects, in brief, as follows: 4.1. The writ petitioner of this case (respondent No. 1 herein), being a student of M.B.B.S. Course at S.N. Medical College, Agra, affiliated to the appellant-University, appeared in M.B.B.S. (1st G Professional) Examination held in the month of December, 2018. In the result of the said examination, the writ petitioner was declared as failed even after securing 344 marks out 600 for the reason that in Paper-II of Physiology, he got only 6 marks out of 50. 2 Hereinafter referred to as ‘the writ petitioner’. H 476 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 4.2. Dissatisfied with the marks so awarded, the writ petitioner obtained a copy of the answer sheet of the said Paper-II of Physiology and also applied for scrutiny of marks and re-checking of answer sheet. When no action was taken by the appellant-University for scrutiny or re-checking, the writ petitioner approached the High Court, seeking the following reliefs:- B “A. Issue a writ of Mandamus directing the respondents to get the answer sheet of the Petitioner be rechecked through different examiner so that a proper checking of the answer-sheet of the Petitioner for Paper-II subject Physiology for M.B.B.S. (1st- Prof) Examination 2018 is done and it is further prayed that C this Hon’ble Court may also be pleased to direct the Respondents that in case the marks of the Petitioner are increased in the rechecking then an amended result may also be issued in favour of the Petitioner within a stipulated time as may be directed by this Hon’ble Court. D B. To issue any other suitable writ, or direction in favour of the petitioner as this Hon’ble Court may deem fit and proper in the present facts and circumstances of the case. C. Award cost of the petition in favour of the petitioner.” 5. After examining the material placed on record, the High Court E took note of the fact that the paper in question contained 5 questions with first 4 questions being of descriptive nature carrying 10 marks each; and the 5th question being divided in two parts, requiring short notes carrying 5 marks each.