1 lakh on the appellant-University does not appear D congruent to the subject-matter of the petition and consistent with role of the University. 16. Yet further, forwarding a copy of the to the Principal Secretary (Higher Education) as also to the Secretary (Secondary Education) to ensure deployment of examiners/evaluators ‘in a E reasonably efficient manner’ does not appear to be of giving specific directions which are capable of implementation with certainty. In any case, such general expectations of reasonable efficiency are applicable to every area of activity, whether of an individual or of the State or of an instrumentality of the State but, stating such expectations as a part of mandamus of the Court cannot be said to be in conformity with the F requirements of concluding an adjudicatory process with certitude. In other words, while rendering decision in a litigation, the Court would be expected to issue only such directions which could be executed/ implemented with certainty. The observations of the nature made by the High Court, which are largely of general expectations, are difficult to be G approved as a mandamus from the writ Court. 17. Apart from the above, what has been directed in paragraph 32 of the impugned is required to be disapproved in toto. In the said paragraph 32, the High Court has proceeded to issue directions in the manner that all the examinations of the appellant-University during the preceding three years are thrown open for re-assessment or re- H DR. B R AMEDKAR UNIVERSITY, AGRA v. DEVARSH NATH 485 GUPTA & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] evaluation. With respect, we are unable to find any logic or rationale in A such directions. 17.1. In our view, in a Court of law, when a particular litigation in reference to its subject-matter is taken up for final decision, ordinarily, the decision ought to remain confined to the issues arising for determination in the matter. Even if an ancillary relief or direction is considered B appropriate, the same could be granted or issued by the Court only in direct correlation with the facts and circumstances of the case and not beyond. Moreover, for one particular fault of one individual in one particular matter, all the concluded matters cannot be ed to be re- opened. In a matter of the present nature, if the assessment by one C examiner/evaluator has been found questionable by the High Court, neither all the examiners could be presumed to be irresponsible nor every result declared by the University could be re-opened. As noticed, on 25.11.2019, while entertaining the petition leading to this appeal, this Court stayed the operation of the impugned dated 21.05.2019. However, before granting of stay by this Court, several other writ petitions were filed in D the High Court, seeking the same relief of re-evaluation or re-checking; and the learned Single Judge of the High Court had no option but to grant the prayers. We are constrained to observe that all such unnecessary litigations had their genesis only in the unwarranted directions, as contained in the said paragraph 32 of the impugned.