Similarly, the High Court, based its findings primarily on the UD, in arriving at the factum of guilt of the accused. The Court proceeded D to add that: “The medical evidence suggests that the death took place 48 to 96 hours prior to post mortem. Autopsy on the body of the deceased was done on 14th August, 1988 at about 3 P.M. as per medical evidence, if calculation is made, the deceased died sometime between 12th August, 1988 (about 3 P.M.) and 10th August, 1988 E (about 3 P.M.) that is why the I.O. suspected that the deceased was murdered at least two days before the post mortem. At least one day prior to the date of recovery of body, she was murdered and her body was thrown in the well.” 14. It is in this backdrop, that non-examination of the Investigating F Officer attains significance. It is not that the Investigating Officer was not available or that the factum and manner of investigation was deposed by his colleague who was also associated with the same. Non- examination of the Investigation Officer has, in the attending circumstances rendered the prosecution case to be doubtful if not false. G The offence under Section 201 IPC could not have been proven without his examination. 15. The Courts below presumptively, proceeded with the acquired assumption of the guilt of the accused for the reason that he was lastly seen with the deceased, and lodged a false report, forgetting that as per H 788 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A the version of the father of the deceased, father of the accused had himself apprised him of his missing daughter, at least two days prior to the incident. Doubt and suspicion cannot form basis of guilt of the accused. The circumstances linking the accused to the crime are not proven at all, much less beyond reasonable doubt. B 16. We may reiterate that, suspicion howsoever grave it may be, remains only a doubtful pigment in the story canvassed by the prosecution for establishing its case beyond any reasonable doubt. [Venkatesh v. State of Karnataka, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 765; Shatrughna Baban Meshram v. State of Maharashtra, (2021) 1 SCC 596; Pappu v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2022) 10 SCC 321]. Save and except for C the above, there is no evidence: ocular, circumstantial or otherwise, which could establish the guilt of the accused. There is no discovery of any fact linking the accused to the crime sought to be proved, much less, established by the prosecution beyond reasonable doubt. 17. It is our bounden duty to ensure that miscarriage of justice is D avoided at all costs and the benefit of doubt, if any, given to the accused. [Hanumant Govind Nargundkar v. State of M.P. (1952) 2 SCC 71]. 18. In normal course of proceedings, this Court does not interfere with the concurrent finding of facts reached by both the courts below. It E is only in exceptional cases where we find the concurrent findings to be absurd, leading to travesty of justice, it is our duty to rectify miscarriage of justice.