In this context, the seemingly, paradoxical statements in grounds ‘b’ and ‘d’ raised in the appeals are worthy to refer and they read thus:- D Grounds ‘b’ and ‘d’ in the appeals read as under:-‘b’. “That the Hon’ble High Court has committed a serious error in holding that estoppel, waiver is averments in written statement specifically state all the facts leading to estoppel. The E petitioner has specifically pleaded in his written statement as under: - “The defendant constructed the house on the land along with land in dispute with verandah and completed it in the month of September, 1986. At the time, neither the plaintiff F nor her husband who was living at Raghunathpur adjoining the land of the defendant raised any objection.” That plea of estoppel is clearly made out from the pleadings of the parties, their conduct, oral as well as documentary evidence. The said plea has been raised to put to trial and G therefore, the plea of estoppel being the issue of law cannot be raised at any time. ‘d’. That the petitioner was under bona fide belief that he has constructed on its own land and the construction raised by the petitioner is protected by virtue of Section 51 of TP H 292 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Act. The petitioner has acted under the bona fide defective title and therefore has been fighting the litigation since last 20 years on the belief that he has constructed on his own land but ultimately after holding several demarcations, one of the witnesses found the trespass to an extent of 9 biswasies whereas the other found it 11 biswasies. However, admittedly B the area involved is very small and the encroachment is not intentional and therefore, Section 51 of TP Act will apply to the facts and circumstances of the case.” 10. The original appellant has failed to establish that he is a “transferee” within the meaning of the TP Act and for the purpose of C Section 51, TP Act. In to attract the Section the occupant of the land must have held possession under colour of title, his possession must not have been by mere possession of another but adverse to the title of the true owner and he must be under the bone fide belief that he has secured good title to the propertyin question and is the owner thereof. D In short, Section 51 gives only statutory recognition to the above three things. At the same time, in the case on hand, the concurrent findings of the courts below is that the respondent herein is the owner of the land in question and the originalappellants had encroached upon it and effected construction. The appellants herein have failed to establish the above mentioned three things. The evidence on record would also go to show E that even the construction was effected in deviation of the approved plan. 11. In the light of the concurrent findings on the questions of ownership and encroachment, as noted above, it can only be held that it was after encroaching upon the land in question and ignoring the absence F of any title that he made structures thereon at his own risk.