9 Section 26 of the 2013 Act provides for the constitution of a State Monitoring Committee (SMC) in every state consisting of the Chief Minister of State or a Minister nominated by him, the Minister-in-charge of the Scheduled Castes Welfare, representatives of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, and Safai Karamcharis, not less than two 109 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. some states and non-constitution of District Vigilance Committee (hereafter “DVC”) in some states as well and showed glaring inconsistencies in constitution of SMCs from four diff erent sources of data. 22. Further, as per Rules of 201310 with regard to creation of State Level Survey Committee (hereafter “SLSC”) and District Level Committee (hereafter “DLC”) responsible for overseeing the survey process till the “publication of fi nal consolidated list of the manual scavengers” in the respective district/state, it was highlighted that only Chhattisgarh and Odisha have constituted SLCs, with Odisha being the lone state to constitute a DLSC. However, the Union’s affi davit dated 05.07.23, claims that Karnataka, Rajasthan, and West Bengal have also constituted Survey Committees, but no information is provided regarding Chhattisgarh and Odisha. 23. The Amicus summed up by suggesting that the court should direct creation of a task force under the aegis of CMC and conduct a fresh survey by relying on inadequate data under 2013 and 2018 Survey, NCSK’s Annual reports fi led for the year 2015-16, 2017-18, 2018-19, 2019-20, CMC’s meeting held on 05.07.2023 and uncertainty regarding reliable data fi led in Union’s affi davit. Further to set up institutions under the Act of 2013 and Rules and take measures to identify and compensate deceased persons due to sewer cleaning. Submissions on behalf of intervenors 24. Ms Jayna Kothari learned senior counsel representing THAMATE, Centre for rural empowerment, a registered society submitted that the court to give purposive interpretation to explanation (b) of Section 2(1)(g) so as to give wide interpretation to the defi nition of manual scavenger. This interpretation would include anyone engaged in manual cleaning, whether in sewers or septic tanks, regardless of whether they use equipment or protective gear since the cleaning process is manual. This will ensure them being covered as manual scavengers for rehabilitation and relief under Section 11-16 of the Act of 2013. It was suggested that even providing some minor protective gear such as just the gloves would exempt the coverage members of the State Legislature belonging to the Scheduled Castes, etc. Its functions, as under Section 27, are the same as those of the Central Monitoring Committee 10 Rule 11 read with Rule 2© and 2(j) DR. BALRAM SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 1099 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] of that person from the defi nition of manual scavenger in the existing section. To emphasize on giving the defi nition a purposive interpretation, Ms. Kothari placed reliance on Bangalore water Supply and Sewerage Board v A. Rajappa11, wherein the Supreme court expanded the defi nition of industry and on X v. Principal Secretary, Heath and Family Welfare, Govt.