The aforesaid is to be considered along with the fact that under provisions of the MSMED Act, more particularly G Sections 15 to 23, no ‘priority’ is provided with respect to the dues under the MSMED Act, like Section 26E of the SARFAESI Act. 8. As observed hereinabove, Sections 15 to 23 of the MSMED Act are providing a special mechanism for adjudication of the disputes H 884 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A and to adjudicate and resolve the disputes between the supplier and buyer – micro or small enterprise. At the cost of repetition, it is observed that MSMED Act does not provide any priority over the debt dues of the secured creditor akin to Section 26E of the SARFAESI Act. At the most, the decree / / award passed by the Facilitation Council shall be executed as such and the micro or small enterprise in whose favour B the award or decree has been passed by the Facilitation Council shall be entitled to execute the same like other debts / creditors. Therefore, considering the provisions of Sections 15 to 23 read with Section 24 of the MSMED Act and the provisions of the SARFAESI Act, as such, there is no repugnancy between two enactments viz. SARFAESI Act C and MSMED Act. As such, there is no conflict between two schemes, i.e. MSMED Act and SARFAESI Act as far as the specific subject of ‘priority’ is concerned. 9. At this stage, the object and purpose of the enactment of SARFAESI Act is required to be considered. SARFAESI Act has been D enacted to regulate securitization and reconstruction of financial assets and enforcement of security interest and to provide for a central debts of security interest created on property rights, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Therefore, SARFAESI Act has been enacted providing specific mechanism / provision for the financial assets E and security interest. It is a special legislation for enforcement of security interest which is created in favour of the secured creditor – financial institution. Therefore, in absence of any specific provision for priority of the dues under MSMED Act, if the submission on behalf of respondent No.1 for the dues under MSMED Act would prevail over the SARFAESI F Act, then in that case, not only the object and purpose of special enactment / SARFAESI Act would be frustrated, even the later enactment by way of insertion of Section 26E of the SARFAESI Act would be frustrated. If the submission on behalf of respondent No.1 is accepted, then in that case, Section 26E of the SARFAESI Act would become nugatory and would become otiose and/or redundant. Any other contrary G view would be defeating the provision of Section 26E of the SARFAESI Act and also the object and purpose of the SARFAESI Act. 10. Even otherwise the Naib Tehsildar was not at all justified in not taking possession of the secured assets / properties as per dated 24.09.2014 passed by the District Magistrate under Section 14 of H KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. GIRNAR CORRUGATORS 885 PVT.