ANALYSIS B 7. Clauses 65 and 65A of the Contract read as follows: “CONDITION NO.”65. Final Bill (Applicable only to Measurement and LumpSum Contracts).- The Final Bills shall be submitted by the Contractor on I.A.F.W.-2262 in duplicate within three months of physical C completion of the Works to the satisfaction of the Engineer-in- Charge. It shall be accompanied by all abstracts, vouchers,etc., supporting it and shall be prepared in the manner prescribed by the G.E. D No further claims shall be made by Contractor after submission of the Final Bill and these shall be deemed to have been waived and extinguished. The Contractor shall be entitled to be paid the final sum less the value of payments already made on account, subject E to the certification of the final bill by the G.E. No charges shall be allowed to the Contractor on account of the preparation of the final bill.” CONDITION NO.”65-A. F Final Bill (Applicable only to Term Contracts). - The Final Bill shall be submitted by the Contractor on I.A.F.W.2262 in duplicate, accompanied by all supporting abstracts, vouchers, etc., except I.A.F.W.- 2158 and 1833 prepared in the manner prescribed by the G.E. within three months of physical G completion of the Works to the satisfaction of the Engineer-in- Charge. In respect of works s arising out of unit requisitions or M.E.S. inspections for maintenance and repairs, any portion of such an which remains uncompleted at the date of the next subsequent requisition or inspection may, purely to facilitate payment of completed Work and without H 812 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A prejudice to any other right or remedy of Government in respect of any such delay, be deleted and the Works , as so amended forthwith, billed for final payment. No further claims shall be made by the Contractor after submission of a Final Bill and these shall be deemed to have B been waived and extinguished. The Contractor shall be entitled to be paid the full measured value of the Works , less the value of payments made on account and of any charges properly preferred under the Conditions of Contracts for Government Stores, etc. supplied on repayment, subject to the certification of the final bill by the G.E. C When fractions of a rupee occur in the totals of bills, fractions less than half a rupee shall be disregarded and half a rupee and over taken as a rupee. No charges shall be allowed to the Contractor on account of the preparation of a final bill.” D 8. The Arbitrator comes on the scene as a result of the agreement between the parties. Not unnaturally, the fundamental and primary foundation for the Arbitrator to settle the dispute is the contract between the parties. An Arbitrator is a creature, in other words, of the parties and the contract. It is elementary that as Arbitrator he cannot stray outside E the contours of the contract. He is bound to act within its confines. A disregard of the specific provisions of the contract would incur the wrath of the Award being imperiled.