It is a matter of record that the learned Trial Judge has repeatedly declined bail to Respondent No. 2 and even the High Court rejected his prayer for enlargement on bail. In this factual scenario, the question arises whether it is essential to transfer the trial outside the State of West Bengal or C whether the ends of justice can be adequately met by issuing alternative appropriate directions? D. CONCLUSIONS 35. Having given our thoughtful consideration to this issue, it appears to us that there is no legal necessity to transfer the trial outside the State D of West Bengal and the apprehensions of the Petitioner, some of which are indeed genuine, can be effectively redressed by issuing appropriate directions. We say so for the reason that more than 90 witnesses, most of whom are Bengali speaking, are yet to be examined. The transfer of trial to any other neighbouring state will cause serious impediment in the E deposition of those witnesses and some of them might be reluctant to travel to a far away place and, thus, the case of the Prosecution will be severely prejudiced. So long as the High Court and District Judiciary are ensuring the fairness in trial proceedings within their jurisdictional framework, we are not inclined to accept that the victim’s family will not get fair justice, if the trial is held in the State of West Bengal. F 36. Taking into consideration all the facts and circumstances, we deem it appropriate to dispose of this transfer petition in following terms:- (i) Criminal Trial bearing ST No. 1 (03) of 2020 arising out of FIR No. 495/2019 registered at Police Station Panskura, District Purba Medinipur is ed to be transferred from G the Court of Additional Sessions Judge, 3rd Court, Tamluk, Purba Medinipur, West Bengal to the Court of Chief Judge, City Sessions Court at Calcutta. (ii) The trial shall be conducted by the Chief Judge, City Sessions Court and he shall not entrust the case to any other H Additional Sessions Judge. AFJAL ALI SHA @ ABJAL SHAUKAT SHA v. STATE OF WEST 1111 BENGAL & ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] (iii) The Chief Judge, City Sessions Court shall endeavour to A take up the trial on a weekly basis and shall make an effort to conclude the same within a period of six months. (iv) The State of West Bengal is directed to appoint a Special Public Prosecutor on the recommendations of the Chief Judge, City Sessions Court, Calcutta with the prior approval B of the High Court. This exercise shall be completed within two weeks. (v) The wife of the Deceased, the Petitioner and other crucial prosecution witnesses shall be provided adequate security. The State of West Bengal is directed to ensure that no harm C is caused to the life and liberty of the witnesses and no direct or indirect attempt is made by Respondent No. 2 or his co-accused persons or anyone on their behalf to influence, frighten or threaten the witnesses.