It was argued that C the evidence that the accused took the deceased on cycle to the field and shortly thereafter, near the field, in between railway tracks, the deceased was found with multiple injuries, by itself, in absence of any explanation from the accused as to when he parted company of the deceased, was sufficient to record conviction. D 17. In addition to the above, the learned counsel for the appellant submitted that it is a case where the deceased had died at around 2000 hours on 01.02.2010, the FIR was promptly lodged at 2130 hours narrating the circumstances in which the incident occurred and those circumstances have been confirmed by the testimony of prosecution witnesses therefore, even if subsequent story of confession/recovery is discarded, the proven E circumstances by itself form a chain so complete as to sustain conviction of the accused as justifiably recorded by the trial court. Consequently, it was prayed, the and of the High Court be set aside and the Trial Court’s and be restored. Submissions on behalf of the respondent -accused F 18. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the view taken by the High Court is a plausible view and is not perverse as to warrant an interference under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. It was urged that the High Court is a final court of fact and the view of the High Court is not in ignorance of any evidence G or by misreading any piece of evidence. Its view being a plausible view, based on analysis of the evidence, no interference with it is called for, particularly when the case rests on circumstantial evidence. 19. It was also urged that the testimony of PW4, when read as a whole, does not inspire confidence as it is found unreliable on several H STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH v. PHOOLCHAND RATHORE 617 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] aspects therefore, being the sole witness of the circumstance that the A deceased was taken from home by the accused, could not on its own form the basis of conviction. More so, when the original motive stood not proved giving rise to possibility of false implication on account of property dispute with informant (PW2) as would be clear from the statement of PW8, which possibility gains support from the statement of B the Investigating Officer (PW11) that he had known the informant (PW2) from before. More so, when a false arrest/disclosure and recovery was set up. It was also argued that the public witnesses examined by the prosecution have disclosed about the arrest of the accused in the night itself whereas, the police witnesses have tried to disclose his arrest on the next day leaving them opportunity to plan a case against him. For all C the reasons above, it was prayed, the view taken by the High Court is a plausible view, not liable to be interfered. Discussion and Analysis 20. Having considered the submissions and perused the record, D before we proceed further, it would be useful for us to notice the law as to when it would be appropriate for this Court, exercising its power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, to reverse an acquittal into a conviction.