Recognizing the said transfer, the names of the appellants came to be recorded by the respondent in substitution to the names of the vendors of appellants. The customer code allotted to the original allotees was continued in the name of the appellants. It was agreed between the appellants and their vendors that appellants would pay a sum of Rs. 18,07,100 to the original allotees and the balance amount of Rs.34,27,050 to the respondent as and when demanded by the respondent. In furtherance of the same and on payment to the original allotees, the fact of such sale of shares was intimated to the respondent. 3 Subsequent to the aforesaid circumstance, respondent raised a demand on the appellants and accordingly the amount was paid which was outstanding as on the date of demand. The respondent issued the receipt and also allotment letter allotting commercial space in “Vipul Business 398 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Park” – 105 and thereafter re-allotted unit No.814 on 8th Floor for a sale consideration of Rs.51,51,415. This unilateral change was objected to by the appellants and in response to the same, the respondent threatened to forfeit the amount paid till date and also to cancel the allotment of the offi ce space. 4 Respondent forwarded a buyer’s agreement to the appellant and called upon them to return the same after signing and same was duly complied under the circumstances that prevailed. The respondent had agreed to deliver possession of the premises to the appellants within 24 months from the date of execution of such agreement and for reasons unknown, the same was not delivered. In the interregnum, appellants continued to pay instalments as and when demands were raised by the respondent (same has been denied by respondent). As per the statement of account issued by the respondent to the appellants, they have acknowledged total receipt of Rs. 50,28,122/- and payment of Rs.81,995/- made towards service tax was not refl ected in the statement of accounts. As per the payment schedule forwarded by the respondent to the appellants, a sum of Rs.2,47,148/- was due and payable to the respondent by the appellants within 30 days from the date of possession notice, which was not issued. 5 On account of non-intimation about delivery of possession of the offi ce space unit allotted to the appellants and the inaction of the respondent in not delivering possession of the offi ce space allotted, the appellants approached the National Consumer Redressal Commission at New Delhi by fi ling a complaint, which was preceded by issuance of a legal notice whereunder the appellants demanded refund of Rs.51,10,117/- and interest @ of 18% P.A. amounting to Rs.42,52,143/- after terminating the buyer’s agreement dated 27.11.2009. A further sum of Rs.50 lakhs was also claimed towards mental agony. The Commission by impugned dated 11.05.2015, dismissed the complaint in limine on the ground of maintainability holding that appellants are not ‘consumers’ as defi ned under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act as appellants were already carrying on business for the purposes of their livelihood and therefore, it cannot be said that the property which was the subject matter of the complaint before the Commission was being purchased by them exclusively for the purposes of earning livelihood by way of self-employment.