In Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society v. State of Gujarat68, Justice Mathew while dealing with the F contentof the right guaranteed under Article 30(1) in regard to recognition or affiliation held inter alia as follows: “158. The doctrine of “unconstitutional condition” means any stipulation imposed upon the grant of a governmental privilege which in effect requires the recipient of the privilege to relinquish G some constitutional right. This doctrine takes for granted that ‘the petitioner has no right to be a policeman’ but it emphasizes the right he is conceded to possess by reason of an explicit provision of the Constitution, namely, his right “to talk politics”. The major 68 (1974) 1 SCC 717 H 1150 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A requirement of the doctrine is that the person complaining of the condition must demonstrate that it is unreasonable in the special sense that it takes away or abridges the exercise of a right protected by an explicit provision of the Constitution (see William W. Van Alstyne: ”The Demise of the Right-Privilege Distinction in Constitutional Law” [81 Harv Law Rev 1439]).” B 156. In a case involving exercise of power to terminate service of a permanent employee of public/semi government undertaking or statutory corporations only by giving a month’s notice, this Court inter alia held in Delhi Transport Corpn. v. D.T.C. Mazdoor Congress69 as follows: C 283. The problem also could be broached from the angle whether the State can impose unconstitutional conditions as part of the contract or statute or rule etc. In (1959-60) 73 Harvard Law Review, in the Note under the caption ‘Unconstitutional Condition’ at pages 1595-96 it is postulated that the State is devoid of power to impose unconstitutional conditions in the contract that the power D to withhold largesse has been asserted by the State in four areas i.e. (1) regulating the right to engage in certain activities; (2) administration of government welfare programme; (3) government employment; and (4) procurement of contracts. It was further adumberated at pages 1602-03 thus: E “The sovereign’s constitutional authority to choose those with whom it will contract for goods and services is in effect a power to withhold the benefits to be derived from economic dealings with the government. As government activity in the economic sphere increases, the contracting power enables the government to control many hitherto unregulated activities of F contracting parties through the imposition of conditions. Thus, regarding the government as a private entrepreneur threatens to impair constitutional rights…. The government, unlike a private individual, is limited in its ability to contract by the Constitution. The federal contracting power is based upon the G Constitution’s authorisation of these acts ‘necessary and proper’ to the carrying out of the functions which it allocates to the national government. Unless the objectives sought by terms and conditions in government contracts requiring the 69 (1991) Suppl.1 SCC 600 H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1151 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] surrender of rights are constitutionally authorised, the conditions A must fall as ultra vires exercise of power.” Again at page 1603, it is further emphasised thus: “When conditions limit the economic benefits to be derived from dealings with the government to those who forego the B exercise of constitutional rights, the exclusion of those retaining their rights from participation in the enjoyment of these benefits may be violative of the prohibition, implicit in the due process clause of Fifth Amendment and explicit in the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment against unreasonable discrimination in the governmental bestow of advantages.