Arguments of the Appellant 14. The learned senior counsel for the appellant, Mr. C.A. D Sundaram submitted that governing regulations for the PPAs in question were the CERC Regulations 2010. Therefore, the State Commission had no jurisdiction to decide the tariff contrary to the agreement. Further, counsel argued that Central Commission itself has clarified by the Second Amendment that in respect of PPAs entered into prior to 11.07.2013, tariffs mutually agreed upon between the parties would be valid for the E entire duration of the PPA (i.e. 25 years) and they could not be substituted or re-determined by the State Commission. It was further argued that had the appellants known about the APPC on year-on-year basis at the time of signing the agreement, they would not have adopted the REC mechanism but instead would have availed a different method whereby F prices were fixed and appellants would have been entitled to RPO benefits as well. 15. Reliance was placed on this court’s in Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited v. Solar Semi-Conductors Power Limited Company (India) Private Limited17 to argue that if the State Commission re-determines the tariff amongst the parties, then the aggrieved party G cannot be compelled to continue the said agreement or enter into a new agreement on such increased tariff. 15 Petition No. 1363 of 2013 16 Appeal No. 209/2015 17 (2017) 14 SCR 115 H 686 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 16. The appellants further submitted that State Commission had no jurisdiction to reopen the PPA as the same was entered into in terms of the REC Regulations 2010 that was framed by the Central Commission and was within its exclusive jurisdiction. Moreover, it was argued that the appellants would fail in their duty towards their consumers if they cannot negotiate for a lower tariff or if they agree to purchase power at B a higher tariff despite the availability of power at a lower tariff. In such an event, the higher cost of procurement of power so imposed would be ultimately passed on to the consumers which would be contrary to a specified public interest, under the Act. 17. The learned senior counsel argued that the definition of the C “APPC” cannot be relied upon in the present case18 and the PPA in question provided for a tariff. There was consequently no bar in any law or regulations for the parties to agree to such tariff and in fact, REC Regulations 2010 itself recognized that the PPA can be “at a price not exceeding the pooled purchase cost”. Likewise, for the sale of such D power to customers or the licensees, reference is made to “mutually agreed price” and therefore reference to “mutually agreed price” can mean that price can also be a fixed price and need not mean that it has to be dynamic and varying every year. 18. It was argued that the interpretation placed by APTEL is not E founded on any express provision in the regulations, or anything arising out of necessary implication.