3.1 It is submitted that the High Court has therefore misinterpreted Rule 13 of the 1972 rules and has materially erred in observing and H DIRECTOR GENERAL, DOORDARSHAN PRASAR BHARTI 663 CORPORATION OF INDIA v. SMT. MAGI H DESAI [M. R. SHAH, J.] holding that the services in temporary capacity will include the classes A of temporary service such as casual or even contractual. 3.2 Making above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal. 4. The present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri Hardik Vora, B learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent. It is submitted that as such the respondent is claiming 50% of the services rendered as casual or contractual. It is submitted that in other departments, the schemes provide for 50% of the services rendered as casual be treated as services rendered as temporary service and therefore the same is to be counted for the purposes of pensionary benefits/service benefits. C However, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent is not in a position to point out any statutory provision under which the respondent is claiming 50% services rendered as a casual/contractual for the purposes of pensionary benefits/service benefits. However, it is submitted that as in the other departments, such a scheme is there and D therefore the respondent is claiming the same benefit. 5. We have heard learned counsel for the respective parties at length. At the outset, it is required to be noted and it is an admitted position that for the period between 1985 till 31.03.1995 the respondent served E as a casual/contractual employee and her services came to be regularised as per the Scheme w.e.f. 31.03.1995. As such, under the Scheme of Regularisation, there is no mention that the casual services shall be counted towards service benefits/pensionary benefits. Even as per the clarification issued by the DOPT in the year 2009, it was clarified that such appointee is not entitled to claim any benefit out of the services F rendered by him/her on contractual basis before he/she was appointed on regular basis on a government post. 6. The respondent is governed by the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972. Rules 13 & 14 of the 1972 Rules, which are relevant for deciding the controversy in the present case, read as under: G “13. Commencement of qualifying service - Subject to the provisions of these rules, qualifying service of a Government servant shall commence from the date he takes charge of the post to which he is first appointed either substantively or in an officiating or temporary capacity : H 664 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Provided that officiating or temporary service is followed without interruption by substantive appointment in the same or another service or post : Provided further that – (a) in the case of a Government servant in a Group ‘D’……. B (b) in the case of a Government servant not covered by clause (a),… 14. Conditions subject to which service qualifies: (1) The service of a Government servant shall not qualify, unless his duties and pay are regulated by the Government, or C under conditions determined by the Government.