The developer became aware that the Pay was part of the complaint filed before the MRTP Commission for the first time on 29th April 2016, G when a statement was made by the complainant’s counsel. 14. It was submitted that this court recorded that the Pay was on the file of the MRTP Commission, and consequently permitted its revalidation. It was in these circumstances, that the developer approached the Commission, resulting in revalidation and subsequent H handing over of the instrument to the complainant. K. L. SUNEJA & ANR. v. DR. (MRS.) MANJEET KAUR 1087 MONGA (D) THROUGH HER LR [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 15. All these facts clearly established that the developer was not A at fault; the complainant in fact acknowledged having received the Pay , returned by the developer, through letter dated 26th September 2005. Learned counsel relied on the pleadings before the MRTP Commission, and pointed out that the index to the complaint and the documents filed along with it, nowhere mentioned or referred to the B original Pay . 16. It was submitted that having returned the amount, through the medium of the Pay , the developer had no further obligation to pay further interest thereafter. It was submitted that the complainant would have been justified in stating, if the facts were such that the amount was C with the developer, or lying in its account. However, once the amount was debited from its account, and the Pay was made over to the complainant, who sought to return, it, but after that, was handed back the Pay , the developer could not be held responsible. 17. Counsel for the developer relied on XXI Rule 1(4) and D (5) of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter, “CPC”) to state that once the amount in question was paid through the bank (i.e., through an instrument issued by the bank, such as Demand Draft or Pay , as opposed to a cheque, “drawn on a bank”) the liability would cease. Counsel for the developer relied on the decisions in Hindustan Paper Corporation Ltd vs. Ananta Bhattacharjee4 and in Gurpreet Singh E vs. Union of India5. Analysis and Conclusion 18. For deciding this appeal, it is unnecessary to recount the entire spectrum of facts and analyse the rival contentions, so far as they relate F to the liability of the developer for the period prior to 30th April 2005. The scope of the Tribunal’s remit, in this case, was defined by this court’s final in the appeal decided by it earlier.6 This court, after noticing that the developer had applied for revalidation after the complainant had urged before the court that the Pay had been deposited in the MRT Commission, further noted that the instrument had been revalidated G in 2016 and the amount was credited to the account of the developer on 4 Hindustan Paper Corporation Ltd vs. Ananta Bhattacharjee, (2004) 6 SCC 213, dated 28th April 2004. 5 Gurpreet Singh vs. Union of India, 2006 (8) SCC 457, dated 19th October 2006.