Such rights are ed arrangements of basic components. One of the components of a right, is a correlative duty. That is to say, if X has a right, he is legally F protected from interference in respect of such right and such right carries with it the duty of the State, not to interfere with such right. If the State (or any other person) is under no corelative duty to abstain from interfering with the exercise of a right, then such a right is not a ‘right’ in the strict Hohfeldian sense. The boundaries of the protective perimeter within G which a person can exercise their rights, depend on the degree to which the State is duty bound to protect the right. 14.1. What emerges from the Hohfeldian conception of rights and corelative duties, qua the right to freedom of speech and expression may be summed up as follows: H 736 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A a) The Constitution of India confers under Article 19(1)(a), the right to freedom of speech and expression to all its citizens. The State has a corelative duty to abstain from interference with such right except as provided in Article 19(2) of the Consitution which are reasonable restrictions on the right conferred under Article 19(1)(a). The extent of B such duty depends upon the content of speech. For instance, in respect of speech that is likely to be adverse to the interests of sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public , decency or morality; or speech that constitutes C contempt of court, defamation or is of such nature as would be likely to incite the commission of an offence, the duty of the State to abstain from interference, is nil. This principle is Constitutionally reflected under Article 19(2) which enables the State to enact law which would impose reasonable restrictions on such speech as described under D the eight grounds listed hereinabove which are the basis for reasonable restrictions. b) Per contra, in respect of speech and expression which constitutes an exchange of ideas, including dissent or disagreement, and such ideas are expressed in a manner E compatible with the ethos cultivated in a civilised society, the duty of the State to abstain from interference, is high. c) Similarly, in respect of commercial speech, the State is completely free to recall or curb commercial speech which is false, misleading, unfair or deceptive. Therefore, the F threshold of tolerance towards commercial speech or advertisements depends on the content of such speech and the object of the material sought to be propagated/circulated. The duty of the State to abstain from interference would also depend upon the nature and effect of the commercial G speech. d) As is evident from the above illustrations, the extent of protection of speech would depend on whether, such speech would constitute a ‘propagation of ideas’ or would have any social value. If the answer to the said question is in the affirmative, such speech would be protected under Article H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS.