339. K N Wanchoo, J. speaking for the Constitution Bench, held that Article 370 “recognizes the special position of the State of Jammu and Kashmir and that is why the President is given the power to apply the provisions of the Constitution to that State subject such exceptions and modifi cations as the President may by specify”. The submission was that in exercise of the power under Article 370(1), the President could not amend the Constitution so as to make a radical alteration in its provisions. In this context, reliance was placed on the in In re 251 1962 (1) SCR 688; “Puranlal Lakhanpal II” 206 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Delhi Laws Act252 to urge that the modifi cation could not encompass a radical transformation. The Constitution Bench ruled that there was no radical alteration of Article 81; while direct election had been substituted by an indirect election by the State Legislature, the element of election still remained. But assuming that the alteration made by the CO was radical in nature, the Constitution Bench distinguished the position in In re Delhi Laws Act (supra) which dealt with the power of delegation to a subordinate authority which made subordinate legislation. Distinguishing the power of modifi cation conferred on the President under Article 370(1), the Court held: “4… In the present case we have to fi nd out the meaning of the word “modifi cation” used in Article 370(1) in the context of the Constitution. As we have said already the object behind enacting Article 370(1) was to recognise the special position of the State of Jammu and Kashmir and to provide for that special position by giving power to the President to apply the provisions of the Constitution to that State with such exceptions and modifi cations as the President might by specify. We have already pointed out that the power to make exceptions implies that the President can provide that a particular provision of the Constitution would not apply to that State. If therefore the power is given to the President to eff ace in eff ect any provision of the Constitution altogether in its application to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, it seems that when he is also given the power to make modifi cations that power should be considered in its widest possible amplitude. If he could eff ace a particular provision of the Constitution altogether in its application to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, we see no reason to think that the Constitution did not intend that he should have the power to amend a particular provision in its application to the State of Jammu and Kashmir.” (emphasis supplied) The Court held that in the context of the Constitution it “must give the widest eff ect to the meaning of the word modifi cation used in Article 370(1) 252 (1951) SCR 747 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 207 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] and in that context, it includes an amendment” and that there was no reason to limit the expression modifi cations only to those which did not make a radical transformation.