Even if the NCTE had to follow the directions of the Central Government, the NCTE must demonstrate that these directions had been independently considered by them and not implemented in a mechanical manner. 9. On behalf of the Union of India we have heard learned Additional Solicitor General(s) Ms. Aishwarya Bhati and Mr. Vikramjeet Banerjee. They would argue that the Impugned Judgement has been passed ignoring the powers of the Central Government given both under the Act as well as NCTE Act. Moreover, an objection has also been raised that the Union of India was not even made a party in the proceedings before the Rajasthan High Court! DEVESH SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. 173 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] 10. During the course of hearing, this Court had passed an dated 24.08.2022, granting liberty to the Board of Secondary Education for diff erent States, and other stake holders to be impleaded as intervenors. Pursuant to this , several Interlocutory Applications were fi led which are being heard along with these appeals. 11. “The Indian Constitution is fi rst and foremost a social document”, writes Granville Austin2. The Rights contained in Part III and the Directive Principles of State Policy contained in Part IV together establish conditions which further the goal of this social revolution3. Austin goes on to call Part III and Part IV of the Constitution as “The Conscience of the Constitution”4. Free and compulsory education for children was a part of the social vision, of the framers of our Constitution. 12. Elementary education for children is today a Fundamental Right enshrined under Article 21A of Part III of the Constitution of India. Every child (upto 14 years of age), has a fundamental Right to have ‘free’ and ‘compulsory’ elementary education. But then ‘free’ and ‘compulsory’ elementary education is of no use unless it is also a ‘meaningful’ education. In other words, elementary education has to be of good ‘quality’, and not just a ritual or formality! 13. Our progress, in achieving this constitutional goal, has been slow. In some ways, it is still a work in progress. Prior to the Constitutional 86th Amendment, the Right to Education was in Part-IV of the Constitution (Article 45), as a Directive Principle of State Policy. Directive Principles, as we know, are a set of goals which the state must strive to achieve. The goal set out in Article 455 of the Constitution (as it stood at that time), was to make elementary education free and compulsory for all children up to age of 14 years, within 10 years of the promulgation of the Constitution. All the same, it would take much more than ten years to achieve this goal. 2 Austin, Granville. “Th e Conscience of the Constitution”. Th e Indian Constitution, Cor- nerstone of a Nation, Oxford University Press, 2000, pp. 50 3 Ibid – pp 50. 4 Ibid – pp 50. 5 Article 45 of the Constitution as it existed prior to the 86th Amendment: “Provision for free and compulsory education for children.— Th e State shall endeavour to provide, within a period of ten years from the commencement of this Constitution, for free and compulsory education for all children until they complete the age of fourteen years.” 174 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.