In fact, what the clarifi catory or relaxation does is that it proceeds to impliedly recognize certain courses / diploma obtained from a private Institution, like from a society registered under Societies Registration Act or Rashtriya Saksharta Mission IT program / Skill Development Program, without examining whether under the extant statutory regime they could be considered recognized. 31. In our view, if there existed a statutory procedure for granting recognition, an Institution cannot be considered recognized dehors that procedure. No doubt, as held by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Mohammad Shujat Ali & Ors. vs. Union of India & Ors.27, issue of equivalence is a technical issue and where the decision of the Government is based on the recommendation of an expert body, the Court should not lightly disturb its decision unless it is based on extraneous or irrelevant considerations or actuated by mala fi des or is irrational and perverse or manifestly wrong. But this is not a case of mere treating degrees or certifi cates obtained from a recognized Institution / University as equivalent to the one specifi ed, rather it is of granting recognition to certain courses conducted by private institutes, whether recognized or not as per the extant statutory regime. This, in our view, amounts to changing the eligibility 27 (1975) 3 SCC 76 852 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. criteria midway because the extant Rules and the advertisement both stipulated that the diploma / specifi ed course had to be from a recognized Institution / University. Even assuming that there had been no statutory procedure prescribed to accord recognition, such relaxation in the eligibility qualifi cation ought to have been widely publicized, and opportunity should have been aff orded to those who were left out, so that they could apply and compete, as held by this Court in Bank of India vs. Aarya K. Babu28. 32. In Aarya K. Babu (supra), one of the issues was, whether a particular educational qualifi cation made eligible after issue of recruitment notifi cation could have been considered for the purposes of recruitment. Answering the question, this Court held that if there is any change in the qualifi cation criteria after the notifi cation is issued but before the completion of the selection process, and the employer/ recruiting agency seeks to adopt the change, it will be incumbent on the employer to issue a corrigendum incorporating the changes to the notifi cation and invite application from those qualifi ed as per the changed criteria and consider the same along with the applications received in response to the initial notifi cation. We respectfully agree with the above view as it is in consonance with the constitutional mandate. 33. In this view of the matter, even if we assume that the State had power to relax the eligibility criteria, the same could not have been done mid-stream without giving wide publicity of such change, and opportunity to similarly situated candidates to apply and compete with others. 34. As there appears nothing on record to indicate that wide publicity of such relaxation in the specifi ed qualifi cations was made, and opportunity was aff orded to similarly situated candidates to apply and compete, in our view, considering the manner in which the relaxation was accorded, the same falls foul of the constitutional mandate enshrined in Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.