32 of 1994. Maize starch being a kind of starch, it is covered by Taxation Entry No. 61 as introduced by Act No.37 of 1996which is to the effect “… starch of any kind”. The dictionary meaning of the word “any” is “one or same or all”. In Black’s Law Dictionary, it is explained that the word ‘any’ has diverse meaning and may be employed to indicate D ‘all’ or ‘every’ as well as ‘same’ or ‘one’ and its meaning in a given statute depends upon the context and subject matter of the statute. Had the legislature intended to exclude any starch, including maize starch, a specific provision excluding it would have been made. 19. The decision in Associated Cement Company Ltd. (supra) E has taken the view that the words ‘any other kind of moveable property’ in clause (e) of Section 2(22) of the Customs Act defining ‘goods’ would include all tangible movable articles as goods for the purposes thereof. 20. We may also in this connection refer to the decision in M/s. Associated Indem Mechanical (P) Limited vs. West Bengal Small Industries Development Corporation19where, while construing ‘any F premises’ contained in the provisions of the West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1956, it has been held by this Court that ‘any’ is a word of very wide meaning and prima facie the use of it excludes limitation. 21. We hold that ‘any kind’ in the context the same has been used in the taxation entry clearly indicates that it has been used in a wide G sense extending from one to all and admits of no exception. 22. That in Taxation Entry No.61 ‘starch of any kind’ is preceded by ‘sago’ does not, in our opinion, make any material difference. Sago is a starch extracted from the pith, or spongy core tissue of various tropical H 19 (2007) 3 SCC 607 SANTHOSH MAIZE & INDUSTRIES LIMITED v. THE STATE 115 OF TAMIL NADU & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] palm stems. Therefore, what is taxable under Taxation Entry No.61 is A ‘sago’, which itself is a starch, as well as starch of any kind which would obviously include maize starch. 23. Trite to say, the Legislature may not have intended two entries for the self-same commodity, one under the exempted category and the other under the taxable entry. Therefore, maize starch has to be either B covered by Taxation EntryNo.61 or Exemption Entry No.8. For the purpose of ascertaining which of the two is the applicable entry, we need not labour much having regard to the language in which the two entries are expressed. Taxation Entry No.61 provides a more specific description and maize starch undoubtedly being a ‘kind of starch’ would, C therefore, be comprehended in it. This is more so because what is covered by Exemption Entry No.8 is maize, which is a product of millet. The position would have been otherwise if Exemption Entry No.8 or any other entry in Schedule III carried the description of product of maize instead of ‘product of millet’.