Thus, the conditions of supply framed by the Board under section 49 read with section 79 and section 79A possessed a statutory nature and would be binding on consumers. F 69. It has been a consistent position in law that the conditions of supply stipulated by the licensees or Boards have a statutory character.33 A two-judge Bench of this Court, in Jagdamba Paper Industries (P) Ltd v. Haryana State Electricity Board,34 was dealing with a challenge to the unilateral enhancement of security by the Board under the agreement with consumers of electric energy. This Court held that the G Board has been conferred with statutory powers under section 49(1) of the 1948 Act to determine the conditions on the basis of which supply is to be made. Similarly, in Bihar State Electricity Board v. Parmeshwar 33 Punjab State Electricity Board v. Bassi Cold Storage, Kharar and Another, 1994 Supp (2) SCC 124 H 34 (1983) 4 SCC 508 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 683 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Kumar Agarwala35, a two-judge Bench of this Court held that the terms A and conditions on which the Board supplies electricity to a consumer have a statutory character. 70. In Ferro Alloys Corpn. Ltd v. A P State Electricity Board36 a two-judge Bench of this Court upheld the validity of Section 49 of the 1948 Act. The Court observed that the terms and conditions notified B under Section 49 must relate to the object and purpose for which they were issued. There, the Court upheld the authority of the Board to prescribe a security deposit in the following terms: “102. [...] Under the regulations framed by the Board in exercise of powers of Section 49 read with Section 79(j) the consumer is C only entitled and the Board has an obligation to supply energy to the consumer upon such terms and conditions as laid down in the regulations. If, therefore, the regulations prescribed a security deposit that will have to be complied with. It also requires to be noticed under Clause VI of the Schedule to the Electricity Act D that the requisition for supply of energy by the Board is to be made under proviso (a) after a written contract is duly executed with sufficient security. This, together with the regulations stated above, could be enough to clothe it with legal sanction.” 71. In Hyderabad Vanaspathi (supra), a three-judge Bench of E this Court had to decide upon the validity of Condition 39 of the “Terms and Conditions of Supply” prescribing an adjudicatory machinery for assessing and levying penal damages. This Court considered the legal provisions under the 1910 Act and 1948 Act to hold that terms and conditions notified under Section 49 of the latter enactment were valid and had statutory force. The relevant paragraph is extracted below: F “20. We have already seen that Section 49 of the Supply Act empowers the Board to prescribe such terms and conditions as it thinks fit for supplying electricity to any person other than a licensee.