In any case, this cannot be a ground to seek annulment of the compromise, particularly as the settlement had to be reached in an expedient manner. The learned Attorney General’s response has been that a method for ‘topping up’ the settlement amount be devised under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. We believe this would not be an appropriate course of action or a method to impose a D greater liability on UCC than it initially agreed to bear. 48. We are equally dissatisfied with the Union being unable to furnish any rationale for raking up this issue more than two decades after the incident. Even assuming that the figures of affected persons turned out to be larger than contemplated earlier, an excess amount of E funds remained available to satisfy such claims. The Welfare Commissioner has in fact held in its dated 31.01.2009 that on including the pro rata compensation, nearly six times the amount of compensation has been disbursed to victims in comparison with Motor Vehicle Accident claims. This came in an application filed by F organisations who sought enhancement of their claim amounts due to fluctuation in the conversion value of the Dollar vis-à-vis the Rupee prevailing at the time of the settlement in 1989. A sum of Rs.50 crore lying with the RBI shall be utilised by the Union of India to satisfy pending claims, if any, in accordance with the Bhopal Gas Leak Disaster (Processing of Claims) Act, 1985 and the Scheme framed thereunder. G 49. Providing closure to a lis is also a very important aspect. This is more so in the context of the scenario faced by the Indian judiciary, where delay is almost inevitable. This concern would be further amplified in respect of a tort claim such as the present one - if evidence were to be led for each claimant, this would open a pandora’s box in UCC’s H UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. M/S. UNION CARBIDE 899 CORPORATION & ORS. favour and would only be to the detriment of the beneficiaries. The A money was needed in the immediate aftermath of the tragedy and not after three decades. 50. Thus, finality was reached at an early stage by way of the settlement. Endeavours to reopen the same proved unsuccessful. Now the curative petitions have been filed by the Union of India having not B filed review petitions. Private parties who are here before us seek to ride on the coattails of the Union. This is not something we can countenance. Conclusion: C 51. We are thus of the view that for all the aforesaid reasons the curative petitions cannot be entertained and we thus dismiss it leaving the parties to bear their own costs. Divya Pandey Petitions dismissed. (Assisted by : Shevali Monga, LCRA) D E F G H