The Trial Court, having recorded the statements of various witnesses, observed that the case is the one resting upon circumstantial evidence. 4.1 The prosecution declared fi ve of the eight witnesses examined hostile, including Jai Mangal Singh - PW1, at whose instance the FIR was registered. 4.2 The other witnesses,for instance, Sumitra – PW4, is recorded to be “guessing” about the convict-appellant being pregnant; Kuwarobai – PW8refused that she ever saw the convict-appellant pregnant as also that she would use a ‘chadar’ to hide her pregnancy. 4.3 Yet, referring to the statements of PW1, Suraj Kumar Singh – PW2, Rambaran Singh – PW3, PW4, Ram Jhalako – PW5, Birhulia – PW6, Rambai – PW7, A.R. Manikpuri (Head Constable) – PW9 to establish the presence of the body of the deceased child in ‘Suraj ki dabri’ the statement under Section 313 CrPCof the convict-appellant along with the statement of Dr. Divya Rani Tigga – PW11 regarding the signs of recent delivery on the person of the convict-appellant found the following circumstances to have been proved: - 964 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. a) The accused was living in the village alone as her husband deserted her. Also that, she was pregnant. b) In the dabri (small pond), the body of a newborn baby was found on 14th September 2004, and a few days before that, i.e., 2-3 days, the accused had delivered a child. c) The accused did not state anything nor tell anyone about the delivery. 4.4 Given the above, the Trial Court found the off ence punishable under Section 302 IPC to have been proved beyond reasonable doubt. 5. The High Court, in the impugned before us, taking note of the testimony of PW11, who deposed that she had, upon examination, found the convict-appellant to have delivered a child and that the deceased had suff ered injuries, convicted the accused. However, the doctor admits that the death of the child being prior to or after the birth remains unmentioned. The same was noted to be of no consequence as the injuries recorded on the body of the deceased child established the death to be homicidal in nature. In conclusion, the High Court held that the conviction under Section 302 IPC was warranted. 6. It is observed that the Courts below, in holding the accused guilty, primarily relied on the testimonies of eight independent witnesses, the testimony of the doctor PW11, and the statement of the accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C. OUR VIEW 7. Awarding the punishment of life imprisonment requires due appreciation of evidence and cannot be awarded mechanically and in a perfunctory manner. The law requires that the High Court, must, only after re-appreciation of evidence confi rm or overturn the fi ndings of fact returned by the Trial Court. Recently, this Court in Geeta Devi v. State of U.P.3 has succinctly dealt with this issue. 3 2022 SCC OnLine 57 (2-Judge Bench) INDRAKUNWAR v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 965 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 8. The under challenge, which we are constrained to observe, makes only general and sketchy observations, unlike the appreciation of evidence as is required by law, in respect of testimonies of the witnesses and other evidence.