[2023] 7 S.C.R. 357 357 LOK PRAHARI A v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 1141 of 2020) MARCH 27, 2023 B [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA AND J. B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] Conduct of Election Rules, 1961 – Rule 39-AA – C Representation of the People Act, 1951 – ss. 59, 94 and 128(1), amended by Act of 2003 – Challenge to r. 39-AA – Petitioner has challenged the constitutional validity of rule 39-AA on the ground that the said rule violates Art. 80(4), Art.14 of the Constitution and is also contrary to s.123 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 – Held: The Constitution Bench in Kuldip Nayar v. Union of D India held that after the amendment, voting to the Council of States has undergone a material change and that the norm of voting by a secret ballot has been replaced by open ballot – The Constitution Bench held that it is only a voter at such an election who refuses to show the ballot to the authorised agent of his political party, who E forfeits the right to vote – The Court then held that the open ballot system which has been put in position “does not mean open to one and all” and it is only the authorised agent of the political party who is allowed to see and verify the person for whom the elector has cast a vote – The Court held that the underlying basis of the change in the norm, to an open ballot, was necessitated to prevent F cross-voting and the flouting of party discipline – Therefore, the challenge must fail in view of the of the Constitution Bench. Representation of the People Act, 1951 – proviso to s.33 – Challenge to – Held: The proviso stipulates that a candidate who is not set up by a recognized political party shall not be deemed to be G duly nominated for election unless the nomination paper is subscribed by ten proposers who are electors of the constituency – This lies purely in the realm of legislative policy – There is nothing per se discriminatory in the provision – Parliament is entitled to regulate the manner in which nomination papers should be presented and the requirements for a valid nomination. H 357 358 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Dismissing the writ petition, the Court HELD: Rule 39-AA of the Conduct of Election Rules 1961 1. The rationale for the introduction of the provision for voting by open ballot in elections to the Council of States has been examined in a decision of the Constitution Bench in Kuldip B Nayar v Union of India . The Constitution Bench held that after the amendment, voting to the Council of States has undergone a material change and that the norm of voting by a secret ballot has been replaced by open ballot. The Constitution Bench held that it is only a voter at such an election who refuses to show the C ballot to the authorised agent of his political party, who forfeits the right to vote.