4. In the aforesaid scenario, respondent no. 3 alleged that the appellant had misused his elected post and was liable to be disqualified. D The application was filed under Section 16(1)(i) read with Section 40 of the said Act. For reference, the provisions are reproduced hereunder: “16. Disqualifications - (1) Subject to the provisions of sub- section (2), a person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, and for being, a Councillor - E ...... ...... ...... (i) if he has directly or indirectly by himself or by his partner any share or interest in any work done by of the Zilla Parishad or in any contract with, by or on behalf of, the Zilla Parishad;” F “40. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 62, if any Councillor during the term of his office— xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx [(2) If any question whether a vacancy has occurred under this G section is raised either by the Commissioner suo motu or on an application made to him by any person in that behalf, the Commissioner shall decide the question [as far as possible] within ninety days from the date of receipt of such application; and his decision thereon shall be final. Until the Commissioner decides H VIRENDRASING v. THE ADDITIONAL COMMISSIONER AND 795 ORS. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] that the vacancy has occurred, the Councillor shall not be disabled A from continuing to be a Councillor: Provided that, no decision shall be given against any Councillor without giving him reasonable opportunity of being heard. ]” 5. The Divisional Commissioner allowed respondent no. 3’s B application in terms of the dated 08.11.2021 in Disqualification Appeal No. 01 of 2021. The Divisional Commissioner noted that as the Aarave Gram Panchayat was in the Chimthane Block, which fell under the purview of Zilla Parishad, Dhule, it was apparent that the appellant would be able to exert influence over the same. It was also observed that there was no evidence of the appellant’s son having been awarded C work s from any other blocks falling under Dhule Zilla Parishad, and thus there was a prima facie inference of misuse, sufficient for disqualifying the appellant under Section 16(1)(i) of the said Act. At this stage, it may also be noticed that the Divisional Commissioner’s was passed after considering the appellant’s written statement as his D argument, as the matter had already been adjourned on multiple occasions at the appellant’s request. 6. The appellant challenged his disqualification by way of a writ petition before the High Court, vide Writ Petition No. 12526 of 2021. His submissions before the High Court can be crystalized as under: E (a) The Act would not be applicable to the case as the road repair work was being carried out at the behest of the Gram Panchayat, which is regulated under a different Act, i.e. the Maharashtra Village Panchayats Act, 1959 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘VP Act’); F (b) Even assuming the applicability of the said Act, the language of Section 16(1)(i) indicates that disqualification can occur only if the work was undertaken by the Zilla Parishad itself.