In the course of proceedings, after various rounds of CoC meetings, ultimately, the resolution plan in question was approved with 87.39 per cent. majority of voting share on 22.01.2021. However, B the CoC recommended certain changes to be made in the resolution plan. After incorporating the changes as suggested by CoC, an application was moved before the Adjudicating Authority (NCLT) under Section 30(6) of IBC for approval of the resolution plan. During the proceedings before NCLT, several objections were raised by various financial C creditors, other resolution applicants and by the promoter and erstwhile director of corporate debtor against the resolution plan. The promoter also stated his grievance about want of consideration of his settlement proposal in terms of Section 12-A of the Code. However, the NCLT dismissed all the objections and approved the resolution plan declaring it binding on the corporate debtor and other stakeholders by the common D dated 15.07.2021. 2.2. Challenging approval of the resolution plan, several appeals were preferred before the Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT), which were decided in the impugned common and dated 17.02.2022. The Appellate Tribunal, while upholding several of the objections against E the process of consideration of the resolution plan as also the eligibility of the successful resolution applicant, allowed all the appeals; set aside the aforesaid dated 15.07.2021; rejected the resolution plan so approved by the NCLT; declared the resolution applicant ineligible in terms of Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act, 188211 and disqualified in F terms of Section 164(2)(b) of the Companies Act, 201312; and issued directions to the resolution professional to proceed with CIRP from the stage of publication of Form ‘G’ while inviting EOI afresh as per the CIRP Regulations. The Appellate Tribunal also issued directions to the resolution professional to place the settlement proposal of promoter and erstwhile director of the corporate debtor for consideration before the G CoC; and if such a proposal was approved with 90 per cent. voting share of CoC, to initiate the proceeding for withdrawal of CIRP under Section 12-A of the Code read with Regulation 30-A of the CIRP 10 ‘TFCI’, for short. 11 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the Trusts Act’. H 12 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the Companies Act’. M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 789 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Regulations. The Appellate Tribunal also directed that the claim of the A related party financial/operational creditors be not discriminated from that of the unrelated financial/operational creditors. 3. The aforesaid of NCLAT dated 17.02.2022 is under challenge before this Court by the resolution applicant as also by the resolution professional on several counts, which could be broadly B summarised thus: First, that Regulation 35 of the CIRP Regulations does not mandate sharing of the valuation report to the CoC and instead mandates only sharing of liquidation value. Second, that the non-core assets were not significant in value and the valuation was communicated to and agreed upon by the members of the CoC on 15.12.2020. Third, C that non-publication of Form G on the designated website was a mere procedural irregularity which did not prejudice interests of any of the parties.