This was elaborated in Gyan Chand v. Kunjbeharilal & Ors., (1977) 3 SCC 317. H 590 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A complete prohibition on filing of a suit within five years of the tenancy. This was endorsed by the Court in Ashok Kumar v. Suresh Chand & Ors.2 and Kahtoon Begum (deceased) through LRs v. Bhagwan Das & Ors.3. The second view reflected in Late Mahadev & Ors. v. Babu Lal & Ors.4 and M/s. Vadhumal Kanhaiyalal & Ors. v. Hemchand & Ors.5was that irregularity of a petition filed within five years of tenancy B would get cured by the decree of eviction being made after the expiry of such period. The Division Bench agreed with the former interpretation, finding that there was no ambiguity in the language of Section 14(3) of the said Act, which created a complete bar to the filing of the suit. The provision is as under: C “14. Restriction on eviction: - (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law or contract, no suit for eviction from the premises let out for commercial or business purposes shall lie against a tenant on the ground set forth in clause (h) of sub-section (1) of D section 13 before the expiry of five years from the date the premises were let out to the tenant.” Appellant’s Contention before this Court: 7. It is canvassed by the appellant that a literal interpretation of Section 14(3) of the said Act would lead to absurdity. Instead, a purposive E interpretation of the rule should be applied. The intent behind Section 14(3) of the said Act is to grant protection to the tenant against eviction for five years. However, a literal interpretation of the rule in the present case would amount to granting protection to the respondent after 38 years of filing of the suit in 1985. F 8. To buttress his case, support was taken from a of this Court in B. Banerjee v. Smt. Anita Pan6, where a similar clause under the West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1956 was considered. In the said case, the clause proscribed the filing of a suit for eviction for three years from the date on which the landlord acquired an interest in the G premises. This Court had opined that the spirit of the protection is fulfilled 2 RLW 1996 (1) Raj. 380. 3 RLW 2004 (1) Raj. 502. 4 (2006) 4 RDD 1868 Raj. 5 WLC (Raj.) UC 2007 (270). H 6 (1975) 1 SCC 166. RAVI KHANDELWAL v. M/S. TALUKA STORES 591 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] with the passage of three years and filing a fresh suit would lead to A unnecessary multiplicity of litigation. The relevant provision is as under: “13. (3A) Where a landlord has acquired his interest in the premises by transfer, no suit for the recovery of possession of the premises on any of the grounds mentioned in clause (f) or clause (ff) of sub-section (1) shall be instituted by the landlord B before the expiration of a period of three years from the date of his acquisition of such interest: Provided that a suit for the recovery of possession of the premises may be instituted on the ground mentioned in clause (f) of sub-section (1) before the expiration of the said C period of three years if the Controller, on the application of the landlord and after giving the tenant an opportunity of being heard, permits, by , the institution of the suit on the ground that the building or re-building, or the additions or alterations, as the case may be, are necessary to make the D premises safe for human habitation.” 9.