(2) The Governor may make regulations for the peace and good C Government of any area in a Province which is for the time being an excluded area, or a partially excluded area, and any regulations so made may repeal or amend any Act of the Federal Legislature or of the Provincial Legislature, or any existing Indian law, which is for the time being applicable to the area in question. D Regulations made under this sub-section shall be submitted forthwith to the Governor-General and until assented to by him in his discretion shall have no effect, and the provisions of this Part of this Act with respect to the power of His Majesty to disallow Acts shall apply in relation to any such regulations assented to by E the Governor-General as they apply in relation to Acts of a Provincial Legislature assented to by him. (3) The Governor shall, as respects any area in a Province which is for the time being, an excluded area, exercise his functions in his discretion.” F (emphasis added) 10. By virtue of Article 395, the Government of India Act, 1935 has been repealed. Sub-Section (1) of Section 92 of the Government of India Act, 1935 and sub-clause (1) of Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule are completely different. Sub-Section (1) of Section 92 provides that no Act G of the Federal Legislature or a Provincial Legislature shall apply to an Excluded Area unless the Governor by a public notification so directs. However, sub-Clause (1) of Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule confers a power on the Hon’ble Governor to issue a notification for directing that a particular enactment, either State or Central, will not apply to a Scheduled Area. He also has the power to direct that a particular enactment will H ADIVASIS FOR SOCIAL AND HUMAN RIGHTS ACTION v. 381 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] apply to a Scheduled Area with modifications as may be specified by A him in the notification. Sub-clause (1) of Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule proceeds on the basis that all the State and the Central laws which are otherwise applicable to a State apply to Scheduled Areas in the State. Whereas, sub-Section (1) of Section 92 of the Government of India Act, 1935 provides that no law of Federal or Provincial Legislature will apply B to an Excluded Area unless a notification is issued by the Hon’ble Governor issuing a specific direction to that effect. Thus, the reliance placed on sub-Section (1) of Section 92 of the Government of India Act, 1935 is not at all relevant. 11. The contention raised by the appellant that unless there is a C specific notification issued by the Hon’ble Governor applying Central or State laws to a Scheduled Area, the said laws will not apply to the said Scheduled Area, to say the least, is preposterous. In fact, the issue is no longer res integra. There is a binding decision of the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Chebrolu Leela Prasad Rao & Ors.