59. Having considered the submissions advanced by counsel for D all the parties, we are of the view that the ruling in Nabam Rebia (supra) does not apply to the factual scenario of the present case. 60. In terms of Article 180 of the Constitution, the Deputy Speaker performs the duties of the Speaker while the office of the Speaker is vacant. The functions of the Speaker include the adjudication of E disqualification petitions. In the present case, the office of the Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly was vacant and the Deputy Speaker Mr. Narhari Zirwal was discharging the functions of the Speaker. A notice of intention to move a resolution for his removal under Article 179 is stated to have been issued on 22 June 2022. Mr. Sunil Prabhu filed disqualification petitions against some of the MLAs led by Mr. Shinde F on 23 June 2022. 61. The first circumstance commences with the notice dated 21 June 2022, under Article 179(c) asking the Deputy Speaker to refrain from discharging his functions. The reply of the Deputy Speaker is crucial. The relevant portion is as under: G “In view of the gravity of the subject matter of the said communication, it is imperative that the genuineness of the communication be verified and ascertained before taking the same on record. Therefore, unless and until the persons who have purportedly signed the aforesaid communication satisfy the H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 905 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] undersigned about the authenticity of any such notice, such A communication is not liable to be taken on record or acted upon. In view of the same and in my capacity as the Master of House, unless and until the genuineness and the veracity of any such communication and its signatories is ascertained, no further action can be taken and said communication dated 22.06.2022 is therefore B not being taken on record. Any such notice will only be taken on record after I am satisfied of its genuineness and authenticity.” 62. It is evident from the above that the Deputy Speaker decided not to take cognizance of the notice under Article 179(c). We believe that the Speaker being the adjudicator, their understanding of the C jurisdiction that they may or may not exercise is of utmost importance. The Deputy Speaker proceeded to issue notices to the respondents on 25 June 2022, requiring them to file written submissions by 27 June 2022. The notice was as follows: “Whereas the Applicant has filed Application Number 1 of 2022 D for disqualification of you Non-Applicant before Deputy Speaker, Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, we hereby along with all the annexed documents issue summons as under. You are instructed to submit written submissions as per the procedure laid in the members of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly (Disqualification E on ground of defections) Rules 1986) by Monday, 27th June 2022 by 5.30 pm to Deputy Speaker. You are also instructed to submit all the relevant documents you are going to rely or dependent to be submitted along with this reply.