Plantation Private Limited v. State of Karnataka42. We may advert to the following views: 42 (2011) 9 SCC 1 H 1102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “178. The principles of eminent domain, as such, are not seen incorporated in Article 300-A, as we see, in Article 30(1-A), as well as in the second proviso to Article 31-A(1) though we can infer those principles in Article 300-A. The provision for payment of compensation has been specifically incorporated in Article 30(1- A) as well as in the second proviso to Article 31-A(1) for achieving B specific objectives. The Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978 while omitting Article 31 brought in a substantive provision clause (1-A) to Article 30. Resultantly, though no individual or even educational institution belonging to majority community shall have any fundamental right to compensation in C case of compulsory acquisition of his property by the State, an educational institution belonging to a minority community shall have such fundamental right to claim compensation in case the State enacts a law providing for compulsory acquisition of any property of an educational institution established and administered by a minority community. Further, the second proviso to Article 31- D A(1) prohibits the legislature from making a law which does not contain a provision for payment of compensation at a rate not less than the market value which follows that a law which does not contain such provision shall be invalid and the acquisition proceedings would be rendered void. E 179. Looking at the history of the various constitutional amendments, judicial pronouncements and the Statement of Objects and Reasons contained in the Forty-fourth Amendment Bill which led to the Forty-fourth Amendment Act we have no doubt that the intention of Parliament was to do away with the fundamental right to acquire, hold and dispose of the property. But the question is F whether the principles of eminent domain are completely obliterated when a person is deprived of his property by the authority of law under Article 300-A of the Constitution. Public purpose 180. Deprivation of property within the meaning of Article 300- G A, generally speaking, must take place for public purpose or public interest. The concept of eminent domain which applies when a person is deprived of his property postulates that the purpose must be primarily public and not primarily of private interest and merely incidentally beneficial to the public. Any law, which deprives a H person of his private property for private interest, will be unlawful ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1103 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] and unfair and undermines the rule of law and can be subjected to A judicial review. But the question as to whether the purpose is primarily public or private, has to be decided by the legislature, which of course should be made known. Compensation 182. We have found that the requirement of public purpose is B invariably the rule for depriving a person of his property, violation of which is amenable to judicial review.