15. Similarly, in the case of Collector of Central Excise, Hyderabad Vs. M/s. Chemphar Drugs and Liniments, Hyderabad3, this Court, while dealing with a similar situation of invocation of extended period of limitation under Section 11(A) of the Act, this Court held as E under: “In to make the demand for duty sustainable beyond a period of six months and up to a period of 5 years in view of the proviso to sub-section 11A of the Act, it has to be established that the duty of excise has not been levied or paid or short-levied or short-paid, or erroneously refunded by F reasons of either fraud or collusion or willful misstatement or suppression of facts or contravention of any provision of the Act or Rules made thereunder, with intent to evade payment of duty. Something positive other than mere inaction or failure on the part of the manufacturer or producer or conscious or G deliberate withholding of information when the manufacturer knew otherwise, is required before it is saddled with any liability, before the period of six months. Whether in a particular set of facts and circumstances there was any fraud 2 1995 Sup (3) SCC 462 H 3 1989 (2) SCC 127 THE COMMISSIONER, CENTRAL EXCISE AND CUSTOMS v. 1295 M/S RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] or collusion or willful misstatement or suppression or A contravention of any provision of any Act, is a question of fact depending upon the facts and circumstances of a particular case. The Tribunal came to the conclusion that the facts referred to hereinbefore do not warrant any inference of fraud. The assesse declared the goods on the basis of their B belief of the interpretation of the provisions of the law that the exempted goods were not required to be included and these did not include the value of the exempted goods which they manufactured at the relevant time. The Tribunal found that the explanation was plausible, and also noted that the Department had full knowledge of the facts about C manufacture of all the goods manufactured by the respondent when the declaration was filed by the respondent. The respondent did not include the value of the products other than those falling under Tariff Item 14E manufactured by the respondent and this was in the knowledge, according to the D Tribunal, of the authorities. These findings of the Tribunal have not been challenged before us or before the Tribunal itself as being based on no evidence” 16. The main submission of the Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the assesse was that during the period under reference i.e. E September 2000 to March 2004, the practice of valuation followed by the assessee was strictly in accordance with the view taken by CESTAT in IFGL’s case. The CESTAT in that case held that duty benefits received by an assessee under the duty exemption scheme announced by the Government cannot be considered as part of the consideration flowing from the buyer, either directly or indirectly.