But the legislature has not stipulated that a child whose legitimacy is protected by sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of Section 16 of the HMA 1955, would become a coparcener by birth. On the other hand, the express language used in sub-section (3) of Section 16 of the HMA 1955 is that the conferment of legitimacy shall not be construed as conferring any rights in or to the property of any person other than the parents. As we have already noted earlier, the very concept of a coparcener postulates the acquisition of an interest by birth. If a person born from a void or voidable marriage to whom legitimacy is conferred by sub-sections (1) or (2) of Section 16 were to have an interest by birth in a Hindu Undivided Family governed by Mitakshara law, this would certainly aff ect the rights of others apart from the parents of the child. Holding that the consequence of legitimacy under sub-sections (1) or (2) of Section 16 is to place such an individual on an equal footing as a coparcener in the coparcenary would be contrary to the plain intendment of sub-section (3) of Section 16 of the HMA 1955 which recognises rights to or in the property only of the parents. In fact, the use of language in the negative by Section 16(3) places the position beyond the pale of doubt. We would therefore have to hold that when an individual falls within the protective ambit of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of Section 16, they would be entitled to rights in or to the absolute property of the parents and no other person. J. The referring revisited 52. The two Judge Bench of this Court in its referring has observed that: (i) The decision in Jinia Keotin (which has been followed in Neelamma) and later in Bharatha Matha has taken a narrow view of Section 16(3) of the HMA 1955; (ii) The legislature has used the expression “property” in Section 16(3) but is silent on whether such property is meant to be ancestral or self-acquired; REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 367 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (iii) Section 16 contains an express mandate that such children are only entitled to the property of their parents and not of any other relation; (iv) Children who are declared to be legitimate under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of Section 16 “cannot be discriminated against and they will be on a par with other legitimate children” and are entitled to all the rights in the property of their parents both self-acquired and ancestral; (v) The prohibition in Section 16(3) will apply to such children with respect to property of any person other than the parents; (vi) With changing social norms what was illegitimate in the past may be legitimate today and Hindu law itself has not remained static with changes in society; (vii) The HMA 1955 is a benefi cent legislation intended to bring about social reforms and hence the interpretation of Section 16(3) needs to be reconsidered; (viii) Amended Section 16 alters the common law position that a child of a marriage which is void or voidable is illegitimate ipso jure but that benefi t is available only when there is a marriage and the marriage is void or voidable in view of the HMA 1955; (ix) In the case of joint family property such children would be entitled to a share only in the property of their parents but cannot claim it in their own right.