D always raises an element of subjectivity on which a court cannot strike down a statute or a statutory provision, especially when the right to property is no more a fundamental right. Otherwise the court will be substituting its wisdom to that of the legislature, which is impermissible in our constitutional democracy.” E 23. It is contended that nil compensation, as contemplated in paragraph 192, is applicable as a State undertakes to discharge liability for providing spaces for requirement for recreational and communal use, which is a public purpose. The area taken under the gift deed from the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 7334 of 2012 has been developed as a walkers’ park and used by the public. It is contended that town planning F legislation has been viewed differently as it served a legitimate State interest. Even in the United States, where the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution contemplates compensation for taking, for public use, private property, courts have upheld validity of zoning regulations which substantially limit the rights of the owners to develop land. Compensation G has been refused. Reliance is placed on Agins v. City of Tiburon24. In India, there is no constitutional guarantee for payment of compensation especially when they are required to serve a legitimate public purpose. The gift of property, apart from serving the larger interest of the community, would also be conducive to the interests of the appellants. H 24 447 US 255 (1980) ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1053 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Refuting the contention of the appellants that the land which is transferred A can be used only by the members of the society and not by the members of the general public, it is pointed out that since reservation is for communal and recreational purposes, the word ‘communal purpose’ must be understood to mean that it is meant for community at large. In the case of proposed development area being 3000 square meters – 10000 B square meters, ‘public access is specifically excluded, as the Rules/ Regulations provide that public access to area earmarked for transfer to Authority, will not be insisted upon’. 24. There is no violation of Article 14. Classification based on size of plot has a clear nexus with the object, viz., planned development. C Reliance is placed on of this Court in State of Maharashtra and another v. Basantibai Mohanlal Khetan and others25. As far as Civil Appeal No(s). 1890-1891 of 2010 is concerned, the complaint of the appellants that the land transferred under the gift was being made use of as a road, which is impermissible, it is contended that it is misleading. It is the case of the respondent that the 10 per centland D transferred, already had a kachha road on the said land and it was being used by the public. The appellants tried to prevent the use of the road. The High Court considered the Report of the Court Commissioner and concluded that furbishing of the road served a larger public interest and provided better connectivity to a larger population.