An appointment to that position cannot be taken lightly or on considerations other than the public interest. E Consequently, it is not possible to accept the contention that the Chief Minister or the State Government is entitled to act only on the perceived suitability of the appointee, over everything else, while advising the Governor to appoint the Chairperson of the Public Service Commission. If such a view is accepted, it will destroy the very fabric of the Public Service Commission.” (para F 119 and 125) 117. It was concluded that the Court can frame guidelines till the Legislature steps in. To quote: “136. In the light of the various decisions of this Court adverted to above, the administrative and constitutional imperative can be met G only if the Government frames guidelines or parameters for the appointment of the Chairperson and Members of the Punjab Public Service Commission. That it has failed to do so does not preclude this Court or any superior court from giving a direction to the State Government to conduct the necessary exercise within a specified period. Only because it is left to the State Legislature to H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 241 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] consider the desirability or otherwise of specifying the qualifications A or experience for the appointment of a person to the position of Chairperson or Member of the Punjab Public Service Commission, does not imply that this Court cannot direct the executive to frame guidelines and set the parameters.This Court can certainly issue appropriate directions in this regard, and in the light of the experience gained over the last several decades coupled with the B views expressed by the Law Commission, the Second Administrative Reform Commission and the views expressed by this Court from time to time, it is imperative for good governance and better administration to issue directions to the executive to frame appropriate guidelines and parameters based on the C indicators mentioned by this Court. These guidelines can and should be binding on the State of Punjab till the State Legislature exercises its power.” (emphasis added) 118. That Article 324(2) refers to the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners which shall, subject to the provisions of any law made in that behalf by Parliament, D be made by the President. It contemplates that the Parliament makes a law laying down the procedure of selection for appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners, but such law has not been made by the Parliament, even after 73 years since the adoption of the Constitution. In to fill the legislative vacuum, i.e. the absence of any law made by the Parliament for the appointment of E members of the Election Commission and in the light of the views expressed in various reports of the Law Commission, Election Commission, etc., this Court is of the considered view that the instant case thus aptly calls for the exercise of the power of this Court under Article 142 to lay down guidelines to govern the process of selection and F removal of Chief Election Commissioner and Election Commissioners, till the Legislature steps in.