Further, the Bengal Regulation of 1781 also G contained provision as reproduced herein: “The judge do recommend and so far as he can without compulsion prevail upon the parties to submit to the arbitration of one person, H 12 AIR 1934 PC 105. M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 405 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] to be mutually agreed upon by the parties … No award of any A arbitrator be set aside, except upon full proof, made by oath of two creditable witnesses that the arbitrators had been guilty of gross corruption or partially, in the course of which they had made their award.”13 54. It is quite evident from the above-mentioned clause that the B Bengal Regulations contained provisions to enable the parties to refer the dispute to be settled by the process of arbitration as per the mutual agreement of the parties, especially in disputes involving breach of the contractual obligations and partnership deeds. Arbitration also found a place in the earliest enacted legislation by the State i.e., Code of Civil C Procedure, 1859. Specifically, the provision in Schedule II of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 contained the procedure relating to arbitration. These statutory provisions primarily dealt with two types of arbitrations: i) Arbitration initiated by the Courts in any pending civil suit. ii) Arbitration wherein there is no involvement or intervention D of the Court. 55. Apart from these two types of arbitration, there evolved a third kind of arbitration known as “Statutory Arbitration” wherein the procedure of arbitration is governed by the provisions contained in the statute. E 56. The major development in the arbitration regime came with the enactment of the Arbitration Act, 1899 which was quite comparable to the English Arbitration Act, 1899. This enactment can be understood as the first step in the direction of enforcement of arbitration in India. The Arbitration Act, 1899 was initially applicable to all the presidency F towns and there existed judicial intervention right from the initial reference of the dispute to the process of arbitration. 57. With the rapidly changing times, the evolution of the arbitration regime in India also gained momentum. The Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 was amended to insert the provision contained under Section 89 G which exclusively dealt with the applicability and enforceability of the arbitration. In the early 20th century, arbitration emerged as an acceptable 13 C. V. Nagarjuna Reddy, Role of Arbitration in the Wake of CPC (Amendment) Act, 1999, The Indian Council of Arbitration, https://www.icaindia.co.in/icanet/quterli/apr- june2002/ica5.html(Last accessed on 22nd January, 2023 at 10:50 pm). H 406 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A mode of dispute resolution and in to meet its growing popularity, the Arbitration Act, 1940 (hereinafter being referred to as the “Act, 1940”) was enacted by the legislature. The Act, 1940 was enacted with the primary motive of providing speedy and less costly method of dispute resolution in the form of arbitration. However, there existed many inadequacies in the practical application of the provisions contained in B the Act, 1940.