Satyapal (1977) 4 SCC 467, it is prayed that as the plaint is vexatious and meritless and creates illusion of a cause of action by clever drafting the same should be rejected at the earliest. F 3.5 It is submitted that if partition deed dated 11.03.1953 was to be challenged, which the plaintiffs are attempting to do virtually, the suit would be hopelessly barred by limitation having being instituted after a lapse of 61 years from the partition deed. 3.6 It is submitted that as such the plaintiffs did not have any G cause of action to institute the suit. It is submitted that all the registered sale deeds and the partition deed alleged to be forming cause of action of the suit are executed in accordance with the respective parties in accordance with the rights granted to them/their legal ascendants under partition deed dated 11.03.1953. H RAMISETTY VENKATANNA & ANR. v. NASYAM JAMAL 595 SAHEB & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 3.7 It is further submitted that the High Court ought to have A appreciated and/or considered that the present suit is frivolous and vexatious because the plaintiffs are attempting to re-partition; and unsettle the title and possession of numerous family members and third parties like the appellants herein by alleging that there was an error in partition deed dated 11.03.1953 which was executed by grandparents of parties B with their free will at a point when the parties were not even born. 3.8 Making the above submissions and relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Raj Narain Sarin Vs. Laxmi Devi and Ors. (2002) 10 SCC 501 and in the case of T. Arivandandam (supra), it is prayed to allow the present appeal and quash and set aside the C passed by the learned Single Judge as well as that of the learned Trial Court rejecting the application under VII Rule XI and consequently, reject the plaint being barred by the limitation and the suit being vexatious and illusory cause of action. 4. Present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri B. Adinarayana D Rao, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the original plaintiffs. 4.1 It is vehemently submitted by learned Senior Advocate that in the facts and circumstances of the case neither learned Trial Court nor the High Court have committed any error in dismissing the application under VII Rule XI of the CPC and in not rejecting the plaint. E 4.2 It is vehemently submitted by learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the original plaintiffs that as such in the present case neither partition deed dated 11.03.1953 nor the boundaries of the properties are in dispute. It is submitted that the dispute is limited to the wrong survey number mentioned therein with respect to the share of F Nasyam Ibrahim, Sarambee and Jainabee only. 4.3 It is submitted that as per the settled position of law what is important is boundaries and not the survey number mentioned in the document. Reliance is placed upon the decision of the Privy Council in the case of The Palestine Kupat Am Bank Co-operative Society G Ltd.