13. Having given anxious consideration to the rival submissions and having examined the record, we are clearly of the view that the impugned s cannot be approved and the appellants deserve an opportunity to contest the suit on merits. C 14. Section 17 of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887, on which reliance has been placed by the Trial Court and by the High Court whiledeclining the prayer for setting aside ex parte decree, reads as under: - D “17. Application of the Code of Civil Procedure.—(1) The procedure prescribed in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall save in so far as is otherwise provided by that Code or by this Act, be the procedure followed in a Court of Small Causes, in all suits cognizable by it and in all proceedings arising out of such suits: E Provided that an applicant for an to set aside a decree passed ex parte or for a review of shall, at the time of presenting his application, either deposit in the Court the amount due from him under the decree or in pursuance of the , or give such security for the performance of the decree or F compliance with the as the Court may, on a previous application made by him in this behalf, have directed. (2) Where a person has become liable as surety under the proviso to sub-section (1), the security may be realized in manner provided by Section 145 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 G (5 of 1908).” 14.1. Rule 13 of IX of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 could also be extracted for ready reference as under: - “13. Setting aside decree ex part against defendants.- In any case in which a decree is passed ex parte against a H SHYAM KUMAR GUPTA & ORS. v. SHUBHAM JAIN 883 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] defendant, he may apply to the Court by which the decree was A passed for an to set it aside; and if he satisfies the Court that the summons was not duly served, or that he was prevented by any sufficient cause from appearing when the suit was called on for hearing, the Court shall make an setting aside the decree as against him upon such terms as to costs, payment into B Court or otherwise as it thinks fit, and shall appoint a day for proceeding with the suit: Provided that where the decree is of such a nature that it cannot be set aside as against such defendant only it may be set aside as against all or any of the other defendants also: C Provided further that no Court shall set aside a decree passed ex parte merely on the ground that there has been an irregularity in the service of summons, if it is satisfied that the defendant had notice of the date of hearing and had sufficient time to appear and answer the plaintiffs claim. D Explanation. -Where there has been an appeal against a decree passed ex parte under this rule, and the appeal has been disposed of an any ground other than the ground that the appellant has withdrawn the appeal, no application shall lie under this rule for setting aside the ex parte decree.” E 15.