In the Registration Act, 1908, immovable property includes, apart from land and buildings, things attached to the earth or permanently fastened to anything which is attached to the earth but not including standing timber, growing crops or grass. Most importantly, we cannot also be oblivious that Section 8 of the Transfer of Property Act declares that in the absence of an express or implied indication, a H THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S 1135 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] transfer of property passes to the transferee all the interests, which the A transferor was capable of passing in the property and in the legal incidents thereof. Such incidentsincludes, inter alia, where the property is land, all things attached to the earth. When the property is machinery attached to the earth, the movable parts thereof also are comprehended in the transfer. B 37. In the Recital Clause, a proper reading of the same would tend to indicate that what is conveyed is rights over the scheduled property, which, no doubt, is the land, as described in the Schedule but it includes all the rights, easements, interests, etc., i.e., the rights which ordinarily passed on such sale over the land. It is from a reading the said recital in C conjunction with Section 8 of the Transfer of Property Act that the intention of the parties become self-evident that the vendor intended to convey, all things, which inter alia stood attached to the earth. The mere fact that there is no express reference to plant and machinery in the Recital Clause cannot mean that the interest in the plant and machinery which stood attached to the land, which was scheduled, was not conveyed D to the first respondent. The value of, what was actually purchased, has been expressly set out in the Preamble to the sale deed. The value has been reflected as Rs.8.35 crores. The sum of Rs.8.35 crores had been, inunambiguousterms, indicated as the total sale consideration for the asset sold to the first respondent, comprising of land, building, civil works, E plant and machinery and current assets, etc. The first respondent hastaken out the value of the land, building and civil works, and shown it at Rs.10105000/-, and then indicating only the said amount as value. This is apparently to tide over the liability to stamp duty for what was actually, in law, conveyed to the first respondent. The Division Bench appears to have proceeded on the basis that the first appellant could not force F Respondents 1 and 2 to pay stamp duty on the value of the plant and machinery, when they do not seek its registration. As respondents 1 and 2 had given up their claim for exemption based on the Government , the Division Bench accepted the same. The Division Bench overlooked the nature of the transaction, the effect of the auction sale, the property G sold and their value, and the fact that the Company Judge had by dated 15.06.2004 left it open to the authority to determine the liability.