Illustrations (a) That there are certain objects arranged in a certain in a certain place, is a fact. (b) That a man heard or saw something, is a fact. (c) That a man said certain words, is a fact. (d) That a man holds a certain opinion, has a certain intention, acts in good faith or fraudulently, or uses a particular word in a particular sense, or is or was at a specifi ed time conscious of a particular sensation, is a fact. (e) That a man has a certain reputation, is a fact. NARESH @ NEHRU v. STATE OF HARYANA 783 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] ‘Relevant’.—One fact is said to be relevant to another when the one is connected with the other in any of the ways referred to in the provisions of this Act relating to the relevancy of facts.” In the instant case, the confessional statement of the accused relied upon by the prosecution was admittedly recorded after the arrest of those accused persons when accused 4, 5, and 6 were in police custody. Hence, said statement would become inadmissible having regard to the provisions of Sections 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act, of 1872. Section 25 of the Act in no uncertain terms makes it clear that no confession made to a police offi cer shall be proved as against a person accused of any off ence. Likewise, Section 26 states that any such statement is inadmissible if given while in police custody. For this proposition, the of this Court in Indra Dalal vs. State of Haryana (2015) 11 SCC 31 can be looked up. 10. As already noticed hereinabove prosecution has attempted to drive home the guilt of the accused based on accused persons having shared a common object, by pressing into service Section 149 of IPC. This provision does not create a separate off ence but only declares vicarious liability of all members of unlawful assembly for acts done in common object. Thus, in to attract Section 149 of the Code it must be shown by the prosecution that the incriminating act was done to accomplish the common object by such unlawful assembly. It must be within the knowledge of the other members as one likely to be committed in furtherance of the common object. Even if no overt act is imputed to the accused, the presence of the accused as part of the unlawful assembly is suffi cient for conviction. The inference of a common object has to be drawn from various factors such as the weapons with which the members were armed, their movements, the acts of violence committed by them, and the end result. This court in Roy Fernandes vs. State of Goa and Others (2012) 3 SCC 221 has held: “18. That leaves us with the question whether the commission of murder by a member of an unlawful assembly that does not have murder as its common object would attract the provisions of Section 149 IPC? 19. Section 149 IPC reads: 784 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.