7. The other learned counsel who have appeared, brought to our notice that in the instant case, there were two reports filed and therefore, it was all the more necessary that the said reports had to be considered F in to examine as to whether there were contradictions in them and were in accordance with law. 8. Learned ASG appearing for the respondent No.2 as well as other learned counsel for private respondents also supported the arguments of learned Solicitor General. G 9. We find substance in the submissions made by learned Solicitor General, learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the respective parties. As already noted, the first respondent is the contesting respondent herein who has been served and has failed to appear in these cases. H SINGRAULI SUPER THERMAL POWER STATION v. 449 ASHWANI KUMAR DUBEY & ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 10. The directions issued by the NGT have been extracted A above.The aforesaid directions are in light of the recommendations made by the expert Committee vide two reports submitted to the NGT. It is noted that the NGT has extracted the report/s as well as the recommendations at paragraphs 14-16 of the impugned and has observed as under: B “14. Points for determination are remedial action against pollution due to failure to scientifically manage and utilise the flyash, accountability for damage due to breach of Rihand reservoir and due to breach of ash pond, resulting in deaths and injuries and damage to the crops and environment. As already mentioned, C legacy fly ash is 1670.602 Million Tonnes as on 31.12.2021 which has potential for serious damage to the environment as shown by incidents of dyke breaches contaminating sources of water and air pollution making industrial areas critically polluted. Air control devices are not installed in many TPPs. There are incidents of deaths, injuries and loss of flora and fauna. D 15. We have considered the data furnished in the reports furnished in pursuance of earlier s of this Tribunal dated 04.11.2020 in OA No. 117/2014, 14.07.2020 in OA No. 164/2018 and 29.6.2020 in OA No. 148/2020, including the recommendations for remedial action. The compliance status as projected in the reports of the E Joint Committees/Oversight Committees shows huge gap in storing, handling, management and utilization of fly ash and consequential continuing damage to the environment and public health. Such huge gaps are patent from the recommendations part in the reports. Deficiencies noted in respect of some individual TPPs appear to F be of representative nature and may exist in almost all TPPs, unless shown otherwise on the ground and not in the form of self- serving denial. In the light of the said recommendations, further remedial action needs to be taken to enforce the principle of sustainable development under section 20 of the NGT Act. The recommendations are reproduced below: G “M/s NTPC Limited Shakti Nagar Sonbhadra: Recommendations of the Committee xxx H 450 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A M/s NTPC Limited Rihand Super Thermal Power (Power Plant) Recommendations of the Committee xxx B M/s Anpara Thermal Power Plant (Power Plant) Recommendations of the Committee xxx M/s Anpara ‘C’ Lanco Thermal Power Station C Recommendations of the Committee xxx M/s Renusagar Thermal Power Plant Recommendations of the Committee D xxx M/s Obra Thermal Power Station (Power Plant) Recommendations of the Committee xxx E Coal Mines of M/s Northern Coalfields Limited (NCL) 1.