A collective accountability and responsibility of Ministers, this Court said in paragraph 10 as follows: “10. ...The Governor runs the Executive Government of a State with the aid and advice of the Chief Minister and the Council of Ministers which exercise the powers and performs its duties by B the individual Ministers as public officers with the assistance of the bureaucracy working in various departments and corporate sectors etc. Though they are expressed in the name of the Governor, each Minister is personally and collectively responsible for the actions, acts and policies. They are accountable and answerable to the people. Their powers and duties are regulated C by the law and the rules. The legal and moral responsibility or liability for the acts done or omissions, duties performed and policy laid down rest solely on the Minister of the Department. Therefore, they are indictable for their conduct or omission, or misconduct or misappropriation. The Council of Ministers are jointly and D severally responsible to the Legislature. He/they is/are also publicly accountable for the acts or conducts in the performance of duties.” 120. Again, in paragraph 11, this Court outlined the responsibility of the Ministers as follows: E “11. The Minister holds public office though he gets constitutional status and performs functions under the Constitution, law or executive policy. The acts done and duties performed are public acts or duties as the holder of public office. Therefore, he owes certain accountability for the acts done or duties performed. In a democratic society governed by rule of law, power is conferred F on the holder of the public office or the authority concerned by the Constitution by virtue of appointment. The holder of the office, therefore, gets opportunity to abuse or misuse the office. The politician who holds public office must perform public duties with the sense of purpose, and a sense of direction, under rules or G sense of priorities. The purpose must be genuine in a free democratic society governed by the rule of law to further socio- economic democracy. The Executive Government should frame its policies to maintain the social , stability, progress and morality. All actions of the Government are performed through/ by individual persons in collective or joint or individual capacity. H Therefore, they should morally be responsible for their actions.” KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 699 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 121. In Vineet Narain vs. Union of India.110, this Court was A concerned with a public interest litigation under Article 32 complaining about the inaction on the part of the Central Bureau of Investigation in a matter relating to the disclosures contained in what came to be known as “Jain Diaries”. After taking note of the Report of Lord Nolan on “Standards in Public Life”, this Court issued certain directions, though B confined only to the Central Bureau of Investigation, Enforcement Directorate and Prosecution Agency. But Lord Nolan’s Report dealt mainly with principles of public life and code of conduct. 122. The decision in Common Cause was little peculiar and riddled with some problems.