The fi ndings recorded by the Court for grant or refusing bail being tentative, will not have any bearing on the merits of the case, and are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such off ence and that he is not likely to commit any off ence while on bail: Provided that a person, who, is under the age of sixteen years, or is a woman or is sick or infi rm or is accused either on his own or along with other co-accused of money- laundering a sum of less than one crore rupees, may be released on bail, if the Special Court so directs: Provided further that the Special Court shall not take cognizance of any off ence punishable under Section 4 except upon a complaint in writing made by— (i) the Director; or (ii) any offi cer of the Central Government or a State Government authorised in writing in this behalf by the Central Government by a general or special made in this behalf by that Government. (1-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), or any other provision of this Act, no police offi cer shall investigate into an off ence under this Act unless specifi cally authorised, by the Central Government by a general or special , and, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed. (2) The limitation on granting of bail specifi ed in sub-section (1) is in addition to the limitations under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) or any other law for the time being in force on granting of bail. Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is clarifi ed that the expression ‘Off ences to be cognizable and non-bailable’ shall mean and shall be deemed to have always meant that all off ences under this Act shall be cognizable off ences and non-bailable off ences notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), and accordingly the offi cers authorised under this Act are empowered to arrest an accused without warrant, subject to the fulfi lment of conditions under section 19 and subject to the conditions enshrined under this section. 498 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the trial court would proceed and decide the case on the basis of evidence produced during trial without in any manner being prejudiced thereby. 9. We have copiously referred to the assertions, arguments and contentions of both sides, and in terms of the mandate in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), we will be examining the allegations and the legal position to form our tentative opinion. However, we must notice and take on record at some aspects upfront. 10. First, the assertion that Rs. 2,20,00,000 (rupees two crores twenty lakhs only) was paid as bribe to the appellant – Manish Sisodia by Amit Arora, through middleman Dinesh Arora, is not a charge or an allegation made in the chargesheet fi led by the CBI. It may be diffi cult to regard the alleged payment as a ‘proceed of crime’ under the PML Act.