In fact, Chapter XIX of the Companies Act 2013 was deleted/omitted in terms of Act No. 31 of 2016 and the Eleventh Schedule in the Code, with effect from 15th November 2016. The Code, as enacted, is a separate and consolidated enactment specifically relating to and dealing G with companies which are insolvent and unable to pay dues, and envisages a procedure with a mandate to first explore possibility of rehabilitation and revival of the company, and the dissolution/ winding up as the last call. This is significant and completely replaces the then existing framework for insolvency and H 88 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A bankruptcy resolution that was inadequate, ineffective and guilty of causing undue delays. The enactment of the Code and the amendments thereafter are a consequence of detailed consultation and deliberations by several committees, commissions and experts , in a matter which deals with the economy of the country as a whole. [Para 7.2, 7.3][115-A-E] B 1.6 The waterfall mechanism now prescribed in the Code with reference to the workmen’s dues is a well-considered and thought-out decision. The waterfall mechanism and the hierarchy prescribed to the workmen’s dues should be seen in the overall objective of the Code, which is to explore whether the corporate C debtor can be revived so that jobs are not lost, the use of economic assets is maximised, and there is an effective legal framework which enhances the viability of credit in the hands of banks and financial institutions. The Code recognises the financial impact on secured creditors or financial institutions dealing with public D money, as their economic health is equally important for the general public as well as the national economy. Unless there is economic growth and fresh investments in the industry, employment opportunities will not be available, which would in turn lead to economic woes, insolvencies and bankruptcies. These are all complex economic matters wherein various conflicting E interests have to be balanced, and a holistic rather than a one- sided, approach is to be taken. Each opinion may have merit, but the court can hardly substitute its own wisdom or view for that of the legislature, especially when the enactment is the outcome of a thought-out and ruminated review on complex fiscal and F commercial challenges facing the economy. [Para 8][116-B-F] 1.7 The Companies Act, 2013 does not deal with insolvency and bankruptcy when the companies are unable to pay their debts or the aspects relating to the revival and rehabilitation of the companies and their winding up if revival and rehabilitation is G not possible. In principle, it cannot be doubted that the cases of revival or winding up of the company on the ground of insolvency and inability to pay debts are different from cases where companies are wound up under Section 271 of the Companies Act 2013. The H MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 89 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA two situations are not identical. Under Section 271 of the A Companies Act, 2013, even a running and financially sound company can also be wound up for the reasons in clauses (a) to (e).