It is not proper to sacrifice certainty of law. Judicial decorum, no less than legal propriety forms the basis of judicial procedure and it must be respected at all costs.” Xxx xxx xxx 90. We are distressed to note that despite several E pronouncements on the subject, there is substantial increase in the number of cases involving violation of the basics of judicial discipline. The learned Single Judges and Benches of the High Courts refuse to follow and accept the verdict and law laid down by coordinate and even larger Benches by F citing minor difference in the facts as the ground for doing so. Therefore, it has become necessary to reiterate that disrespect to the constitutional ethos and breach of discipline have grave impact on the credibility of judicial institution and encourages chance litigation. It must be remembered that predictability and certainty is an important hallmark of judicial G jurisprudence developed in this country in the last six decades and increase in the frequency of conflicting s of the superior judiciary will do incalculable harm to the system inasmuch as the courts at the grass roots will not be able to decide as to which of the s lay down the correct law H and which one should be followed. STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 181 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 91. We may add that in our constitutional set-up every citizen A is under a duty to abide by the Constitution and respect its ideals and institutions. Those who have been entrusted with the task of administering the system and operating various constituents of the State and who take oath to act in accordance with the Constitution and uphold the same, have to set an B example by exhibiting total commitment to the constitutional ideals. This principle is required to be observed with greater rigour by the members of judicial fraternity who have been bestowed with the power to adjudicate upon important constitutional and legal issues and protect and preserve rights of the individuals and society as a whole. Discipline is sine C qua non for effective and efficient functioning of the judicial system. If the courts command others to act in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and rule of law, it is not possible to countenance violation of the constitutional principle by those who are required to lay down the law.” D (Emphasis supplied) We need to add nothing more in this context. DELAY IN TRIAL ON ACCOUNT OF FURTHER INVESTIGATION E 83. It was vehemently submitted on behalf of the accused that further investigation if permitted after such a long lapse of time, would result in delay in trial. For years to come, the sword of Damocles should not be kept hanging on the neck of the accused persons. In such circumstances, it was argued before us that keeping in mind that this litigation is now almost more than a decade old, it will not be in fitness of F things to put the accused persons to trial.