interference therewith would still be not available within the jurisdiction of the Court unless, of course, the reasons are totally perverse or the is based on a wrong proposition of law” 24. This enunciation has been endorsed in several cases (Ref McDermott International Inc. v. Burn Standard Co. Ltd18). In MSK Projects (I) (JV) Ltd v State of Rajasthan19 it was held that an error in interpretation 17 2003 Supp (2) SCR 55 18 2006 Suppl. (2) SCR 409 19 2011 (9) SCR 402 M/S HINDUSTAN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY LIMITED v. 639 M/S NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] of a contract by an arbitrator is “an error within his jurisdiction”. The position was spelt out even more clearly in Associate Builders (supra), where the court said that: “[..] if an arbitrator construes a term of the contract in a reasonable manner, it will not mean that the award can be set aside on this ground. Construction of the terms of a contract is primarily for an arbitrator to decide unless the arbitrator construes the contract in such a way that it could be said to be something that no fair minded or reasonable person could do.” 25. Before ending the discussion, it would be also necessary to highlight one aspect which is likely to arise in some arbitration proceedings, especially when it involves adjudication by multi-member tribunals. This aspect was highlighted in Russel on Arbitration, where the relevance of a dissenting opinion was explained as follows [as quoted in Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd. v. Navigant Technologies (P) Ltd (hereafter, “Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd”)20]: “6-058. Dissenting opinions.—Any member of the Tribunal who does not assent to an award need not sign it but may set out his own views of the case, either within the award document or in a separate “dissenting opinion”. The arbitrator should consider carefully whether there is good reason for expressing his dissent, because a dissenting opinion may encourage a challenge to the award. This is for the parties’ information only and does not form part of the award, but it may be admissible as evidence in relation to the procedural matters in the event of a challenge or may add weight to the arguments of a party wishing to appeal against the award.”.21 This court also quoted Gary B. Born’s commentary on International Commercial Arbitration22 opinion: 20 2021 (1) SCR 1135 21 David St. John Sutton, Judith Gill and Matthew Gearing QC, Russel on Arbitration, 24th Edn. (Sweet & Maxwell), p. 313. 22 Gary Born, International Commercial Arbitration, Wolters Kluwer, Edn. 2009, Vol. II, p. 2466 & 2469. 640 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. “Even absent express authorization in national law or applicable institutional rules (or otherwise), the right to provide a dissenting or separate opinion is an appropriate concomitant of the arbitrator’s adjudicative function and the Tribunal’s related obligation to make a reasoned award. Although there are legal systems where dissenting or separate opinions are either not permitted, or not customary, these domestic rules have little application in the context of party-nominated co-arbitrators, and diverse Tribunals.