6 is valid, subsisting and binding upon the defendants and upon persons claiming by, through or under the defendants; (b) That this Hon’ble Court be pleased to and decree F the defendant to specifically perform the said agreement arrived at on March 27, 2019 for sale of the 50% shareholding of the defendants in the plaintiff no.6 as reduced into writing and as recorded by the email dated March 28, 2019 of the defendant no.2 inter alia by: G (i) executing, signing and attesting all necessary deeds and documents necessa1y to transfer, assign and vest the fifty percent shareholding of the defendants in the plaintiff no.6 in favour of the plaintiffs or their nominees; H 502 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (ii) handing over original title deeds, documents and writings in respect of the suit plot which are lying with the defendant no.2 and in the locker to be operated jointly by the defendant no.2 and the plaintiff no.2 to the plaintiffs. (iii) doing or causing to be done all acts, deeds, matters and B things and to sign, execute and register all deeds, documents and writings as may be necessary for the transfer of the said 50% shares of the Agarwal Group to the plaintiff nos. l to 5 and/or to their nominees free of all claims of the defendants. (iv) Tendering their resignation from Directorship of the C plaintiff no. 6 company. (c) That this Hon’ble Court be pleased to and decree the defendants to do or cause to be done all acts, deeds, matters and things and to sign and execute all deeds, documents or writings necessary under the supervision of this Hon’ble Court for the purposes of the of specific D performance or to give effect to the reliefs sought in terms of prayer (b) above. (d) That for the purposes aforesaid all inquiries be made, awards be made, s be passed, directions be given and accounts be taken as this Hon’ble Court may deem just and E proper in the facts and circumstances of the case.” 2. Time mentioned in the agreement will begin from today. 3. Suit accordingly stands disposed. Notice of motion accordingly also stands disposed. F 4. Refund of court fees, if any, in accordance with rules. 5. Drawn up decree dispensed with. 6. All to act on authenticated copy of this . (K.R. SHRIRAM, J. )” G 5. After the suit was thus decreed, the counsels of the parties engaged in further correspondence, without much success. Consequently, Kotharis filed an execution proceeding3 on 13.09.2019 - as did the Agrawals,4 on 16.01.2020. Several interim applications were also filed. 3 Execution Application (L) No. 1713/2019. H 4 Execution Application (L) No. 139/2020. SANWARLAL AGRAWAL v. ASHOK KUMAR KOTHARI 503 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] The single judge, by a common dated 04.01.2021, held that the A decree was ambiguous. While noting that the Agrawals had neither filed any reply to the Notice of Motion, nor any written statement, the Executing Court held that in exercise of its jurisdiction, it was competent to construe the decree by looking into the pleadings.