(cf. also Union Territory, Chandigarh v. Mohinder Singh [(1997) 3 SCC 68: 1997 SCC (L&S) 633]. )” 13. In paragraph 8 thereof, it was further held thus: - D “8. If an passed under Article 311(2) proviso (c) is assailed before a court of law on the ground that the satisfaction of the President or the Governor is not based on circumstances which have a bearing on the security of the State, the court can examine the circumstances on which the satisfaction of the President or the Governor is based; and if E it finds that the said circumstances have no bearing whatsoever on the security of the State, the court can hold that the satisfaction of the President or the Governor which is required for passing such an has been vitiated by wholly extraneous or irrelevant considerations.” F 14. In the decision in Union of India v. M.M. Sharma5, this Court held that dismissal without an inquiry in the interest of national security under clause (c) of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) of the Constitution did not require recording of reasons for dispensing with the inquiry. At the same time, it was held that there were records to indicate G that there are sufficient and cogent reasons for dispensing with the inquiry in the interest of the security of the State. In paragraph 28 thereof, it was held that, the power to be exercised under sub-clauses (a), (b) and (c) being special and extraordinary powers conferred by the Constitution, there was no obligation on the part of the disciplinary authority to 5 (2011) 11 SCC 293 H 790 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A communicate the reasons for imposing the penalty of dismissal and not any other penalty. 15. In paragraph 30, it was held thus: - “30. If in terms of the mandate of the Constitution, the communication of the charge and holding of an enquiry could B be dispensed with, in view of the interest involving security of the State, there is equally for the same reasons no necessity of communicating the reasons for arriving at the satisfaction as to why the extreme penalty of dismissal is imposed on the delinquent officer. The High Court was, therefore, not justified C in passing the impugned .” 16. After carefully going through the provisions under Clause (iii) of Rule 16 of the CCA Rules, we have already found, as concurrently found by the Central Administrative Tribunal and the High Court, that the said provision is a service rule virtually reproducing clause (c) of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) of the Constitution of India though the D language used is not identical. We have also noted that the appellant did not dispute that Rule 16 (iii) is in pari materia with clause (c) of the second proviso to Article 311 (2). When once it is so found, there cannot be any doubt with respect to the position, as settled in Tulsiram Patel and Ors. (supra) and reiterated in subsequent decisions, that adherence E to principles of natural justice i.e., conducting inquiry after issuing charge sheet and providing hearing to a government servant on those charges, in case of proposal to impose any of the aforesaid three major penalties would not arise when the power under Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules is invoked.