per cent per mensem on the amount of deficit stamp duty calculated A from the date of the execution of the instrument till the date of actual payment: Provided that the amount of interest under this sub-section shall be recalculated if the amount of deficit stamp duty is varied on appeal or revision or by any of a competent B Court or authority. (4B) The amount of interest payable under sub-section (4A) shall be added to the amount due and be also deemed for all purposes to be part of the amount required to be paid. C (4C) Where realisation of the deficit stamp duty remained stayed by any of any Court or authority and such of stay is subsequently vacated, the interest referred to in sub-section (4A) shall be payable also for any period during which such of stay remained in operation. (4D) Any amount paid or deposited by, or recovered from, or D refundable to, a person under the provision of this Act, shall first be adjusted towards the deficit stamp duty or penalty outstanding against him and the excess, if any, shall then be adjusted towards the interest, if any, due from him.” 23. Accordingly, in this case, an adjudication was made by the E Assistant Stamp Collector. After inspection of the sale deed property, the Assistant Stamp Collector came to the conclusion that the description of the property in the sale deed was incorrect. The Assistant Collector observed that in the sale deed, the covered area of the land is shown as 970 meters, but actually, it was found to be 995 sq. meters. The Assistant F Collector referred to four sale transactions of the year 2010 which were in relation to the properties which were a part of the same larger property wherein the market value shown was Rs. 24,000/- per sq. meter. The determination of market value by taking the market value at Rs. 24,000/ - per sq. meters has been approved by the Assistant Collector, Appellate Authority and the High Court. G 24.It appears to be an accepted position that the appellants were tenants of the vendor in respect of the sale deed property. The test for determination of the market value is very simple. The market value is the one which a bona fide and willing buyer will offer. It is apparent that if the property subject matter of the sale is in possession of the H 530 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A vendor himself, the bona fide purchaser will offer more price for the property than the price which he may offer for a similar property which is in possession of a tenant. There is no doubt that a property in possession of a tenant or tenants will fetch lesser value in the open market than the market value of a similar property exclusively in possession of the vendor. The reason is that the buyer will not get actual possession of the portion B of the property in possession of the tenant.