1286 SUPR[2E0M23E] 9C OSU.CR.RT . R1E2P8O6 R: T2S023 INSC 59[21023] 9 S.C.R. A THE COMMISSIONER, CENTRAL EXCISE AND CUSTOMS AND ANOTHER v. M/S RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD. B (Civil Appeal No. 6033 of 2009) JULY 04, 2023 [KRISHNA MURARI AND BELA M. TRIVEDI, JJ.] Central Excise Act, 1944: s. 11A – Demand for differential duty of excise – Invocation of extended period of limitation – C Allegation that the assessee incorrectly determined the assessable value of its finished goods by not including the monetary value of the duty benefits that it had obtained from its customers as a result of the transfer of the advance licenses – Demand of differential duty during the material period by the Department invoking the D extended period of limitation available u/s. 11A(1) proviso – Demand raised beyond the normal limitation period of one year – Allegation that the assessee suppressed the relevant facts and made wilful misstatements withholding material information and documents from the department – Demand for differential duty confirmed against the assessee – However, the tribunal set aside the same – On appeal, E held: In the absence of any specific column or note as under Form ER-1, requiring separate disclosure of the value of deemed export clearances, no merit in the findings of the adjudicating authority that there was suppression of facts as a consequence of assessee’s failure to separately disclose the value of deemed export clearances F – Moreover, the issue of valuation involved is one where two plausible views could co-exist – In such cases, it would be totally unjustified to invoke the extended period of limitation by considering the assessee’s view to be lacking bonafides – Whereas, assessee’s conduct during the material period cannot be considered to be malafide when it merely followed the view taken by the tribunal in G IFGL’s case which was later overturned by this Court – As regards, disclosure of facts, the assessee had disclosed to the department its pricing policy by giving separate letters – Assessee can be accused for suppressing only such facts which it was otherwise required to be disclosed under the law – However, the revenue unable to show H the provision or rule which required the assessee to make additional 1286 THE COMMISSIONER, CENTRAL EXCISE AND CUSTOMS v. 1287 M/S RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD. disclosures of documents or facts – Thus, the assertion that there A was suppression of facts not tenable – Furthermore, the demands raised are time barred. Dismissing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The format of the ER-1/RT-12 return which the B assessee was required to file on a monthly basis for intimating to the department the value of clearances effected and the amounts of duties paid thereon. There is no separate column or requirement in these forms for declaring the value and other details of clearances effected to the deemed export buyers i.e. holders of advance licenses. Note 4 under Form ER–1 does C require separate details to be mentioned for exports under bond. Indisputedly clearance made to domestic buyers even if they are considered deemed exports are not clearances for “exports under bond” for which category of clearances alone requirement existed for separate disclosure in the ER-1/RT-12 returns.