H 168 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A History and instances of Demonetisation: 10. Before proceeding to consider the rival contentions, it would be useful to delineate on the concept of demonetisation and how it has been carried out, the world over as well as in India. 10.1 In prosaic terms, demonetisation is the process by which a B nation’s economic unit of exchange loses its legally enforceable validity. Currencies that are terminated through the process of demonetisation are no more legally considered exchanges and have no financial value. Demonetisation is therefore, the process of eliminating the lawful acceptance status of a monetary unit, by withdrawal of certain kinds or C denominations of existing currency from circulation. The currency withdrawn may be supplanted with new currency. 10.2 The French were the first to use the term “Demonetise” in the years between the years 1850-1855.In world history, one can see several instances of demonetisations as many D countries have adopted the policy of demonetisation. Some instances of demonetisation globally, may be recorded as under: a) United States of America: One of the oldest examples of demonetisation may be found in the United States, when E the Coinage Act of 1873, ed the elimination of silver as legal tender in favour of the gold standard. Again, in the year 1969, to combat the existence of black money in the country and to restore the country’s economy, President Richard Nixon declared all currencies over $100 to be null. F b) Britain: Before the year 1971, the currency of pound and penny used to be in circulation in Britain but to bring uniformity in currency, the government stopped circulation of old currency in 1971, and introduced coins of 5 and 10 pounds. G c) Congo: Mobutu Sese Seko made some changes with respect to the currency in circulation in Congo, for the smooth running of its economy during the Nineties. d) Ghana: In the year 1982, Ghana demonetised notes of 50 Cedis denomination to tackle tax evasion and empty excess liquidity. H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 169 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] e) Nigeria: Demonetisation was carried out during the A government of Muhammadu Buhari in the year 1984, when Nigeria introduced new currency and banned old notes. f) Myanmar: In the year 1987, Myanmar’s military invalidated around 80% of the value of money to curb black marketing. B g) Russia (formerly U.S.S.R): In the year 1991, in an attempt to combat the parallel economy, 50 and 100 Ruble notes were removed from circulation under the leadership of Mikhail Gorbachev. h) Venezuela: In the year 2016, the Government of Venezuela C demonetised 100 Bolívares notes on 11th December, 2016, to achieve economic, monetary and price stability. i) Zimbabwe: In 2015, the Zimbabwean government chose to replace the Zimbabwe Dollar with the US Dollar in to stabilize hyperinflation. D History of Demonetisation in India: j) The first demonetisation was carried out on 12th January, 1946.To bring to realisation the first demonetisation that the country witnessed, an Ordinance was promulgated by E the Government on 12thJanuary, 1946.