H 894 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 42. Mr. Devdatt Kamat, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners made the following submissions: a. The term ‘political party’ as it occurs in the Tenth Schedule relates to the association of persons registered under Section 29A of the Representation of the People Act 1951. ‘Political B party’ refers to the leadership structure subsisting on the date of the alleged prohibited conduct until the recognition of the political party and its leadership structure is altered under the law; b. The members of the legislature party cannot claim that they represent the political party as a defence to the C disqualification petitions instituted against them. Any such factionis only entitled to advance such a claim before the ECI in proceedings under the Symbols . The members cannot indulge in conduct that is prohibited under the Tenth Schedule until their claim is settled under the Symbols ; D c. The Tenth Schedule will be put on a hiatus if the contention of the respondents that the disqualification petitions depend on the adjudication of their claim under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols is accepted; and d. The respondents could not have initiated proceedings under E Paragraph 15 of the Symbols when disqualification petitions are pending against them since the factor of legislative majority laid down in Sadiq Ali v. Election Commission of India18 maybe altered based on the adjudication of the disqualification proceedings. F 43. Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, made the following submissions: a. In terms of Paragraph 6 of the Tenth Schedule, the Speaker is the sole constitutional authority to adjudicate upon the issue of disqualification. Moreover, Article 212(1) of the G Constitution provides that the validity of proceedings of the state legislature cannot be called into question before courts. The petitioners are attempting to surpass the constitutional authority of the Speaker to adjudicate upon the disqualification petitions; H 18 (1972) 4 SCC 664 SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 895 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] b. The concept of per se disqualification is unknown to the A Constitution. Any decision as to the disqualification proceedings under the Tenth Schedule must be taken after following the due process of law and the principles of natural justice. A member incurs disqualification only after adjudication by the Speaker. The procedure for the B adjudication of disqualification petitions is prescribed under the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly (Disqualification on Ground of Defection) Rules 1986;19 c. The MLAs facing disqualification retain the right to participate in the proceedings of the House and vote on C resolutions. Article 189(2) of the Constitution provides that any proceedings of the House are not invalid even if it is subsequently discovered that persons who were not entitled to participate or vote or otherwise take part in the proceedings, did so. In Pratap Gouda Patil v. State of Karnataka20 and Speaker, Haryana Vidhan Sabha v. D Kuldeep Bishnoi,21 this Court observed that members should not be stopped from taking part in the proceedings of the House merely because disqualification proceedings were pending against them; d. Prior to the deletion of Paragraph 3 of the Tenth Schedule, E the Speaker’s enquiry as to the existence of a split within a political party was limited to a prima facie determination for deciding the disqualification proceedings.