In South Africa, before the in Fourie (supra), the constitutional court had dealt with the criminalisation of sodomy,55 the rights of same-sex immigrant partners56, the right to adoption of same-sex partners57, and the non-inclusion of same-sex partners in a statute providing pension rights58; g. This Court instead of limiting its to the reliefs sought by the petitioners, must also address the following issues: 53 (2006) 1 SA 524 54 576 US 644 (2015) 55 Sodomy Case, 1999(1) SA 6 (CC) 56 Home Aff airs case, 2000(2) SA 1 (CC) 57 Du Troit, 2003 (2) SA 198 (CC) 58 Satchwell, 2002 (6) SA 1 (CC) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1275 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (i) Whether the LGBTQIA+ community, being a sexual minority, is entitled to be protected even in the absence of a law; (ii) The recognition of the hindrances faced by LGBTQIA+ unions and the procedure to resolve the diffi culties; and (iii) The necessity of administrative procedures and guidelines recognizing that sexual orientation is a physiological phenomenon and that same sex unions must not be discriminated against. h. The assumption of the petitioners that both law and society must consider non-heterosexual unions as belonging to the same class as heterosexual unions without distinction based on sexual orientation is wrong. The exclusion of non-heterosexual unions from the SMA is not violative of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution; i. Marriage between “any two persons” as provided in Section 4 of SMA and FMA cannot include non-heterosexual unions for the following reasons: (i) Section 4(a) states that marriage cannot be solemnised if either party has a spouse living at the time of marriage. The SMA, when it was enacted, referred to marriages which had taken place before it came into force. In that case, the word ‘spouse’ could have only been used in the context of heterosexual marriages; and (ii) The mere usage of a gender-neutral term does not indicate the legislative will to include non-heterosexual unions within the ambit of the enactment. j. The statute is not underinclusive for impliedly excluding non- heterosexual unions from its purview because Parliament did not contemplate the inclusion of non-heterosexual marriages at the time of enactment. A statute will be under-inclusive only where a statute which must necessarily cover a category excludes them from the benefi ts it confers. The principle will not apply to persons who are not ex-facie covered by the statute; 127 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. k. The interpretative tool of “reading-in” means reading into the text of the statute and not altering it. Reading the word “spouse” into SMA where the words “husband” and “wife” are used would render provisions which are enacted based on conventional ideas about a heterosexual relationship redundant; l. The legislative regime related to marriage and other allied issues has been enacted in response to the unique challenges that heterosexual marriages face. Even if this Court fi nds that the Constitution grants a right to legal recognition of non- heterosexual unions, a new legislative regime regulating non- heterosexual marriages must be introduced to respond to the unique challenges they face; and m. This Court can use its power under Article 142 to fi ll legislative vacuums to the limited extent of laying down procedural guidelines.