Justice S.B. Sinha speaking for the two Judge Bench examined the ambit of 7 Rule 11(d) of the CPC and observed:- C “21. 7 Rule 11(d) of the Code has limited application. It must be shown that the suit is barred under any law. Such a conclusion must be drawn from the averments made in the plaint. Different clauses in 7 Rule 11, in our opinion, should not be mixed up. Whereas in a given case, an application for rejection of D the plaint may be filed on more than one ground specified in various sub-clauses thereof, a clear finding to that effect must be arrived at. What would be relevant for invoking clause (d) of 7 Rule 11 of the Code are the averments made in the plaint. For that purpose, there cannot be any addition or subtraction. Absence of jurisdiction on the part of a court can be invoked at different E stages and under different provisions of the Code. 7 Rule 11 of the Code is one, 14 Rule 2 is another. 22. For the purpose of invoking 7 Rule 11(d) of the Code, no amount of evidence can be looked into. The issues on merit of the matter which may arise between the parties would not be F within the realm of the court at that stage. All issues shall not be the subject-matter of an under the said provision.” (Emphasis supplied) The Court further held:- G “23. The principles of res judicata, when attracted, would bar another suit in view of Section 12 of the Code. The questioninvolving a mixed question of law and fact which may require not only examination of the plaint but also other evidence and the passed in the earlier suit may be taken up either as H 650 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A a preliminary issue or at the final hearing, but, the said question cannot be determined at that stage. 24. It is one thing to say that the averments made in the plaint on their face discloses no cause of action, but it is another thing to say that although the same discloses a cause of action, the same B is barred by a law. 25. The decisions rendered by this Court as also by various High Courts are not uniform in this behalf. But, then the broad principle which can be culled out therefrom is that the court at that stage would not consider any evidence or enter into a disputed question C of fact or law. In the event, the jurisdiction of the court is found to be barred by any law, meaning thereby, the subject-matter thereof, the application for rejection of plaint should be entertained.” (Emphasis supplied) 29. The above view has been consistently followed in a line of D decisions of this Court. In Church of Christ Charitable Trust & Educational Charitable Society v. Ponniamman Educational Trust, (2012) 8 SCC 706, Justice P. Sathasivam (as the learned Chief Justice then was), speaking for a two judge Bench, observed that:- “10.