(4) The Regional Deputy Director of Education or the Inspector, as the case may be, shall not withhold approval H THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. v. RACHNA HILLS 979 & ORS. [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] for the selection made under this section where the person A selected possesses the minimum qualifications prescribed and is otherwise eligible. (5) Where the Regional Deputy Director of Education or the Inspector, as the case may be, does not approve of a candidate selected under this section, the Committee of Management B may, within three weeks from the date of receipt of such disapproval, make a representation to the Director in the case of the Head of Institution, and to the Regional Deputy Director of Education in the case of a teacher. (6) Every passed by the Director or the Regional Deputy C Director of Education on a representation under sub-section (5) shall be final.” (emphasis supplied) 19. Sub-section (3) of section 16-FF of the Act provides that no person selected and proposed to be appointed as a teacher by the D Management shall be appointed till the proposal is approved by the DIOS. If the expressions ‘no person’, ‘shall be appointed’, and ‘unless’ employed in sub-section (3) are given their ordinary meaning, which is the foremost of the linguistic canons of construction of legislation, we have no hesitation in holding that appointment is subject to the mandatory E approval of DIOS. The process of appointment cannot be said to have been concluded without obtaining the mandatory approval of the DIOS, and as such, there is no right, much less a vested right, of the candidate to be appointed. 20. This Court had the occasion to examine the effect of approval F by the DIOS in Raj Kumari Cecil (Smt.) v. Managing Committee of Laxmi Narain Bhagwati Devi Vidya Mandir Girls’ High School14, while holding that the appointment of the petitioner therein was unsustainable and incomplete, as the statutory pre-condition for the appointment, i.e., approval from the DIOS, was not obtained, it was observed: G “4. There is no dispute that the appellant did not possess the qualifications for being appointed as a Principal of the Higher Secondary School. It is also not disputed that the appointment 14 (1998) 2 SCC 461. H 980 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A is subject to approval of the competent authority under the Intermediate Education Act. It is correct that the competent authority has power to relax the qualification but then again it is not disputed that the competent authority did not relax the qualification for the appointment of the appellant as Principal of the Higher Secondary School of the B respondent…. .... 13. … The appellant ceased to be Headmistress on upgradation of school of the respondent to the Higher Secondary School C as the post was upgraded. She did not possess qualifications to be appointed as Principal of the Higher Secondary School. Her qualifications were not relaxed. The competent authority under the Intermediate Education Act did not grant approval for her appointment as a Principal which is a precondition under the law.