22. Surprisingly, none of the aforesaid aspects have been touched E upon in both the impugned s. The nature and gravity of the alleged offence has been disregarded. So has the financial stature, position and standing of the accused vis-à-vis the appellant/prosecutrix been ignored. The High Court has granted anticipatory bail in favour of the respondent No. 2/accused in a brief of three paragraphs, having been swayed by the “star variations in the narration of the prosecutrix” implying F thereby that what was originally recorded in the FIR, did not make out an offence of rape, as defined in Section 375 IPC, which is an erroneous assumption. Even if the first Supplementary statement of the appellant/ prosecutrix recorded in the evening hours of 6th August, 2022, the date on which the FIR had been registered against the respondent No.2/ G accused in the first half of the same day, her second Supplementary statement recorded on 6th September, 2022 and the Medico-Legal Report of the doctor who had examined the appellant/prosecutrix on 8th August, 36 Dated 10th August, 2022 37 Dated 06th August, 2022 and 06th September, 2022 H 1132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 2022, are kept aside for a moment, we find that there was still sufficient material in the FIR that would prima facie attract the provision of Section 376, IPC. In our opinion, these factors ought to have dissuaded the High Court from exercising its discretion in favour of the respondent No.2/ accused for granting him anticipatory bail. B 23. Another reason that has weighed with this Court for interfering in the impugned s is that despite the appellant/prosecutrix having filed an application for intervention38 in the petition for anticipatory bail moved by the respondent No.2/accused before the High Court, she was not afforded a hearing. At least a perusal of the second impugned does not reflect the said position. No doubt, the State was present and C was represented in the said proceedings, but the right of the prosecutrix could not have been whittled down for this reason alone. In a crime of this nature where ordinarily, there is no other witness except for the prosecutrix herself, it was all the more incumbent for the High Court to have lent its ear to the appellant. D 24. Our view is in line with the observations made by a three- Judges Bench of this Court in Jagjeet Singh And Others v. Ashish Mishra Alias Monu And Another39 wherein speaking for the Bench, Justice Suryakant made the following pertinent observations relating to the victim’s right to be heard and alluding to the recommendations made E by the Law Commission of India in its 154th Report that highlighted “the right of the victim or his/her legal representative to be impleaded as a party in every criminal proceedings where the charges are punishable with 7 years’ imprisonment or more”, observed thus :- “19. It was further recommended that the victim be armed with a right to be represented by an advocate of his/her choice, and if F he/she is not in a position to afford the same, to provide an advocate at the State’s expense.