Based on the said amendment, the State Authorities recommendations were called for. On 27.12.2018, the storage facility was inspected by the DCZMA. The Tamil Nadu State Pollution Control Board, it would appear, intimated the third respondent that except for not obtaining prior clearance, there was no other violation. Accordingly, F the State Authority recommended the proposal. It is on this basis, the first respondent granted post facto clearance by proceedings dated 08.03.2019. The appellant obtained consent to operate from the Pollution Control Board. On 08.04.2019, the fifth respondent filed the appeal before the NGT and the NGT has allowed application, as already noticed. G CIVIL APPEAL NO. 3639 OF 2020 (THE CONNECTED APPEAL) 5. The appellant-company is a sister concern of the appellant in the first Appeal. It has also constructed a storage facility, being engaged H 258 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A in the business of edible oil, for the purpose of storing the imported edible oil at a distance of nearly 600 meters from the location of the storage tank of the appellant in the first Appeal. It has also drawn a pipeline from the storage tank to the facility it has put up for storing edible oil, for transmission to its factory. We must mention here that the idea was to import edible oil, unload it at Chennai Port, take the edible oil by a pipeline B to the storage facility and from there, transmit the same by tanker lorries to their factories, wherein the manufacturing activities were being carried out. 6. The issues arising in both the Appeals are common and, hence, we discuss the issues with reference to the first Appeal. C THE SALIENT FEATURES OF THE DATED 08.03.2019 BY THE FIRST RESPONDENT 7. The salient Features of the dated 08.03.2019 passed by the First Respondent: D i. The site falls in CRZ II. ii. Five number of storage tanks have been installed. iii. Permissions has been obtained from the Chennai Port Trust, NHAI and the Harbour Management Committee. E iv. The project will reduce traffic to the Chennai Port Trust. v. As per CRZ Notification, vide para 8, storage of non- hazardous cargo such as edible oil, fertilizers and food grain can be established ‘only in notified ports’. F 8. There are other aspects and specific conditions, apart from general conditions. It is also made clear that the clearance is subject to the final of this Court in the matter of Goa Foundation v. Union of India in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 460 of 2004. THE IMPUGNED S G 9. The NGT found merit in the contention of the appellants that the first respondent had the power to grant ex post facto clearance. However, it would have only prospective operation. The clearance could, however, be supported, if the activity which was permitted, was one, which was contemplated under the 2011 Notification. The Tribunal went H K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 259 ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] on to note that the storage facilities were not located ‘in’ the Chennai A Port.