Now, the question still remains as to how much land must be restored to the landlord. This question will turn on the interpretation to be laid on the language contained in Section 33(B)(5)(b) and the construction of expression : ‘in the total anequal area for personal cultivation’? 954 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 26. The tenant may hold land for personal cultivation from three sources: (a)land which he himself owns; (b) land which is let out to him by his landlord or (c) land which is let out to him by another landlord or another certifi cated landlord. Similarly, the landlord can hold land from two sources. He may hold land which he himself owns and land which is let out to him by another landlord (land held as a tenant). While computing the lands held by the landlord and tenant, are we to take into account the lands held by them from all possible sources? The Full Bench of the Bombay High Court had an occasion to interpret the provision contained in Section 33B(5)(b) of the Act in great detail, in the case of Devidas Narayan More v. Chunnilal Bhailal Wani.11 It came to be held as under: “32. Next it was urged that upon the interpretation which we are putting and which was placed upon cl. (b) of sub-s. (5) by the Division Bench in Rambhau’s case it would be impossible to apply the principle in the case of joint tenants or joint landlords, as for instance where A the landlord has leased out jointly to tenants B, C and D six acres of his land; the landlord has no land under personal cultivation, but tenant B has 4 acres of his own, tenant C has 4 acres of his own but tenant D has no other land except the land leased. In such a case how was equality going to be achieved between the landlord and the joint tenants? We must confess that the law did not contemplate such a case at all but its injunction nonetheless is quite clear that the tenancies must be terminated, the landlord and “the tenant holding thereafter in the total an equal area for personal cultivation”. The only way in which equality can be achieved in such cases is to notionally divide the land leased between the three joint tenants and assume that 2 acres have been leased to each tenant by the landlord and then work out the equities between the landlord and each tenant. Thus it will have to be held that notionally tenants B, C and D each has 2 acres of the leased land. Thus tenant B will have 2 acres of leased land plus 4 acres of his own; tenant C the same and tenant D only two acres of the leased land. From B and C the landlord cannot take back anything more than the land leased so they must each give up two acres of the leased land. Tenant C has no 11 AIR 1973 Bom 195 KESHAV BHAURAO YEOLE (D) BY LRS.