7. Mr. V Lakshmikumaran, learned counsel for the Appellants, A has made four key contentions. Firstly, that ‘Tariff Item 8471 30 10’ pertains to class of ADPs which are popularly known as laptops or notebooks. He has highlighted that the classification under ‘Tariff Item 8471 30 10’ involves an element of ‘functionality’ which is not applicable in the present case as Concerned Goods are not capable of functioning B without an external source of power. Secondly, he contended that Concerned Goods have been wrongly held to be ‘portable’ by the CESTAT on the sole aspect that their weight was less than 10 kilograms. He argued that mere weight cannot be the sole consideration for deciding whether any good is ‘portable’ or not, and it is necessary to consider additional aspects such as functionality and ease of transportability which C is suitable for a mobile lifestyle of the user. Thirdly, he urged that the CESTAT erroneously relied on the general definition of ‘portable’ given in dictionaries and instead the same should have been defined in relation to the class of goods, i.e. ADPs. In this respect, he pointed out that the relevant ‘Sub-Heading 8471 30’ which entails the condition of being D ‘portable’ in the description of goods was preceded by a single ‘-’ and consequently all the goods under the said sub-heading should be taken as a sub classification of the goods covered by the ‘Heading 8471’. Finally, to buttress the aforementioned arguments, he highlighted that the Concerned Goods are not considered as ‘portable’ by the European Commission’s classification and are also not covered by the ‘Tariff Item E 8471 30 10’ as per the World Customs Organization’s Harmonized System Explanatory Notes (hereinafter, ‘HSN’). We must also bring to the fore and appreciate the efforts of learned counsel for the Appellants who physically demonstrated by setting up one of the sample units of the Concerned Goods to showcase the aspects of portability involved in F present matter. 8. On the contrary, Mr. Arjit Prasad, learned senior counsel for the Respondent while supporting the observations in the impugned decisions, put forth two counter arguments. Firstly, that since the word ‘portable’ is nowhere defined in the statute, it should be interpreted on G the principle of general parlance. In other words, he submitted that the dictionary meaning of the word ‘portable’ is sufficient to resolve the dispute regarding its interpretation. Secondly, he maintained that the legislature’s intention was crystal clear in qualifying the term ‘portable’ by providing the condition in the description that any ADP less than 10Kgs would automatically become portable. In furtherance of this H 1130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A argument, he relied on the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Mathuram Agrawal v State of MP3 to urge that the intention of the legislature has to be discerned from the plain and unambiguous meaning of the language used in a taxation statute and any other interpretation is impermissible. B 9. We now examine these contentions of both parties.