CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 783 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] It is plain that such a writ cannot be granted to quash the decision of an inferior court within its jurisdiction on the ground that the decision is wrong. Indeed, it must be shown before such a writ is issued that the authority which passed the acted without jurisdiction or in excess of it or in violation of the principles of natural justice. Want of jurisdiction may arise from the nature of the subject-matter, so that the inferior court might not have authority to enter on the inquiry or upon some part of it. It may also arise from the absence of some essential preliminary or upon the existence of some particular facts collateral to the actual matter which the court has to try and which are conditions precedent to the assumption of jurisdiction by it. But once it is held that the court has jurisdiction but while exercising it, it made a mistake, the wronged party can only take the course prescribed by law for setting matters right inasmuch as a court has jurisdiction to decide rightly as well as wrongly. The three questions agitated before us do not seem to be questions which bear upon the jurisdiction of the court of appeal, or its authority to entertain them. 13. It was contended that no court of limited jurisdiction can give itself jurisdiction by a wrong decision on a point collateral to the merits of the case upon which the limit of its jurisdiction depends and that the questions involved in the appeal before the respondent were collateral to the merits of the case. As pointed out by Lord Esher, M.R., in R. v. CIT [R. v. CIT, (1888) LR 21 QBD 313 (CA)] , the formula enunciated above is quite plain but its application is often misleading. The learned Master of the Rolls classifi ed the cases under two categories thus : (QBD pp. 319-20) “… When an inferior court or tribunal or body, which has to exercise the power of deciding facts, is fi rst established by Act of Parliament, the legislature has to consider what powers it will give that tribunal or body. It may in eff ect say that, if a certain state of facts exists and is shown to such tribunal or body before it proceeds to do certain things, it shall have jurisdiction to do such things, but not otherwise. There it is not for them conclusively to decide whether that state of facts exists, and, if they exercise the jurisdiction without its existence, what they do may be questioned, 784 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. and it will be held that they have acted without jurisdiction. But there is another state of things which may exist. The legislature may entrust the tribunal or body with a jurisdiction which includes the jurisdiction to determine whether the preliminary state of facts exists as well as the jurisdiction, [and] on fi nding that it does exist, to proceed further or do something more.