We may approvingly extract the analysis relating to “grounds of challenge” from The Law & Practice of Arbitration and Conciliation by Shri O.P. Malhotra [1st Edn., p. 768, Para (I) 34-14]: “Section 5 regulates court intervention in arbitral process. D It provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force in India, in matters governed by Part I of this Act, the court will not intervene except where so provided in this Part. Pursuant to this policy, Section 34 imposes certain restrictions on the right of the E court to set aside an arbitral award. It provides, in all, seven grounds for setting aside an award. In other words, an arbitral award can be set aside only if one or more of these seven grounds exists. The first five grounds have been set forth in Section 34(2)(a). In to successfully invoke any of these F grounds, a party has to plead and prove the existence of one or more of such grounds. That is to say, the party challenging the award has to discharge the burden of proof by adducing sufficient credible evidence to show the existence of any one of such grounds. The rest two grounds G are contained in Section 34(2) (b) which provides that an award may be set aside by the court on its own initiative if the subject-matter of the dispute is not arbitrable or the impugned award is in conflict with the public policy of India.” H M/S ALPINE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 1003 PVT. LTD. v. ASHOK S. DHARIWAL [M. R. SHAH, J.] The grounds for setting aside the award are specific. Therefore, A necessarily a petitioner who files an application will have to plead the facts necessary to make out the ingredients of any of the grounds mentioned in sub-section (2) and prove the same. Therefore, the only question that arises in an application under Section 34 of the Act is whether the award requires to be set B aside on any of the specified grounds in sub-section (2) thereof. Sub-section (2) also clearly places the burden of proof on the person who makes the application. Therefore, the question arising for adjudication as also the person on whom the burden of proof is placed is statutorily specified. Therefore, the need for issues is obviated. C XXXXXXXX 24. In other words, an application under Section 34 of the Act is a single issue proceeding, where the very fact that the D application has been instituted under that particular provision declares the issue involved. Any further exercise to frame issues will only delay the proceedings. It is thus clear that issues need not be framed in applications under Section 34 of the Act. XXXXXXXX E 29. In a regular civil suit, in the event of failure to file a defence, it will be lawful for the court to pronounce the on the basis of facts contained in the plaint [vide 8 Rule 5(2) of the Code]. But in an application under Section 34, even if there is no contest, the court cannot, on the basis of the averments F contained in the application, set aside the award.