c) The Borrower agrees that the Receivables shall be exclusive property of the Lender for the purpose of secured repayment of the Facility and as such the Borrower will not make any further borrowing on the strength of the Receivables as being Borrower’s Property.” 22. An ‘Escrow Account Agreement’ was also entered between the lender and the borrower on the same date under which the borrower has to open an Escrow Account with the Escrow Bank. Recital(C) of the Escrow Account Agreement provided: “(C) The Borrower has agreed that, the payments to be collected/ received by the Borrower from the clients of Business Service Centre/ License/Lessee of various Units/properties (hereinafter referred to as “the said Units”) built and/or to be built and leased/to be leased on the Secured Property detailed in Schedule B hereunder (hereinafter called “the said Property”) for/against which the Facility granted/to be granted by Lender as per the Off er Letter and Facility Agreement, shall be credited to the said Escrow Account (hereinafter referred to as “the Receivables”) and the Lender shall on satisfaction of the condition as described in Item No. 6 of Schedule A hereunder, adjust all the amounts to be paid by the Borrower to the Lender under the Facility Agreement, from time to time, out of the amounts credited in the said Escrow Account, and permit the transfer in the 104 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Designated account of the Borrower opened with the Escrow Bank, the amount as mentioned in Item No. 7 of Schedule A out of the remaining balance in the said Escrow Account after such adjustment as agreed hereunder.” Clause-3 of the Escrow Account Agreement provides ‘Bank’s Covenants’ which reads as follows: “3. BANK’S COVENANTS: (a) The Escrow Bank hereby agrees to act as such and to accept all monies to be delivered to or held in the Escrow Account, pursuant to the terms and conditions of this agreement. This Escrow Bank shall hold and safeguard the Escrow Account, during the terms of this Agreement and shall hold all cash in the Escrow Account, at the request of the Borrower and to safeguard the repayment of the Facility and for the benefi t of the Borrower and the Lender in accordance with the terms mentioned herein. (b) The Escrow Bank shall not be required to verify and ensure that the money(ies) deposited is the Receivables and all money(ies) deposited at any time in any quantum should be treated as the Receivables. (c) The Escrow Bank agreed that during the currency of the term of this Agreement as may be amended from time to time, the Escrow Bank shall ensure that the Escrow Account is operated and maintained as per the terms set out herein and shall not permit any deviation, without the written consent of the Lender. (d) The Escrow Bank agrees that all money(ies) received by it under this Agreement shall, until transferred in accordance with this Agreement, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, and shall be segregated from other accounts of the constituents of the Escrow Bank and from the funds and Property of the Escrow Bank, in accordance with the banking law and practice.