In case a breach did occur, specifi c breach of responsibility of the concerned person shall have to be established; and b.) Whether the subsequent medical complications, including permanent deformity in the respiratory tract and voice loss suff ered by the patient can be directly attributed to the said breach in duty of care. 40. Though the impugned held that the ‘NI’ procedure undertaken amounted to negligence, it failed to point towards the specifi c breach of responsibility. There is nothing in the to indicate who performed the said procedure. In the complaint, Mrs. Sunita has alleged that Dr. Jaiswal and Dr. Shendre performed the said procedure. However, the rebuttal from Dr. Nirmal, Dr. Madhusudan Shendre, Dr. M.A Biviji, and Suretech Hospital points towards the bronchoscopy and the said procedure being undertaken by Dr. Rajesh Swarnakar (serving as Pulmonologist & Bronchoscopist) on 13.05.2004. Conspicuously, there is no mention at all of the ‘NI’ procedure in the discharge summary dated 27.05.2004 either. However, the medical bill dated 26.05.2004 clearly mentions both procedures to have been undertaken by Dr. Rajesh Swarnakar. Therefore, any duty of care that existed towards the patient with respect to the bronchoscopy and the ‘NI’ procedure conducted on 13.05.2004 could only be attributed to Dr. Rajesh Swarnakar. 134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 41. To understand whether the ‘NI’ procedure amounted to a breach of duty or not, there is a need to further analyse whether the aforesaid procedure was merely an alternative choice of treatment, a necessary arrangement, or a treatment likely to have resulted in failure based on a poor medical decision made by the medical team at the Suretech Hospital. The only reason why the impugned held that the saidprocedure conducted on Mrs. Sunita amounted to negligence was that it was performed out of the ordinarily expected course of action without any justifi cation. The NCDRC reasoned that there was no justifi cation to opt for the said procedure as the patient was able to breathe normally through the ‘TT’ with the bronchoscopy report dated 13.05.2004 indicating normalcy in airways, trachea and larynx as well. Moreover, the said ‘NI’ procedure was a short-term procedure undertaken to assist in respiration whereas the ‘TT’ was resorted to with the objective of providing a longer assisted-respiration. Therefore, it was opined that replacing the existing ‘TT’ with ‘NI’ made little sense,particularly when Mrs. Sunita was able to breathe normally through the ‘TT’. Moreover, the ‘NI’ procedure was conducted, despite various failed attempts at ‘TT’ decannulation. Therefore, the act of performing the said ‘NI’ procedure replacing the existing ‘TT’ through which Mrs. Sunita was able to breathe normally amounted to undertaking a course of action other than what would have been expected to take place ordinarily, in such a situation. At the same time, NCDRC also noted that the expert medical committee formed by RML Hospital was silent on the ‘NI’ issue. The expert committee only stated that the bronchoscopy report on 13.05.2004 indicated normalcy in Mrs. Sunita’s airways, and that she was able to breath with a minimal stridor after ‘TT’ removal.