H SHINHAN BANK v. CAROL INFO SERVICES LIMITED 709 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] It has been submitted that the claim of the respondent in the suit for A outstanding license fees has been computed after adjusting the security deposit and hence the appropriate course of action for the petitioner would be to pursue its remedies under Section 8. 11. The Amenities agreement which was entered into between the parties on 25 August 2016, inter alia, contains the following provision: B “This Agreement is executed contemporaneously with the said Leave and License Agreement and shall be read and construed accordingly. The provision of this Agreement shall be deemed to be and shall constitute an integral part of the said Leave and License Agreement in respect of the License of the Licensed C Premise granted by the Licensors to the Licensee. All provisions of the said Leave and License Agreement shall, mutatis mutandis; apply to this Amenities Agreement” 12. The Amenities agreement contains a provision to resolve disputes through arbitration. Clause 17 is in the following terms: D “17. All disputes, controversies or claims arising out of or relating to this Agreement: including existence or interpretation of any clause hereof, shall be referred to arbitration by a sole arbitrator duly appointed by mutual consent of both the Parties in writing, failing which under the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation E Act, 1966. The cost of theArbitration shall be borne equally. The place of arbitration shall be Mumbai and the arbitration shall be governed by the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1966 as amended from time to time. The language of the arbitration proceedings shall be English. The Award shall be final and conclusive. The Courts in Mumbai shall have exclusive jurisdiction to try and F entertain matters arising herefrom.” 13. The submission which has been urged on behalf of the respondent is that in terms of Section 7(5), a mere reference to a document would not have the effect of making an arbitration clause from that document a part of the contract. The submission is based on the decision G of this Court in M R Engineers and Contractors Private Limited vs Som Datt Builders Limited1. 14. Clause (1) of the Amenities agreement which has been extracted above indicates that (i) the provisions of the Amenities 1 (2009) 7 SCC 696 H 710 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A agreement shall be deemed to be and shall constitute an integral part of the Leave and Licence Agreement in respect of the license granted by the petitioner to the respondent; and (ii) all the provisions of the Leave and Licence agreement shall mutatis mutandis apply to the Amenities agreement. Clause 17 of the Amenities agreement contains an agreement to refer disputes to arbitration. B 15. The plain consequence of clause (1) of the Amenities agreement is that all the terms of that agreement constitute an integral part of the Leave and Licence agreement. The Amenities agreement does not merely contain a reference to the Leave and Licence agreement.