[2023] 2 S.C.R. 611 611 THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL A v. DEBABRATA TIWARI & ORS. ETC. ETC. (Civil Appeal Nos. 8842-8855 of 2022) MARCH 03, 2023 B [KRISHNA MURARI AND B. V. NAGARATHNA, JJ.] Service Law – Compassionate Appointment – Held: Existence of a policy issued by the State Government is a sine qua non for making appointments on compassionate basis – However, in the C present case, there was no policy existing to govern compassionate appointment to posts under local authorities in the State of West Bengal – Hence, in the absence of such a policy, compassionate appointment cannot be granted to the respondents-heirs of the deceased employees who worked in the concerned municipalities – Further, the object for grant of compassionate employment is to D enable the family of the deceased employee to tide over the sudden crisis due to the death of the bread-earner leaving the family in penury and without any means of livelihood – Thus, operation of a policy/scheme for compassionate appointment is founded on considerations of immediacy – However, in the instant case, the E respondents approached the High Court only in the year 2015, after a lapse of nearly ten years from the date of making the application for compassionate appointment in 2005-2006 – Such delay would disentitle the respondents to the discretionary relief u/Art.226 – Entertaining a claim made in 2005-2006, in the year 2023, would be of no avail because admittedly, the respondents have been able F to eke out a living even though they did not successfully get appointed to the services of the Municipality on compassionate grounds – Sense of immediacy in the matter of compassionate appointment has been lost in the present case – Claim of the respondents for appointments on compassionate grounds not fit to G be considered – West Bengal Regulation of Recruitment in State Government Establishments and Establishments of Public Undertakings, Statutory Bodies, Government Companies and Local Authorities Act, 1999 – West Bengal Municipal, Employees’ (Recruitment) Rules, 2005 – Constitution of India – Article 226 – Delay/Laches. H 611 612 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Service Law – Compassionate appointment: Principles enumerated. Object and rationale behind scheme for – Discussed. Determination of claims – Factors – Discussed. B Applications for – Manner in which dealt by State authorities, reproached – Held: Delay on the part of the authorities of the State to decide claims for compassionate appointment frustrates the very object of a scheme of compassionate appointment – Government officials are to act with a sense of utmost proactiveness and immediacy while deciding claims of compassionate appointment to C ensure that the wholesome object of such a scheme is fulfilled. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 A provision for compassionate appointment makes a departure from the general provisions providing for D appointment to a post by following a particular procedure of recruitment. Since such a provision enables appointment being made without following the said procedure, it is in the nature of an exception to the general provisions and must be resorted to only in to achieve the stated objectives, i.e., to enable the family of the deceased to get over the sudden financial crisis.