It is submitted that sales tax is levied on sale of goods whereas the service tax is levied on provision of D service. It is submitted that therefore a transfer of goods for a price cannot be subject to service tax. 4.7 It is submitted that it is true that different aspects of a transaction can be taxed through separate provisions. The aspect theory permits taxation of two different aspects or features of a transaction. For instance, E in a catering contract, supply of food was subject to value added tax and the service aspect was subject to service tax. However, in the case of BSNL (supra), this Court has observed that the aspect theory does not allow the value of goods to be included in services and vice versa. Reliance is placed on the observations made in para 88 of the said . F 4.8 It is further submitted by Shri V. Sridharan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent that before the CESTAT, the respondent raised a specific ground that the services (if any) rendered by a foreign entity will not fall within the purview of “design services”. The respondent also raised a specific ground that the extended period of G limitation cannot be invoked. However, though the said submissions have been noted be the CESTAT, the CESTAT has not dealt with those contentions and therefore it is prayed that the matter may be remanded to the CESTAT to decide all these questions. H 334 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 5. We have heard learned counsel for the respective parties at length. The issue to be decided in the present appeals is “whether activity of import of “Engineering Design & Drawings” from the sister companies by the notice during the period under dispute i.e., June, 2007 to September, B 2010 is classifiable under taxable category “design services” under section 65(35b) read with Section 65(105)(zzzzd) of the Finance Act, 1994 . 5.1 While considering the aforesaid issue, the definition of “design services” under the Finance Act, 1994, as it stood during the impugned period, is required to be considered, which reads as C under: SECTION 65. Definitions. -In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, ………. (36b) design services” includes services provided in relation to D designing of furniture, consumer products, industrial products, packages, logos, graphics, websites and corporate identity designing and production of three dimensional models: ………. E (105) (zzzzd) “taxable service” means any service provided or to be provided, (zzzzd) to any person, by any other person in relation to design services, but does not include service provided by- (i) an interior decorator referred to in sub- clause (q); and F (ii) a fashion designer in relation to fashion designing referred to in sub-clause (zv): and the term “service provider” shall be construed accordingly.” Thus, it can be seen that the definition of “design services” is a G wide and conclusive one, specifically excluding only fashion design and interior designing, which were already taxable under separate taxable category.