The Director of Local Bodies kept the matter pending without according any approval of the recommendations, as a result, a Writ Petition H 622 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A was filed which was disposed of with a specific direction to the Director of Local Bodies to consider the applications within a time frame. That in pursuance of the High Court direction, the Director of Local Bodies disposed of the matter in respect of Burdwan Municipality only on 16th October, 2015. Hence, a time of about ten years had been spent only B for processing the applications and such a delay could not be attributed to the Respondents-Writ Petitioners. ii. That an employee of a municipality cannot be treated as an employee of the State Government and therefore the scheme available to a State Government employee cannot C be extended to a dependent of an employee of the municipality who died in harness. Thus, the respondents were not entitled to claim the benefit of compassionate appointment in terms of the schemes formulated vide Circular No. 97-Emp. ; 142-Emp. ; 30-Emp. ; and 251-Emp., D which were specifically applicable to State Government employees. iii. As to the issue of whether there was any scheme for grant of compassionate appointments in respect of employees of Municipalities, the Division Bench differed from the findings E of the Single Judge. On a conjoint reading of Circular Nos. 301-Emp., 302-Emp. and 303 Emp., it was observed that it was clear that the aforesaid Circulars were specific schemes for compassionate appointments in respect of municipalities. That the said schemes were in respect of all establishments covered under the West Bengal Regulation of Recruitment F in State Government Establishments and Establishments of Public Undertakings, Statutory Bodies, Government Companies and Local Authorities Act, 1999 (West Bengal Act XIV of 1999) (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act of 1999’ for the sake of brevity). That the said circulars which G were extended to the employees of all establishments including local authorities like municipalities, were neither withdrawn nor substituted by the subsequent notifications and circulars. iv. That although Circular No. 142-Emp. clarified that 97-Emp. was applicable only in respect of State Government H THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. DEBABRATA TIWARI & 623 ORS. ETC. ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] employees and directed the municipalities to formulate their A own schemes for compassionate appointment, no such scheme had been formulated by the concerned municipalities. That it was evident from Circular No. 142- Emp. that it does not withdraw the scheme for compassionate appointment available under Circular Nos. B 301-Emp., 302-Emp. and 303-Emp. and in the absence of any subsequent scheme or specific withdrawal of the existing scheme, the scheme remains in subsistence and will be the scheme under which the applications for compassionate appointments made by the respondents are to be considered. C v. In the absence of a substituted scheme, and given that Circular No. 301-Emp., 302-Emp. and 303 Emp. were not specifically withdrawn, they would continue to remain applicable.