According to the learned Single Judge, balance of convenience and irreparable injury, in the given context, were required to be visualised from the vantage point of the primary members. Such observations and considerations of E the learned Single Judge, in our view, do not stand in conformity with sound judicial principles. The questions of balance of convenienceand irreparable injury in relation to the applications under consideration could not have been examined with reference to the consequences or fallout of the meeting dated 11.07.2022. Moreover, the authority of the General F Council to deal with the relevant matters could not have been brushed aside with reference to the strength of the primary membership of the party. It is but clear that the learned Single Judge has not kept in view the relevant tests as expounded in the decisions above-referred. In the present case concerning the internal management of the political party, G and looking to the nature of claim made by the plaintiffs, the balance of convenience had not been in favour of granting any interim injunction on the applications under consideration. 30. Having examined the matter in its totality, we are constrained to observe that the learned Single Judge in the present matter did not H 1194 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A examine the questions relating to balance of convenience and irreparable injury in the correct perspective and particularly failed to weigh the competing possibilities and risk of injustice if ultimately the decision of main matter would run counter to the course being adopted and suggested in the granting temporary injunction in the manner and form it was B being granted. It gets perforce reiterated that if the as passed by the learned Single Judge was to remain in force until decision of the suits, it would have been drastically detrimental to the interest of political party in question, which is a recognised political party with the Election Commission of India. In the matters of the present nature, the simple and precise view, as stated by the learned Single Judge at the initial C stage on 22.06.2022 while declining the prayer for interim relief, had been on the correct statement of lawthat ordinarily the Court would not interfere in the internal issues of an association/party and would leave it open to the association/party and its members to take a particular decision for better administration; and that had been the correct approach towards D the facts of the case. In the present case, when General Council is shown to be the apex body of the party, taking any exception to the meeting of the General Council could have neither been countenanced nor interfered with by way of temporary injunction. In the given set of facts and circumstances, the hyper-technical suggestions as sought to E be made about the want of valid notice with reference to date, time and place of meeting i.e., with reference to Chapter 5 from Shackleton on the Law and Practice of Meetings (supra) do not further the cause of the appellants, particularly when it is noticed that the date, time and place of the meeting in question were duly declared in the meeting dated F 23.06.2022.