The punishment under PFA and the penalty under the FSSA cannot be imposed on the violator for the same misbranding because it will amount to double jeopardy, which is prohibited under Article 20(2) of the Constitution of India. Thus, when the penal action can be taken under both statutes, the question is which will prevail. An answer to the said question has been provided by Section 89 of the FSSA, which reads thus: “89. Overriding eff ect of this Act over all other food related laws. – The provisions of this Act shall have eff ect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having eff ect by virtue of any law other than this Act.” 18. The eff ect of Section 89 is that if there is an inconsistency between the provisions of the PFA and the FSSA, the provisions of the FSSA will have an overriding eff ect over the provisions of the PFA. When it comes to the consequences of misbranding, the same has been provided under both the enactments, and there is inconsistency in the enactments as regards the penal consequences of misbranding. As pointed out earlier, one provides for imposing only a penalty in terms of payment of money, and the other provides imprisonment for not less than six months. In view of the inconsistency, Section 89 of the FSSA will operate, and provisions of the FSSA will prevail over the provisions of the PFA to the extent to which the same are inconsistent. Thus, in a case where after coming into force of Section 52 of the FSSA, if an act of misbranding is committed by anyone, which is an off ence punishable under Section 16 of PFA and which attracts penalty under Section 52 of the FSSA, Section 52 of the FSSA will override the provisions of PFA. Therefore, in such a situation, in view of the overriding eff ect givento the provisions of the FSSA,the violator who indulges in misbranding cannot be punished under the PFA and he will be liable to pay penalty under the FSSA in accordance with Section 52 thereof. MANIK HIRU JHANGIANI v. STATE OF M.P 561 19. There are other arguments made by the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant. But we need not deal with the same as the appellant must succeed on the abovementioned grounds. 20. Reliance was placed on a decision of the Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court in the case of Hindustan Unilever Limited3. In this case, an off ence punishable under the PFA was committed in February 1989. The Trial Court passed the of conviction of the accused on 16th June 2015. Relying upon sub-clause (iii) of clause (1) of Section 97 of the FSSA, this Court held that the repeal of the PFA will not aff ect any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any off ences committed under the PFA before its repeal.