A bona fide decision of the public authority reached in this manner would satisfy the C requirement of non-arbitrariness and withstand judicial scrutiny. The doctrine of legitimate expectation gets assimilated in the rule of law and operates in our legal system in this manner and to this extent.” 93. From this encapsulation of the law, it is clear to us that no D legitimate expectation could have arisen in favour of Respondent No. 1. There was no implicit or explicit representation made by the State Government in favour of its request for conversion of the land, nor for sub-division of plots. RIICO, in completely untenable fashion, took over the role of the lessor without there being any right to do so, and issued the requisite permissions. Evidently, such approvals had no legs to stand E on as they were devoid of any force of law. The lessor of LIA, Kota, was the State Government. When the entity purporting to exercise the powers of a lessor, RIICO in this case, does so without having the requisite legal status to act in this manner, Respondent No. 1 as the beneficiary of these wrongful actions, cannot seek any legitimate expectation or F promissory estoppel in its favour. 94. Furthermore, this Court in Food Corporation of India (Supra) had noted that other overriding public interests could outweigh the consideration of legitimate expectations in favour of a private party. Thus, even if we were to consider Respondent No. 1’s arguments at their G highest, the objectives of a private entity such as Respondent No. 1 could not outweigh the larger public interest behind the industrial development of the land. Respondent No. 1 cannot be permitted to act in defiance of the 1959 Rules, which are applicable to the land and which mandate the utilization of the land for industrial purposes, subject to the variations as may be permitted by the State Government. H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 305 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] 95. On the very same logic, there can be no promissory estoppel A working against the Appellants. In this regard, the view taken by this Court in Motilal Padampat (Supra) is worthy of reproduction: “24… But it is necessary to point out that since the doctrine of promissory estoppel is an equitable doctrine, it must yield when the equity so requires. If it can be shown by the Government B that having regard to the facts as they have transpired, it would be inequitable to hold the Government to the promise made by it, the Court would not raise an equity in favour of the promise and enforce the promise against the Government. The doctrine of promissory estoppel would be displaced in C such a case because, on the facts, equity would not require that the Government should be held bound by the promise made by it. When the Government is able to show that in view of the facts as have transpired, public interest would be prejudiced if the Government were required to carry out the promise, the Court would have to balance the public interest D in the Government carrying out a promise made to a citizen which has induced the citizen to act upon it and after this position and the public interest likely to suffer if the promise were required to be carried out by the Government and determine which way the equity lies.