9.1. The provisions contained in Rules 23, 23-A, 24, 27 and 33 of XLI CPC read as under: - F “23. Remand of case by Appellate Court.-Where the Court from whose decree an appeal is preferred has disposed of the suit upon a preliminary point and the decree is reversed in appeal, the Appellate Court may, if it thinks fit, by remand the case, and may further direct what issue or issues shall be tried in the G case so remanded, and shall send a copy of its and to the Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred, which directions to re-admit the suit under its original number in the register of civil suits, and proceed to determine the suit; and H 14 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A the evidence (if any) recorded during the original trial shall, subject to all just exceptions, be evidence during the trial after remand. 23-A. Remand in other cases.-Where the Court from whose decree an appeal is preferred has disposed of the case otherwise than on a preliminary point, and the decree is reversed in appeal B and a re-trial is considered necessary, the Appellate Court shall have the same powers as it has under rule 23. 24. Where evidence on record sufficient, Appellate Court may determine case finally.-Where the evidence upon the record is sufficient to enable the Appellate Court to pronounce , C the Appellate Court may, after resettling the issues, if necessary, finally determine the suit, notwithstanding that the of the Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred has proceeded wholly upon some ground other than that on which the Appellate Court proceeds. ***** ***** ***** D 27. Production of additional evidence in Appellate Court.- (1) The parties to an appeal shall not be entitled to produce additional evidence, whether oral or documentary, in the Appellate Court. But if- E (a) the Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred has refused to admit evidence which ought to have been admitted, or (aa) the party seeking to produce additional evidence, establishes that notwithstanding the exercise of due F diligence, such evidence was not within his knowledge or could not, after the exercise of due diligence, be produced by him at the time when the decree appealed against was passed, or (b) the Appellate Court requires any document to be G produced or any witness to be examined to enable it to pronounce , or for any other substantial cause, the Appellate Court may allow such evidence or document to be produced, or witness to be examined. H SIRAJUDHEEN v. ZEENATH & ORS. 15 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] (2)Wherever additional evidence is allowed to be produced by A an Appellate Court, the Court shall record the reason for its admission. ***** ***** ***** 33. Power of Court of Appeal-The Appellate Court shall have B power to pass any decree and make any which ought to have been passed or made and to pass or make such further or other decree or as the case may require, and this power may be exercised by the Court notwithstanding that the appeal is as to part only of the decree and may be exercised in favour of all or any of the respondents or parties, although such respondents C or parties may not have filed any appeal or objection and may, where there have been decrees in cross-suits or where two or more decrees are passed in one suit, be exercised in respect of all or any of the decrees, although an appeal may not have been filed against such decrees: D Provided that the Appellate Court shall not make any under section 35A, in pursuance of any objection on which the Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred has omitted or refused to make such .” 9.2.