Nonetheless, so long clause (3) of Article 22 of the Constitution itself authorises detention as a preventive measure, there can be no two opinions that none can take exception to such a measure being adopted and it is only a limited judicial review by the Constitutional Courts that can be urged by an aggrieved detenu where for too, in examining challenges to s of preventive detention, the Courts would be loath to interfere with or substitute their own reasoning for the subjective satisfaction arrived at by the detaining authority. Since the object of a preventive detention law is not punitive but preventive and precautionary, ordinarily it is best left to the discretion of the detaining authority. 24. We, however, hasten to observe here that though the decision in Rekha (supra) refl ects on an important aspect of loss of liberty without trial by taking recourse to preventive detention laws, the decision of the Constitution Bench in Haradhan Saha (supra) still holds the fi eld and to the extent the learned Judges in Rekha(supra) sound a note discordant with 15 (1999) 6 SCC 667 AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 981 & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] the law laid down in Haradhan Saha(supra) ought not to be construed as acceptance by us as the correct exposition of law. 25. Be that as it may, culling out the principles of law fl owing from all the relevant decisions in the fi eld, our understanding of the law for deciding the legality of an of preventive detention is that even without appropriate pleadings to assail such an , if circumstances appear therefrom raising a doubt of the detaining authority misconceiving his own powers, the Court ought not to shut its eyes; even not venturing to make any attempt to investigate the suffi ciency of the materials, an enquiry can be made by the Court into the authority’s notions of his power. Without being remotely concerned about the suffi ciency or otherwise of the materials on which detention has been ed, the Court would be justifi ed to draw a conclusion, on proof from the itself, that the detaining authority failed to realize the extent of his own powers. This is quite apart from questioning the action for want of suffi cient materials that were before the detaining authority. The authority for the detention is the of detention itself, which the detenu or the Court can read. Such a reading of the would disclose the manner in which the activity of the detenu was viewed by the detaining authority to be prejudicial to maintenance of public and what exactly he intended should not be permitted to happen. Any of a detaining authority evincing that the same runs beyond his powers, as are actually conferred, would not amount to a valid made under the governing preventive detention law and be vulnerable on a challenge being laid. In the circumstances of a given case, a Constitutional Court when called upon to test the legality of s of preventive detention would be entitled to examine whether (i) the is based on the requisite satisfaction, albeit subjective, of the detaining authority, for, the absence of such satisfaction as to the existence of a matter of fact or law, upon which validity of the exercise of the power is predicated, would be the sine qua non for the exercise of the power not being satisfi ed; (ii) in reaching such requisite satisfaction, the detaining authority has applied its mind to all relevant circumstances and the same is not based on material extraneous to the scope and purpose of the statute; 982 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.