used in the execution of the works contract the property in which is not transferred in the course of execution of a works contract; and (f) cost of establishment of the contractor to the extent it is relatable G to supply of labour and services; (g) other similar expenses relatable to supply of labour and services; (h) profit earned by the contractor to the extent it is relatable to supply of labour and services. H 1000 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A The amounts deductible under these heads will have to be determined in the light of the facts of a particular case on the basis of the material produced by the contractor.” 8.4 It is required to be noted that thereafter the above service elements have found a statutory recognition as part of Rule 2A of the B Service Tax(Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 w.e.f. 01.06.2007 which has been referred to hereinabove. The applicability of Rule 2A has been dealt with and considered by this Court in extenso in the case of Larsen and Toubro (supra). Therefore, as per the law laid down by this Court in the case of ‘works contract service’ an assessee is liable to pay the service tax on the service element/value of the service rendered C and the sales tax/tax on the element of goods transferred pursuant to the contract. 8.5 In light of the above now the next main question posed for consideration before this Court is required to be considered namely whether despite Rule 2A of the Service Tax (Determination of Value) D Rules, 2006 and the Composite Scheme still the assessee is entitled to take the total contract value which includes both goods and services in terms of Section 67 of the Act, 1994 and remit service tax on the entire value as works contract service and the assessee is also entitled to avail CENVAT Credit? E 8.6 Rule 2A applicable prior to 01.07.2012 is reproduced hereinabove. It is to be noted that Rule 2A is the specific provision for determination of value of taxable service in relation to services involved in the execution of a works contact shall be determined by the service provider in the manner provided under Rule 2A(1)(i) i.e. value of works contract service determined shall be equivalent to the gross amount F charged for the works contract. As per explanation to Rule 2A gross amount charged for the works contract shall not include Value Added Tax (VAT) or sales tax, as the case may be, paid, if any, on transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of the works contract. The position is made more clear post 01.07.2012. Post 01.07.2012 as per G Rule 2A value of service portion in the execution of a works contract shall be determined taking into consideration the value of service portion in the execution of a works contract equivalent to the gross amount charged for the works contract less the value of property of goods transferred in the execution of the said works contract.