The said ratio has been followed by this Court in 2008, by a two- judge Bench in the case of Bachhaj Nahar vs. Nilima Mandal and Another15. This Court in clear terms stated the object and purpose of pleadings and issues. Para 12 of the said report is reproduced hereinunder: “12. The object and purpose of pleadings and issues is to ensure that the litigants come to trial with all issues clearly defi ned and to prevent cases being expanded or grounds being shifted during trial. Its object is also to ensure that each side is fully alive to the questions that are likely to be raised or considered so that they may have an opportunity of placing the relevant evidence appropriate to the issues before the court for its consideration. This Court has repeatedly held that the pleadings are meant to give to each side intimation of the case of the other so that it may be met, to enable courts to determine what is really at issue between the parties, and to prevent any deviation from the course which litigation on particular causes must take.” 24. It would be relevant to refer to the issues framed by the Trial Court, as the High Court also observed that no issue on the plea of non est factum was framed by the Trial Court. 25. The Trial Court had framed the following four issues: “(i) Whether the plaintiff s are the absolute owner of the suit property? (ii) Whether the plaintiff s are in possession and enjoyment of the suit property? (iii) Whether the plaintiff s are entitled for the decree as prayed for? (iv) To what relief the plaintiff s are entitled?” 15 (2008) 17 SCC 491 364 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 26. The fi rst two issues would cover the issue of non est factum as an integral part of it when the plaintiff s claimed to be the absolute owners thereby denying not only the correctness of the Power of Attorney but also subsequent execution of the sale deed by the Attorney (defendant No.2) in favour of his own father and brother on the date of the registration of the deed of Attorney. Even otherwise once evidence is led with respect to the pleadings, non-framing of issues could not have proved fatal so as to record dismissal of the suit. The plaintiff No.1, who had entered the witness box, had fully supported his pleadings, as per the plaint. The First Appellate Court proceeded to deal with the same or, in other words, proceeded to consider the pleadings as also the evidence led on record to arrive at the fi nding that the contents of the Power of Attorney were not as per the understanding between the plaintiff and the defendant No.2. 27. The conduct of defendant No.2, the Attorney would also draw an adverse inference against the defendant and an inference in favour of the plaintiff s’ pleading. The defendant No.2, on the date the Power of Attorney got registered, proceeded to transfer the land in question in favour of his father and brother for a highly underestimated value much less from the guideline value what to say of the market value.