INITIATIVES FOR INCLUSION FOUNDATION & ANR. v.699 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] government. The State/UT Governments is hereby directed to create a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) including the procedure, and timelines for this process, so as to enable it to, in turn, comply with Section 23 of the Act, i.e., monitoring implementation and maintaining data. This direction may be read in light of the discussion contained in paragraph 18 above. G. Monitoring of ICs and compliance by employers xv. The directions passed in Aureliano Fernandes v. State of Goa & Ors.30 (supra) address most specifically, the constitution of ICs – in public establishments [falling broadly within Section 2(o)(i)] and some private establishments – such as bodies governing professional associations, etc. ; those directions are hereby reiterated, to avoid multiplicity or overlap of efforts. It is however further, directed that efforts made must be in line with the scheme of the Act, and through the authorities so designated for the various roles. xvi. Similarly, directions are hereby made to hospitals, nursing homes, sports institutes, stadiums, sports complex, or competition or games venues [as defined in Section 2(o)(iii) and (iv)] to establish ICs, and report compliance as per the duties under this Act. xvii. The District Officer must be supplied a list of establishments (compiled by the relevant departments of the State/UT Government) that fall within the scope of Section 2(o), so that they may write to them and ensure that they are well versed with the provisions relating to employers, and their duties (including constitution of ICC under Section 4, duties under Section 19, etc.) and are implementing them in letter and spirit. This will also enable collection of annual reports, as contemplated under Section 21. The consequent direction to all private sector workplaces under Section 2(o)(ii) can 30 dated 12.05.2023 in Civil Appeal No. 2482/2014. 700 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. be passed once the District Officer is able to discern an exhaustive list of entities. 23. List this matter in the first week of February 2024, for further compliance. Headnotes prepared by: Directions issued. Ankit Gyan