Due to the purchasers, on account of them being institutional consumers, are exempt from the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011, and since Section 4(A) of the Act mandates the applicability of the abovesaid rules, the transaction automatically becomes ineligible to claim refuge under Section 4(A) of the Act. H COMMISSIONER OF CENTRAL EXCISE & SERVICE TAX, KANPUR v. 1153 M/S. A. R. POLYMERS PVT. LTD. ETC. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] 11. Further, even if we were to assume that Section 3(b) of the A Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011 is inapplicable to the present purchaser, the impugned sale still fails the test of point (iii) of the Jayanti Foods . 12. For the sale of goods to take refuge under Section 4(A) of the Act and pass the test of point (iii) in the Jayanti , there must be B a requirement in the the Legal Metrology Act, 2009 or the rules made thereunder to declare the price of such goods relating to their retail price on the package. In simpler terms, it would mean that for a sale of goods to take assessment benefits under Section 4(A) of the Act, it must be a retail sale, and there must be a mandate of law that directs the seller to C affix a retail price on the goods for a sale to be considered a retail sale. 13. It would also mean that a mere affixation of the MRP on a good does not qualify it to claim benefits under Section 4(A) of the Act, and that there must be a “requirement” for the affixation of such MRP. Therefore, even if there is affixation of MRP in the goods, what must be D looked at it is whether such affixation was mandated by law. 14. Apart from the exemption granted by way of Section 3(b) that automatically removes the mandate of law to affix an MRP on the sold goods, the said sale still cannot be considered a retail sale because the sale of the goods must be done to a consumer. E 15. A consumer, as clarified by the Jayanti Foods , is the final consumer of the product, and not the intermediary. In the present case at hand however, the purchaser institutions, as discussed above are intermediaries, who after the purchase of the said goods, distribute it further to the final consumer. F 16. In such a circumstance, where the purchaser institution is deemed to not be a consumer, the sale also cannot be held to be a retail sale as per the Act. Further, since the impugned sale is not a retail sale as per the Act, there exists no mandate of law on the Respondent herein to affix an MRP on the goods sold, and hence the said impugned transaction cannot claim benefit under Section 4(A) of the Act. G 17. Again, at the sake of repetition, we find it important to clarify that the mere affixation of MRP does not make goods eligible to find refuge under Section 4(A) of the Act, and what is required along with such affixation is a mandate of law that directs the seller to affix such MRP.