Moreover, if the Governor so requires, the Chief Minister is duty bound to submit for consideration to the Council of Ministers any matter on which F the decision is taken by a Minister which has not been considered by the Council of Ministers. 19. The power of the Governor to seek information under Article 167 must be read holistically with reference to their duties as constitutional head under the Constitution. The information that the Governor seeks G under Article 167 would enable them to effectively discharge their duties. To illustrate, the Governor has the power to direct reconsideration of bills that are passed in the assembly. For the Governor to make this decision, it is necessary that all the relevant information that would aid them in making the said decision must be made available. Similarly, the governor requires all relevant information to identify if a decision has been H 540 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A taken by a Minister individually without the consideration of the council. The Governor might be unable to discharge their duty under Article 167(c) if the Chief Minister does not discharge their duty under Article 167(a) and Article 167 (b) by providing the Governor with relevant information as requested. Thus, the Chief Minister is required to discharge their duties under Article 167 to enable the Governor to effectively discharge their B duties stipulated in the Constitution. The framers of the Constitution were prescient in incorporating the above provisions. They ensure that while on the one hand the administration of the State is entrusted to a democratically elected Chief Minister who heads the Council of Ministers, which in turn, owes collective responsibility to the state legislature, the C Governor as a constitutional authority appointed by the President is entrusted with the duty to ensure a just, fair, and honest administration. In this context, it is important to refer to the speech of Dr. BR Ambedkar on Article 167 (draft Article 147) in the Constitution Assembly:1 “A distinction has been made between the functions of the Governor D and the duties which the Governor has to perform. My submission is that although the Governor has no functions still, even the constitutional Governor, that he is, has certain duties to perform. His duties, according to me, may be classified in two parts. One is, that he has to retain the Ministry in office. Because the Ministry is to hold office during his pleasure, he has to see whether and E when he should exercise his pleasure against the Ministry. The second duty which the Governor has, and must have, is to advise the Ministry, to warn the Ministry, to suggest to the Ministry an alternative and to ask for a reconsideration. I do not think that anybody in this House will question the fact that the Governor F should have this duty cast upon him; otherwise, he would be an absolutely unnecessary functionary: no good at all: He is the representative not of a party, he is representative of the people as a whole of the State.