The Trial Court also held that the testimony of PW-1 could not be discarded merely because of minor contradictions, given that she might not have been able to remember certain details on account of her age and other factors. The 5 ‘CrPC’ for short. H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 965 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Trial Court also referred to the statement of PW-6, the hostile witness, A who admitted the fact that the appellant was arrested at the bus stand; and held that the appellant had not fulfilled the burden of proving alibi, since there were two independent witnesses who saw her at the scene of occurrence. Further, the Trial Court held that the oral testimony was consistent with the cause of death determined by the medical findings. B 6.2. After finding that the appellant was the last person to be seen with the victim child, as established by the testimony of PW-1 to PW-5, the Trial Court highlighted the importance of cogent evidence establishing the chain of circumstances; and held that the prosecution had discharged its burden of proving beyond reasonable doubt that the appellant had C committed the offence of murder of the victim child. The Trial Court summed up its conclusion as follows: - “38. In the case before us also, the accused who had been leading an independent luxurious life with the money more than sufficient, not willing to live with P.W.1 for the sake of the education of her D child, and without considering that the child was born to her with an intention to cause death to the child, and also knowing full well that the act being committed by her would cause death to the child on 21.6.2007 at 8.00 A.M. in the house of P.W.1, when P.W.1 was not available at house, she had twisted outer end of her saree and strangled around the neck of her daughter 6 years E old Farhana, who was sleeping and the thyroid cartilage bone was fractured and thus caused the death. In to prove the charge, the prosecution had placed the oral evidences and documentary evidences in a cogent manner like a chain.” 6.3. Accordingly, the Trial Court held that the appellant was guilty F of the offence under Section 302 IPC and awarded the sentence as noticed hereinbefore. 7. The appellant challenged the decision of the Trial Court before the Madras High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 1 of 2010, which was dismissed by the impugned and dated 09.03.2010. G 7.1. While accepting the submissions that there had been certain inconsistencies in the statements made by PW-1, the High Court held that the only point for consideration was as to whether the child was left in the custody of the appellant at the time of occurrence; and after detailed examination of the evidence on record, affirmed the findings of the Trial H 966 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Court that the appellant was the last person seen with the deceased child.