A essentially dealing with the question, as to whether the obligation to offer the shares upon there being a further issue of shares, must be made in conformity with Section 105-C of the earlier Act, which, as we have noticed is essentially the regime continued under Section 81 of the 1956 Act. It is in the said context that the Court held that the Directors could at their own initiative only increase the shares from out of the existing B Authorised Capital, but the increase in Authorised Capital could be done only by the company in a meeting of its shareholders. It has been further held that once the Authorised Capital is increased, the Board of Directors would be bound to act under Section 105-C of the Act. 70. In fact, in the said case, the Court found that the expression C ‘capital of a company’ was an ambiguous phrase and may mean either Issued Capital or Authorised Capital, according to the context (See the of Justice M.C. Mahajan in paragraph-18). In the of Justice S.R. Das, which we have adverted to, also we find that the view taken is, that the Legislature did not think it safe to leave an D uncontrolled discretion to the Directors, when an increase of capital was done by the Directors within the Authorised Capital. 71. The position under the Companies Act, 1956, under Section 81, remained the same in that it is only the company, in its General Body Meeting, which could increase the Authorised Capital. The position still E continued that call it increase in Subscribed Capital, it must be within the limits of the Authorised Capital. 72. By the Resolution dated 18.12.2009, the Board of Directors had not actually purported to increase the Authorised Capital. The contents of the last paragraph of the Resolution, makes it abundantly F clear that the Board of Directors was aware that the power lay with the General Body of shareholders to bring about an increase in the Authorised Capital. It has, no doubt, undertaken to resolve to issue further capital, even though it could be said that as on 18.12.2009, there was ‘no further capital’ subsisting in terms of the limit of Rs.1 crore, which constituted G the Authorised Capital as on 18.12.2009. The Resolution to allot the shares in 1:1 ratio and the indication that shares, which are not applied for, could be the subject matter of allotment to other shareholders, were all to become operative upon the applications being considered. The Minutes further reveal that the consideration of the application was to await the increase in the Authorised Capital in a duly constituted meeting H HASMUKHLAL MADHAVLAL PATEL v. AMBIKA FOOD 281 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] of the General Body of shareholders. It is, no doubt, true that the proper A way of doing it could have been to pass a Resolution after the shareholders resolved to increase the Authorised Capital. It is equally true that such a Resolution was passed on 27.01.2010.