914 SUPREME COU[2R0T23 R] 2E PSO.CR.RT.S 914 [2023] 2 S.C.R. A S. ATHILAKSHMI v. THE STATE REP. BY THE DRUGS INSPECTOR (Criminal Appeal No. 804 of 2023) B MARCH 15, 2023 [KRISHNA MURARI AND SUDHANSHU DHULIA, JJ.] Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 – ss.18(c), 27(b)(ii) – Prosecution of appellant u/s.18(c) punishable u/s.27(b)(ii) – Held: Prohibition u/s.18(c) is on the manufacturing, distribution, stocking C or exhibition of medicines for the purposes of sale – In the present case, prosecution against the appellant was unwarranted – Appellant is a registered medical practitioner along with the fact that the quantity of medicines seized was extremely small, a quantity which can be easily found in the house or a consultation room of a D doctor – Considering the small quantity of medicines, most of which are in the category of lotions and ointments, it cannot be said that such medicines could be ‘stocked’ for sale and would come in the category of stocking of medicines for the purpose of sale – No offence is made out – It is not the case of the prosecution that the Appellant was selling drugs from an open shop across the counter E – It is possible that she was distributing these drugs to her patients for emergency uses and thus she is protected by the Act itself – An exception has been created under Schedule ‘K’ r/w r.123 in favour of medical practitioner, the appellant ought to have been given the benefit of these provisions – Further, the sanction for prosecution F given in the instant case, prima facie, suffers from the vice of non- application of mind – of the High Court set aside – Criminal proceedings against appellant quashed – Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 – Schedule K – Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1940 – r.123 – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.482. G Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 It is not the case of the prosecution that the Appellant was selling drugs from an open shop across the counter. She is a senior doctor who is engaged as an Associate Professor and Head of Department, Dermatology in a Government Medical H College, and being a medical practitioner, under certain conditions, 914 S. ATHILAKSHMI v. THE STATE REP. BY THE DRUGS 915 INSPECTOR she is also protected under the law which has been referred to A above. Considering the small quantity of medicines, most of which are in the category of lotions and ointments, it cannot be said by any stretch of imagination that such medicines could be ‘stocked’ for sale and would come in the category of stocking of medicines for the purpose of sale. When small quantity of medicine has been B found in the premises of a registered medical practitioner, it would not amount to selling their medicines across the counter in an open shop. In fact, this is not even the allegation against the Appellant. Undoubtedly, the provisions of Section 18 and are relevant provisions under the law, which have a social purpose, which is to protect ordinary citizens from being exploited inter C alia, by unethical medical practitioners, and for this reason the punishment under Section 27 can extend up to 5 years under the law, and has a minimum punishment of 3 years.