Section 69(3) creates a bar against the institution of a suit to enforce a right arising from a contract unless the fi rm is registered and the person suing is or has been shown in the Register of Firms as partner. This Court considered the overall scheme of the Arbitration Act to hold that an “arbitration clause is separable from the other clauses of the partnership deed” and “constitutes an agreement by itself.” 110. In National Agricultural Coop. Marketing Federation India Ltd. v. Gains Trading Co.,113 the issue before this Court in an application under Section 11 was whether an arbitration clause comes to an end if the contract containing such clause is repudiated. While answering this in negative, this Court observed that even if the underlying contract comes to an end, the arbitration agreement contained in such contract survives for the purpose of the resolution of disputes between the parties. Similarly, in P Manohar Reddy & Bros. v. Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corp.,114 this Court referred to Buckeye Check Cashing Inc. (supra) to observe that an arbitration agreement contained in an underlying contract is a collateral term which may survive the termination of the contract. 111. In Magma Leasing & Finance Ltd. v. Potluri Madhavilata,115 this Court cited Heyman (supra) with approval to hold that the termination of the underlying contract does not render an arbitration agreement inoperative. It was further observed that the arbitration agreement survives for the purpose of resolution of disputes arising “in respect of”, “with regard to”, or “under” the underlying contract. The emphasis on the expressions “in respect of”, “with regard to” or “under” in Magma Leasing & Finance Ltd. (supra) indicates that the purpose of an arbitration agreement is to embody the mutual intention of the parties to settle any disputes that may arise “in 112 (2004) 3 SCC 155 113 (2007) 5 SCC 692 114 (2009) 2 SCC 494 115 (2009) 10 SCC 103 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1147 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] respect of” the substantive obligations under the underlying contract. It is, therefore, a logical conclusion that the parties mutually intend to make an arbitration agreement distinct and separate from the underlying contract, so that even if the underlying contract comes to an end, the arbitration agreement survives to resolve any outstanding disputes that may arise out the substantive obligations under the contract. 112. In view of the above discussion, we formulate our conclusions on this aspect. First, the separability presumption contained in Section 16 is applicable not only for the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal. It encapsulates the general rule on the substantive independence of an arbitration agreement. Second, parties to an arbitration agreement mutually intend to confer jurisdiction on the arbitral tribunal to determine questions as to jurisdiction as well as substantive contractual disputes between them. The separability presumption gives effect to this by ensuring the validity of an arbitration agreement contained in an underlying contract, notwithstanding the invalidity, illegality, or termination of such contract.