Thus, to sustain a claim against an employer COMMANDING OFFICER, RAILWAY PROTECTION SPECIAL FORCE, 677 MUMBAI v. BHAVNABEN DINSHBHAI BHABHOR & OTHERS [MANOJ MISRA, J.] under the 1923 Act, there must be a workman-employer relationship; there must be a personal injury to the workman by an accident; and that accident must arise out of and in the course of his employment. 52. “Employer” is defi ned by clause (e) of sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the 1923 Act as: “employer includes any body of persons whether incorporated or not and any managing agent of an employer and the legal representative of a deceased employer, and, when the services of a workman are temporarily lent or let on hire to another person by the person with whom the workman has entered into a contract of service or apprenticeship, means such other person while the workman is working for him.” 53. By use of the phrase “any body of persons whether incorporated or not” the legislative intent is clear as to include a juristic person whether incorporated or not. However, to maintain a claim against an “employer” under the 1923 Act, there must be, (a) a workman and an employer relationship; (b) the workman must suff er personal injury in an accident; and (c) that accident must arise out of and in the course of his employment. 54. At the time of the accident in question, “workman” was defi ned by clause (n) of sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the 1923 Act. As per the then defi nition clause workman meant any one of the persons specifi ed in sub clauses (i), (ia) and (ii) of clause (n) of sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the 1923 Act; but would not include any person working in the capacity of a member of the Armed Forces of the Union. 55. Importantly, neither the 1923 Act nor The General Clauses Act, 1897 defi nes “The Armed Forces of the Union”. What is also interesting is that the phrase “armed forces of the Union” came, with eff ect from 26 January 1950, as a replacement for the words “His Majesty’s naval, military or air forces”, vide the “Adaptation of Laws , 1950” issued by the President of India in exercise of powers under Article 372(2) of the Constitution of India. 56. Clause (2) of Article 372 of the Constitution of India confers power on the President of India to make such adaptations and modifi cations in any law in force in the territory of India, whether by way of repeal or amendment, 678 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. as may be necessary or expedient, to bring the provisions of that law into accord with the provisions of the Constitution. 57. In Ramesh Birch and others v. Union of India and others4, this Court while dealing with the executive power to extend an existing law of one territory to another, had the occasion to deal with the scope of such power of the Executive.