It is submitted that the High Court too, had failed in examining that aspect, though the said point was argued before the High Court. G 18. Per contra, Shri Shailesh Madiyal, learned counsel for respondent Nos.1 to 4 would submit that the Central Administrative Tribunal as also the High Court had correctly appreciated the circumstances that led to the invocation of the power under Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules for dismissing the appellant from service without conducting an inquiry. It is submitted that the contentions of the appellant H 792 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A that having initiated disciplinary proceedings under Rule 11 of the CCA Rules vide Memorandum dated 19.12.2003 for the twin specific charges,(referred hereinbefore) inexpediency to hold an inquiry could not have been and should not have been assigned as a reason to invoke the power under Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules to dismiss him from service as per dated 11.08.2007 and that it is a short cut move, B are absolutely unsustainable in view of the indisputable facts and circumstances obtained in this case. It is submitted that the proceedings initiated by Memorandum dated 19.12.2003 under Rule 11 of the CCA Rules and the proceedings which culminated in the dismissal of the appellant under Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules are distinct. In the C proceedings initiated under Rule 11, inquiry was conducted and the appellant was also afforded with reasonable opportunity, adhering to the principles of natural justice. However, other violations of serious nature came to light subsequently, causing serious doubt about the appellant’s integrity, honesty, reliability, dependability and trustworthiness, which are quintessential qualities expected in all Scientists/Engineers of ISRO, which D is a strategically important organisation. Going by the counter affidavit filed before this Court on behalf of respondent Nos.1 to 4, inter alia, the following relevant facts were taken into account to invoke the power under Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules instead of proceeding to file a supplementary charge sheet under Rule 11 of the CCA Rules, such as:- E (i) the way the Korean authorities had harboured him for almost two years, (ii) his continued contacts and interactions with them in spite of s to the contrary, (iii) the manner in which he managed to leave the country F in spite of the Look Out Notices issued by the Immigration Authorities to the Police and International Airport authorities, (iv) his further exposure to the ISRO’S critical rocket technologies would have serious complications, and G 19. It is the further contention that ISRO, being a strategically important organization having sensitivity, especially from the angle of the security of the State, its employees are not allowed to go abroad and to take up assignments/research there, without permission. Being a responsible scientist/engineer of VSSC/ISRO, the appellant was duty H DR. V. R. SANAL KUMAR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 793 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] bound to abide by the conduct Rules and when the violation is serious A and likely to affect the security of the State, it is not only befitting but also inevitably inviting action in terms of the provision under Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules.