Section H 50 reads as follows: K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 689 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “50. The Electricity Supply Code – The State Commission A shall specify an Electricity Supply Code to provide for recovery of electricity charges, intervals for billing of electricity charges, disconnection of supply of electricity for non-payment thereof, restoration of supply of electricity, measures for preventing tampering, distress or damage to electric plant or B electrical line or meter, entry of distribution licensee or any person acting or his behalf for disconnecting supply and removing the meter, entry for replacing, altering or maintaining electric lines or electrical plants or meter and such other matters.” (emphasis supplied) C 81. Section 50 of the 2003 Act specifies that the State Commission shall specify an Electricity Supply Code. Section 2(64) defines “State Commission” as the State Electricity Regulatory Commission constituted under Section 82(1). The State Commission is authorised to notify the Electric Supply Code under section 181(2)(x). The use of expressions D such as “recovery of electricity charges”, “disconnection of supply”, “restoration of supply”, under Section 50 indicate that the scope of the regulatory powers of the State Commission under the said provision is wide enough to govern all matters relating to the supply of electricity to the premises. E 82. The 2003 Act lays down the legislative framework for generation, transmission, distribution, trading, and use of electricity in India. In the process, the Parliament has also conferred discretion on the regulatory authorities, particularly the Central Commission and State Commission, to work out further details within the framework of the legislative policy laid down in the legislation. While making subordinate F legislation, the delegated authority has to act within the confines of the plenary legislation.42 The rules or regulations enacted by the Central Commission or State Commission cannot override the 2003 Act by stipulating inconsistent provisions or by supplanting the parent statute. 83. The 2003 Act empowers the State Commission to make G regulations on matters specified under Section 181(2). In PTC India Ltd. v. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission43 a Constitution Bench of this Court held that regulations can be framed by State 42 JK Industries Ltd. v. Union of India, (2007) 13 SCC 673 43 (2010) 4 SCC 603 H 690 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Commissions so long as they satisfy two conditions: first, they must be consistent with the provisions of Act; and second, they must be made for carrying out the provisions of the Act. The Court held: “28. The 2003 Act contemplates three kinds of delegated legislation. Firstly, under Section 176, the Central Government is B empowered to make rules to carry out the provisions of the Act. Correspondingly, the State Governments are also given powers under Section 180 to make rules. Secondly, under Section 177, the Central Authority is also empowered to make regulations consistent with the Act and the rules to carry out the provisions of the Act. Thirdly, under Section 178, the Central Commission can C make regulations consistent with the Act and the rules to carry out the provisions of the Act.