Vs. N. M. Thomas and Ors., (1976) 2 SCC 310; F (iii) Shriram Tomar and Anr. Vs. Praveen Kumar Jaggi and Ors., (2019) 5 SCC 736; and (iv) Decision of this Court in the case of Manoj Parihar and Others Vs. State of Jammu & Kashmir and Ors., SLP G (C) No. 11039 of 2022 decided on June 27, 2022. 4.3 It is further submitted by Shri Basant, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the respective petitioners that the method adopted by the High Court in preparing the Select List for promotion to the post of District Judge is absolutely illegal and just contrary to the Rules, 2005 H 422 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A further amended in the year 2011. It is submitted that as per the High Court and so stated in the counter affidavit, explaining the procedure adopted for the selection of 68 candidates vide selection list dated 10.03.2023, it is stated as under:- “9. The suitability of candidate had for components which were B duly reflected in the Recruitment Notice. The “Merit” eligibility required a Candidate to secure minimum 40% marks in each component with 50% marks aggregate. Upon achieving this, the final selection would be based on seniority. Accordingly, a select list of 68 candidates was prepared.” C 4.4 It is submitted that by adopting the above method, the High Court has adopted the principle of “seniority-cum-merit”. It is submitted that the High Court by following the standard method of seniority-cum- merit is to subject all the eligible candidates in the feeder grade (possessing the prescribed educational qualification and period of service) to a process of assessment of a specified minimum necessary merit and then promote D the candidates who are found to possess the minimum necessary merit strictly in the of seniority. It is submitted that though the High Court uses the nomenclature of above method as merit-cum-seniority, but actually has followed the principle of seniority-cum-merit. In support of his above submission, the learned Senior Advocate has heavily relied E upon the decision of this Court in the case of N.M. Thomas and Ors. (supra) as well as in the case of C.P. Kalra Vs Air India (1994) Supp. 1 SCC 454. It is submitted that in the case of C.P. Kalra (supra), this Court has ruled that though the Rules in the said case mention merit- cum-seniority, however, rules elaborately lay down method of seniority- cum-merit. F 4.5 It is further submitted by the learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the petitioners that as per the settled position of law, when promotion is to be based on “merit-cum-seniority” only, the basic qualified seniority has to be seen for eligible candidates and thereafter the selection G for promotion has to be done on the basis of merit only. It is submitted that, however, the process adopted by the High Court and the State is in complete departure of the same. It is submitted that in the present case, the High Court has considered the seniority to be the least identified criteria for promotion, which cannot be sustained, if the principle of “merit- cum-seniority” as provided under the Rules, 2005 is to be followed.