II. The constitutional integration of Indian States a) Internal Constitutions of States 247. The Draft Constitution of India 1948207 provided that India shall be a “Union of States”. The term “State” included Part I, Part II, Part III states in the First Schedule to the Constitution. The territories known as Governors’ Provinces immediately before the commencement of the Constitution were placed in Part I of the First Schedule to the Draft Constitution. This included the States of Madras, Bombay, West Bengal, United Provinces, Bihar, East Punjab, Central Provinces and Berar, Assam, and Orissa. The territories known immediately before the commencement of the Constitution as the Chief Commissioners’ Provinces were placed in Part II. Part II included the states of Delhi, Ajmer-Mewara including Panth Piploda, and Coorg. Part III consisted of Indian States. The State of Jammu and Kashmir was placed in Part III. 248. The Indian States (included in Part III of the Draft Constitution) entered the Constituent Assembly of India on the basis that they would accede to the Union of India by suitable instruments, and that the Constituent Assemblies of the States would frame separate Constitutions for the States.208 207 Draft Constitution of India (May 1948); “Draft Constitution” 208 Note by the Ministry of States explaining the decisions regarding the Indian States (July 1949) 156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. In the Covenants relating to the formation of Unions of States, a provision was made for setting up local Constituent Assemblies in each State.209 As we have already noted above, the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir issued a proclamation on 5 March 1948 for the establishment of a State Constitution stipulating that the State Constitution shall be framed by the National Assembly which shall be constituted after the restoration of ‘normalcy’ in the State. 249. However, it was soon realised that if each of the States were to have their own Constitution without any guidance, there would be inconsistencies between the Constitutions of the States and the Constitution of the Union. To resolve this anomaly, a committee Chaired by the constitutional advisor, BN Rau, was appointed to prepare a model Constitution to serve as a guide in framing the Constitution for the States.210 The Committee noted that if the Constitution proposed by the Committee is accepted by the Constitution-making bodies in the Indian States, then a special part in the Draft Constitution could be included on the Constitutions of Indian States. This Part would then provide that the provisions relating to the Provinces would apply to the States subject to specifi ed variations set out in a separate Schedule to the Constitution. 250. However, certain practical diffi culties arose in implementing the proposal. Constituent Assemblies had not yet been set up in a few of the States (Rajasthan, PEPSU, Vindhya Pradesh and Madhya Bharat) in Part III. But it was imperative that the Constitution for the whole of India came into force from January 1950. In a Conference held in May 1949, it was decided to not wait till Constituent Assemblies were set up in each State.