Therefore, the C impugned rule mandating the transfer of OSR area free of cost has no rational basis and hence arbitrary. (vi) Further, if an open space is required for public purpose, then every public would be enjoying the same. The state may tax the public based on wealth but can not tax only a person who is D proposing to develop an area of 10,000 sqm. Therefore, the classification has neither any intelligible differentia nor has rational nexus with the object of town Planning. Therefore, the impugned rule is discriminatory and hence violative of Art.14 of Constitution of India. The Hon’ble Court Supreme Court in Yogendra Pal & E others Vs. Municiplaity, Bhatinda, reported in AIR 1994 Supreme Court 2550 [relevant para-9] has held that the statutory provisions U/S 192(1)(c) of the Punjab Municipal Act’1911 and U/S 203(1)(c) of Haryana Municipal Act’1973 enabling the State to seek transfer of land to the extent of 25% of the private land free of cost while developing a building scheme as violative of Art.14 of the F Constitution of India. The Hon’ble Supreme Court while upholding the said provisions as not violative of Arts. 19(1)(f) and 31(2) (the then existing provisions) of Constitution of India but held the said provisions as violative of Art. 14 of the Constitution of India. Therefore, due to the aforesaid reasons, the mandate under the G impugned rule to transfer the OSR area free of cost is without any basis and hence arbitrary and unreasonable and discriminatory and hence violative of Art.14 of the Constitution of India.” 49. In the review petition (filed as review application no. 69 of 2008) also there is no contention seeking to ventilate the complaint that H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1079 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] the impugned rule falls foul of Article 14 on the basis that it is A discriminatory. 50. We are concerned in this case with the provision which provides for town planning. In regard to such law, a certain measure of free play is to be given to the planning authority bearing in mind that it is urban planning what is involved. In regard to the grant of development permit B up to 3000 sq. mtr., the rules do not contemplate any requirement in the matter of OSR. It is a matter which goes to the wisdom and clearly falls within the realm of policy. In other words, having regard to the size of the development contemplated, the authority has not found it fit to provide for reservation under the head open space. It cannot be described as C being bereft of any rationale that upon the minimum threshold of 3,000 sq. mtr. being breached and the layout being between 3,000 sq. mtr. and 10,000 sq. mtr., 10% of the area excluding roads is to be maintained as open space. In other words, 10% of area would have to be reserved for communal and recreational facilities. It is no doubt true that that in cases falling in the said category namely group developments which comprise D of an area in excess of 3,000 sq.