During the pendency of the prohibitory , the defendants entered into the suit property, took forceful possession of the same and broke down the godown. (vii) Thereafter, the Executive Magistrate took cognizance of Miscellaneous Case No. 02 of 1981 and by an dated G 13th July, 1984 directed the defendants to vacate the suit premises, failing which, possession thereof would be forcefully recovered with the aid of police authorities. However, the dated 13th July, 1984 was set aside by the Additional District and Sessions Judge by an dated 30th January, 1985 on the ground that there was a delay of H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 165 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] two months in conversion of the proceedings initially A registered under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to proceedings under Section 145 of the Code. The of the Additional District and Sessions Judge dated 30th January, 1985 was sustained by the Gauhati High Court, while granting liberty to plaintiff no. 2 to initiate fresh B proceedings in this regard. That accordingly fresh proceedings were initiated. (viii) That notwithstanding the fact that notice of the fresh proceedings was served on the defendants, they started putting up a pucca construction on the suit property. C Therefore, the plaintiffs were constrained to file a suit for declaration of title and recovery of khas possession of the suit land. 4. In response to the plaint, the defendants filed a written statement the contents of which are encapsulated as under:- D (i) The fact that Braja Mohan Dey was the original owner and possessor of the suit property, was denied. It was averred that the contents of the plaint regarding the loan obtained by Braja Mohan Dey, in lieu of which the suit property was sold to plaintiff no. 2, weretotally false. That no power of E attorney was executed by Braja Mohan Dey in favour of plaintiff no. 2 in respect of the suit property. (ii) That plaintiff no. 2 was a tenant under defendant no. 1 in a room located in the northern portion of schedule ‘A’ property. (iii) That there arose no question of the defendants forcibly F taking possession of schedule ‘C’ property as they had been in legal possession of the suit property for more than thirty years, i.e., since the year 1981. That the defendants had been running a business in the suit property under the name “Chandra Hotel.” That neither of the plaintiffs was ever in possession of the suit land. That the documents based on G which the plaintiffs claimed title over the suit land, i.e., power of attorney and sale deeds were false and fabricated. With the aforesaid averments, it was prayed before the Trial Court that the suit for declaration of title and recovery of khas possession of the suit land, filed by the plaintiffs, be dismissed. H 166 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 5. The Court of the Assistant District Judge, West Tripura, Agartala by its and decree dated 11th September, 1995 dismissed T.S.