Bearing in mind the position of law thus revealed from the aforementioned decisions, we will consider whether judicial review is F called for or not in respect of the challenge of the appellant against his removal from service without holding an inquiry in invocation of the power under Clause (iii) of Rule 16 of the CCA Rules, with reference to the factual backdrop of this case. 17. Manifold contentions have been raised by Shri Gopal G Sankaranarayanan, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the appellant to contend that both the Tribunal and the High Court had fallen in error in upholding the of dismissal passed without conducting an inquiry in invocation Clause (iii) of Rule 16 of the CCA Rules. It is the contention of the learned Senior Advocate that indisputably in this case on 19.12.2003, H DR. V. R. SANAL KUMAR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 791 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] the Under Secretary to the Government of India served a Memorandum A along with article of charges and statement of imputation under Article 11 of the CCA Rules to the appellant for the purpose of conducting departmental inquiry, alleging commission of two charges, namely (i) unauthorized absence from 01.09.2003 to leave the country for taking post-doctoral research without permission and (ii) publication of a B technical paper during July, 2003 in AIAA Propulsion Conference, USA as first author with a foreigner as one of the co-authors, without prior permission or approval from the competent authority. The contention is that the appellant participated in the preliminary hearing and thereafter, the matter was proceeded ex-parte and that the inquiry report was thereafter served on him and a copy of the same was also forwarded to C the Union Public Service Commission for its remarks, but the said proceedings had not reached its logical end. In other words, it is submitted that without finalizing the same and if at all necessary to issue a further charge on additional imputation a short cut was adopted abruptly, by invoking the powers under clause (iii) of Rule 16 of the CCA Rules to D dismiss the appellant from service without holding inquiry. This, according to the appellant, is impermissible in law and, therefore, the non- interference with the of dismissal by the Tribunal and then by the High Court could not be sustained. It is also the contention that there is no justification in holding that it is not expedient to conduct an inquiry in terms of Rule 16 (iii) of CCA Rules after deciding to conduct an inquiry E and in fact, actually conducting an inquiry. It is also the contention that the of dismissal dated 11.08.2007 on the face of it did not reflect the satisfaction of the President that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to hold an inquiry. It is the further contention that though the records of the cases were placed before the Tribunal, it F had not exercised its jurisdiction to conduct a judicial review of the substantive satisfaction required to pass an under Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules.