It will at once be noticed that thereunder violation of ‘norms’ E would disentitle a person to post facto clearance. The norms are laid down in Paragraph-8. Paragraph-8 provided for regulation of activities permissible under the 2011 Notification. It declares that the development or construction activities in different categories of CRZ shall be regulated by the concerned CZMA in accordance F with the norms. [Paras 27-29][264-G-H; 266-F-G; 267-D-E] 1.3 CRZ-III, comprised of area up to 200 meters from HTL on the landward side in the case of sea front inter alia. It is marked as the NDZ [or No Development Zone}. It was, inter alia, provided that NDZ shall not apply “in such area falling within any notified G port”. There are various restrictions therein. Certain activities were shown as permitted activities in the NDZ. They included in Clause (e) facilities for receipt and storage of petroleum products and liquified gas as specified in Annexure-II. Interestingly, in regard to the area between 200 meters to 500 meters falling in CRZ-III, paragraph-8 permitted storage of non-hazardous cargo H K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 249 ORS. such as edible oil, fertilizers, foodgrains ‘in’ notified ports. [Para A 31][269-D-E] 1.4 It will be noticed that the Certificate is silent as regards the storage facility and it being in the port. The Certificate does not exactly declare that there is no space at the Chennai port. Appellants may be correct in contending that edible oil is not B hazardous and that edible oil imports may be necessary to meet the requirement of a growing population. It may be true that there is no manufacturing process which may be involved in constructing or maintaining the storage facility. [Para 35][270-G- H; 271-A] C 1.5 A perusal of the 2011 notification reveals the following as the avowed objects: (i) ensuring livelihood security to the fisher communities and other communities living in the coastal areas, (ii) conservation and protection of coastal stretches; (iii) the protection of the unique environment of the coastal stretches D and its marine area; (iv) promotion or development through sustainable manner based on scientific principles taking into account the dangers of natural hazards in the coastal areas; (v) the aspect of sea level rise due to global warming. Therefore, This Court is unable to agree with the appellants that as the laying of the pipeline would result in greater efficiency in the functioning E of the port or for that matter, it would reduce the traffic congestion, and what is more, thereby there would be a reduction in the pollution may not by itself be relevant or for concluding the issue. It is the duty of the Court to glean the true object of a law and give effect to it. It is equally the duty of the Court to eschew from F its consideration matters which may not be strictly germane to the object. [Para 36][271-C-F] 1.6 In paragraph- 8(I)(i)(b), construction of pipelines, inter alia, was permitted. It is thereafter that in paragraph-8(II), under CRZ-II, Clause VI contemplated permitting of storage of non- hazardous cargo, such as edible oil, fertilizers and food grain ‘in’ G notified ports.