In this respect, learned Senior Counsel B relied on the of this Court in the case of K.S. Puttaswamy (Retired) and another (Aadhaar) v. Union of India and another3 and Internet and Mobile Association of India v. Reserve Bank of India4. 40. Learned Senior Counsel submitted that though, while exercising C the power of judicial review, it may not be permissible for this Court to examine the correctness of the decision, however, this Court can very well exercise its powers to examine the correctness of the decision- making process. He submits that the decision-making process in the present case is totally flawed. He submits that neither the Central Board while making the recommendation nor the Central Government while D taking the decision have followed the procedure as prescribed in sub- section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act. He submits that, in any case, they have failed to take into consideration the relevant factors which were required to be taken into consideration and have taken into consideration those factors which were false from the very inception E and have subsequently been proved to be so. He, therefore, submits that this Court is entitled to exercise its powers of judicial review and hold that the decision-making process was not sustainable in law. In this respect, learned Senior Counsel relied on the s of this Court in the cases of Tata Cellular v. Union of India5, Uttamrao Shivdas Jankar v. Ranjitsinh Vijaysinh Mohite Patil6, Centre for Public F Interest litigation and others v. Union of India and others7, Lt. General Manomoy Ganguly Vsm v. Union of India and others8 and K.S. Puttaswamy (Retired) and another (Aadhaar) (supra). 41. Learned Senior Counsel further submitted that, despite the passage of time, this Court has the power to grant declaratory relief G 3 (2019) 1 SCC 1 4 (2020) 10 SCC 274 5 (1994) 6 SCC 651 6 (2009) 13 SCC 131 7 (2012) 3 SCC 1 8 (2018) 18 SCC 83 H 44 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A including the relief of declaring as to what is the true meaning and interpretation of various provisions of the RBI Act and also to mould the relief accordingly. Learned Senior Counsel relied on the of this Court in the case of Somaiya Organics (India) Ltd. and another v. State of U.P. and another9, Orissa Cement Ltd. v. State of Orissa and others10, and I.C. Golak Nath & Others v. State of Punjab & B Another11 in support of the said submissions. 42. Learned Senior Counsel further submitted that the impugned Notification is also violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India. He submits that, if it is the contention of the State that the restriction imposed is reasonable and in the interest of the general public, then the C burden is on the respondents to establish the same. However, in the present case, the respondents have failed to do so. He further submits that this Court in the case of Jayantilal Ratanchand Shah v. Reserve Bank of India and others12 has held the currency notes to be property.