On the other hand, we also H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 33 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] heard Mr. Sajjan Poovayya, learned senior counsel assisted by Mr. Rahul A Kinra, learned counsel and Mr. Amit Kapoor, learned counsel. SUBMISSION OF APPELLANTS (21) Shri P. Chidambaram, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant, would submit that the Tribunal has clearly acted in error B and illegally in passing the impugned . (22) He would submit that as far as the finding given by the Tribunal in regard to the water intake system being located at a different place, is concerned, the Tribunal agreed with the Commission that there was no change in law. Once, it was found that there was no change in law, there C is no power with the Tribunal to do what it did. The PPA signifies an agreement between the parties. The PPA goes into meticulous details. It follows an internationally competitive bidding and the obligations of the parties have been carved out and articulated with great care. Once the party, viz., the first respondent went to the Commission complaining that there is a change in law and it was found that there is no change in D law, there ended the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. Instead of terminating the lis, the Tribunal has clearly strayed outside its jurisdiction in granting relief on the basis that report of WAPCOS was grossly erroneous. In this regard, he enlisted in support of his contention, various clauses which unambiguously disclaimed any liability with the procurers on account of E any inaccuracies which may be reflected in the WAPCOS report. A report submitted by WAPCOS which is a public sector body was only by way of providing information. The bidders were provided with the report well before they decided to put in their bids. Having regard to the various disclaimer clauses, it did not lie in their mouth to thereafter seek to construct a case based on the report being erroneous. In this regard, F it is pointed out that the clauses clearly indicate that the bidder was to satisfy itself by conducting a study of the site. Nothing prevented the first respondent from carrying out inspection of the site and verifying for itself the information which was provided through the report of the WAPCOS. G (23) Mr. P. Chidambaram, learned senior counsel, further pointed out that a perusal of the second WAPCOS report, which is the sole basis for the huge claim raised by the first respondent, would show that the second report does not, in any manner, rubbish the first report. It is not in dispute, it is pointed out, that the procurers were in no way associated H 34 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A with the carrying out of the second WAPCOS report. Unilaterally, the first respondent without any basis gets the second report commissioned and it is on the said basis alone that the claim was made and what is more, allowed by the Tribunal.