without service of notice, without providing the opportunity of hearing and without payment of compensation to the plaintiff , and thus, the proceedings of the defendant no.1 were declared to be invalid. The decree of the Trial Court dated 23.2.2004 was thus set aside allowing the plaintiff ’s appeal. The decree of permanent injunction was accordingly granted favouring the plaintiff against the defendant no.1 and it was further ed that defendant no.1 is to restore the suit land mentioned in para no.1 (a) & 1 (b) of the plaint and they were restrained from interfering with the use and occupation of the said land by the plaintiff . 6. The defendant no.1 i.e. Urban Improvement Trust, Bikaner assailed the and decree dated 16.4.2004 in Appeal Decree No.30/04. The High Court in the second appeal noted that the defendant no.1 in the written statement had admitted that the plaintiff together with the defendant nos.2 to 4 are the owners of the suit land. Therefore, it was held that suit for injunction without seeking relief of title declaration is maintainable as even the defendant no.1 does not claim any title over land purchased by the plaintiff and the defendant nos.2 to 4, by way of two registered sale deeds in the year 1970. Since the plaintiff together with the defendant nos.2 to 4 had obtained valid title by purchase in the year 1970 and were in peaceful possession, they were not required to seek relief of declaration of title, particularly when the title has not been disputed by the defendant no.1. 7. The High Court adverted to the provisions of The Rajasthan Urban Improvement Act, 1959 (hereinafter referred to as the “1959 Act”) and observed that for compulsory acquisition of land under Section 52, the procedure to be followed is prescribed in the sub-Sections under Section 52 such as giving notice and providing opportunity of hearing to the owner and/or any other interested person and compensation must also be paid to the owner under Section 53. However, since the defendant no.1 failed to comply with the mandatory provisions under Section 52 and 53 of the 1959 Act and that acquisition process was initiated much after the purchase of the land by the plaintiff , the acquisition proceeding in the absence of notice and compensation was declared to be void and a nullity. It was specifi cally noted 528 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. that the defendant no. 1 admitted the possession and title of the plaintiff in their written statement and thus it was opined that the plaintiff is entitled to protect their property. As the defendant no.1 had also raised an issue questioning the jurisdiction of the Civil Court, it was held that a suit in a civil Court will always lie to question the of the tribunal created by a statute even if its is expressly or by necessary implication made fi nal, if the said tribunal abuses its power or acts in violation of its provisions. Consequently, the second appeal fi led by the defendant no.1 was dismissed upholding the decree passed in favour of the plaintiff by the fi rst Appellate Court.