7318 and similar articles of other base metal, and the expression ‘part and accessories’ in Chapter Heading 87.08 did not apply to parts or accessories unsuitable for use solely or primarily with articles of CH B 87.08 which related to parts and accessories of motor vehicles of CH 87.01 to 87.05. For the purposes of classification under CH 87.08, the test to be applied is whether the goods are suitable for use solely or primarily with articles of CH Nos.87.01 to 87.05; if the answer is in the affirmative, the goods will be classifiable under CH 87.08, but if the answer is in the negative, they would have to be classified under CH C 73.18. 9. It is urged that on an application of similar logic even if LCDs are covered by CH 90.13, yet, they have to be classified under heading 85.29 since these are solely or principally used for manufacture of LCD TVs and commercially known as parts of TVs. D 10. Learned counsel referred to Chapter Note 2(b) (of Chapter 90) relating to classification of parts and accessories if suitable for use solely or principally with a particular kind of machine, instrument or apparatus or with a number of machines, are to be classified with that machine, instrument or apparatus of that kind. In view of this note, LCDs E for computer monitor are classifiable as part of computer monitor, and the various general application and special application monitors will alone be classifiable under Chapter Heading 90.13. The example given for such LCD panels were panel for video games, medical monitoring and industrial test and control, etc., which are not part of any particular F equipment or machine but can be used in an assortment of machines. It was submitted that the assessee’s plea about classification of different parts in various Chapter Headings other than Chapter 84 and 85, is irrelevant as the various notes/explanatory notes of all sections, chapters, and headings are unique to the respective sections or chapters or headings and cannot be generalized or interchanged or applied to with other G sections, chapters or headings, unless specified in the tariff/explanatory notes or by any other legislation. The absence of explanatory note stating the parts of LCD TVs will not be classifiable under Chapter Heading 85.29 if it is specifically specified under any other chapter heading (in this case, Chapter Heading 90.13), the assessee cannot rely on notes relating to other sections and chapters. H 266 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 11. Lastly, Ms. Bagchi, anticipating reliance- by the assessee upon the of this court, in Secure Meters v Commissioner of Customs6- submitted that the ratio of that case cannot be applied to the facts of this case because, firstly, the competing entries (in that case) fell within the same chapter, and secondly, that the factual basis in the present case, is stronger, because the websites of the manufacturers, B clearly reveal that the imported goods were meant principally to be used in television sets.