Article 325 C embeds a non-discriminatory principle: “325. No person to be ineligible for inclusion in, or to claim to be included in a special, electoral roll on grounds of religion, race, caste or sex. There shall be one general electoral roll for every territorial constituency for election to D either House of Parliament or to the House or either House of the Legislature of a State and no person shall be ineligible for inclusion in any such roll or claim to be included in any special electoral roll for any such constituency on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex or any of them.” E Democracy has been held to be a part of one of the essential features of the Constitution. Yet, somewhat paradoxically, the right to vote has not been recognized as a Fundamental Right yet; it was termed as a “mere” statutory right. However, in Jyoti Basu v. Debi Ghosal,13 this court again pointed out that: “a right to elect, fundamental though it is to democracy, is, F anomalously enough, neither a fundamental right nor a common law right. It is pure and simple a statutory right. With great reverence to the eminent Judges, I would like to clarify that the right to vote, if not a fundamental right, is certainly a constitutional right. The right originates from the Constitution G and in accordance with the constitutional mandate contained in Article 326, the right has been shaped by the statute, namely, R.P. act. That, in my understanding, is the correct legal position as regards the nature of the right to vote in elections to the House of the People and Legislative Assemblies. It is not very H 131982 [3] SCR 318 BHIM RAO BASWANTH RAO PATIL v. K. MADAN MOHAN 1239 RAO AND ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] accurate to describe it as a statutory right, pure and simple. A Even with this clarification, the argument of the learned Solicitor General that the right to vote not being a fundamental right, the information which at best facilitates meaningful exercise of that right cannot be read as an integral part of any fundamental right, remains to be squarely met....” B Similarly, in para 123 of the , O. Chinnappa Reddi, J., held that: “(2) The right to vote at the elections to the House of the People or Legislative Assembly is a constitutional right but not merely a statutory right; freedom of voting as distinct from C right to vote is a facet of the fundamental right enshrined in Article 19(1)(a). The casting of vote in favour of one or the other candidate marks the accomplishment of freedom of expression of the voter.” 28. The elector or voter’s right to know about the full background D of a candidate- evolved through court decisions- is an added dimension to the rich tapestry of our constitutional jurisprudence. Keeping this in mind, this court is of the opinion that if the appellant’s contentions were to be accepted, there would be a denial of a full-fledged trial, based on the acknowledgement that material facts were not suppressed.