D Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1. The relief of Anticipatory Bail is aimed at safeguarding individual rights. While it serves as a crucial tool to prevent the misuse of the power of arrest and protects innocent individuals from harassment, it also presents challenges in E maintaining a delicate balance between individual rights and the interests of justice. The tight rope lies in striking a balance between safeguarding individual rights and protecting public interest. While the right to liberty and presumption of innocence are vital, the court must also consider the gravity of the offence, the impact on society, and the need for a fair and free investigation. F The court’s discretion in weighing these interests in the facts and circumstances of each individual case becomes crucial to ensure a just outcome. [Para 19][421-E-G] 2. In light of Respondent No. 2’s own contention, what transpired in 1996 was the sale of the Subject Land through the G GPA. Upon reviewing a copy of the alleged 1996 GPA presented to the court, the Appellants relinquished all crucial rights pertaining to the Subject Land. These rights include possession of the land, handling water, sewer, electricity, power connections, and other services related to the property, paying lease payments H PRATIBHA MANCHANDA & ANR. v. STATE OF HARYANA & 413 ANR. and other dues, making additions or modifications to the existing A structure with required permissions, renting out the land, issuing receipts, and managing tenant-related matters. Furthermore, the Appellants granted authority for selling, disposing, or transferring the land, entering into agreements, and receiving consideration on behalf of the principal. However, regardless of obtaining all B the rights over the Subject Land, Respondent No. 2 does not appear to have ever informed the Revenue/local authorities that he had purportedly ‘purchased’ the Subject Land through a GPA. The ownership of the land always remained in the name of the Appellants in the revenue record and no application for change of mutation, etc. was moved by the 2nd Respondent. At a very C belated stage, after the execution of the alleged 1996 GPA, a portion of the Subject Land was acquired by the Government and compensation in this regard was paid to the Appellants. Respondent No. 2 neither objected to the payment of such compensation nor asserted his title over the land, which he D normally would have done had he possessed any rights over it. It would be incongrous to accept transfer of ownership rights in an immovable property merely on execution of a power of attorney. [Para 20][422-A-F] 3. A certified copy of this GPA is said to have been relied E upon to execute the disputed sale deed. The Court fails to understand or comprehend as to how a bona fide purchaser could pay crores of rupees as sale consideration to a person who neither possesses documents showing ownership and title nor has original GPA of the true owner(s) of the property being sold. The fact that the sale deed was allegedly executed without mentioning F the PAN Number or without deducting TDS, underlines the dubious nature of this transaction.