On various occasions, this Court has stated essential conditions that must be fulfilled before conviction of an accused can take place based on circumstantial evidence. In the landmark case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Mahrashtra, (1984) 4 SCC 116 it has been held as under: H GUNA MAHTO v. STATE OF JHARKHAND 785 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] “153. A close analysis of this decision would show that the A following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established: (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. B It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned “must or should” and not “may be” established. There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between “may be proved” and “must be or should be proved” as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra [(1973) 2 SCC 793 : 1973 SCC (Cri) 1033 : 1973 Crl C LJ 1783] where the observations were made: [SCC para 19, p. 807: SCC (Cri) p. 1047] “Certainly, it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between ‘may be’ and ‘must be’ is long and divides vague D conjectures from sure conclusions.” (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, E (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and F (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.” 8. In the instant case, as we have noted earlier, the Investigation G Officer was not examined. We find that there is no evidence, ocular or documentary, relating to the factum of the accused having caused the disappearance of evidence by giving information to the police in to prevent himself from being prosecuted in relation to the murder of his own wife. H 786 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 9. When we examine the testimony of Banaudhi Mahto (PW-2), father of the deceased, we notice him not to have stated anything against the accused in relation to the crime. He states that two days prior to the recovery of the dead body, father of the accused had informed him that the deceased had eloped with someone. But with whom? He does not mention. He admits that the deceased and the accused were living B together and when he discovered that his daughter had not returned home, he lodged the report with the Police.