Further, the action of the banks of classifying an account as ‘fraud’ is stigmatic, akin to blacklisting the borrower, which affects their right to reputation. Thus, there is a direct impact on the fundamental rights of the individuals concerned, as a consequence of the classification of an account as fraud. F c. The Master Directions on Frauds are violative of Articles 14, 19, and 21 of the Constitution of India as they debar a company and its promoters and directors from accessing financial and credit markets for a period of five years without even providing a show cause notice or opportunity of being G heard. d. There are other facets to the principle of audi alteram partem apart from a personal hearing. The Master Directions on Frauds does not stand good on other facets of audi alteram partem such as notice of allegations levelled H STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 491 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] and evidence collected,notice of the penalty proposed, A among others. According to the procedure laid down under the Master Directions on Frauds, a company or its promoters and directors are not even informed that they have been classified as fraud and that a penalty has been imposed upon them. B e. The Master Directions on Frauds are silent on whether or not the borrower is entitled to an opportunity of being heard after the receipt of forensic audit report and before deciding whether the borrower’s account should be classified as fraud. Since the decision to classify the account as fraud C entails significant civil consequences, principles of natural justice ought to be read into the Master Directions on Frauds. f. Clause 8.12.5 of the Master Directions on Frauds expressly stipulates that an opportunity of hearing be provided to third parties. The directionsare manifestly arbitrary since on the one hand they provide an opportunity of hearing to third D parties, but such an opportunity is denied to borrowers. g. Although the purpose and object of the Master Directions on Frauds is speedy detection and reporting of fraud to law enforcement agencies, such exigencies cannot be a valid ground to exclude the applicability of the principles of natural E justice. h. The decision of this Court in State Bank of India v. Jah Developers12 read in the requirement of natural justice for the purposes of declaring a borrower as a willful defaulter. The principles laid down in Jah Developers F (supra) would be squarely applicable to the present matters. i. The participation of the borrower during the preparation of the forensic audit report does not in itself fulfil the requirement of the principles of natural justice under the Master Directions on Frauds. Those directions do not G expressly provide for the participation or inputs from a borrower during the preparation of the forensic audit report, giving rise to the possibility that in some cases, the borrower is completely excluded from the forensic audit process. 12 (2019) 6 SCC 787 H 492 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.