This is correct and accepted D by defendant nos. 1 to 7. These defendants have stated that in 1953 the Schedule ‘A’ property was given on lease by M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited to Maharani Chandratara Devi, which lease was extended till 1968. The defendants have not proved this fact by any documents or lease deed to the said effect. The defendants have also not placed on E record the resolutions, if any, passed by the Board of Directors of M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited. The present status of the company is rather ambiguous and unknown. This would reveal chinks in the defence of the defendants, albeit, as elucidated below, the plaintiff cannot succeed in the present suit on the basis of the weakness of the defendants’ case. We would first refer to the plaint, then the evidence on record, which F has been partly noticed above, and the legal position on burden of proof. 28. The plaintiff had taken a contradictory stand. In the plaint it is pleaded that the M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited was established by the management after taking the land and building of Schedule ‘A’ property on lease from Maharani Chandratara Devi, virtually accepting G that M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited were in possession. At the same time, the plaintiff had pleaded that M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited was established in 1941, and in 1951 Chandratara Devi had acquired 8Earlier, but post stoppage of payment of rent in 1968, Maharani Chandratara Devi had on 29.10.1969 executed a power of attorney in favour of Bidurkarta. H 372 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A lease hold right in the Schedule ‘A’ property from Maharaja Durjoy Kishore Debbarma vide Deed of Patta (Exhibit- 12). The pleading by the plaintiff is acceptance of the fact that when M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited was established in 1941, and subsequently Schedule ‘A’ property got vested with it. In 1941, the plaintiff was clearly not the owner or in possession of the Schedule ‘A’ property/Khosh Mahal. Construction of B the hotel building on the land, it is apparent, was undertaken and done by M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited. The plaintiff has made no such claim. 29. As per the plaint, the Schedule ‘A’ property was given on lease by Maharani Chandratara Devi to M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited. The plaintiff, however, has not placed any document on record in support C of this claim that Maharani Chandratara Devi had given Schedule ‘A’ property on lease to M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited. Equally, defendant nos. 1 to 7 have not been able to establish and show that M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited had given the property on lease to Maharani Chandratara Devi. Be that as it may, we would accept as pleaded by the D plaintiff that M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited was in possession of Schedule ‘A’ property, though the nature and right to possession is disputed. Further, the plaint accepts that after 1968 M/s. Indian Airlines Corporation Limited had paid the rent to defendant no.