2019 (Tender Reference No. 01/DGM/ UPDCC/2018-19) (hereinafter referred to as, ‘the Contract’ or ‘the Project’). The Project was valued at Rs. 1,39,45,000/- (Rupees One Crore Thirty-Nine Lac Forty-Five Thousand only) (hereinafter referred to as the “Contract Value”). The petitioner was to commence work on the date of the execution of the Contract, i.e., 25.10.2019 and complete the work within 24 months, i.e., by 25.09.2021. LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 949 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 5. The Schedule A to Clause 5 of the Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) (hereinafter referred to as the “Schedule A”) provided for the completion period of all works that the petitioner was required to carry out under the Project. Further, the Schedule B to Clause 5 of the SCC (hereinafter referred to as the “Schedule B”) provided for the payment that was to be released to the petitioner upon the completion of each stage of work. 6. The respondent took over the said Project from the UPDCC pursuant to an dated 08.05.2020, passed by the Government of Uttarakhand, which directed that the Project be transferred from UPDCC to the respondent. The takeover of the Project was done by virtue of a tripartite agreement dated 06.10.2020 (hereinafter referred to as the “Tripartite Agreement”), whereby the Contract was novated to the extent that the respondent stepped into the shoes of UPDCC and took over all the obligations under the Contract. 7. The Clause 53 read with Clause 55 of the General Conditions of Contract (hereinafter referred to as “GCC”), which forms part and parcel of the Contract between the petitioner and the respondent, set out the Arbitration Agreement. The said clauses are reproduced hereinbelow for reference: “CLAUSE-53: PROCEDURE FOR CLAIMS: 53.1 If a dispute of any kind, whatsoever, arises between the Employer and contractor in connection with or arising out of the contract for the execution of this works, whether during the execution of the works or after their completion and whether before or after repudiation or termination of the contract, including any disagreement by either party with any action, inaction, opinion, instruction determination, certifi cate or valuation of the Engineer, the matter in dispute shall, be referred to in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 or any statutory modifi cation or re-enactment thereof and the rules made the under and for the time being in force, shall apply to the arbitration proceedings. 53.2 The contractor shall submit the details of his claims in writing including: 950 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (i) Particulars concerning the events on which the claim is based; (ii) the legal basis for the claim, whether based on a term of the Contract or otherwise, and if based on a term of the Contract, clearly identifying the specifi c term; vii) the facts relied upon in support of the Claim in suffi cient detail to permit verifi cation; and viii) details of the amount claimed and how it has been calculated. Xxx xxx xxx CLAUSE-55: ARBITRATION: (a) All question and disputes relating to the meaning of the specifi cation design, drawing and instructions herein and as to the quality of workmanship or materials used on the work or as to any other question claim, right, matter or thing, whatsoever in any way arising out of or relating to the contract, designs, drawings, specifi cation, estimates instructions, s or these condition or otherwise concerning the works or the execution or failure to execute the same, whether arising during the progress of the work or after the cancellation, termination, completion or abandonment thereof, shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 or any statutory modifi cation or re-enactment thereof and the rules made the under and for the time being in force, shall apply to the arbitration proceedings.