D In that decision, reliance was placed on Shri Prithvi Cotton Mills Ltd. vs. Broach Borough Municipality, AIR 1970 SC 192, a Constitution Bench decision of this Court, which has laid down the requirements which a validating law should satisfy in to validate the levy and collection of a tax which has been declared earlier by a court as illegal, the relevant portion of the said s read as under:— E “When a Legislature sets out to validate a tax declared by a court to be illegally collected under an ineffective or an invalid law, the cause for ineffectiveness or invalidity must be removed before validation can be said to take place effectively. The most important condition, of course, is that the Legislature must possess the power F to impose the tax, for, if it does not, the action must ever remain ineffective and illegal. Granted legislative competence, it is not sufficient to declare merely that the decision of the court shall not bind for that is tantamount to reversing the decision in exercise of judicial power which the Legislature does not possess or exercise. A court’s decision must always bind unless the conditions on which G it is based are so fundamentally altered that the decision could not have been given in the altered circumstances. Ordinarily, a court holds a tax to be invalidly imposed because the power to tax is wanting or the statute or the rules or both are invalid or do not sufficiently create the jurisdiction. Validation of a tax so declared H 1012 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A illegal may be done only if the grounds of illegality or invalidity are capable of being removed and are in fact removed and the tax thus made legal. Sometimes this is done by providing for jurisdiction where jurisdiction had not been properly invested before. Sometimes this is done by re-enacting retrospectively a valid and legal taxing provision and then by fiction making the tax already B collected to stand under the re-enacted law. Sometimes the Legislature gives its own meaning and interpretation of the law under which the tax was collected and by legislative fiat makes the new meaning binding upon courts. The Legislature may follow any one method or all of them and while it does so it may neutralize C the effect of the earlier decision of the court which becomes ineffective after the change of the law. Whichever method is adopted it must be within the competence of the Legislature and legal and adequate to attain the object of validation. If the Legislature has the power over the subject-matter and competence to make a valid law, it can at any time make such a valid law and D make it retrospectively so as to bind even past transactions. The validity of a validating law, therefore, depends upon whether the Legislature possesses the competence which it claims over the subject-matter and whether in making the validation it removes the defect which the courts had found in the existing law and E makes adequate provisions in the validating law for a valid imposition of the tax.” Further, in the following decisions, this Court has held that the amendments made to the respective Acts subsequent to the decision of the court were valid and therefore, were upheld:— F a) In State of Orissa vs. Oriental Paper Mills Ltd., AIR 1961 SC 1438, the insertion of Section 14A by way of an amendment to Orissa Sales Tax Act subsequent to the decision of this Court in State of Bombay vs. United Motors India Ltd., AIR 1953 SC 252, was upheld.