The G subsequent part of direction (ii) i.e., “The select list published by respondent Board on 8th September, 2009 and appointments made pursuant thereto shall stand quashed and set aside.” and the consequential directions were upheld by the Division Bench. H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 733 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Justice Vinod Chatterji Koul upheld direction No. (iii) A issued by the learned Single Judge and held that the same shall remain intact and be implemented by the officials in letter and spirit. iv) The learned Chief Justice (as he then was) in a separate opinion, concurred with the observations of Justice Vinod B Chatterji Koul and the observations of the learned Single Judge to the effect that the Select List was not properly drawn. That there was nothing on record to indicate that the members of the Selection Committee had made the assessment of the candidates individually and the final award roll reflecting the C performance of the candidates in the viva-voce and points secured on the basis of the merit in the eligibility qualification as well as extra weightage granted for additional qualification was also not in accordance with the norms. Therefore, the selection process did not conform to the prescribed procedure. However, he further held that the learned Single Judge, having D made the above finding to the effect that some of the candidates had been arbitrarily awarded extra weightage without there being on record any material to show that they possessed the post-graduate degrees for grant of such extra marks, the learned Single Judge could not have saved the E selection of the candidates merely for the reason that they had been serving in the department for the last seven years and they were qualified to hold the post. Further, it was held that the learned Single Judge was not justified in directing the authorities to retain the successful F candidates in service and to accord consideration to the appointment of the writ petitioners-unsuccessful candidates if they satisfy the eligibility criteria and to consider them for appointment against the available clear vacancies of the drug inspectors. The learned Chief Justice opined that the selection process pursuant to Advertisement Notice No. 3 of 2008 dated G 5th May 2008 was completed with the publication of the Select List and the joining of the selected candidates. Therefore, no further appointments could be made on the basis of the said selection against the clear vacancies that may have occurred subsequently. The Division Bench held that all subsequent H 734 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A vacancies are to be filled up from the open market afresh and in case they are allowed to be filled up by the candidates of the earlier selection, it would certainly infringe upon the rights of the candidates who would have applied against the said vacancies if they were advertised afresh. The Division Bench thus held that once the selection was not found to be a valid B one and therefore, the learned Single Judge could not have issued any direction such as direction No.