ETC. v. M. S. 365 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] Commissioner so appointed should conduct an enquiry, divide the property A into as many shares as may be and allot such shares to the parties, awarding wherever required and authorized, such sums to be paid for the purpose of equalizing the value of the shares, under XXVI Rule 14 (1). The Commissioner should then file a report into Court under sub-rule (2) of Rule 14 of XXVI. The Court may give an B opportunity to the parties to file objections to the report and thereafter confirm, vary or set aside the recommendations made in the report of the Commissioner. After this is done by the Court, a decree should be passed by the Court under XXVI Rule 14 (3) of the Code. 194. Therefore, in a case of partition and separate possession not C covered by Section 54 of the Code, a preliminary decree is first passed in terms of XX Rule 18 (2) of the Code, a Commissioner is appointed in a subsequent proceeding under XXVI Rule 13 and on the basis of his report, a final decree is passed under XXVI Rule 14 (3) of the Code. Thereafter, the possession of such property, if it is an immovable property, is taken by executing such final decree in D terms of XXI Rule 35 of the Code. 195. Therefore, the question of specific immovable properties or specifically identified portions of immovable properties getting allotted to any person merely holding a preliminary decree with respect to an undivided share does not arise. A preliminary decree in a suit for E partition merely declares the shares that the parties are entitled to in any of the properties included in the plaint schedule and liable to partition. On the basis of a mere declaration of the rights that take place under the preliminary decree, the parties cannot trade in, on specific items of properties or specific portions of suit schedule F properties. Since there are three stages in a partition suit, namely (i) passing of a preliminary decree in terms of XX Rule 18(2); (ii) appointment of a Commissioner and passing of a final decree in terms of XXVI Rule 14 (3); and (iii) taking possession in execution of such decree under XXI Rule 35, no party to a suit for partition, even by way of compromise, can acquire any title to any specific item of G property or any particular portion of a specific property, if such a compromise is struck only with a few parties to the suit. 196. In fact, Sameena Kausar and others stake claim to the land of the extent of acres 60.00 in Survey No.172 of Hydernagar, on the basis of a gift made by defendant No.52. Even admittedly, Sameena H 366 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Kausar and others have sold half of that land way back in 1997 to M/s Jayaho Estates. Yet Sameena Kausar and others have come up with appeals.