This Court further held that the rules framed by the President or the Governor under Article G 309 must conform with a statute enacted in exercise of power under Entry 70 of List I and Entry 41 of List II: “51. Which would be the appropriate Legislature to enact laws or the appropriate authority to frame rules would depend upon the provisions of the Constitution with respect H 574 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A to legislative competence and the division of legislative powers. Thus, for instance, under Entry 70 in List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, Union Public Services, all-India Services and Union Public Service Commission are subjects which fall within the exclusive legislative field of Parliament, while under Entry 41 in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, B State public services and State Public Service Commission fall within the exclusive legislative field of the State Legislatures. The rules framed by the President or the Governor of a State must also, therefore, conform to these legislative powers.” (emphasis supplied) C 144. The above discussion demonstrates that even if the President has made relevant rules in exercise of his power under the proviso to Article 309, the power of NCTD to legislate on “services” is not excluded. Infact in the next section, we shall be dealing with instances of exercise of legislative power by NCTD under Entry 41 of List II, that is, “services”. D 145. In view of the above reasons, we hold that Part XIV is applicable to Union territories as well. M. Exercise of Legislative Power by NCTD on Entry 41 146. It has been argued on behalf of NCTD that numerous laws E have been enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Delhi relating to creation of posts and terms and conditions of service. Reliance was placed upon different state services, such the Delhi Fire Services under the Delhi Fire Service Act 2007, Delhi Commission for Safai Karamcharis Act, 2006, Delhi Minorities Commission Act, 1999, Delhi Finance Commission Act, 1994, Delhi Lokayukta and UpaLokayukta Act, 1995, F Delhi Commission for Women Act, 1994, and Delhi Electricity Reform Act, 2001. It was argued that these statutes which inter alia, create posts and details of salary, was enacted in exercise of the subject referable to Entry 41 of the State List. 147. However, Justice Ashok Bhushan in the 2019 split verdict G rejected this argument related to Delhi Fire Service Act 2007, as he held that the statute falls under Entry 5 of the State List and not under Entry 41 of the State List. Justice Bhushan held: “208. We may first notice that the word “services” used in the Act has been used in a manner of providing services for fire H GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 575 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] prevention and fire safety measures. The word “services” has A not been used in a sense of constitution of a service. It is to be noted that fire service is a municipal function performed by local authority.