A plain reading of IX Rule 13 makes it apparent that where in a case, a decree is passed ex parte against defendant, a party may apply to the Court for setting aside the same for reasons satisfying the Court regarding non-appearance. 17. Coming to XVII Rule 2 CPC, it would be apparent that if the parties or any one of them failed to appear on a day to which the hearing of the suit is adjourned, the Court may proceed to dispose of the suit in one Y. P. LELE v. MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY 147 DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] of the modes directed in that behalf by IX or make such other as it deems fi t. 18. In the present case, the defendants did not appear on 04.12.2004, nor their counsel appeared as he had already withdrawn hisVakalatnama by a written request. The Trial Court directed for the suit to proceed under XVII Rule 2 CPC against the defendants. The eff ect of the dated 04.12.2004 was that the Trial Court could have proceeded to dispose of the suit in one of the modes directed in that behalf by IX CPC. Coming back to IX CPC, it is to be noticed that under Rule 6 thereof where summons are duly served and the defendant does not appear when the suit is called on for hearing, then the Court may make an that the suit be heard ex parte. This is in fact the procedure adopted by the Trial Court in the present case. Accordingly, after the evidence of the plaintiff was concluded and the defendant continued to remain absent, the Trial Court decreed the suit ex parte, vide dated 29.01.2005. The operative portion thereof clearly mentions that the suit is decreed ex parte. 19. Now coming to the explanation, what is stated therein is that where the evidence or a substantial portion of the evidence of any party has already been recorded and such party fails to appear on any day to which the hearing of the suit is adjourned, the Court would be at liberty to proceed with the case as if such party were present. Two phrases are important in the explanation “any party” and “such party”. “Any party” refers to the party which has led evidence or substantial evidence and “such party” refers to that very party which has led evidence or substantial evidence. What is discernible is that under XVII Rule 2, the Court would proceed to pass s with respect to any of the parties being absent or both the parties being absent. Whereas the explanation is confi ned to record the presence of that party and that party alone, which has led evidence or substantial evidence and has thereafter failed to appear. In the present case, admittedly the suit was at the stage of plaintiff ’s evidence as is apparent from the dated 04.12.2004. The evidence of the defendants had not even started and the defendants’ counsel had not even cross-examined the plaintiff ’s evidence.