On the other hand, the Indian Succession Act, 1925 or Hindu Succession Act, 1956 or other enactments pertaining to succession relate to Entry 5 in List III, Schedule VII of the Constitution. Therefore, their source of power is entirely diff erent. In light of the same, it is argued that a third mode of succession not contemplated by laws would be provided through an interpretative exercise instead of a legislative exercise. 17.4 As per Mr. Joshi, if the contention of appellants were to be accepted, nomination would be rendered similar to a ‘will’ or a ‘testamentary disposition’ to the extent of securities, of a particular company. However, the Indian Succession Act, 1925 prescribes a detailed judicial process to obtain letters of administration or succession certifi cates or probates, as the case may be. Therefore, in case the contentions of the appellants are accepted, 710 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the judicial process for determination of successors’ rights would not be required at all and the nominee(s) would be able to claim the estate without verifi cation of the claimants’ rights by the prescribed judicial process. 17.5 Finally, it is submitted that as per Article 141 of the Constitution, only this Court’s interpretation on provisions become binding. It cannot however be said that the legislature has taken note of the interpretation of the High Court and accepted the interpretation. DISCUSSION 18. Before we proceed any further, it would be appropriate to indicate the position of the contesting parties vis-à-vis the testator, Jayant Shivram Salgaonkar. Late Jayant Shivram R-2/Late Ms. Jayashree Salgaonkar Jayant Salgaonkar (Testator/Nominator) (Wife of Testator/grand mother of appellants) Jayraj Jayant Jayanand Jayant Jayendra Jayant Salgaonkar/R-3/S/o Salgaonkar/R-1/S/o Salgaonkar/R-4/S/o Nominator (Father of Nominator (Uncle of Nominator (Uncle of appellants) appellants) appellants) R-5/Bharti Salgaonkar R-6/Seema Wife of R-3 (Mother of Salgaonkar/Wife of R-4 appellants) (Aunt of appellants) Appellant-1 Shakti R-7/Samarth Yezdani/Daughter of R-3 Salgaonkar/Son of R-4 & R-5 (Granddaughter of (Cousin of appellants) Nominator) Appellant-2 Lalita Laxmi R-8/Siddhi Salgaonkar/ Salgaonkar/Daughter of Daughter of R-4 (Cousin R-3 & R-5 of appellants) (Granddaughter of Nominator ) 19. Having considered the submissions and the materials placed on record, the following issues require our careful attention and have been discussed at length below: SHAKTI YEZDANI & ANR. v. JAYANAND JAYANT 711 SALGAONKAR & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] (i.) The scheme, intent & object behind the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1999, (ii.) The implication of the scheme of ‘nomination’ under the Companies Act, 1956 as well as other comparable legislations, (iii.) The use of the term ‘vest’ and the presence of the non-obstante clause within the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956, (iv.) Nomination under the Companies Act, 1956 vis-à-vis law of succession. SCHEME OF THE COMPANIES ACT 20. Both sides’ lawyers have relied on the intent & purpose behind the introduction of S. 109A & S. 109B in the larger context of the Companies Act, 1956 or the pari materia provisions (Section 72, Companies Act, 2013) in support of their respective stand. Having perused the scheme behind the Companies Act, 1956 and the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1999 that also introduced S. 109A & S. 109B of the Companies Act, 1956, the relevant extracts are reproduced as follows: “…………….2.