F Explanation I. - A denial of the landlord’s title under a bona fide mistake of fact is not wilful within the meaning of this clause. Explanation II. - In relation to areas where the Tanjore G Panniyal Protection Act, 1952 ([Tamil Nadu] Act XIV of 1952) [was in force] immediately before the dale of coming into force of the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Protection (Amendment) Act, 1956, the expression “commencement of this Act” wherever it occurs in this Act shall be construed as referring to the date aforesaid. H 840 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Explanation III. - In relation to the added territories, clause (aa) of this subsection shall have effect as if the following clause had been substituted, namely:- “(aa) who, if in arrear on the date on which the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Protection and Payment of Fair Rent (Ex- B tension to Added Territories) Act, 1963, is first published in the [Fort St. George Gazette], with respect to the rent payable to the landlord and accrued due during a period of one month before such date does not pay such rent within a month after such date, or who in respect oi rent payable to the landlord after such date, does not pay such rent within a month after C such rent becomes due; or” Explanation IV. - In relation to Kanyakumari district, clauses (aa) of this sub-section shall have effect as if the fol- lowing clause had been substituted, namely:- D (aa) who, if in arrear on the dale on which the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Protection and Payment of Fair Rent (Ex- tension to Kanyakumari District) Act, 1972, is first published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette with respect to the rent payable to the landlord and accrued due during a period of one E moot Is before such date does not pay such rent within a month after such date, or who in respect of rent payable to the land- lord after such date, does not pay such rent within a month after such rent becomes due; or] (3)(a) A cultivating tenant may deposit in Court the rent or, if the F rent be payable in kind, its market value on the date of deposit, to the account of the landlord- (i) in the case of rent accrued due subsequent to the 31st March 1954, within a month after the commencement of this Act; G (ii) in the case of rent accrued due after the commencement of this Act, within a month after the date on which the rent ac- crued due; (b) The Court shall cause* notice of the deposit to be issued to the landlord and determine, after a summary enquiry, whether the H amount deposited represents the correct amount of rent due from K. CHINNAMMAL (DEAD) THR. LRS. v. L. R. EKNATH 841 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] the cultivating tenant. If the Court finds that any further sum is A due, it shall allow the cultivating tenant such time as it may con- sider just and reasonable having regard to the relative circum- stances of the landlord and the cultivating tenant for depositing such further sum inclusive of such costs as the Court may allow.