In such circumstances, the learned Attorney General for India prayed that the reappointment of the respondent No. 4 as the Vice-Chancellor being contrary to the UGC guidelines, the same deserves to be set at naught by issue of writ of quo warranto. I. RELEVANT PROVISIONS OF THE KANNUR UNIVERSITY ACT, 1996 & THE UGC REGULATIONS, 2018 22. Before adverting to the rival submissions canvassed on either side, we must look into the relevant provisions of the Kannur University Act as well as the relevant regulations of the UGC. 23. Section 10 of the Kannur University Act reads thus: “(1) The Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the Chancellor on the recommendation of a committee appointed by him for the purpose (hereinafter referred to as the committee). (2) The committee shall consist of three members, one elected by the Senate, one nominated by the Chairman of the University Grants Commission and the third nominated by the Chancellor. 410 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (3) The Chancellor shall appoint one of the members of the committee to be its convener. (4) The committee shall make its recommendation within a period of three months of its appointment or within such further period, not exceeding one month, as the Chancellor may specify in this behalf. (5) In case the committee unanimously recommends the name of only one person, the Chancellor shall appoint that person to be the Vice- Chancellor. (6) In the case the committee is unable to recommend a name unanimously, it may submit a panel of three names to the Chancellor within the period specified in or under sub-section (4) and the Chancellor shall appoint one of the persons in the panel to be the Vice-Chancellor. (7) In case the committee fails to make a unanimous recommendation as provided in sub-section (5) or to submit a panel as provided in sub- section (6), each member of the committee may submit a panel of three names to the Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed from among the persons mentioned in the panels. (8) Non-submission of a panel under sub-section (7) by any member of the committee shall not invalidate the appointment of the Vice- Chancellor. (9) No person who is more than sixty years of age shall be appointed as Vice-Chancellor. (10) The Vice-Chancellor shall, hold offi ce for a term of four years from the date on which he enters upon his offi ce and shall be eligible for re-appointment: Provided that a person shall not be appointed as Vice-Chancellor for more than two terms.” 24. Section 10 of the Act 1996 referred to above, envisages distinct situations namely: (a) Appointment of a Vice-Chancellor by the Chancellor out of a panel of three names recommended by the search committee constituted by the State Government; DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 411 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (b) No person above sixty years of age is eligible to be appointed as a Vice-Chancellor; (c) Reappointment in respect of which, the power is vested in the Chancellor under Section 10(10); and (d) The proviso attached to sub-section (10) of the Section 10 stipulating that a person shall not be appointed as Vice-Chancellor for more than two terms.