At this stage the statement of objects and reasons for amending Article 19(2)(3) & (4) are required to be referred to and considered. The statements of objects and reasons appended to the Constitution (Sixteenth Amendment) Bill, 1963 which was enacted as the Constitution G (Sixteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 reads as under: “STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS The Committee on National Integration and Regionalism appointed by the National Integration Council recommended that article 19 of the Constitution be so amended that adequate powers H 552 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A become available for the preservation and maintenance of the integrity, and sovereignty of the Union. The Committee were further of the view that every candidate for the membership of a State Legislature or Parliament, and every aspirant to, and incumbent of, public office should pledge himself to uphold the Constitution and to preserve the integrity and sovereignty of the Union and that B forms of oath in the Third Schedule to the Constitution should be suitably amended for the purpose. It is proposed to give effect to these recommendations by amending clauses (2), (3) and (4) of article 19 for enabling the State to make any law imposing reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the rights conferred by C sub-clauses (a), (b) and (c) of clause (1) of that article in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India.” 14.2 The UAPA, 1967 has been enacted in exercise of powers conferred under Article 19(2) & (4) of the Constitution of India. At this stage, it is required to be noted that exceptions to the freedom to form D associations under Article 19(1) was inserted in the form of sovereignty and integrity of India under Article 19(4), after the National Integration Council (NIC) appointed a Committee on National Integration and Regionalisation. The said Committee was to look into the aspect of putting reasonable restrictions in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India. Pursuant to the acceptance of the recommendations of the said E Committee, the Constitution (Sixteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 came to be enacted to impose by law, reasonable restrictions in the interests of sovereignty and integrity of India. In to implement the provisions of 1963 Act, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Bill was introduced in the Parliament. The main objective of the UAPA is to make powers available F for dealing with activities directed against the integrity and sovereignty of India. It is also required to be noted that pursuant to the recommendation of the Committee on National Integration and Regionalisation appointed by the National Integration Council Act on whose recommendation the Constitution (Sixteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 was enacted, UAPA has been enacted. It appears that National Integration G Council appointed a Committee on National Integration and Regionalisation to look into, inter alia, the aspect of putting reasonable restrictions in the interests of sovereignty and integrity of India and thereafter the UAPA has been enacted. Therefore, the UAPA has be n enacted to make powers available for dealing with the activities direct H d against integrity and sovereignty of India.