(e) The Bank shall transfer such amounts to the account of the Borrower which are in excess of the minimum balance required to be maintained in the Escrow Account in accordance with the terms stated herein.” INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES LTD 1047 v. HDFC BANK LTD. & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 23. Clause 4(b) of the Escrow Account Agreement deals with ‘Operation and Maintenance’. Clause 4(a), (c) and (e) provides as follows: “4. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (a) The Borrower agrees that, the payments to be collected/received by the Borrower from the Business Service Centre/Licensee/lessee of various Units/properties built and/or to be built and leased/to be leased on the Property which is more particularly described in Schedule of the said Facility Agreement (hereinafter called “the said Property”) for/against which the Facility granted/to be granted by Lender as per the Off er Letter and Facility Agreement, shall be credited to the said Escrow Account (hereinafter referred to as “the Receivables”) and the Lender shall on satisfaction of the condition(s) as described in Item No. 6 of Schedule A hereunder, adjust all the amounts to be paid by the Borrower to the Lender under the Facility Agreement, from time to time, out of the amounts credited in the said Escrow Account, and transfer to the Designated Account of the Borrower, the amount as mentioned in Item No. 7 of Schedule A out of the remaining balance in the said Escrow Account after keeping the minimum balance in the Escrow Account. (c) The Lender shall be entitled to instruct the Escrow Bank from time to time to transfer amounts from the Escrow Account including as stated hereinabove. The Lender shall appropriate these monies towards the repayment of the Facility, as and when the same is due and payable in full together with all other amounts payable under the Facility Agreement. ------------------------- (e) The Borrower hereby irrevocably authorizes the Escrow Bank to pay and to transfer the money(ies) received in the Escrow Account to the Lender as per the terms and conditions agreed in the Off er Letter, Facility Agreement and this Agreement as may be applicable from time to time.” 24. An Assignment and Administration Agreement was also entered on the same date i.e., 25.06.2018 with the lender and borrower. This agreement 104 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. provided for the assignment of the receivables by the borrower to the lender. Recital clause3 is as follows: “3. It has been agreed that the authorised indebtedness incurred by the Borrower in terms of the Facility Agreement by way of the Facility together with the interest thereon shall be payable from the gross income and revenue to be derived from the operation of the Business Centre Services Agreements/Lease/Leave and License Agreement/s as more particularly detailed in the Schedule-1 (“Borrower’s Contracts”) to this Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “Receivables”). Xxxx Further Clause 1 of the Assignment and Administration Agreement reads as: 1. Assignment and Pledge of Receivables All the Receivables derived/to be derived from the operation of the Borrower’s Contracts, suffi cient portion of which, to pay the principal and interest as and when the same shall become due in terms of the said Facility Agreement, is hereby assigned and pledged and shall be set aside for that purpose and this Assignment and Pledge shall extend to and include any assessments that may be levied pursuant to Clause 4(a) hereof.” 25.