14. In rebuttal, on behalf of the plaintiff , it was argued that since the notifi cation for acquisition was not preceded by service of notice on the owner of the land, as contemplated by sub-section (2) of section 52 of the 1959 Act, the acquisition was void and, therefore, the Civil Court held jurisdiction to grant the relief sought. High Court’s decision 15. The High Court opined that purchase of land by the plaintiff in the year 1970, prior to the acquisition was not disputed; the acquisition notifi cation was issued without serving notice on the plaintiff , therefore, the acquisition was void and suit as instituted was maintainable. Moreover, the plaintiff was in possession up to the date of institution of the suit. It thus upheld the decree of the fi rst appellate court and dismissed the second appeal. 16. Aggrieved by dismissal of its second appeal, the Trust is in appeal before us. 17. We have heard Sri Aruneshwar Gupta, learned senior counsel, assisted by Sri Rajeev Singh, Advocate-on-Record for the defendant- appellant; and Sri Manoj Swaroop, learned senior counsel, for the respondents. URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 555 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] Submissions on Behalf of the Appellant 18. Learned counsel for the appellant contended that Chapter VII of the 1959 Act deals with acquisition and disposal of land by the Trust. Section 52 of the 1959 Act provides for compulsory acquisition of land. Sub-section (1) of Section 52 empowers the State Government to acquire land by publishing in the Offi cial Gazette a notice specifying the special purpose for which the land is required and stating therein that the State Government has decided to acquire the land in pursuance thereof. Sub-section (4) of section 52 provides that when a notice under sub-section (1) is published in the offi cial Gazette, the land shall, on and from the date of such publication, vest absolutely in the State Government free from all encumbrances. Sub-section (5) of Section 52 provides that where any land is vested in the State Government under sub-section (4), the State Government may, by notice in writing, any person who may be in possession of the land to surrender or deliver possession thereof to the State Government or any person duly authorized by it in this behalf within 30 days of the service of the notice. Sub-section (7) of Section 52 provides that where the land has been acquired for the Trust, the State Government shall, after it has taken possession of the land and on payment by the Trust of the amount of compensation determined under Section 53, and of the other charges incurred by the State Government in connection with the acquisition, transfer the land to the Trust for the purpose for which the land has been acquired. 19. Learned counsel submitted that the mechanism for determination of compensation, the mode of its payment, and resolution of disputes in respect thereof are provided for by Sections 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58 and 59 of the 1959 Act.