A B C D E F G H 178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A For ready reference the extract of the DNA analysis Ext. is reproduced as under. “Interpretation 1. The DNA profile of blood detected on ex16 Card board, ex 17 Blanket, ex 18 two pieces of tile, ex 20 Towel, ex 24 piece of B cloth from pillow, and blood detected on ex 1 knicker of victim Sayunmbano M.A. Shaikh, ex 3 sandow baniyan of accused Prakash Zinak Nishad of F.S.L.M.L. Case No. DNA 315/10 and ex 1 blood sample of victim Sayunmbano M.A. Shaikh is identical & from one and same source of female origin. DNA profiles C match with the maternal and paternal alleles in the source of blood. 2. The DNA profile of blood detected on ex 16 Card board, ex 17 Blanket, ex 18 two pieces of tile, ex 20 Towel, ex 24 piece of cloth from pillow, ex1 blood sample of victim Sayunmbano M.A. Shaikh and blood defected on ex 1 knicker of victim Sayunmbano M.A. Shaikh, ex 3 sandow baniyan of accused Prakash Zinak D Nishad of F.S.L.M.L. Case No.DNA 315/10 and blood sample of Prakash Zinak Nishad F.S.L.M.L. Case No. DNA 366/10 is from one and same source. DNA profiles did not match with he maternal and paternal alleles in the source of blood. 3. Control DNA profile of unknown person is obtained from ex 22 E One hair.” 64. Even otherwise, on the value of DNA evidence, we may refer to an observation made by this Court, in Pattu Rajan v. State of T.N.8, as under; F “52. Like all other opinion evidence, the probative value accorded to DNA evidence also varies from case to case, depending on the facts and circumstances and the weight accorded to other evidence on record, whether contrary or corroborative. This is all the more important to remember, given that even though the accuracy of DNA evidence may be increasing with the advancement of science G and technology with every passing day, thereby making it more and more reliable, we have not yet reached a juncture where it may be said to be infallible. Thus, it cannot be said that the absence of DNA evidence would lead to an adverse inference against a 8 (2019) 4 SCC 771 H PRAKASH NISHAD @ KEWAT ZINAK NISHAD v. STATE OF 179 MAHARASHTRA [SANJAY KAROL, J.] party, especially in the presence of other cogent and reliable A evidence on record in favour of such party.” (Emphasis supplied) 65. Referring to the above case, a three-Judge bench in Manoj v. State of M.P.9, through S. Ravindra Bhat J., observed; B “158. This Court, therefore, has relied on DNA reports, in the past, where the guilt of an accused was sought to be established. Notably, the reliance was to corroborate. This Court highlighted the need to ensure quality in the testing and eliminate the possibility of contamination of evidence; it also held that being an opinion, the probative value of such evidence has to vary from case to C case.” 66.