The Act as noted contemplates preparation of detailed development plan also. Section 24 of the Act contemplates that as soon as may be after the Master Plan inter alia has been submitted to the Government, the Government may not later than the time prescribed direct the appropriate Planning Authority to make such modification in the Master Plan inter alia. Thereupon, the modified Plan has to be D resubmitted to the Government. Thereupon, the Government may give the consent for publication of the notice under Section 26 of the preparation of the Master Plan inter alia. Moving on to Section 26, it contemplates publication in the Gazette, of the notice of the preparation of the Master Plan inter alia. The notice must indicate the place or places E where the copies may be inspected. More importantly, objections and suggestions in writing are to be invited within such period as is specified in the said notice. The period shall not be less than two months from the publication of the notice. Section 26 (2) contemplates that a reasonable opportunity of being heard must be provided to any person including representative of the Government Authority, who have made any F objection. The Planning Authority can make amendments based on the objections and with the amendments, if any, carried out, the Plan is again submitted to the Government. Section 28 contemplates approval by the Government after consulting the Director of Town and Country Planning of the Plan submitted under Section 26(2). The approval may be with or G without modification. Again, it is open to the Government to return the Plan, to modify the plan, or to prepare a fresh Plan in accordance with such directions as the Government may issue in this behalf and resubmitted to the Government for approval. The approval which is granted under Section 28 by the Government to a Master Plan inter alia is to be published by the Government in the gazette and leading H 1066 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A newspapers. The notification must indicate the place and time at which the Plan shall be open to inspection to the public. The Plan shall come into operation from the date of publication in the Tamil Nâdu Government Gazette. Section 32 of the Act provides for variation, revocation and modification of regional plans, Master Plan and the new development plan, at any time, by a subsequent plan prepared and approved under the B Act. 41. Even according to the petitioner in Association of Vasanth Apartments Owners, the DCR is a part of the Master Plan. This is precisely the argument of the respondent as well. We are in agreement with the stand taken by the petitioner and the respondent. The DCR is a C part of the Master Plan. The process involved in the making of the Master Plan points to active participation of all stakeholders. The plan which is apparently tentatively prepared must first receive approval from the Government before the notice of its preparation is published.