Provided that no suit, appeal or proceeding shall be transferred to a High Court without the consent of the State Government of the State in which that High Court has its principal seat.” 15. Since acceptance of the arguments of Mr. Balgopal and Mr. H Sharma would result in denuding a common High Court of the jurisdiction SHAH NEWAZ KHAN v. STATE OF NAGALAND 997 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] to even entertain an application under section 24 of the CPC for transfer A of a suit from a Civil Court in one State to a Civil Court of another State, notwithstanding that exercise of jurisdiction by such High Court extends to both such States, it is absolutely necessary to consider Chapter V of the Constitution of India titled “(T)he High Courts in the States” and more particularly the terms of Articles 214, 231, 227, 235 and 228 which, B to our mind, are of utmost relevance for deciding the legal issue. At the same time, having regard to the terms of pre-amended section 25 of the CPC, a peep into the pages of history as to how the Gauhati High Court became the common High Court for the State of Assam and the other States seems to be imperative. C 16. Article 214 is clear that there shall be a High Court for each State. Article 231, inserted in the Constitution by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, is an ordainment that notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding provisions of Chapter V, Parliament may by law establish a common High Court for two or more States or for two or more States and a Union territory. Article 227 is the recognition of the D power of superintendence of every High Court over all courts and tribunals throughout the territories in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction. The control over all District Courts and courts subordinate thereto, in terms of Article 235, vests in the High Court. One other important provision is Article 228. Article 228 empowers the High Court, subject E to its satisfaction that a case pending in a court subordinate to it involves a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution and the determination of which is necessary for the disposal of the case, to withdraw the case and (a) either dispose of the case itself, or (b) determine the said question of law and return the case to the court from which the case has been so withdrawn together with a copy of its F on such question, whereupon the said court shall proceed to dispose of the case in conformity with such . ORIGIN AND EVOLUTION OF THE COMMON HIGH COURT 17. We now move on to note the origin and evolution of the common G High Court, i.e., the Gauhati High Court and the trajectory that it has been ordained to follow in relation to the territories over which it exercises jurisdiction. 18. The precursor of the Gauhati High Court was the High Court of Assam, which was established on 5th April, 1948 in terms of the Assam H 998 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.