It is the admitted case of Respondent no.1 that she was not G the recorded owner of the land at the time of issuance of Notification under Section 4 of 1894 Act or even at the time of the passing of the Award. This is even mentioned in the application dated 06.05.2009 filed by her to the Land Acquisition Collector for release of compensation. This establishes knowledge of acquisition and passing of award. On H 662 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A account of fact that there was dispute of ownership, the amount of compensation was deposited by the Land Acquisition Collector with the Reference Court under Section 30/31 of the 1894 Act. On the issue of deposit of compensation with the Reference Court, the position of law has been settled in Indore Development Authority’s case (supra). Paras 117, 118 and 119 thereof, which are extracted below: B “117. Payment of compensation under the 1894 Act is provided for by Section 31 of the Act, which is to be after passing of the award under Section 11. The exception, is in case of urgency under Section 17, is where it has to be tendered before taking possession. Once an award has been C passed, the Collector is bound to tender the payment of compensation to the persons interested entitled to it, as found in the award and shall pay it to them unless “prevented” by the contingencies mentioned in sub-section (2) of Section 31. Section 31(3) contains a non obstante clause which D authorises the Collector with the sanction of the appropriate Government, in the interest of the majority, by the grant of other lands in exchange, the remission of land revenue on other lands or in such other way as may be equitable. 118. Section 31(1) enacts that the Collector has to tender E payment of the compensation awarded by him to the persons interested entitled thereto according to the award and shall pay such amount to a person interested in the land, unless he (the Collector) is prevented from doing so, for any of the three contingencies provided by sub-section (2). Section 31(2) provides for deposit of compensation in court in case the State F is prevented from making payment in the event of: (i) refusal to receive it; (ii) if there be no person competent to alienate the land; (iii) if there is any dispute as to the title to receive the G compensation; or (iv) if there is dispute as to the apportionment. In such exigencies, the Collector shall deposit the amount of the compensation in the court to which a reference under Section 18 would be submitted. H DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. ANITA SINGH & 663 ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 119. Section 34 deals with a situation where any of the A obligations under Section 31 is not fulfilled i.e. when the amount of compensation is not paid or deposited on or before taking possession of the land, the Collector shall pay the amount awarded with interest thereon @ 9% p.a.