It was his further submission that there was no wrongful clubbing of deemed export clearances with domestic clearances. It was pointed out that the monthly returns (ER-1/RT-12) that the assessee was required to file does not have any separate column for declaring deemed export clearances. Since the subject clearances on which differential duty has H THE COMMISSIONER, CENTRAL EXCISE AND CUSTOMS v. 1297 M/S RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] been demanded has been initially been made upon payment of duty, A such clearances had correctly been shown as duty paid domestic clearances. 20. We have seen the format of the ER-1/RT-12 return which the assessee was required to file on a monthly basis for intimating to the department the value of clearances effected and the amounts of duties B paid thereon. We do not find any separate column or requirement in these forms for declaring the value and other details of clearances effected to the deemed export buyers i.e. holders of advance licenses. Note 4 under Form ER-1 does require separate details to be mentioned for exports under bond. Indisputedly clearance made to domestic buyers C even if they are considered deemed exports are not clearances for “exports under bond” for which category of clearances alone requirement existed for separate disclosure in the ER-1/RT-12 returns. In the absence of any specific column or note similar to note 4, requiring separate disclosure of the value of deemed export clearances, we do find any merit in the findings of the adjudicating authority that there was D suppression of facts as a consequence of assessee’s failure to separately disclose the value of deemed export clearances. An accusation of non- disclosure can only be made if there is in the first instance a requirement to disclose. 21. We also find that Note 4 to Form ER-1 requires separate E details of clearances to be mentioned for exports under Bond. There is no reference in the said notes to deemed exports or supplies made to holders of advance licenses. We therefore agree with the submissions of the counsel for the assessee that the assesse was never required to separately furnish details of clearances made to holders of advance F licenses. We also find that neither the show cause notice nor the civil appeal filed by the Revenue before this Court contain any reference to the wrongful clubbing of deemed export clearances under the details meant for domestic clearances. Also the of the Tribunal does not contain any reference to this particular aspect which was the main thrust of the oral arguments made by the Ld. Counsel for the Revenue before G this Court. In our considered view, the Revenue cannot be permitted to argue its matters by going beyond the written pleadings filed by it before this Court. The mere fact that the oral arguments are supported by findings of the adjudicating authority, which is not the impugned before this Court, does not entitle the Revenue to resurrect a point which though H 1298 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.