7. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that the impugned dated 3rd February, 2021 is in violation of the principles of nature justice and the finding has been recorded without affording an F opportunity of hearing to the appellant and that apart, it is not in conformity with the mandate of Section 20(1) of the Act 2014. 8. Learned counsel further submits that Section 20(1) provides an option to the Lokayukta, who, on receipt of a complaint, if to hold a preliminary inquiry against any public servant, may conduct either by G its enquiry wing or by any agency to ascertain as to whether there exists any prima facie case for proceeding in the matter any further. If the relevant provisions of the Act are being looked into, particularly Chapter VIII of the Act 2014, any agency as referred to under Section 25 includes the State Vigilance and Crime Branch for the purpose of conducting H 566 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A preliminary inquiry or investigation, as the case may be, and that is further strengthened by the procedure for conducting a preliminary inquiry or investigation envisaged under Section 28 wherein it is open for the Lokayukta to conduct preliminary inquiry or investigation through the agency of the Government. In the given facts and circumstances, the finding which has been recorded by the Division Bench of the High B Court that entrusting to conduct preliminary inquiry by the Directorate of Vigilance under dated 11th December, 2020 is not in conformity with the Act 2014, needs to be interfered with by this Court. 9. Learned counsel further submits that calling upon the inquiry wing or any agency to conduct a preliminary inquiry is only for a limited C purpose to ascertain whether there exists prima facie case to proceed in the matter. The Legislature was conscious of the fact that if it may cause any prejudice to the incumbent against whom the prima facie case has been registered and before any further action is being taken or to make any recommendation to proceed either to conduct investigation D or initiate a departmental inquiry, it is incumbent upon the Lokayukta to afford an opportunity of hearing to the public servant as referred to under Sections 20(2) and 20(3) of the Act, 2014. A complete inbuilt procedure has been prescribed under Chapter VII for conducting preliminary inquiry and investigation within the powers of the Lokayukta. Chapter VIII prescribes not only the purpose of conducting preliminary E inquiry and investigation but also in reaching to a final conclusion even at the stage of registering of the charge-sheet as referred to under Section 20(8) of the Act, 2014. 10. Learned counsel further submits that no adverse or prejudicial action was taken by the appellant in initiating to conduct a preliminary F inquiry under its dated 11th December 2020, thus the interference made by the High Court, at this stage, in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India was neither valid nor justified.