4.4 Making the above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeals. 5. At the outset, it is required to be noted that and it is an admitted position that parties are governed by the Rajasthan Non-Governmental H 956 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Educational Institutions Act, 1989. Section 18 provides that no employee of a recognized institution shall be removed, dismissed, or reduced in rank unless he has been given by the management a reasonable opportunity of being heard against the action proposed to be taken and that no final in this regard shall be passed unless prior approval of the Director of Education or an officer authorized by him in this behalf B has been obtained. The learned Tribunal set aside the of termination on non-compliance of Section 18 of the Act, 1989 inasmuch as before terminating the services of the appellant – employee prior approval of the Director of Education was not obtained. The same came to be confirmed by the learned Single Judge, however, by the impugned C and taking a contrary view, the Division Bench of the High Court has allowed the appeal and has restored the of termination. 5.1 From the impugned and passed by the High Court, it appears that before the High Court the decision of this Court in D the case of Raj Kumar (supra) taking a contrary view and taking the view that before terminating the services of an employee of a recognized institution prior approval of the Director of Education is required was pressed into service. However, though impermissible the Division Bench of the High Court has not followed the said binding decision by observing that in the case of Raj Kumar (supra), this Court had not considered E the decision of this Court in the case of T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra). Apart from the fact that the same is wholly impermissible for the High Court even the said observations are factually incorrect. If the decision in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) is seen in more than 8-9 paragraphs, this Court had referred to and as such dealt with the decision of this Court in the case of T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra). Even the decision F in the case of T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) was explained and considered by this Court in the case of Raj Kumar (supra). Therefore, the Division Bench of the High Court is factually incorrect in observing that while deciding the decision in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) this Court had not considered the decision of this Court in the case of T.M.A. G Pai Foundation (supra). Before commenting upon the decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) the Division Bench of the High Court ought to have thoroughly read and/or considered the decision in the case of Raj Kumar (supra). Even after making the incorrect observations that in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) this Court had not considered the decision of this Court in the case of T.M.A.