These events brought about a dramatic change in the power structure and the reasons for such change became the main challenge and more fundamental to the present proceedings. The case of the petitioners now rests on their challenges to the decisions of, (i) the Governor calling B upon the then Chief Minister to prove his majority; (ii) swearing in Mr. Ekanth Shinde as the Chief Minister; (iii) election of the Speaker by the House which included the thirty-four MLAs who are facing disqualification notices; and (iv) legality of the trust vote dated 4 July 2022. C 69. Although the decision in Nabam Rebia (supra) is not applicable to the factual scenario before us, we are alive to the competing considerations which animated this Court in its dated 23 August 2022 by which the decision in Nabam Rebia (supra) was referred to a Constitution Bench. In that , this Court formed a prima facie opinion that the proposition of law laid down in Nabam Rebia (supra) was based D on “contradictory reasoning.” The of reference notes: “4. We may prima facie observe that the proposition of law laid down by the Constitution bench in Nabam Rebia (supra), stands on contradictory reasoning, which requires gap filling to uphold the constitutional morality. As such, this question needs a reference E to a Constitution bench for the requisite gap filling exercise to be conducted.” 70. Based on the submissions which have been canvassed before us, we are of the view that the decision in Nabam Rebia (supra) merits reference to a larger Bench because a substantial question of law remains F to be settled. The following are our prima facie reasons for reaching this conclusion: a. Nabam Rebia (supra) is in conflict with the judgement in Kihoto Hollohan (supra) because the decision in Kihoto Hollohan (supra) holds that there is no reason to doubt the G independence and impartiality of the Speaker when adjudicating on proceedings under the Tenth Schedule. In contrast, in Nabam Rebia (supra), this Court doubted the ability of the Speaker to remain neutral while deciding disqualification petitions after a notice of intention to move a resolution for the removal of the Speaker has been issued. H 908 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A b. In Nabam Rebia (supra), this Court referred to the Constituent Assembly Debates to interpret the phrase “all the then members” in Article 179(c). This Court noticed the amendment moved by Mr. Mohd Tahir, proposing that the term “all the then members of the Assembly” in Article 179(c) (draft Article 158(c)) be replaced with the term “all B the members of the Assembly present and voting.” In Nabam Rebia (supra), this Court noticed that this proposal was rejected and observed that the “Constituent Assembly Debates do not appear to have recorded any discussion on the above amendment.” It was inter alia on this basis that C this Court held that the phrase “all the then members of the Assembly” meant that the composition of the Assembly ought not to be changed after the notice of intention to move a resolution for the removal of the Speaker (or the Deputy Speaker) was issued.