Recently, in Debananda Tamuli vs. Kakumoni Kataky5, the Court referring the decision in case of Lachman UtamChand Kirpalani (supra) observed as under: - “7. We have given careful consideration to her submissions. Firstly, we deal with the issue of desertion. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant relied upon the decision of this Court in Lachman Utamchand Kirpalani [Lachman Utamchand Kirpalani v. Meena, (1964) 4 SCR 331 : AIR 1964 SC 40] which has been consistently followed in several decisions of this Court. The law consistently laid down by this Court is that desertion means the intentional abandonment of one spouse by the other without the consent of the other and without a reasonable cause. The deserted spouse must prove that there is a factum of separation and there is an intention on the part of deserting spouse to bring the cohabitation to a permanent end. In other words, there should be animus deserendi on the part of the deserting spouse. There must be an absence of consent on the part of the deserted spouse and the conduct of the deserted spouse should not give a reasonable cause to the deserting spouse to leave the matrimonial home. The view taken by this Court has been incorporated in the Explanation added to sub-section (1) of Section 13 by Act 68 of 1976. The said Explanation reads thus: “13. Divorce. — (1) * * * Explanation. —In this sub-section, the expression “desertion” means the desertion of the petitioner by the other party to the marriage without reasonable cause and without the consent or against the wish of such party, and includes the wilful neglect of the petitioner by the other party to the marriage, and its grammatical variations and cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly.”” 5 (2022) 5 SCC 459 840 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “8. The reasons for a dispute between husband and wife are always very complex. Every matrimonial dispute is diff erent from another. Whether a case of desertion is established or not will depend on the peculiar facts of each case. It is a matter of drawing an inference based on the facts brought on record by way of evidence.” 13. Coming back to the facts of the present case, the Single Bench of the High Court holding that the appellant-petitioner had failed to prove the grounds of “cruelty” and “desertion” as contemplated in Section 13(1) of the said Act, had reversed the decree of divorce passed by the Trial Court. The Division Bench vide the impugned confi rmed the passed by the Single Bench and observed by holding as under: - “16. Coming now to the facts of the present case, it is undisputed that the wife continued to live with the husband without any grievance for 21 years and gave birth to three children. She looked after the children. One daughter was married in the year 1984 before separation. The grievance put-forward by the husband for the fi rst time was that the wife did not join him when he was transferred to Madras.