The contractual terms inter-se are governed by the “Apartment Buyer Agreement”5. 3. Clause 8 of the agreement pertains to the “CHANGES AND VARIATIONS IN THE SALE AREA”. The relevant part of Clause 8.6(ii) and Clause 8.7 read: - 1 For short, “the appellant”. 2 For short, “the Act”. 3 For short, “National Commission”. 4 For short, “the respondents”. 5 For short, “the agreement”. EXPERION DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. v. HIMANSHU 1123 DEWAN AND SONALI DEWAN [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] “8.6 While every attempt shall be made to adhere to the Sale Area, in case any changes result in any revision in the Sale Area, the Company shall advise the Buyer in writing along with the commensurate increase/decrease in Total Sale Consideration based, however, upon the BSP as agreed herein. Subject otherwise to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, a maximum of 10% variation in the Sale Area and the commensurate variation in the Total Sale Consideration is agreed to be acceptable to the Buyer and the Buyer undertakes to be bound by such increase/decrease in the Sale Area and the commensurate increase/decrease in the Total Sale Consideration. For any increase/ decrease in the Sale Area, the payment for the same shall be required to be adjusted at the time of Notice of Possession or immediately in case of any transfer of the apartment before the Notice of Possession or as otherwise advised by the Company. 8.7 If any of the Changes leads to any change in sale area of the apartment in excess of Ten Percent (10%) of the Sale Area mentioned herein at any time prior to the execution of the Conveyance Deed for the Apartment and such variation is unacceptable to Buyer, all attempts shall be made by the Company to off er an alternate apartment of a sale area similar to the Sale Area of the Apartment within a maximum of 10% variation in the Sale area within the Group Housing Colony subject to availability. If such alternate apartment is available, the applicable Total Sale Consideration for such alternate apartment shall be payable/refundable, as the case may be, for the sale area of the alternate apartment at the BSP mentioned herein and there shall be no claim against the Company in respect of the Apartment nor shall otherwise be raised by the Buyer in this regard at any time.” 4. The expression “Sale Area” as defi ned in Clause 1(xlviii), reads: - “1. (xlviii) - ‘Sale Area’ shall include the covered area, inclusive of areas enclosed by the periphery walls, balconies/ decks, area under the columns and wails, half of the area of walls common with other premises, cupboads, projections/ledges, area utilized for the common services and facilities provided viz. areas in/under staircases, circulation areas, walls atriums, stilts, lift shafts and lobbies, lift machine rooms, service shafts, passages/ corridors, refuge areas, common washrooms/ 1124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. toilets, mails rooms, all electrical plumbing and fi re shafts, community facilities, common service rooms, security rooms, sewage treatment plants, underground and overhead water storage tanks, DG/panel room, terrace gardens, air handling units, pantries and any other areas which have been paid for or are constructed by the Company for common use, but shall exclude the areas under the following:- a) Sites for retail shops and other commercial areas in the Project.