Section 4 contemplates a situation, where there are several instruments. 45. There are other provisions, which relate to other transactions. Section 17 deals with the time of stamping of instruments. Section 17 G provides for instruments executed in India. It declares that such instruments, chargeable with duty, shall be stamped before or at the time of execution. Section 31 deals with adjudication as to proper stamp. The adjudication is to be made by the Collector. Chapter IV contains Section 33 and the Chapter heading is ‘Instruments not duly stamped’. In the Stamp Act, Section 33 reads as follows: H 332 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “33. Examination and impounding of instruments. — (1) Every person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence, and every person in charge of a pubic office, except an officer of police, before whom any instrument, chargeable, in his opinion, with duty, is produced or comes in B the performance of his functions, shall, if it appears to him that such instrument is not duly stamped, impound the same. (2) For that purpose every such person shall examine every instrument so chargeable and so produced or coming before him, in to ascertain whether it is stamped with a stamp C of the value and description required by the law in force in India when such instrument was executed or first executed: Provided that— (a) nothing herein contained shall be deemed to require any Magistrate or Judge of a Criminal Court to examine or impound, if he does not think fit so to do, any instrument coming before D him in the course of any proceeding other than a proceeding under Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1989); (b) in the case of a Judge of a High Court, the duty of examining and impounding any instrument under this section may be E delegated to such officer as the Court appoints in this behalf. (3) For the purposes of this section, in cases of doubt, — (a) the State Government may determine what offices shall be deemed to be public offices; F (b) the State Government may determine who shall be deemed to be persons in charge of public offices.” 46. Next, we must notice Section 35, which reads as follows: “35. Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible in evidence, G etc. — No instrument chargeable with duty shall be admitted in evidence for any purpose by any person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence, or shall be acted upon, registered or authenticated by any such person or by any public officer, unless such instrument is duly stamped : Provided that— H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 333 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (a) any such instrument shall be admitted in evidence on A payment of the duty with which the same is chargeable, or, in the case of any instrument insufficiently stamped, of the amount required to make up such duty, together with a penalty of five rupees, or, when ten times the amount of the proper duty or deficient portion thereof exceeds five rupees, of a sum equal B to ten times such duty or portion; (b) where any person from whom a stamped receipt could have been demanded, has given an unstamped receipt and such receipt, if stamped, would be admissible in evidence against him, then such receipt shall be admitted in evidence against C him on payment of a penalty of one rupee by the person tendering it; (c) Where a contract or agreement of any kind is effected by correspondence consisting of two or more letters and any one of the letters bears the proper stamp, the contract or agreement D shall be deemed to be duly stamped; (d) nothing herein contained shall prevent the admission of any instrument in evidence in proceeding in a Criminal Court, other than a proceeding under Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1898 (V of 1898); E (e) nothing herein contained shall prevent the admission of any instrument in any Court when such instrument has been executed by or on behalf of the Government, or where it bears the certificate of the Collector as provided by section 32 or any other provision of this Act.” F 47.