This suggests that the records produced by the respondents were added as an afterthought. The respondents’ contradictory statements about not maintaining records beyond three years, while at the same time also producing documents that are 7 to 20 years old, further weaken their case. Further, these records cannot be taken on record because the affi davit is signed by Capt. Alokesh Roy, offi cer In-charge of the Legal cell, Army Hospital (R & R) Delhi Cantt, claiming to be fi led on behalf of the respondent. The respondents have failed to produce the copy of the notice/summons served to the appellant under Section 135 of the Army Act, 1950 regarding the CoI, which alleged that the appellant was called for the inquiry but did not attend its proceedings. Furthermore, the respondents never challenged the Medical Board proceedings dated 12.12.2014, 24.01.2015 and 21.12.2015, or the certifi cates issued by it, before the appellant initiated legal proceedings against them. 27. The appellant further argued that the HIV expert’s report cannot be considered as the said expert is a regular employee of the respondent’s organization, and hence his opinion cannot be free from biases. He placed reliance on this court’s decisions in Fakruddin versus Principal, Consolidation Training Institute & Ors.22; State of Uttaranchal & Ors. Vs. Kharak Singh23, and A. K. Kraipak & Ors. Vs. UOI & Ors.24 Arguing further on biases, the appellant turned the Court’s attention to the fact that one of the members of the Commission bench was a retired Defence Secretary. 22 [1995) SUPP. 1 S.C.R 389. 23 [2008] 12 S.C.R. 54. 24 [1970] 1 S.C.R. 457. 618 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 28. It was further argued that due to him being HIV positive, the appellant was deemed unfi t for re-employment and extension of service. Consequently, he was discharged from permanent service in the Indian Air Force. In fact, he was later selected by the Food Corporation of India. But, due to his HIV positive status, the Food Corporation of India rejected the appellant on medical grounds. Additionally, his medical condition led to divorce and the loss of family support. 29. The appellant relied on Chapter 3 of the National Guidelines for HIV testing to assert that antibody detection tests are not eff ective during the window period when antibodies are not yet detectable. Additionally, the appellant referred to Guidelines on HIV Testing (March 2007) published by the National AIDS Control Organisation (hereafter “NACO”), which states that the disease’s rate of progression depends on viral characteristics and host factors, ranging from 1 year to more than 15-20 years. NACO has also certifi ed that around 5% of HIV-infected individuals, known as “long term non-progressors” (hereafter, “LTNPs”), do not experience disease progression for an extended period. It was urged that the appellant’s case fell under such a category. To further substantiate this submission, the appellant cited a from the Supreme Court of New Jersey in the case of State ex rel. J. G., N. S. & J. T25.