KISHORE 35 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] September 1949, the laws were adopted which covered the off ences for which the appellants were charged and as such Article 20(1) would protect them and they could not be tried for such off ence which had been introduced later on. (ii) The Constitution Bench rejected the plea on both the counts. Although in the present case, the concern is only with the fi rst aspect relating to the issue regarding competent court to try the off ence which is a part of the procedure and had nothing to do with conviction or sentence being introduced subsequent to the off ence. The Constitution Bench held as follows with regard to the above issue: “9. In this context it is necessary to notice that what is prohibited under Article 20 is only conviction or sentence under an ex post facto law and not the trial thereof. Such trial under a procedure diff erent from what obtained at the time of the commission of the off ence or by a court diff erent from that which had competence at the time cannot ipso facto be held to be unconstitutional. A person accused of the commission of an off ence has no fundamental right to trial by a particular court or by a particular procedure, except insofar as any constitutional objection by way of discrimination or the violation of any other fundamental right may be involved. (emphasis supplied)” (iii) With respect to the second aspect also, the Constitution Bench did not fi nd favour with the appellant and held that the State of Vindhya Pradesh had the power to frame laws being applied retrospectively and also for the reason that the said off ence was already in existence and in force in the said state in 1948 itself. (iv) The Constitution Bench in the case of S.K. Ghosh (supra) was dealing with an appeal fi led by the State of West Bengal assailing the correctness of the of the High Court by which two Hon’ble Judges had allowed the appeal of the respondent S.K. Ghosh but for diff erent reasons. Mitter J. had not dealt with the applicability of Article 20(1) of the Constitution for setting aside the forfeiture proceedings. The same was set aside for the reason 36 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. that there was no determination under Section 12 of the Criminal Law, 1944 Amendment vide 1944 Ordinance, whereas Bhattacharya J. set aside the forfeiture on the ground that the 1944 Ordinance had come into force on 23.08.1944 whereas the eff ective period for committing the off ence had ended in July 1944. (v) The Constitution Bench allowed the appeal of the State of West Bengal by holding that both the views taken by the respective judges were not correct. (vi) The Constitution Bench once again relied upon the earlier Constitution bench in the case of Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh (supra) and laid down that forfeiture in the said case would have nothing to do with conviction or punishment and therefore there could be no application of Article 20(1).