This is apart from, the Court after referring to Sections 2(g) and 2(h) of the Contract Act, going on to make the observations at paragraph-22 and, finally, paragraph-29 which we have noticed. In fact, in paragraph-30, the Court went on to disapprove various s of High Courts, which included the Full Bench of the High Court of Bombay in Gautam Landscapes Pvt. Limited v. Shailesh S. Shah33, insofar as G it related to the High Court holding that after the insertion of Section 11(6A) of the Act, the Court, acting under Section 11(6), need not be detained by the aspect relating to the document not being stamped. 33 (2019) SCC OnLine Bom 563 H 360 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 88. Section 11(6A) of the Act, no doubt, contemplated constraining the court to not stray into areas which were permissible under the earlier regime which was set out in SBP (supra) as explained in National Insurance (supra). It must be understood that when the law giver changes the law it would be indeed a wise approach and fully commended in law to ascertain the mischief which the legislature was dealing with. Equally, B the court would naturally enquire as to what is the relief against the mischief which the law giver has provided. The mischief as we understand was the perception that courts were overstepping the limits of minimal interference in consonance with the principle enshrined in Section 5 of the Act. In other words, if we may bear in mind paragraphs 22.2 and C 22.3 of National Insurance Company(supra) it would appear that they fell outside of the question relating to the existence of an arbitration agreement. The Stamp Act is a law passed by the same law-giver. It is a law which is meant to have life, and therefore, to be enforced. The legislature would not have possibly contemplated, when it incorporatedSection 11(6A), that the courts must turn a blind eye to the D injunction of a law and allow it to be defeated. This to our minds involves adopting an interpretation which would ignore the principle of harmonious construction of statutes. 89. As far as the conclusion in paragraph 55 of Great Offshore Ltd. (supra) that since Section 7 of the Act does not stipulate for stamping, E stamping may not be required under the Stamp Act, does not commend itself to us as the correct position in law. We are equally unable to subscribe to the view that stamp duty, inter alia, should be treated as a ‘technicality’. We are also of the view that the view taken by the learned Single Judge otherwise in the said paragraph again does not represent F the correct position. 90. Section 5 no doubt provides for a non-obstante clause. It provides against judicial interference except as provided in the Act. The non-obstante clause purports to proclaim so despite the presence of any law which may provide for interference otherwise. However, this does G not mean that the operation of the Stamp Act, in particular, Sections 33 and 35 would not have any play.