The sole, vague averment in the written statement filed by the second defendant in the suit referring to the Fragmentation Act, which in no way could construe as a H counter-claim capable of treating as a plaint and governed by the 178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A rules applicable to plaints in terms of VIII Rule 6 A, CPC and enabling the court to pronounce a final in the same suit, both on the original claim and on the counter-claim. That apart, the case projected and proved by the second defendant that Ext.128 sale deed and sale deed dated 04.07.1978 were never intended to be acted upon. Thus, going by his mutually destructive B pleas as well, no case for attracting the provisions of ‘the Fragmentation Act’ was made out by the second defendant. [Para 24][194-A-F] 1.7 Despite the lack of foundational facts attracting the applicability of the ‘Fragmentation Act’ (in fact, there is no serious C consideration of such aspects by the trial court and the High Court) and the position revealed from the said decisions and the provisions and on the question of raising of any right or claim by way of counter-claims, it cannot be understood as to how the trial court and the High Court came to frame issues and consider such D issue(s), that too, ignoring the statutory bar of jurisdiction to go into and decide the issues. [Para 27][195-B-D] 1.8 A careful scanning of the impugned would reveal that virtually, the High Court considered the validity of the sale deed dated 04.07.1978 executed by the second defendant E in favour of the first defendant under ‘the Fragmentation Act’, without directly framing an issue precisely on the same and then, decided the validity of the sale deed dated 21.04.1979 executed by the second defendant in favour of the plaintiff. It is held that defendant could not be permitted to raise counter-claim against co-defendant because by virtue of VIII Rule 6A, CPC it F could be raised by a defendant against the claim of the plaintiff. In the instant case, no such counter-claim, which can be treated as a plaint in terms of the said provision and thereby, enabling the court to pronounce a final in the same suit, both on the original claim and on the counter claim, was filed by the second G defendant. That apart, indisputably, the second defendant did not dispute the execution of the registered sale deed dated 04.07.1978 by him in favour of the first defendant and in his written statement the second defendant had only stated that according to the provisions of the Fragmentation Act the plaintiff was not H DAMODHAR NARAYAN SAWALE (D) THROUGH LRS. v. SHRI 179 TEJRAO BAJIRAO MHASKE & ORS. entitled to any relief. When that be so, legally how can the High A Court hold the sale deed dated 04.07.1978 executed by the second defendant in favour of the first defendant, void under the provisions of the Fragmentation Act without precisely framing an issue and then, based on it, going on to consider the validity of Ext.