In Fiona Shrikhande and Anr. vs. State of Maharashtra7, this Court had the occasion to hold that: “13. Section 504 IPC comprises of the following ingredients viz. (a) intentional insult, (b) the insult must be such as to give F provocation to the person insulted, and (c) the accused must intend or know that such provocation would cause another to break the public peace or to commit any other offence. The intentional insult must be of such a degree that should provoke a person to break the public peace or to commit any other offence. The person who intentionally insults intending or knowing it to be likely that it will G give provocation to any other person and such provocation will cause to break the public peace or to commit any other offence, in such a situation, the ingredients of Section 504 are satisfied. One of the essential elements constituting the offence is that there 7 (2013) 14 SCC 44 H 654 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A should have been an act or conduct amounting to intentional insult and the mere fact that the accused abused the complainant, as such, is not sufficient by itself to warrant a conviction under Section 504 IPC.” 23. Based on the facts and circumstances of the case, we have B little hesitation in holding that even though the appellant might have abused the complainant but such abuse by itself and without anything more does not warrant subjecting the appellant to face a trial, particularly in t h e clear absence of the ingredient of intentional insult of such a degree that it could provoke a person to break public peace or commit any other offence. C 24. We record that the High Court misdirected itself in failing to appreciate the challenge to the criminal proceedings including the charge- sheet inthe proper perspective and occasioned a grave failure of justice in rejecting such challenge. 25. For the reasons aforesaid, we unhesitatingly hold that it would D be an abuse of the process of law to allow continuation of Criminal Case No.376 of 2016. While setting aside the impugned and of the High Court, we also quash Criminal Case No.376 of 2016. 26. Consequently, this appeal succeeds. Parties shall, however, bear their own costs. E Ankit Gyan Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Mahendra Yadav, LCRA) F G H