It is, accordingly, accepting the Report that Section 11(6A) came to be inserted. After having set out the events, which led to the insertion of Section 11(6A), we may take the narrative forward. In Duro Felguera (supra), we have noticed the view taken in paragraph 59 in an earlier part of this , in essence, the duty to find out whether an arbitration agreement exists or not. The learned Judge also made C observations in paragraph 48 wherein after quoting Section 11(6A) he held as follows: “…From a reading of Section 11(6-A), the intention of the legislature is crystal clear i.e. the court should and need only look into one aspect—the existence of an arbitration agreement. What D are the factors for deciding as to whether there is an arbitration agreement is the next question. The resolution to that is simple— it needs to be seen if the agreement contains a clause which provides for arbitration pertaining to the disputes which have arisen between the parties to the agreement.” E 33. In Garware(supra)a Bench of two learned Judges dealt with a case under Section 11(6A) itself and that too in the context of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958. The contention raised by the appellant was that the in SMS Tea Estates(supra) continues to apply even after the introduction of Section 11(6A). In other words, notwithstanding the insertion of Section 11(6A), the procedure F contemplated in SMS Tea Estates (supra) would have to be followed. The Court went on to hold, inter alia, as noticed by us already and which has been referred to in N.N. Global (supra): 22. When an arbitration Clause is contained “in a contract”, it is significant that the agreement only becomes a contract if it is G enforceable by law. We have seen how, under the Indian Stamp Act, an agreement does not become a contract, namely, that it is not enforceable in law, unless it is duly stamped. Therefore, even a plain reading of Section 11(6A), when read with Section 7(2) of the 1996 Act and Section 2(h) of the Contract Act, would make it H 326 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A clear that an arbitration Clause in an agreement would not exist when it is not enforceable by law. This is also an indicator that SMS Tea Estates has, in no manner, been touched by the amendment of Section 11(6A). XXX XXX XXX B 29. This in Hyundai Engg. case is important in that what was specifically under consideration was an arbitration Clause which would get activated only if an insurer admits or accepts liability. Since on facts it was found that the insurer repudiated the claim, though an arbitration Clause did “exist”, so to speak, in the C policy, it would not exist in law, as was held in that , when one important fact is introduced, namely, that the insurer has not admitted or accepted liability. Likewise, in the facts of the present case, it is clear that the arbitration Clause that is contained in the sub-contract would not “exist” as a matter of law until the sub-contract is duly stamped, as has been held by us above.