This arrangement has been followed even in the previous recruitment which was conducted pursuant to the notifi cation dated 14 December 2020. 22. Article 234 of the Constitution provides that appointments to the judicial service of a State, other than district Judges, shall be made by the Governor of the State in accordance with the rules made by him in that behalf, after consultation with the State Public Service Commission and with the High Court exercising jurisdiction in relation to such State. 23. The consistent pattern which has been followed by the State Government is that recruitment to the judicial service has been entrusted to a Selection Committee, as noted above. If the State Government wished to bring about any change in that position, it was incumbent upon it to consult the High Court and to do so based on cogent material bearing on objective data indicating the justifi cation for abrogating the involvement of the High Court in conducting the selection examination and overseeing the process. MALIK MAZHAR SULTAN v. U P PUBLIC SERVICE 695 COMMISSION [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] The State Government has, during the course of its submissions, set out only two grounds for the proposed departure, namely: (i) Under the Rules it is a mandate of the Public Service Commission to fi ll up vacancies in the judicial service; and (ii) Even in the dated 4 January 2007, this Court observed that the Rules of each State/UT have to be followed. This would be a superfi cial understanding of the position as it obtains in the State of Haryana. The consistent course of action which was followed on the basis of the exercise of the rule making power, by the substitution of Rule 7B, would have been founded on the understanding that a broad-based committee consisting of both representatives of the High Court and of the State and the Public Service Commission should be entrusted with the task. This acknowledges the position that the High Court is best situated to understand the needs of the judicial service. Judges of the High Court who participate in the selection process have domain knowledge both of the subject and of the nature of the service. If this understanding, which has been refl ected in the consistent course of action since 2007, was to be deviated from, this had to be based on cogent material which is found to be evidently lacking. The State Government has not come before this Court seeking a modifi cation of the arrangement by placing objective data which would indicate either the inability of the High Court to perform its task thus far or demonstrating that there have been defi ciencies in the process conducted by the High Court. 24. Hence, for the above reasons, we are of the view that the State Government has not placed suffi cient material before this Court to warrant a deviation from the course of action which has been pursued since 2007, for over fi fteen years, including, as recently as by the notifi cation dated 14 December 2020.