The second case was with respect to non- disclosure in Form 26 of conviction. It was alleged that the cases referred to in the election petition, i.e., Labour Enforcement Officer v. M/s. Patil Construction represented by (1) Mr. B. B. Patil (partner) and (2) Mr. M. B. Patil (partner) (Case No.20/12), this case pertained to F non-payment of minimum wages to workers under the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 and Payment of Wages (Mines) Rules, 1956. The appellant was convicted on 30.07.2013; the second case pertained to State through Labour Enforcement Officer v. M/s. Patil Construction represented by B.B. Patil and M.B. Patil before Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate registered under Section 22A of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 for non- G maintenance of records of workers/employers. The appellant was convicted on 05.09.2017. 8. It was argued by Mr. Sundaram that the reference to the pending case before the CJM Garhwa District, in the documents filed along with the election petition, was an abuse of process and a clear case of H 1224 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A interpolation. Learned counsel pointed out that this aspect has been acknowledged by the main in para 27, whereby after considering the certified copy relating to that case, the court observed that there appeared to be some interpolation. Learned counsel reiterated the submissions and referred to certified copies which were placed on record. He also referred to the original of the complaint which was summoned B by this court during the present proceedings. It was further stated that the conclusion of the High Court with respect to the non-disclosure of two cases in respect of the Payment of Wages Act and Minimum Wages requiring them to be gone into during the trial is in error. Learned counsel contended that even upon conviction, the minimum threshold indicated C in Section 33A of the Act is not satisfied because, in eitherway, the maximum sanction is a penalty. 9. Dr. A.M. Singhvi, learned senior counsel for the election petitioner, urged that the impugned correctly appreciated the law relating to VII Rule 11 and dismissed the appellant’s application. D Counsel reiterated that the suppression of the truth with respect to criminal cases, i.e.,non-disclosure of cases where the petitioner was convicted and of pending cases, in Form- 26 affidavit were in relation to the following: a) Pending cases: The appellant did not disclose the criminal case E pending before the Chief Judicial Magistrate Garhwa relating to Forest Department cases. b) Regarding cases in which the appellant was convicted (in section 6 of Form-26), there was a deliberate attempt to suppress the truth; the appellant had written “not applicable” when there were two casesin which he was convicted: firstly case No.20/2012 Labour Case F relating to Payment of Wages and Minimum Wages Act, and secondly, Case No 1/ 2013, another case relating to Payment of Wages and Minimum Wages Act. 10. It was submitted that going into the merits of whether those cases actually existed, and related to the provisions of the Act, would G amount to a mini-trial which is plainly impermissible while considering an application seeking rejection of the petition.