It is possible to arrive at divergent views, both of which are reasonable. He argues that when procedures allow the genuine participation and contestation of ideas, a citizen is treated with respect and dignity that they deserve in a society that is governed by the rule of law.22 D 41. Indian Courts have been significantly influenced by the courts in England on the interpretation, application, and content of natural justice, primarily because the principles are derived from common law and are grounded in the rule of law. The jurisprudential developments across other common law jurisdictions relating to the principles of natural justice E usually, if not always, spill over to Indian jurisdiction. Our Courts were soon to follow suit when the courts in England made a functional distinction between executive and non-judicial23 actions and between an action that deprives rights and an action that deprives privilege24 for deciding the applicability of the principles of natural justice. In Ridge v. Baldwin25, the House of Lords repudiated the functional distinction based on the F nature of the adjudicating body and held that the duty to act judicially in compliance with the principles of natural justice can be inferred from 20 Laurence Tribe, American Constitution Law (2nd ed.). Pg. 666 21 DJ Galligan, Due Process and Fair Procedures: A Study of Administrative Procedures G (Clarendon Press 1996) 22 TRS Allan, Procedural Fairness and the Duty of Respect (Oxford Journal of Legal Studies) p. 510 23 The King v. Inspector of Leman Street Police Station, Ex Parte Venicoff, (1920) 3 K.B. 72 24 Nakkuda Ali v. MF De S Jayaratne, [1951] AC 66 H 25 [1964] A.C 40 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 635 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the nature of the decision and not the nature of the decision-making A body. Courts have with time substituted the usage of the terminology of the principles of natural justice with the doctrine of ‘fairness’ because natural justice is encapsulated in the doctrine of fariness; as Justice Bhagwati termed it, “fair-action in play”.26 42. The duty to act fairly that is derived from common law is not B exhaustively defined in a set of concrete principles. Courts, both in India and abroad, have demonstrated considerable flexibility in the application of the principles of natural justice by fine-tuning them to situational variations. This Court has observed earlier that the concept of natural justice cannot be put into a ‘straitjacket formula’27 and that it is incapable C of a ‘precise definition’28. Courts have undertaken an ends-based reasoning to test if the action violates the common law principle of natural justice29. The party alleging a violation of a principle of natural justice has to prove that the administrative action violated the principles of natural justice and that non-compliance with natural justice prejudiced the party.30 The courts, while assessing prejudice, determine if compliance D of the principles of natural justice could have benefitted the party in securing a just outcome. It needs to be seen if this content of natural justice and the standard for judicial review of non-compliance has undergone a change after principles of natural justice were constitutionalized in Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India31 .