42. Before we dwell on the merit of the aforesaid submissions, E we may put on record that we were neither shown nor could find any witness statement identifying the writing of Neeraj on that suicide letter or stating that the suicide letter was written by Neeraj in his or her presence. The prosecution relied on two pieces of evidence to prove that the suicide letter was written by Neeraj. First is the confessional disclosure of the two accused made before the police with regard to F Neeraj writing the letter to hoodwink the police; and second is the FSL report. 43. As far as admissibility of the confessional statement of the two accused in respect of suicide letter being written by Neeraj is concerned, the same being made by an accused before the police would G be hit not only by Sections 25 and 26 of the IEA, 1872 but also by Section 162 of the Code because only that much of the disclosure/ confessional statement is admissible as relates distinctly to the fact discovered. Since the suicide letter was discovered on 12.09.2000, that is, much before the disclosures allegedly made on 23.09.2000 and H SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 749 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] 25.09.2000, the disclosure qua the suicide letter, in our view, is not A admissible in evidence. Admissibility of the FSL Report 44. As regards admissibility of the FSL report, the High Court held it inadmissible for being based on comparison of specimens forcibly B obtained during investigation by the investigating agency. The High Court was of the view that usage of such specimens by the investigating agency toobtain expert report would fall foul of the rule against self-incrimination as well as the provisions of Section 73 of the IEA, 1872. In holding so, the High Court relied on certain observations of this Court in the case of Sukhvinder Singh (supra). C 45. In Sukhvinder Singh (supra), the issue that came for consideration before a two-judge Bench of this Court was whether the handwriting on the disputed ransom letter was proved to be that of the accused. In that case, according to the prosecution, the specimen writing of the accused was taken under direction of Tehsildar-Executive D Magistrate and based on comparison of that specimen with the disputed ransom letter, the expert opined that writing on the ransom letter was of the accused. In that context it was held that though Section 73 of the IEA, 1872 does not specifically say so as to who could make such a comparison but reading Section 73 as a whole would make it obvious E that it is the Court which has to form its opinion, either by comparing the disputed and the admitted writings or by seeking assistance of an expert. As regards the Court which can give a direction to the accused to provide specimens of handwriting and signature and the scope as well as purpose of the second paragraph of section 73 of the IEA, 1872, it was held: “20.