In any event, there was no material to demonstrate any link of the shareholders, as was alleged. 171. While we have concluded that a public interest immunity claim is a less restrictive means, the dilution of procedural guarantees G while hearing the claim cannot be ignored by the Court. It is only the Court and the party seeking non-disclosure of the material who are privy to the public interest immunity proceedings. The court has a duty to consider factors such as the relevance of the material to the case of the applicant while undertaking the proportionality standard to test the public interest immunity claim. However, the applicant who is unrepresented in H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 711 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the proceedings would be effectively impaired. While there may be A material on serious concerns of national security which cannot be disclosed; the constitutional principle of procedural guarantees is equally important and it cannot be turned into a dead letter. As the highest constitutional court, it is our responsibility to balance these two considerations when they are in conflict. To safeguard the claimant against B a potential injury to procedural guarantees in public interest immunity proceedings, we have recognised a power in the court to appoint an amicus curiae. The appointment of an amicus curiae will balance concerns of confidentiality with the need to preserve public confidence in the objectivity of the justice delivery process. C 172. The amicus curiae appointed by the Court shall be given access to the materials sought to be withheld by the State. The amicus curiae shall be allowed to interact with the applicant and their counsel before the proceedings to ascertain their case to enable them to make effective submissions on the necessity of disclosure. However, the amicus curiae shall not interact with the applicant or their counsel after the D public interest immunity proceeding has begun and the counsel has viewed the document sought to be withheld. The amicus curiae shall to the best of their ability represent the interests of the applicant. The amicus curiae would be bound by oath to not disclose or discuss the material with any other person, including the applicant or their counsel. E 173. Article 145 of the Constitution stipulates that all s of the Supreme Court shall only be delivered in open court. Though public interest immunity proceedings will take place in a closed setting, the Court is required to pass a reasoned for allowing or dismissing the claim in open court. We are cognizant of the objection that may be raised F that an justifying the reasons for allowing the claim would have to inevitably disclose information on the very material that it seeks to protect. The Court in such cases is still required to provide a reasoned on the principles that it had considered and applied, even if the material that is sought to not be disclosed is redacted from the reasoned . However, the redacted material from the reasoned shall be G preserved in the court records which may be accessed by the courts in the future, if the need arises.