Doing so would not off end or breach the restriction which is specifi ed in sub-section (3) of Section 16. 43. Sub-section (3) of Section 6 indicates by a deeming provision what would constitute the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener. As already discussed, the deeming fi ction requires an assumption of a 358 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. hypothetical state of aff airs in terms of which a notional partition is deemed to have taken place immediately before the death of the Hindu Mitakshara coparcener. Now, let us assume for the sake of example that there are four coparceners- C1, C2, C3, and C4. C2 has died. C2 is survived by a widow, a son, and a daughter but it so transpires that one of the children is born from a marriage which is null and void under Section 11 of the HMA 1955. C2 would have a 1/4th share in the coparcenary which consisted of him and his three brothers’ C1, C3 and C4.Now, in to ascertain C2’s share in the property and the devolution of this shares among C2’s heirs, the Explanation mandates an assumption that a partition took place immediately before C2’s death. In such a partition, between him and his brothers,C2 gets 1/4th share in the larger coparcenary comprising himself and his 3 brothers. Now, within his own branch, C2, his widow and his child born from a valid marriage would each have a 1/3rd share. In other words, in the notional partition which is deemed to have taken place in terms of the Explanation the share of C2 is ascertained at 1/3rd. In working out the devolution of interest and the distribution of property following the death of C2, C2’s 1/3rd share would be equally distributed between his widow, child born from the marriage which was valid and the child born from the marriage whose legitimacy is protected by Section 16(1) of the HMA 1955 though the marriage was null and void. In other words, such a child would have a share in the property which would be allotted to his parent (C2) if a partition had taken place immediately before the death of C2. The widow would take a 1/3rd share (her share in the notional partition) plus 1/3rd in the 1/3rd share of C2 (her share in succession, as an heir to C2). The child who was born from the valid marriage would acquire a 1/3rd share plus a 1/3rd share in C2’s 1/3rd share. The child who has the benefi t of Section 16(1) of the HMA 1955 acquires a 1/3rd share in the 1/3rd share which was allotted to C2 presuming that the partition had taken place immediately before the death of C2. This child, unlike the child born out of a lawful marriage, is not entitled to a share in the notional partition itself. After the father’s share is determined in such notional partition, a child whose legitimacy is protected under Section 16(1) and 16(2) will have a share in the father’s share, along with the surviving widow and the other children.