7. This court, by its dated 24.1.2023, requested TANGEDCO to explore the feasibility of accommodating the appellant. TANGEDCO, in its additional affi davit, submitted that such accommodation was not possible since the appellant was selected for a particular post which requires him to be in the fi eld for at least 10 years of his career. This role involved visual inspection of machinery with specifi c colour coding. TANGEDCO further submitted that the AE’s post is a technical position which involve colour coded cables and gadgets that require awareness of colours. The lack of their awareness could pose a risk to the appellant’s safety and that of general public. 8. TANGEDCO, in its additional affi davit, urged that the appellant had not joined its services, nor worked for a day. His colour blindness came to light before he was permitted to join duty and hence, the provisions of Disabilities Act would not be applicable. This court, by dated 5.4.2023, directed an independent ophthalmologist to facilitate the visual examination of the appellant and give its report in sealed colour. The report was received, after which TANGEDCO reiterated its original position, declining to accommodate the appellant in any position- administrative, planning, or other general department. The appeal was heard, in these circumstances. 9. TANGEDCO admits that there are no norms fi xed by it as eligibility conditions for selection to the post of AE, vis-à-vis colour vision norms. However, it argued that as a public employer, the fi tness of a selected candidate to discharge the functions required of the post, advertised, and for which a candidature is held out by an eligible applicant, having proper colour vision, is a necessary criterion. It was highlighted that an AE holds a fairly responsible position, inasmuch as initially the holder of the post, has to carry out routine inspections, to verify the work done by Linemen, Technical assistants, who are then supervised by Junior Engineers-II. Counsel for TANGEDCO, after obtaining instructions, on the previous date of hearing, stated that the appellant can be accommodated as Junior Assistant, in view of his being an engineering graduate, as holder of a MOHAMED IBRAHIM v. THE CHAIRMAN & MANAGING 931 DIRECTOR & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] degree, and that “the promotional avenues for the post of Junior Assistant/ Administration are Assistant/Administration, Administrative Supervisor, Assistant Administrative Officer, Administrative Officer and Senior Administrative offi cer and all these posts does not have any Technical, colour related, electrical live environment nature of work.” Contentions 10. TANGEDCO relies upon two single judge decisions of the Gujarat High Court (Tusharkumar Karsanbhai Vinzuda v. State of Gujarat11 and Bhavesh Khimabhai Pandit v. State of Gujarat12) and a Division Bench in Tushar Karsanbhai Vinzubhai v. Paschim Gujarat Vij Co. Ltd.13. In these three s, Gujarat High Court dealt with colour blindness of candidates, who had applied for the post of Technical Assistants, in electrical utilities [much like TANGEDCO] and after considering the report of the experts upheld the rejection of application for recruitment on the ground that the post required its holder to “deal with live wires, especially during installation where the colour of the wires is of prime importance”.