Demonetisation – Interference by Court – Scope – Held [per B B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: The court does not have the expertise to determine whether the object with which demonetization was effected is served or not or as to whether it has resulted in huge direct and indirect benefits or not – It would be wise for the Court not to hazard an opinion where even economists may differ. C Administrative Law – Government action – Scope of judicial review – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: If the action of the government has a basis with the objectives to be achieved, it cannot be declared as palpably arbitrary – The result of the act may seem D unjust and oppressive, yet be free from judicial interference – The problems of government are practical ones and may justify, if they do not require, rough accommodations, illogical, it may be, and unscientific – But even such criticism should not be hastily expressed – What is best is not always discernible, and the wisdom of any E choice may be disputed or condemned – Mere errors of government are not subject to judicial review – It is only the palpably arbitrary exercises which can be declared void. Government Notification – Legality of – Adjudication of – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: While adjudging the F illegality of the impugned Notification, one has to examine on the basis as to whether the objectives for which it was enacted has nexus with the decision taken or not – If the impugned Notification had a nexus with the objectives to be achieved, then, merely because some citizens have suffered through hardships would not be a ground G to hold the impugned Notification to be bad in law. Demonetisation – Argument of “haste” in taking the decision to demonetise – Tenability – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: The Central Government had advised the Central Board to draft a H scheme to implement demonetization in a non-disruptive manner VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 9 with as little inconvenience to the public and business entities as A possible – Accordingly, a draft scheme was also submitted by the Central Board along with its recommendations for demonetization – RBI subsequently issued relaxations from time to time taking into consideration the difficulties of the people and availability of the new notes – No doubt that on account of demonetization, the citizens B were faced with various hardships – But the ‘hasty’ argument would be destructive of the very purpose of demonetization – Such measures undisputedly are required to be taken with utmost confidentiality and speed – If the news of such a measure is leaked out, it is difficult to imagine how disastrous the consequences would be.