appellant and directed him to furnish his reply within 48 hours i.e. by A 22nd May, 2009. 64. Even if this Court was to accept the submission made by learned counsel for the respondents that the appellant was offering flimsy excuses to somehow prolong the proceedings and the health ground taken by him was not genuine, it does not explain the approach of the B Committee which was well aware of the fact that at least six more depositions had been handed over to the appellant as late as on 20th May 2009. Even if he had been hale and hearty, he would still have required a reasonable time to respond to the additional depositions and simultaneously, prepare himself for cross-examining the complainants C and completing his deposition. This can only be termed as an unreasonable and unfair direction by the Committee. 65. The undue haste demonstrated by the Committee for bringing the inquiry to a closure, cannot justify curtailment of the right of the appellant to a fair hearing. The due process, an important facet of the D principles of natural justice was seriously compromised due to the manner in which the Committee went about the task of conducting the inquiry proceedings. As noted above, when the proceedings, subject matter of the present appeal had taken place, the PoSH Act was nowhere on the horizon and the field was occupied by the Vishaka Guidelines. The said Guidelines also did not exclude application of the principles of natural E justice and fair play in making procedural compliances. The silence in the Guidelines on this aspect could not have given a handle to the Committee to bypass the principles of natural justice and whittle down a reasonable opportunity of affording a fair hearing to the appellant. This Court has repeatedly observed that even when the rules are silent, F principles of natural justice must be read into them. In its keen anxiety of being fair to the victims/complainants and wrap up the complaints expeditiously, the Committee has ended up being grossly unfair to the appellant. It has completely overlooked the cardinal principle that justice must not only be done, but should manifestly be seen to be done. The principles of audi alterem partem could not have been thrown to the G winds in this cavalier manner. (e) HOW DID THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL FALTER? 66. The error committed on the part of the EC, is no less grave. It is apparent that the EC continued to remain under an impression that the First Committee to which the complaints were forwarded, was only a H 820 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A ‘fact-finding Committee’ and that a full-fledged inquiry was still required to be conducted subsequently, in the manner prescribed under Rule 14 of the CCS (CCA) Rules. The result was that though the Report of the First Committee was accepted and the EC proceeded to place the appellant under suspension, for the very first time, it decided to issue him Memorandum detailing the Articles of Charge and the imputation of B charges and further appointed a Former Judge of the High Court as an Inquiry Officer to conduct the inquiry in terms of the Rules.