[S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] for wide publicity are complied with in letter and spirit. In the A case of publishing of declaration in TV channels, the same should be completed before the period of 48 hours ending with the hour fixed for conclusion of poll. All such political parties shall submit as report to the Chief Electoral Officer of the State/UT concerned confirming that they have fulfilled B the requirements of these directions and enclosing therewith the paper cuttings containing the declarations published by the party in respect of the candidates in the State/UT concerned. This shall be done within 30 days of completion of election. It may be noted that failure to abide by these directions would be treated as failure/refusal to carry out a C lawful direction of the Commission for the purposes of paragraph-16A of the Election Symbols (Reservation &amp; Allotment) , 1968. 4. It may also be noted that the provisions for the additional affidavit in respect of dues against Govt. accommodation, if D any, that may have been allotted to the candidates, have now been incorporated in Form-26 itself under Item (8) relating to liabilities to Public Financial Institutions and Govt. Therefore, the candidates shall give the requisite declaration/ particulars in this regard in Item (8) of Form-26. Accordingly, E the candidates are now not required to file the additional affidavit prescribed under the Commissioner’s No.509/ 11/2004-JS-1, dated 3rd February, 2016, as the provisions are not part of Form-26 itself. 5. These directions may be circulated to all formations of your F party and also brought to the notice of candidates of the Party in future elections for guidance and for strict compliance of these directions.” 15. The other requirements include submission of copies of newspapers in which declarations about criminal cases were furnished to the District Election Officer, publication of declaration on TV Channels G atleast on three different dates but which was to be completed before 48 hours, ending with the year fixed for completion of poll. In the case of candidates with criminal cases set up by political parties, whether recognized parties or registered unrecognized parties, such candidates H 1230 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A are required to declare before the Returning Officer concerned that they have informed their political party about the criminal cases against them. Provision for such declaration has been made in Form-26 in the newly inserted item (6A) and other stipulations were framed. The relevant form with respect to publication in newspapers was Form C-1; the report by the candidate “about publication of declaration regarding criminal B cases” was in Form C-4 and Form 26 in terms of Rule 4A dealt with the election affidavit disclosing the description and details of income returns of the candidate. Clause 5 of Form 26 contains the column for disclosure of pending criminal cases and those in which the candidate was convicted for any offence. In the present instance, the relevant form filed by the C appellant along with the declaration (Clause 6A) of Form 26 reads as follows: “FORM 26 (See Rule 4A) Affidavit to be filed by the candidate along with nomination D paper before the Returning Officer for Election to the House of the People (Lok Sabha) (Name of the House) from 05- Aheerbad Parliamentary Constituency (name of the Constituency) PART-A E I, BHEEMRAO BASWANTHRAO PATIL son of late BASWANTHRAO PATIL, aged 63 years, resident of H.No.1-9- , Shirpur village, Madnoor Mandal, Kamareddy District, Telangana-503309 a candidate at the above election, do hereby solemnly affirm and state on oath.