The Inquiring Judge had marked the documents filed before him D as exhibits. The Inquiring Judge examined each of the documents upon ascertaining the stand of the DGP and also the advocate representing the applicant. In application filed before us, extract from the school register was annexed which showed applicant’s date of birth as 1st February 1982. Before the Inquiring Judge, we find that in addition to E the documents annexed to the application, a certificate of date of birth issued by the school authority was also furnished by the applicant. The latter was issued on the basis of school register but this certificate was dated 30th January 2019. 28. We find no flaw in the procedure which has been adopted by F the Inquiring Judge. So far as the procedure for making an inquiry by the Court, in our opinion Section 9(2) of the 2015 Act does not prescribe scrupulously following trial procedure, as stipulated in the 1973 Code and the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. Section 9 of the 2015 Act reads:- “9. Procedure to be followed by a Magistrate who has not G been empowered under this Act.—(1) When a Magistrate, not empowered to exercise the powers of the Board under this Act is of the opinion that the person alleged to have committed the offence and brought before him is a child, he shall, without any delay, record such opinion and forward the child immediately along with the record of such proceedings to the H Board having jurisdiction. NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1095 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] (2) In case a person alleged to have committed an offence A claims before a court other than a Board, that the person is a child or was a child on the date of commission of the offence, or if the court itself is of the opinion that the person was a child on the date of commission of the offence, the said court shall make an inquiry, take such evidence as may be necessary B (but not an affidavit) to determine the age of such person, and shall record a finding on the matter, stating the age of the person as nearly as may be: Provided that such a claim may be raised before any court and it shall be recognised at any stage, even after final C disposal of the case, and such a claim shall be determined in accordance with the provisions contained in this Act and the rules made thereunder even if the person has ceased to be a child on or before the date of commencement of this Act. (3) If the court finds that a person has committed an offence D and was a child on the date of commission of such offence, it shall forward the child to the Board for passing appropriate s and the sentence, if any, passed by the court shall be deemed to have no effect. (4) In case a person under this section is required to be kept E in protective custody, while the person’s claim of being a child is being inquired into, such person may be placed, in the intervening period in a place of safety.” The requirement to follow the Code is “as far as practicable,” as per Section 103 (2) of the 2015 Act.