But this argument seeks to sweep under the carpet, the actual reality that by virtue of the impugned dated 31.10.2022 directing de novo investigation, the writ petition filed C by Y. Balaji for further investigation has been rendered infructuous. Therefore, if such a person who participated in the selection but who did not get appointment due to the corrupt practices adopted by the concerned persons and who had already filed a writ petition seeking further investigation, does not have locus standi, we do not know who else will have. D 36. The investigation and trial of a criminal case cannot be converted by the complainant and the accused into a friendly match. If they are allowed to do so, it is the Umpire who will lose his wicket. 37. Much ado was made about some of the appellants filing copies E of the confession statements under Section 164 of the Code, as part of the paper book in the appeals. It was contended by the learned senior counsel that the confession statements recorded before the Magistrate are sacrosanct and that the copies of the same cannot be made available to third parties and that at any rate, the appellants have not even explained as to whether they filed third party copy applications as stipulated in the F Rules, 2019 and obtained these copies officially. 38. Reliance was placed upon Rule 207(12) and Rule 210 of the Rules, 2019 in support of his contention. Rule 207(12) and Rule 210 read as follows:- “207(12) After recording the confession statement of an accused, G the Magistrate shall arrange to take two photocopies of the same under his direct supervision and certify the same as true copies. The confession statement in original shall be sent in a sealed cover to the jurisdictional Court through a special messenger or by Registered Post with Acknowledgment Due. One certified copy H 1062 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A of the confession statement shall be immediately furnished to the Investigating Officer free of cost with a specific direction to use it only for the purpose of investigation and not to make its contents public until the investigation is completed and final report filed. The other certified copy of the confession statement shall be kept in a sealed cover in safe custody of the Magistrate. B 210. Application for copies by third parties. – Application for the grant of copies of or or any proceeding or document in the custody of a Court by a third party to the proceeding shall be allowed only by of the Court obtained on a petition supported by an affidavit setting forth the purpose for which the C copy is required.” 39. It is clear from Rule 207(12) that a confession statement is a confidential document till the time investigation is complete and Final Report filed. The relevant portion of Rule 207(12) states “… not to make its contents public until the investigation is completed and D final report filed”. 40. Rule 210 extracted above enables “third parties to apply to the Court for the grant of copies of or or any proceeding or document in the custody of a Court”.