for the appearing parties. NITISHA AND OTHERS v. UNION OF INDIA 515 / OF THE SUPREME COURT DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI 1. The issue which has been raised in a clutch of applications pertains to the implementation of the decision of this Court in Lieutenant Colonel Nitisha and Others vs Union of India and Others1. 2. The grievance before this Court is by women offi cers of the Indian Army, who have been granted Permanent Commission2 in pursuance of the of this Court. The issue in dispute relates to their non-empanelment for promotion to the rank of Colonel by selection. 3. Before analyzing the factual grievance, it would be appropriate to set out the policy framework. 4. On 7 October 2002, a communication was issued by the Military Secretary’s3 Branch of the Army Headquarters setting out the basis on which Confi dential Reports4 would be considered for various Selection Boards5. The title of the document is: “Consideration of CRs for Selection Boards (SBs)” 5. Paragraph 3A of the letter deals with No 3 SB for promotion from the rank of Lieutenant Colonel to Colonel and No 4 SB for promotion from the rank of Major to Lieutenant Colonel. We are concerned with No 3 SB since the dispute pertains to promotion from the rank of Lieutenant Colonel to Colonel. Paragraph 3(a) indicates that “all CRs earned after completion of nine years of reckonable service” have to be considered. 6. On 17 March 2011, another communication was issued by the MS Branch of the Integrated Headquarters of the Ministry of Defence (Army) in view of the adoption and implementation of the “Quantifi ed System” for 1 (2021) 15 SCC 125 2 “PC” 3 “MS” 4 “CR” 5 “SBs” 516 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. selection. Paragraph 3 of the letter states that paragraph 3 of the earlier letter dated 7 October 2002 was being replaced in the following terms: “…Consideration of CRs for various Selection Boards will be, as per the policy in vogue at the time of consideration.” 7. On 31 October 2013, the MS Branch issued a communication to lay down a comprehensive Adequately Exercised (AE) policy for consideration of offi cers of 2002 and later batches by SB No 3. Appendix A to the circular, inter alia, specifi es cut off s. Paragraph 4 stipulates that the last report (including Special CRs) is taken into consideration by the SB for promotion to the next higher rank subject to certain conditions. Among the conditions, condition (c) indicates that: “Cut-off CR in respect of offi cers of a batch will be promulgated by MS Branch before conduct of Selection Board.” 8. On 23 December 2017, the MS Branch issued a further communication. The communication provides for the primacy of CRs, vis-à-vis other parameters such as performance on courses and gallantry awards, for Special No 3 SB. It has been stipulated that 89 marks out of a total of 100 would be allocated to the CRs. 9. The of this Court in N itisha (supra) dealt with the denial of PC to Women Short Service Commission Offi cers (WSSCOs) of the Indian Army.