(2) Every appeal under sub-section (1) shall be fi led within thirty days before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal: Provided that the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal may allow an appeal to be fi led after the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfi ed that there was suffi cient cause for not fi ling the appeal but such period shall not exceed fi fteen days.” Section 61(2) provides for a limitation period of thirty days. The proviso to the section provides that the NCLAT may allow the appeal to be fi led after the expiry of the thirty-day period if it is satisfi ed that there was suffi cient cause for not fi ling the appeal, but such period shall not exceed fi fteen days. Therefore, 45 days is the outer limit within which an appeal from an of the NCLT may be fi led before the NCLAT. 318 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 11. The table of dates in paragraph 9 above indicates that there are two possible scenarios. If this Court holds that limitation commences from 30 May 2023, the date of e-fi ling of the appeal will fall within the condonable period of 15 days. Alternatively, if limitation is held to commence from 17 May 2023, the date of e-fi ling of the appeal exceeds the outer limit of 45 days and cannot be condoned. 12. In its impugned , the NCLT has relied on the decision in V Nagarajan (supra) to dismiss the appeal on the ground of limitation. The appellant has sought to distinguish the present case from V Nagarajan (supra) on both facts and law and has relied on the decision in Sanket Kumar Agarwal v. APG Logistics Private Limited6.Therefore, it would be pertinent for us to clarify the law on the limitation period applicable for fi ling an appeal against an of the NCLT under the IBC. 13. In V Nagarajan (supra), a three-judge Bench of this Court noted that the signifi cant diff erence between Section 421(3) of the Companies Act and Section 61(2) of the IBC is the absence of the words “from the date on which a copy of the of the Tribunal is made available to the person aggrieved” in the latter. The Court held that limitation commences from the date of pronouncement and not the date of upload of the or receipt of a certifi ed copy. However, the Court expressly clarifi ed that the time taken to procure the certifi ed copy will be excluded from the calculation of the period of limitation, provided the appellant applies within the prescribed period of limitation under Section 61(2) of the IBC. 14. On the facts of the case, the Court noted that the appeal was barred by limitation as the appellant did not even attempt to secure a certifi ed copy and only relied on the date of uploading the on the website. Signifi cantly, in the case, there was a pronouncement on the date mentioned on the and the appellant did not dispute his presence before the NCLT when the was pronounced in open court.