(2) Where the application has been made in relation to a fi rm, the interim- moratorium under sub-section (1) shall operate against all the partners of the fi rm as on the date of the application. (3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply to such transactions as may be notifi ed by the Central Government in consultation with any fi nancial sector regulator.” 8 “Board” (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 578 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. conducting the resolution process within seven days. Alternatively, where the application has been fi led by the debtor or creditor without a resolution professional, the adjudicating authority has to direct the Board within seven days to nominate a resolution professional to conduct the process. The Board then has a period of ten days to make a nomination. Section 97(5)9 states that “the adjudicating authority shall by appoint the resolution professional recommended under sub-section (2) or as nominated by the Board under sub-section (4). The resolution professional, upon appointment, is provided a copy of the application for the insolvency resolution process. 13. Section 98 contains provisions for the replacement of the resolution professional. Section 9910 contains provisions for the submission of a report 9 97. Appointment of resolution professional.— (1) If the application under section 94 or 95 is fi led through a resolution professional, the Adjudicating Authority shall direct the Board within seven days of the date of the application to confi rm that there are no disciplinary proceedings pending against resolution professional. (2) The Board shall within seven days of receipt of directions under sub-section (1) communicate to the Adjudicating Authority in writing either— (a) confi rming the appointment of the resolution professional; or (b) rejecting the appointment of the resolution professional and nominating another resolution professional for the insolvency resolution process. (3) Where an application under section 94 or 95 is fi led by the debtor or the creditor himself, as the case may be, and not through the resolution professional, the Adjudicating Authority shall direct the Board, within seven days of the fi ling of such application, to nominate a resolution professional for the insolvency resolution process. (4) The Board shall nominate a resolution professional within ten days of receiving the direction issued by the Adjudicating Authority under sub-section (3). (5) The Adjudicating Authority shall by appoint the resolution professional recommended under sub-section (2) or as nominated by the Board under sub-section (4). (6) A resolution professional appointed by the Adjudicating Authority under sub- section (5) shall be provided a copy of the application for insolvency resolution process. 10 “99. Submission of report by resolution professional.—(1) The resolution professional shall examine the application referred to in section 94 or section 95, as the case may be, within ten days of his appointment, and submit a report to the Adjudicating Authority recommending for approval or rejection of the application. (2) Where the application has been fi led under section 95, the resolution professional may require the debtor to prove repayment of the debt claimed as unpaid by the creditor by furnishing— DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 579 by the resolution professional to the adjudicating authority.