A in accordance with Article 341 of the Constitution. Her submission is that in a given case if the documents having probative value show that the applicant belongs to the Thakur caste or belongs to any other caste notified in the Third Schedule to the 1976 Act, there is no question of holding any affinity test. B 8. Shri Shyam Divan, the learned senior counsel appearing for the State of Maharashtra pointed out that it is judicially recognised that the surname Thakur is shared by both forward and backward class communities. He placed reliance on the decision in the case of State of Maharashtra & Ors. v. Ravi Prakash Babulalsing Parmar & Anr.8 He pointed out that even in the impugned , this factual aspect C has been elaborately dealt with. He pointed out that under the provisions of the 2000 Act, an inquiry is required to be made at three stages. The first is an inquiry by a Competent Authority for ascertaining the genuineness of the claim of the applicant on the basis of documents produced by him. If prima facie, the Competent Authority is satisfied D with the documents, it has to issue a caste certificate which is subject to verification. The second stage is of domestic and school enquiry to be conducted by Vigilance Cell which will include an affinity test and the third stage is of verification and scrutiny by the Scrutiny Committee which is a quasi-judicial authority. E 9. In the written submissions filed by him, he has contended that even if validity certificates have been issued by the Scrutiny Committee in case of near relatives of the applicant, the Scrutiny Committee has to apply an affinity test as an integral part of the process of assessing the entire evidence again to ensure that illegality is not perpetuated. He submitted that there are cases where a validity certificate is issued to a F near relative by mistake or fraud or without holding an enquiry as contemplated by law or without recording any reasons. A submission is made that the Scrutiny Committee can also go into the question whether the earlier validity certificate has been issued based on an erroneous of the High Court. The submission canvassed is what is held in G paragraph 22.1 in the decision in Anand’s case4 is erroneous. 10. It is submitted on behalf of the State Government that in a given case, the applicant may not be fully conversant with the traits, religious ceremonies of the tribe or deities etc. Therefore, the Vigilance 8 (2007) 1 SCC 80 H MAH. ADIWASI THAKUR JAMAT SWARAKSHAN SAMITI v. 1117 THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] Cell is required to examine even the parents of the applicant. The State A Government urged that in the case of Scheduled Tribe Thakur, a different test will apply as persons with this surname belong even to forward classes. Therefore, in the case of the tribe claim of Thakur, pre- Constitution documents containing the candidate’s surname as Thakur are of no consequence.