Obviously, the question whether it is expedient to hold an inquiry as provided under the CCA Rules has to be considered and the satisfaction as to its expediency or inexpediency has to be reached based on “interest of the security of the State”. The meaning and scope of the expression ‘security of the State’ has been considered by the Constitution Bench in B Tulsiram Patel’s case. [Para 23][796-B-C] 1.5 There is absolutely no reason to hold that the satisfaction that it is not expedient to hold an inquiry “in the interest of security of the State” was arrived at without any material. When once it is obvious that circumstances based on materials capable C of arriving at a satisfaction that it is not expedient to hold an inquiry “in the interest of the security of the State” are available the decision in holding that it is inexpedient “in the interest of the security of the State” to hold an inquiry warrants no further scrutiny, rather, it is not fit to be subjected to further judicial D review. In other words, the Court cannot, in such circumstances, judge on the expediency or inexpediency to dispense with the inquiry as it was arrived at based on the subjective satisfaction of the President based on materials. Thus, there is no reason to interfere with the disinclination on the part of the tribunal and then the High Court, on the said issue. [Para 24][797-D-F] E 1.6 The retrospectivity given to the of dismissal from 01.09.2003-the date of absence was interfered with, by the tribunal. It has become final and it was given effect to by the respondent organization by modifying the date of its effect from the date of the of dismissal. Though it has been held that F such an would be open to challenge on the ground of mala fides or being based wholly on extraneous grounds, it is relevant to note that in the case on hand, the of dismissal is not put to challenge on any of such grounds. Furthermore, it has been held that the disciplinary authority while deciding the question G as to what penalty should be imposed on the delinquent employee in the facts and circumstances of a particular case would have to take into account the entire conduct of the delinquent employee, a gravity of the misconduct committed by him, the impact which his misconduct is likely to have on the administration and other H DR. V. R. SANAL KUMAR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 777 extenuating circumstances or redeeming features if any present A in the case and so on and so forth. Such aspects were looked into by the tribunal. The acts and omissions on the part of the appellant having regard to his role as a scientist/engineer in ISRO and the role of ISRO as the space agency of India have been referred. It is not the mere unauthorized absence of the appellant that actually B weighed with the authority and evidently, the organization is perfectly justified in casting suspicion on the honesty, integrity, reliability, dependability and trustworthiness in view of the factual situation obtained in this case, as explained in the counter affidavit, besides entertaining the stand that his unauthorized association with foreign institution, especially in the area of propulsion, which C is a strategic research and development subject in the organization and based on which the nation’s rocketry and ambitious launch vehicle programs are/were advancing, was a matter of concern for the security of the State.