Subsequently, Section 304-B of the IPC was introduced in the Indian Penal Code through Amending Act No. 43 of 1986, which CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 39 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] came into eff ect on November 19, 1986. The accused (respondent in the appeal therein) raised a plea that he could not be charged or tried under Section 304-B of the IPC as, at the time of the off ence, such provision was not in existence. It had been introduced much later. The Trial Court rejected the said application. However, the High Court agreed with the contention of the accused-respondent therein and hold that he could not be tried under Section 304-B as it was a new off ence created subsequent to the commission of the off ence. The Supreme Court upheld the view of the High Court and rejected the contention of the complainant-appellant. (xi) In the case of Ajay Agarwal (supra), a two-judge Bench of this Court while dealing with the provisions of Section 11B of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 199256, which was inserted in 1995 held that this provision was procedural in nature and could be applied retrospectively. It was of the view that for any law which aff ects matters of procedure, the same would apply to all actions, pending as well as future and no procedural amendment could be said to be creating an off ence; and, accordingly, disagreed with the view of the Appellate Tribunal, and upheld the passed by the Chairman, SEBI that retrospective insertion of Section 11B of the SEBI Act cannot be hit by Article 20(1) of the Constitution. The Court once again relied on the of the Constitution Bench in the case of Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh (supra). 34. Although, Mr. Datar, learned counsel has sought to canvass that the marginal note along with Article 20 of the Constitution refers to protection in respect of conviction and, therefore, anything which may relate to or may be a pre-requisite for conviction should stand covered by Article 20(1) of the Constitution. The enquiry, investigation and trial being pre-requisite are an essential part on the basis of which, the Court may ultimately arrive at a conviction for an off ence. It was thus submitted that if the enquiry, investigation and trial stand vitiated for any reason, the conviction itself cannot be sustained. 35. The submission of Mr. Datar, learned counsel is too far-fetched and gives a very wide and open-ended expanse to Article 20(1) of the Constitution 56 The SEBI Act 40 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. stretching it even to procedural aspects merely on account of the marginal note. As already stated, even at the cost of repetition, it may be noted that Article 20(1) of the Constitution only and only confi nes to conviction and sentence. It does not at all refer to any procedural part which may result into conviction or acquittal and/ or sentence. Accordingly, the argument of Mr. Datar cannot be accepted. Change in procedure post the off ence not attracting Article 20(1) of Constitution has been the settled law since 1953 enunciated in the Constitution Bench of Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh (supra).