Therefore to say that a photo identifi cation is hit by Section 162 is wrong. It is not a substantive piece of evidence. It is only by virtue of Section 9 of the Evidence Act that the same i.e. the act of identifi cation becomes admissible in court. The logic behind TIP, which will include photo identifi cation lies in the fact that it is only an aid to investigation, where an accused is not known to the witnesses, the IO conducts a TIP to ensure that he has got the right 924 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. person as an accused. The practice is not borne out of procedure, but out of prudence. At best it can be brought under Section 8 of the Evidence Act, as evidence of conduct of a witness in photo identifying the accused in the presence of an IO or the Magistrate, during the course of an investigation.” 56. This Court has further referred to its earlier decisions which state:- “256. The law as it stands today is set out in the following decisions of this Court which are reproduced as hereinunder: Munshi Singh Gautam v. State of M.P. [(2005) 9 SCC 631 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 1269] : (SCC pp. 642-45, paras 16-17 & 19) “16. As was observed by this Court in Matru v. State of U.P. [(1971) 2 SCC 75 : 1971 SCC (Cri) 391] identifi cation tests do not constitute substantive evidence. They are primarily meant for the purpose of helping the investigating agency with an assurance that their progress with the investigation into the offence is proceeding on the right lines. The identifi cation can only be used as corroborative of the statement in court. (See Santokh Singh v. Izhar Hussain [(1973) 2 SCC 406 : 1973 SCC (Cri) 828]) The necessity for holding an identifi cation parade can arise only when the accused are not previously known to the witnesses. The whole idea of a test identifi cation parade is that witnesses who claim to have seen the culprits at the time of occurrence are to identify them from the midst of other persons without any aid or any other source. The test is done to check upon their veracity. In other words, the main object of holding an identifi cation parade, during the investigation stage, is to test the memory of the witnesses based upon fi rst impression and also to enable the prosecution to decide whether all or any of them could be cited as eyewitnesses of the crime. The identifi cation proceedings are in the nature of tests and signifi cantly, therefore, there is no provision for it in the Code and the Evidence Act. It is desirable that a test identifi cation parade should be conducted as soon MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 925 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] as after the arrest of the accused. This becomes necessary to eliminate the possibility of the accused being shown to the witnesses prior to the test identifi cation parade.