This is in to ensure that D the benefit of the JJ Act, 2015 is made applicable to the juvenile in conflict with law. At the same time, the court should ensure that the JJ Act, 2015 is not misused by persons to escape punishment after having committed serious offences. E 33.9. That when the determination of age is on the basis of evidence such as school records, it is necessary that the same would have to be considered as per Section 35 of the Evidence Act, inasmuch as any public or official document maintained in the discharge of official duty would have greater credibility than private documents. F 33.10. Any document which is in consonance with public documents, such as matriculation certificate, could be accepted by the court or the JJ Board provided such public document is credible and authentic as per the provisions of the Evidence Act viz. Section 35 and other provisions. G 33.11. Ossification test cannot be the sole criterion for age determination and a mechanical view regarding the age of a person cannot be adopted solely on the basis of medical opinion by radiological examination. Such evidence is not conclusive evidence but only a very useful guiding factor H 1104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A to be considered in the absence of documents mentioned in Section 94(2) of the JJ Act, 2015.” 32. Was the Inquiring Judge wrong in giving his findings? The documents on which he has primarily relied upon are the school register, certificate of date of birth of Niranaram issued by the school authorities B on 30th January 2019 and transfer certificate dated 15th August 2001. The latter, however, is not a certificate of transfer showing Niranaram’s shifting to another school but this certificate records that he had left from Class III on 15th May 1989. Then there is transfer certificate of Andaram dated 19th September 2003 which shows the date of birth of Andaram as 4th April 1980. There was another transfer certificate before C the Inquiring Judge of Mukhram, but this was discarded by the Inquiring Judge as the same did not correspond with the school records. All the aforesaid documents appear to have their origin in the admission register of the school, the original of which we have secured and seen. Apart from the documents of the school, there is a family card, to which we D have referred to earlier. The date of issue of Family Card is 1989 and, in this card, issued by the State Government, Nirana’s age is shown to be 12 years. But there are two other signatures of authorities on this card, of 1991 and 1992. For this reason, we choose to ignore this document for our inquiry. Apart from these materials, there is extract from the electoral roll which shows age of Niranaram to be 18 years on 1st January E 1993. So far as per this recordal, his age at the time of commission of offence would be 19 years.