The same is as follows – H STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR 947 (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] “……whereas the vendor has full right to sell the aforesaid A buildings and constructions with the permission of the Deputy Commissioner, Nainital for which the vendor has obtained the necessary permit from the proper authorities and mutation has been duly effected in the name of the vendee on 25.9.47 in the Government records in the office B of the Superintendent, Tarai & Bhabar, Nainital……” (Emphasis Applied) 5.Thereafter, it is to be noted that revenue records continued to depict the name of the predecessor of the Respondents as ‘Occupancy Tenant’ on the strength of the said Sale Deed. Interestingly, at the expiry C of thirty years in 1954, it is admitted that predecessor of Respondents applied for renewal and paid enhanced rent as per the 1924 Lease Deed. After that, consolidation proceedings took place between 1959-1960 wherein revenue entries remained in favour of Manohar Lal and even compensation was also awarded for a portion of Suit Land which was D acquired by the military authorities in 1963. 6.It was not until 1967 that the State filed a suit for possession of the Suit Land along with the damages before the concerned District Judge. During the pendency of the said suit, UP Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1972 was promulgated and accordingly, E the said suit stood transferred to the Prescribed Authority under the Act. In the interregnum before the final adjudication took place before the Prescribed Authority, it is pertinent to note that Bhumidhari certificates were also issued to the predecessor of Respondents under the applicable tenancy law by depositing the amount which was equal to twenty times the land revenue for the Suit Land. Eventually, the Prescribed Authority F dismissed the suit on 25.03.1975 as being non-maintainable in view of the exclusion clause contained in the UP Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1972 whereby the lands which were held by any class of tenure-holder are exempted from the applicability of the said Act. The State’s appeal against the said before the District G Judge was also dismissed on the grounds of being time-barred and the suit being non-maintainable. The relevant extract of the District Judge’s dated 30.07.1976 is as follows – “There are document on record to show that in 1366 Fasli the Respondent were recorded as Occupancy tenants. H 948 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Similar entries exist on the Khatauni for the year up to 1375 Fasli and in the Khatauni for 1376 Fasli the Respondents are recorded Sirdar. The learned Counsel for the respondents has referred me to section 2(b) which defines the expression “Premises”. There are certain exception mentioned and sub section (ii) is in respect of land by a B tenure holder under the U.P. Tenancy Act. The land in dispute has to be excluded from the expression “Premises” and the prescribed authority was justified in holding so.