In this context, it is to be noted that the prosecution case would suggest that the house of PW-8 is a hub of ganja smokers. But then, PW-8 stoutly denied of any kind of involvement with ganja business. Hence, the question is why it still attracts and allures persons? If the prosecution case is to be believed then what made all those persons viz., the deceased, the accused/convicts F and PW-10, visit the house of PW-8 at that time? Obviously, there is no indicatory material on that count. It is to be noted that it is not the case of the prosecution that the accused persons, including the appellants, reached there on coming to the know about the presence of the deceased. Going by the case of the prosecution the deceased reached the home of G PW-8 on his Luna Moped along with his friend and he went inside after leaving the friend near the parked vehicle. PW-8 did not say that he had friendship with the deceased and he deposed only to the effect that he knew the deceased and the deceased on occupying a seat asked for a glass of water. Soon, thereafter, Raju Pande and the three others with whom he had only nodding acquaintances came to his house. PW-8 H 680 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A would further depose that thereupon Raju Pande hurled abuse on the deceased and then the deceased pleaded that he did no wrong. As noted earlier, it has come out in evidence that the act of hurling of abuse by Raju Pande on the deceased was not recorded in the previous statement of PW-8 recorded under Section 161, Cr.P.C. Above all, PW-8 in his testimony before the court did not depose anything even to suggest that B hurling of abuse by Raju Pande was because of the assault on his brother by the deceased and his friend Parag Sukhdeve. Then, how and for what reason this incident was alleged as the motive for the murder of the deceased Rahul? Who introduced this story as part of the prosecution case before the court. Certainly, it cannot be said that it was PW-10 C who spoke to that effect as his testimony would reveal he had not even spoken about the presence of the deceased at the house of PW-8 when the accused/convicts were seen there. 27. Another aspect revealed from the evidence on record is that as per PW-10 when he entered the house of PW-8 after 04:00 p.m. on D the day of occurrence, Raju Pande and the others were present there and Raju Pande asked him about a pregnant girl who was residing behind the house of PW-8. According to PW-10, Raju Pande asked the same to PW-8 as well and both of them revealed their lack of knowledge about such a girl and then Raju Pande asked PW-10 to leave the place and thereupon he left the place. It would suggest, if it was true that he reached E there along with others ahead of the deceased, in search of such a girl lest why he got infuriated/dejected over it and asked PW-10 to leave the place.