The Cabinet had still to function under the Constitution Act 14 of 1996 (1939) and whatever policies it pursued, it had to act under the overriding powers of His Highness. It is thus clear that until the Maharaja issued his proclamation on June 20, 1949, 102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. all his powers legislative, executive and judicial as well as his right and prerogative vested in him as before. That is why the argument that Maharaja Hari Singh had surrendered his sovereign powers in favour of the Praja Sabha and the popular interim Government, thereby accepting the status of a constitutional monarch cannot be upheld.” After analysing the provisions of Article 370, the Court observed: “38. On the said construction the question which falls to be determined is: Do the provisions of Article 370(1) aff ect the plenary powers of the Maharaja in the matter of the governance of the State? The eff ect of the application of the present article has to be judged in the light of its object and its terms considered in the context of the special features of the constitutional relationship between the State and India. The Constitution-makers were obviously anxious that the said relationship should be fi nally determined by the Constituent Assembly of the State itself; that is the main basis for, and purport of, the temporary provisions made by the present article; and so the eff ect of its provisions must be confi ned to its subject-matter. It would not be permissible or legitimate to hold that, by implication, this article sought to impose limitations on the plenary legislative powers of the Maharaja. These powers had been recognised and specifi cally provided by the Constitution Act of the State itself; and it was not, and could not have been, within the contemplation, or competence of the Constitution-makers to impinge even indirectly on the said powers. It would be recalled that by the Instrument of Accession these powers have been expressly recognised and preserved and neither the subsequent proclamation issued by Yuvaraj Karan Singh adopting, as far as it was applicable, the proposed Constitution of India, nor the Constitution subsequently issued by the President, purported to impose any limitations on the said legislative powers of the Ruler. What form of Government the State should adopt was a matter which had to be, and naturally was left to be, decided by the Constituent Assembly of the State. Until the Constituent Assembly reached its decision in that behalf, the constitutional relationship between the State and India continued to be governed basically by the Instrument of Accession. It would therefore be unreasonable to IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 103 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] assume that the application of Article 370 could have aff ected, or was intended to aff ect, the plenary powers of the Maharaja in the matter of the governance of the State. In our opinion, the appellant’s contention based on this article must therefore be rejected.” (emphasis supplied) 170.