10,000 Seven and half percent of such market value. Provided that if the total amount of the duty payable is not a multiple of fi fty paisa it shall be rounded off to the nearest rupee half of a rupee or over being counted as one rupee and less than half a rupee being disregarded.” 3 The Central Provinces and Berar Indian Stamp (Amendment) Act, 1939 VIJAY v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 301 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 16. Article 23 was substituted vide M.P. Amendment Act No. 19 of 19894 and stood as: Seven and half percent of such market value: “Article 23. Conveyance, not being a transfer charged Provided that if the total amount of the or exempted under No.62 duty payable is not a multiple of fi fty irrespective of the market value paise, nearest rupee half of a rupee of the property which is the or over being counted as one rupee subject matter of conveyance and less than half of a rupee being disregarded. Exemptions ×××” 17. Further, an Explanation was inserted into this Article vide M.P. Amendment Act No. 22 of 19905, “Explanation.-For the purpose of this Article, where in the case of agreement to sell immovable property, the possession of any immovable property is transferred to the purchaser before execution or after execution of such agreement without executing the conveyance in respect thereof, then such agreement to sell shall be deemed to be a conveyance and stamp duty thereon shall be levied accordingly: xxx” 18. The sub-issue that the Court is confronting is whether an agreement to sell, handing over possession prior to the amendment brought in the year 1989 or 1990, is a conveyance so as to be covered under Article 23 as existing on the date of execution of the agreement(s). On this aspect we may only observe that the causal amendment was brought in only in 1990, i.e., prior to the transaction in question. And a three-judge Bench of this Court in Suraj Lamp and Industries Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Haryana6 in considering the scope of an agreement to sell observed thus: 4 The Indian Stamp (Madhya Pradesh Amendment) Act, 1989 5 The Indian Stamp (Madhya Pradesh Second Amendment) Act, 1990 6 (2012) 1 SCC 656 302 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. “18. It is thus clear that a transfer of immovable property by way of sale can only be by a deed of conveyance (sale deed). In the absence of a deed of conveyance (duly stamped and registered as required by law), no right, title, or interest in an immovable property can be transferred. 19. Any contract of sale (agreement to sell) which is not a registered deed of conveyance (deed of sale) would fall short of the requirements of Sections 54 and 55 of the T.P. Act and will not confer any title nor transfer any interest in an immovable property (except to the limited right granted under Section 53-A of the T.P. Act). According to the T.P.