Thus, the first point for determination was answered in the affirmative while holding that the plaintiffs had locus to maintain the suit as framed. D 12.2. After taking note of the rival submissions and after having surveyed through the byelaws of the party, the learned Single Judge recorded his conclusion on the second point for determination in the following terms: - “75. To put it in a nutshell: - E (i). The General Council meeting dated 11/07/2022 was not convened by person competent to convene the General Council meeting. (ii). The said meeting was not convened providing 15 days advance notice. F (iii). The contention that the post of Co-ordinator and Joint Co- ordinator lapsed after 23.06.2022 is borne out of imagination. The reason to claim these post fall vacant after 23/06/2022 is baseless. Invented to suit the convenience and cover up the violation of the Party Constitution. G (iv). Rule-20(A)(vii) of the Party Constitution is a provision which deals with exigencies when the post of Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator becomes vacant before the expiry of the nominated Central Executive Committee office bearers tenure. This provision will no way give right to the temporary Presidium H Chairman to convene the General Council Meeting. THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1143 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] (v). The Sub-Rule(viii) of Rule 20-A vest with the Co-ordinator A and the Joint Co-ordinator, the powers and responsibility to convene the Executive Committee and General Council Meeting, to implement policies and programmes of a Party and to conduct Elections and bye-Elections for the party organ. In case, if they refuse to convene the meeting, the General Council members B should resort to the 2nd limb of Rule 19(vii) of the Party Constitution. If a valid request is made by 1/5th of the total members, the Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator are bound to convene the meeting within 30 days of the Notice. The date of the meeting should be informed in writing, 15 days in advance. Thus, the General Council Meeting dated 11.07.2022 not convened C by person authorised, also suffers short of 15 days notice in advance.” 12.3. Thereafter, the learned Single Judge dealt with the question of primafacie case and balance of convenience and held as under: - D “76. The final submission made by the Learned Senior Counsel for the respondents/defendants is that the balance of convenience is in favour of the respondents, who commands the support of more than 95% of the General Council Members, who were elected by the primary members. Which, in other words means that, more than 95% of the primary members are behind Thiru.Edappadi E K.Palaniswami, who has now been elected as temporary General Secretary of the Party in the General Council meeting held on 11.07.2022. In that meeting, it is resolved to conduct the General Secretary Election and Election Officer already nominated for the said purpose. However, in view of the interim of the F Hon’ble Supreme Court, which has directed parties to maintain status quo, the election process for the post of General Secretary not proceeded any further.