E (114) It is difficult, in fact, to describe the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Power as the Governmental authority which is the final authority under the law. The final authority under the law would be the authority under the Customs Act which issues the exemption notification. But we would not wish to rest our findings on the said basis as we feel that the objection of the procurers can rest on surer foundations. The F first respondent also relies upon no doubt, the notification dated 26.05.2006 wherein it is indicated as follows: “Notification No.49/2006-Customs In exercise of the poowers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 25 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), the Central Government, G on being satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest to do so, hereby makes the following further amendments in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of finance (Department of Revenue) No.21/2002- Customs, dated the 1st March, 2002, which was published in the Gazette of India, H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 73 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Extraordinary vide number G.S.R. 118(E), dated the 1st March, A 2002, namely:- (I) in the Table, against S.No.400, for the entry in column (3), the following entry shall be substituted,namely:- “Goods required for setting up of any Mega Power Project, so B certified by an officer not below the rank of Joint Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Power, that is to say- (a) an inter-state thermal power plant of a capacit of 700MW or more, located in the States of Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, C Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura,or (b) an inter-state thermal power plant of a capacity of 1000MW or more, located in States other than those specified in clause(a) above; or D (c) an inter-state hydel power plant of a capacity of 350MW or more, located in the States of Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura,or (d) an inter-state hydel power plant of a capacity of 500MW E or more, located in States other than those specified in Clause (C) above”, (II) in the Annexure, in Condition No.86, for sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) of clause(A), the following shall be substituted, namely:- “(ii) the power purchasing State undertakes, in principle, F privatize distribution in all cities, in that State, each of which has a population of more than one million, within a period to be fixed by the Ministry of Power.” (115) The Tribunal has, in fact, proceeded on the basis that the goods in question would fall under Entry 400 relating to power projects G and therefore, they were exempted. The Tribunal proceeded further on the basis that the notification dated 17.06.2011 issued by the Joint Secretary amounted to an interpretation which constitutes a change in law. (116) We are of the view that the approach of the Tribunal cannot be upheld. There is no material, whatsoever, apart from the notifications H 74 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.