He argued that the Transgender Persons Act is a broad-based legislation which includes all persons of the queer community within its ambit. This argument does not hold any water. The legislation applies only to persons with a genderqueer or transgender identity and not to persons whose sexual orientation is not heterosexual. This is evident from the defi nition of a transgender person as: “…a person whose gender does not match with the gender assigned to that person at birth and includes trans-man or trans-woman (whether or not such person has undergone Sex Reassignment Surgery or hormone therapy or laser therapy or such other therapy), person with intersex variations, genderqueer and person having such socio-cultural identities as kinner, hijra, aravani and jogta.”232 From the defi nition, it is clear that the enactment applies to persons whose gender does not match with that assigned to them at birth, which includes: 227 Chapter III 228 Chapter IV 229 Section 12 230 Chapter VI 231 Chapter VII 232 Section 2(k), Transgender Persons Act SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1377 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] a. Transgender men and women; b. Intersex persons; c. Other genderqueer persons; and d. Persons with socio-cultural identities such as hijras. The word ‘genderqueer’ in Section 2(k) does not refer to sexual orientation but to gender identity. As discussed in the preceding paragraphs, gender identity is not the same as sexual orientation. The term ‘transgender’ is not commonly understood as referring to persons with a sexual orientation other than heterosexual, nor does the Transgender Persons Act use the word ‘transgender’ to include persons of a diff erent sexuality. The Union of India’s argument that the Transgender Persons Act applies to all queer persons including persons who are homosexual, bisexual etc. cannot be accepted. This legislation is clearly applicable only to those people with a gender identity that does not match the one assigned at birth. 262. It is incorrect to state that transgender persons do not face any stigma or discrimination post-2020, when the Transgender Persons Act came into force. Enacting a statute does not have the same eff ect as waving a magic wand. For instance, the prohibition against discrimination has not resulted in society abstaining from discrimination overnight. The ground reality is that society continues to discriminate against transgender persons in various ways. Consistent respect for the rights of transgender persons may someday ensure that they are treated as equals (as is their right) but that day is yet to arrive. Hence, the contention of the Union of India that transgender people are no longer stigmatized in view of the enactment of the Transgender Persons Act cannot be accepted. Since the legislation does not apply to homosexual persons or persons of other sexual orientations, there is no question of such persons being free from discrimination or violence as a result of its enactment. 263. Pursuant to the decision in NALSA (supra), Parliament enacted the Transgender Persons Act which aims to give substance to the rights recognized by this Court in its .