This provision being a definition clause merely defines various activities which could be termed as a business.Section 2(13) of the Act C gives a broad definition to ‘business’. Section 28 of the Act comes under the heading ‘Profits and Gains of Business or Profession’.Various types of income enumerated thereunder are made chargeable to income tax. The income, as referred in Section 28 of the Act, has to be computed in the manner as prescribed under Section 30 to 43D of the Act, which is D accordingly provided under Section 29 of the Act. Section 37: “37 General.- (1) Any expenditure (not being expenditure of the nature described in sections 30 to 36 and not being in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the E assessee), laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business or profession shall be allowed in computing the income chargeable under the head “Profits and gains of business or profession”. [Explanation 1. ]—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby F declared that any expenditure incurred by an assessee for any purpose which is an offence or which is prohibited by law shall not be deemed to have been incurred for the purpose of business or profession and no deduction or allowance shall be made in respect of such expenditure.” 8. Section 37 of the Act, being one of the provisions meant for G computing income from profits or gains of business or profession, is a residuary and omnibus provision which intends to cover all expenditure to the exclusion of those mentioned under Section 30 to 36 of the Act, apart from being in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee. Therefore, the object behind this provision is very clear H as it includes ‘any expenditure’. The second mandate of this provision is THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 103 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] that the expenditure will have to be laid out or expendedwholly and A exclusively for the purpose of the business or profession to come into the fold of income chargeable to tax as profit and gains of business or profession. 9. An ambiguity arose as to whether a business, as defined under Section 2(13) of the Act, and as dealt with under Section 37 of the Act, B would include a deduction when the said expenditure is incurred for any purpose which is an offence or prohibited by law. 10. Since an anomaly has been created by the interpretation of the parimateria provision under the Income Tax Act, 1922 (hereinafter referred to as “the Old Act”), viz. Section 10(1) and (2), therefore, C Explanation-I to Section 37 of the Act came into the statute book with retrospective effect from 01.04.1962 through the Finance (No.2) Act 1998, (Act 21 of 1998). 11. The purpose of theinsertion of the aforesaid Explanation was explained by the Central Board of Direct Taxes Circular No. 772 dated 23.12.1998, D “Disallowance of illegal expenses 20.1 Section 37 of the Income-tax Act is amended to provide that any expenditure incurred by an assessee for any purpose which is an offence or which is prohibited by law shall not be deemed to E have been incurred for the purposes of business or profession and no deduction or allowance shall be made in respect of such ex-penditure.