In several proceedings before the High Court, such as (i) petitions for further investigation; (ii) writ petitions; and (iii) quash G petitions, some of the documents whose certified copies were sought by the ED were already annexed. All that the ED wanted was authenticated copies of those documents and nothing more. 111. In fact, the FIRs as well as Final Reports are now uploaded in the websites of the Police Department in some of the States. In the H 1092 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A State of Tamil Nadu, Police started uploading FIRs online, way back in 2016. In all Police Stations, a Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems, popularly known as ‘CCTNS’ is installed. Therefore, the information relating to FIRs is in the public domain. 112. Once an information relating to the acquisition of huge B amount of illegal gratification in the matter of public employment has come into the public domain, it is the duty of the ED to register an Information Report. This is because “acquisition” is an activity amounting to money-laundering and the illegal gratification acquiredby a public servant represents “proceeds of crime,” generated through a criminal activity in respect of a scheduled offence. Therefore, it does C not require any expedition, much less a fishing expedition for someone to say that the receipt of bribe money is an act of money- laundering. 113. The contention of Shri Sidharth Luthra that there was no explanation for the delay on the part of the ED in registering the D Information Report, is a self-serving argument. If the ED registers an Information Report immediately upon the registration of a FIR for a predicate offence, ED will be accused of acting in haste. If they wait until the drama unfolds up to a particular stage, ED will be attacked as guilty of delay. The accused should be thankful to E ED for giving a long rope from 2016 till 2021. 114. Therefore, all the arguments on facts and all the legal contentions emanating from some portions of the in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary, to challenge the validity of the proceedings initiated by ED are completely unsustainable. F Question No. 2: Whether in the light of the fact that notice has been ed in the review petition and a few interim s have been passed in some proceedings, it is necessary for this Court to tag these appeals along with a review petition or defer the hearing of these matters until a decision is rendered in the review petition and other petitions? G 115. Now let us come to the contention revolving around the correctness of some portions of the decision in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary. 116. First of all, we should point out that a notice ed in the H review petition being Review Petition (Crl.) No.219 of 2022, will not Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1093 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] destroy or diminish the precedential value of Vijay Madanlal A Choudhary. The argument of the learned counsel for the accused, if accepted, will not only destroy the principles of judicial discipline and the doctrine of stare decisis, but also bring to a grinding halt, all pending investigation in the country.