Therefore, sub-rule (5) provides for the examination of the applicant and his parents. For verification of social status as contemplated by sub- B rule (4) of Rule 12 of the ST Rules, in a given case, affinity test can be resorted to by the Vigilance Cell. WHETHER CASTE SCRUTINY COMMITTEE PERFORMS QUASI-JUDICIAL FUNCTION 27. Before we go into the decisions in the cases of Vijakumar3and C Anand4, we need to deal with an argument made by one of the interveners that the Scrutiny Committee is not a quasi-judicial authority. The said submission is based on a decision of coordinate Bench of this Court in the case of Dayaram9. In paragraph 35, the decision in the case of Dayaram9 holds thus: D “35. The Scrutiny Committee is not an adjudicating authority like a court or tribunal, but an administrative body which verifies the facts, investigates into a specific claim (of caste status) and ascertains whether the caste/tribal status claimed is correct or not. Like any other decisions of administrative authorities, the E s of the Scrutiny Committee are also open to challenge in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution. Permitting civil suits with provisions for appeals and further appeals would defeat the very scheme and will encourage the very evils which this Court wanted to eradicate. As this Court found that a large number of seats or posts reserved for the Scheduled Castes F and Scheduled Tribes were being taken away by bogus candidates claiming to belong to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, this Court directed the constitution of such Scrutiny Committees, to provide an expeditious, effective and efficacious remedy, in the absence of any statute or a legal framework for proper verification of false G claims regarding SCs/STs status. This entire scheme in Madhuri Patil [(1994) 6 SCC 241 : 1994 SCC (L&S) 1349 : (1994) 28 ATC 259] will only continue till the legislature concerned makes an appropriate legislation in regard to verification of claims for caste status as SC/ST and issue of H 1128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A caste certificates, or in regard to verification of caste certificates already obtained by candidates who seek the benefit of reservation, relying upon such caste certificates.” (emphasis added) 28. We must note here that this Court was dealing in the said B decision with a case arising from the State of Madhya Pradesh where there was no statute in existence which covered the field occupied by Kumari Madhuri Patil’s case1. Therefore, the observations made in the said decision are in the context of powers of the Scrutiny Committee ed to be created under the decision in the case of Kumari Madhuri C Patil1. In the cases of Dayaram9and Jay Chitra10, this Court has not dealt with the 2000 Act or a similar enactment applicable to any other State. On a conjoint reading of the 2000 Act as well as ST and SC Rules framed thereunder, it is impossible to conclude that the Scrutiny Committee discharges only administrative functions.