followed it, would preclude enquiry into whether any DTAA or international instrument was in fact assimilated in municipal law under Section 90 or any like provision. 14. Learned counsel highlighted that in the case of Nestle in fact, a plain and straightforward review of the fi rst and second protocols (of the India- Switzerland DTAA) demonstrates that without notifi cation in accordance with Indian law, they could not have applied which was in fact, the occasion for the notifi cations dated 07.02.2001 and 27.02.2001 respectively. Counsel particularly highlighted the concerned provision, i.e. Section 90 (1) of the Act. 15. The learned ASG cited Ram Jethmalani v. Union of India11, referring to the General Rule on Interpretation of Vienna Convention on Law of Treaties, 1961 (hereafter “VCLT”), stated that though India is not a party to the VCLT, the convention contains many principles of customary international law and the principle of interpretation in Article 31 provides a broad guideline as to what should be an appropriate manner of interpreting a treaty in the Indian context as well. This court also observed that the broad principle of interpretation, with respect to treaties, and provisions therein, would be that ordinary meaning of words be given eff ect to, unless the context requires otherwise. That such treaties are drafted by diplomats, and not lawyers, also implies that care has to be taken to not render any word, phrase, or sentence redundant, especially where rendering of such word, phrase, or sentence redundant would lead to a manifestly absurd situation, particularly from a constitutional perspective. This principle of interpretation was applied by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of Sanofi Pasteur Holding SA v. Department of Revenue12. 16. It was argued thus, that a treaty should be interpreted ordinarily, and the ordinary meaning of the words be given eff ect to apart from ensuring that the interpretation should not render any word, phrase, or sentence redundant. The grammatical and literal meaning of the India- Netherlands MFN clause reveals that the benefi t of reduced rate mentioned therein would be available only in case of such subsequent Indian treaties 11 [2011] 339 ITR 107 (SC) 12 [2013] ITR 354 (AP HC) 115 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. wherein the other State is an OECD member as on the date of the treaty entering into force. Any other interpretation would render the words “then as from the date on which the relevant Indian Convention or Agreement enters into force” redundant or otiose, which is not permissible as per the above cited decisions of this court. 17. Responding to the linguistic interpretation of “is” by the impugned s, it is urged that the assessees had cited Article 10 and other Articles of the DTAAs to advance a view that “is” signifi es the time when the provisions of treaty are to be applied. They have also relied on dynamic interpretation of Article 3(2) which allows taking into account the defi nition in domestic law when a particular term is not defi ned in the DTAA.