F The House of Lords in this case gave precedence to form over substance while assessing a public interest immunity claim for non-disclosure. Lord Simon framed two issues: (i) the form in which an objection to disclosure has to be made; and (ii) if the objection is made in a proper form, whether the court ought to treat the objection as conclusive without scrutiny. The G Law Lord held that the claim for non-disclosure must be allowed if the form of the objection is valid, and the interests of a private citizen may have to be subsumed by public interest. Consequently, courts cannot examine the documents while determining the validity of the claim because it would violate the ‘first principle of justice that the Judge should H 94 [1942] AC 624 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 685 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] have no dealings on the matter in hand with one of the litigants save in A the presence of and to the equal knowledge of the other.’ Thus, the House of Lords did not frame the issue as a conflict between conceptions of public interest but that of private interest and public interest. The House of Lords established two principles for the application of public interest immunity: that the interest of a litigant must give way to the B secrecy of the government, and the Minister has the sole power to decide if the document ought to be withheld. 123. The House of Lords altered its approach in Conway v. Rimmer95. Lord Reid observed that that impact of non-disclosure must not be viewed through the narrow lens of private interest and it is public C interest in the administration of justice that is injured due to non-disclosure of documents. The House of Lords established three principles of seminal importance. Firstly, the power to decide if evidence has to be withheld from the court resides with the court and not the executive. Secondly, the court while exercising this power must balance the potential harm to the public interest due to disclosure with the court’s inability to administer D justice. The Court while determining the later harm must assess the effect of non-disclosure on ascertaining the ‘true facts’ and on the wider principle of public confidence in the court system. Thirdly, the court is entitled to inspect, in private, the material on which immunity is claimed. On scrutinising the material, the court has to determine if non-disclosure E is necessary due to public interest, and not merely advantageous to the functioning of public service. Lord Hudson held that the Court in its scrutiny must discard the generalities of classes and must weigh the injuries to the public ‘of a denial of justice on the one side and, on the other, a revelation of governmental documents which were never intended to be made public and which might be inhibited by an unlikely possibility F of disclosure.’ The conflict of the claims of public interest must be determined based on the importance of the documents sought to be withheld in the case before the court (a question of outcome), and whether the non-disclosure would result in a ‘complete’ or ‘partial’ denial of justice (a question of process and outcome).