22. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondents, while supporting the finding returned by the High Court under the impugned submits that their fate of appointment has always been dependent upon elected Government in power. One Government came G with a scheme to provide employment the successive Government has disbanded the policy introduced by its predecessors which appears to be only for political reasons. 1 2022(5) SCC 394 H 400 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 23. The consistent policy which has come on record is in itself an indicator to show that as and when decision was taken to abandon or abolish the scheme, it was only for political reasons and not based on any substantial or valid reason on record. In the given facts and circumstances, the decision of the High Court in setting aside the dated 8th November, 2011 was valid and justified and such impugned B action of Government was indeed in violation of Articles 14, 16 and 21 of the Constitution of India and rightly interfered by the High Court under the impugned . 24. Learned counsel further submits that there are consistent s of this Court where the employees have been allowed to C continue for sufficient long time without the intervention of the Court. This Court always comes forward to regularize such employees who hadworked uninterruptedly for sufficient long time and that can be traced out from the of this Court in the case of Secretary, State of Karnataka and Others Vs. Umadevi(3) and Others2 which has been D later followed by this Court in Nihal Singh and Others Vs. State of Punjaband Others3and further reiterated by this Court in Malathi Das (Retired) now P.B. Mahishy and Others Vs. Suresh and Others4. Taking assistance from the s of this Court, learned counsel submits that the High Court has rightly, in the given facts and circumstances, set aside the dated 8th November, 2011 and in E consequence thereof, such of the employees who discontinued because of the policy being disbanded/cancelled by the Government by dated 8th November, 2011 in sequel deserve to be regularized either on the post of MNP or any other post subject to availability. The High Court was conscious of this fact that there are numerous number of posts F where the respondent employees are eligible and they can easily be absorbed and thus, to protect their services which they have rendered for sufficient long time, they have rightly been considered for regularization. The finding which was recorded in the first place by the learned Single Judge and confirmed on legal principles by the Division Bench of the High Court, at least at this stage, needs no interference. G 25. Learned counsel further submits that during the interregnum period between June, 2009 and November, 2011 until the impugned 2 2006(4) SCC 1 3 2013(14) SCC 65 H 4 2014(13) SCC 249 THE GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU v. TAMIL NADU 401 MAKKAL NALA PANIYALARGAL [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] came to be passed, the Government earlier came up with a scheme that A such of the employees who are serving as MNPs may be absorbed into a regular post of Record Clerk/Office Assistant/ Night watchman or any other equal cadre post against 50% of regular vacancies and by an dated 1st June, 2009 approximately 600 MNPs were absorbed on various posts and since this has been discontinued/disbanded by B successive Government by dated 8th November, 2011, the respondents who were in queue and waiting for their absorption were deprived of their legitimate right of fair consideration and no reason was assigned by the Government while passing the dated 8th November, 2011 and merely because there was a change of guards, that in itself would not be a ground to abandon the scheme which was in vogue for a C long time.