Where the execution of the sentence is stayed, the conviction continues to operate. But where the conviction itself is stayed, the eff ect is that the conviction will not be operative from the date of stay. An of stay, of course, does not render the conviction non-existent, but only non-operative. Be that as it may. Insofar as the present case is concerned, an application was fi led specifi cally seeking stay of the of conviction specifying the consequences if conviction was not stayed, that is, the appellant would incur disqualifi cation to contest the election. The High Court after considering the special reason, granted the staying the conviction. As the conviction itself is stayed in contrast to a stay of execution of the sentence, it is not possible to accept the contention of the respondent that the disqualifi cation arising out of conviction continues to operate even after stay of conviction. *** 16.5. All these decisions, while recognising the power to stay conviction, have cautioned and clarifi ed that such power should be exercised only in exceptional circumstances where failure to stay the conviction, would lead to injustice and irreversible consequences.” (emphasis supplied) Since the appellant was not disqualifi ed to fi le his nomination as well as to contest the election, this Court set aside the impugned and while allowing the appeal. 13. Turning to Rama Narang (supra), a decision rendered by a 3-Judge AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 991 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] Bench of this Court, it is observed that this decision was not formally cited by either of the parties though interpretation of section 389, Cr. PC and the law laid down therein for guiding the courts to suspend execution of the sentence and the appealed against have signifi cant relevance for the purpose of deciding this appeal. There, the appellant (Managing Director of the company in question) was convicted of certain off ences punishable under the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (“IPC”, hereafter) and sentenced to three months’ and two and a half years’ rigorous imprisonment together with fi ne of Rs.5,000/-. The conviction and sentence were challenged by the appellant under section 374(2) of the Cr. PC before the Delhi High Court. While hearing an application under section 389(1) thereof, stay of operation of the impugned was directed and he was granted bail. Despite such conviction resulting in the appellant’s disqualifi cation under section 267 of the Companies Act, 1956 to remain as the Managing Director, he continued to attend Board meetings of the company in question. Resolutions adopted in meetings attended by the appellant were challenged in a Company Petition fi led before the Bombay High Court by the respondent, which was subsequently withdrawn. There were other proceedings between the parties before the Company Law Board, to which reference in detail need not be made. Ultimately a suit came to be instituted before the Bombay High Court by the appellant and others and a learned single Judge granted interim relief which enabled the appellant to continue as the Managing Director.