He filed a representation H CALCUTTA STATE TRANSPORT CORPORATION 207 v. ASHIT CHAKRABORTY [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] on 8.5.2018. No action was taken thereon. Hence, he filed writ petition A before the High Court. 8. Initially the stand taken before the Single Judge was that the respondent no.1 had not submitted his option within the stipulated time. However, on perusal of the various documents produced before the Court, it was found that the respondent no.1 had submitted his option way back B in the year 1991 immediately after the 1990 Regulations were notified. The claim of the respondent no.1 was sought to be defeated on the ground that even after exercising the option, contribution was being deducted from his salary in terms of the membership in the CPF scheme to which he never objected. Further, the plea was sought to be raised C that there are large number of similarly situated employees who will raise this claim. 9. However, the aforesaid arguments were not found to be meritorious, hence rejected by the High Court. It was found that the Corporation was at fault in not acting upon the option exercised by the D respondent no.1. Finally, direction was given to the respondent no.1 to refund the employer share of provident fund as well as the amount of gratuity paid in excess to the Corporation along with interest @ 6% per annum within two weeks. On receipt of the amount, the Corporation was directed to release the pension within two weeks from August 2018 onwards. As far as arrears of pension from August 2017 to July 2018 E was concerned, direction was given to liquidate the same in three equal monthly instalments from September 15, 2018 onwards. The arrears were also to carry interest @ 6% per annum. The amount was to be transferred in the bank account of respondent no.1. Despite the legally sustainable and equitable passed by the learned Single Judge, the F Corporation filed intra-court appeal. Vide dated 25.6.2019, the Division Bench stayed the operation of the passed by the learned Single Judge. On consideration of the application filed by the respondent no.1 for vacation of the interim stay, the appeal itself was heard and decided finally vide impugned . The only argument raised before the Division Bench was regarding waiver. However, the same was not G accepted. This principle could be applied in case there was conscious abandonment of existing legal right. 10. We do not find any merit in the same argument raised by the counsel for the appellant as was rejected by the High Court, namely, the waiver of the right to receive pension by the respondent no.1. There H 208 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A was no conscious abandonment of right to receive pension by the respondent no.1 to deprive him of his pension. Reference can be made to of this Court in Kalpraj Dharamshi and Another v. Kotak Investment Advisors Limited and Another1. Relevant para 119 thereof is extracted below:- B “119.