1 to the Adjudicating Authority for approval under Section 31 of the IBC on 08.09.2020. We may note that the Corporate Debtor is not a party before us. However, the Resolution Professional has been arrayed as respondent no.1, while respondent no.2 is the successful resolution applicant. Respondent no.2 was impleaded in the present civil appeal by this Court’s dated 29.10.2021. 5. The appellant sent an email on 19.08.2020 to respondent no.1 highlighting their pending claim of Rs.35,67,05,337 against the Corporate Debtor arising from the arbitral award dated 01.08.2016, confi rmed with certain modifi cations in the proceedings under Section 34 of the said Act. However, respondent no.1 rejected this claim on 25.08.2020 on the ground that the time period for submitting the claim was within 90 days of initiation of CIRP and the applicant was 287 days late. A Resolution plan had already been passed by the COC. 6. The appellant fi led an application under Section 60(5) of the IBC. During the pendency of respondent’s no. 1 application for approval of the plan before the Adjudicating Authority, seeking directions to respondent no.1 that the appellant’s claim may be considered on merits. This relief was granted to the appellant by the Adjudicating Authority vide an dated 03.11.2020 predicated on the following grounds: (a) respondent no.1 could not have summarily rejected appellant’s claim, as this claim would have appeared in the Corporate Debtor’s books of accounts; (b) in case such 154 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. books of accounts were not available, respondent No. 1 had a duty to obtain them and verify the fi nancial position; and (c) as such announcement was made through public newspapers, it was likely that the appellant missed out on the same. 7. Respondent No. 1 thereafter preferred an appeal under Section 61 of the IBC before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi (‘NCLAT’) against the Adjudicating Authority’s . 8. The challenge by the respondent no.1 before the NCLAT was primarily based on the potential consequences of allowing such a belated claim when the COC had already approved the Resolution Plan. The appellant having made the claim more than a year after the invitation of claims by the public notice dated 30.03.2019; it was urged that allowing such claims would set the clock back on the CIRP and set a precedent, thereby making CIRP prolonged and ineffi cacious. In support of this plea, reliance was placed on the in Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Limited through Authorised Signatory v. Satish Kumar Gupta and Ors1. , where this Court opined that a successful resolution applicant cannot be faced with undecided claims after the resolution plan has been accepted. This Court observed: “...A successful resolution applicant cannot suddenly be faced with “undecided” claims after the resolution plan submitted by him has been accepted as this would amount to a hydra head popping up which would throw into uncertainty amounts payable by a prospective resolution applicant who would successfully take over the business of the corporate debtor.