A Malabar Industrial Co. Ltd. Vs. CIT [(2000) 2 SCC 718 : (2000) 243 ITR 83 (SC)] concluded that the Commissioner wrongly invoked the jurisdiction under Section 263 of the IT Act. The ITAT also observed that there was no error on facts declared. The ITAT held that every loss of revenue as a consequence of AO’s cannot be treated as prejudicial to the interest of the revenue, when two views were possible B and AO took a view which CIT did not agree with. The ITAT also upheld the allowability of the assessee’s claim of deduction of payment made to the shareholders relying upon the decision of the Bombay High Court in CIT Vs. Smt. Shakuntala Kantilal [(1991) 190 ITR 56 (Bombay)]. The ITAT relying on the Tribunal’s (Bombay Bench) C in Chemosyn Ltd. Vs. ACIT [2012 (25) Taxxman.com 325 (Bombay)] held that the CIT’s observation of expenditure incurred for payment of shareholders not being deductible as incorrect. 3.5 The Department’s appeal against the ITAT’s has been dismissed by the High Court by the impugned and wherein D the High Court has confirmed the ITAT’s findings. The High Court agreed with the findings recorded by the ITAT that the claim for deduction of Rs.31.05 Crores was for ending the litigation and the litigation ended only when the building was sold and the payment was made as per the direction of the Company Law Board as well as the interim arbitral award and therefore, the same was deductible under Section 55(1)(b) E of the IT Act, as allowed by the AO. 3.6 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and passed by the High Court dismissing the appeal preferred by the Revenue and confirming the passed by the ITAT by which the ITAT set aside the passed by the Commissioner passed under F Section 263 of the IT Act, the Revenue has filed the present appeal. 4. Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG appearing on behalf of the Revenue has vehemently submitted that the High Court has materially erred in dismissing the appeal preferred by the Revenue and confirming the passed by the ITAT by which the ITAT set aside the G passed by the Commissioner passed in exercise of powers under Section 263 of the IT Act. 4.1 It is submitted that the High Court has not at all appreciated the fact that the view taken by the AO in allowing the expenses of Rs.31.05 Crores while computing the capital gain from sale of the land H was erroneous and not as per the law as payments made to shareholders COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX 7 v. M/S PAVILLE 315 PROJECTS PVT. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] are neither expenses nor the said payments have any relation to the A asset under consideration. It is further submitted that the High Court has also not properly appreciated that the claim of the assessee that amount of Rs.31.05 Crores paid by it in lieu of settlement of litigation would amount to discharge of encumbrances and therefore, requires to be considered as cost of improvement on the said property is bad in law.