Even after, F finding as such the High Court interfered with that part of Ext. 128 sale deed and held it as void under sub-section (1) of Section 9 of the ‘Fragmentation Act’ as if a claim by way of counter-claim was made by the second defendant. The High Court, in paragraph 24 of the impugned held thus:- G “24. …However, the sale or transfer of one acre of land out of Survey No. 20/2 by the registered sale-deed at Exhibit 128 is the sale of fragment, which is hit by Section 8 of the said Act, and such sale becomes, therefore, void under sub-section (1) of the Section 9 therein. The second portion of the substantial question of law at Serial No. [2] is answered H DAMODHAR NARAYAN SAWALE (D) THROUGH LRS. v. SHRI 197 TEJRAO BAJIRAO MHASKE & ORS. [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] accordingly. The plaintiff cannot, therefore, seek possession A on the basis of such sale-deed. 30. Thus, a careful scanning of the impugned would reveal that virtually, the High Court considered the validity of the sale deed dated 04.07.1978 executed by the second defendant in favour of the first defendant under ‘the Fragmentation Act’, without directly framing B an issue precisely on the same and then, decided the validity of the sale deed dated 21.04.1979 executed by the second defendant in favour of the plaintiff. We have already taken note of the decision of this Court in Rohit Singh’s case (supra), wherein it is observed that a defendant could not be permitted to raise counter-claim against co-defendant because C by virtue of VIII Rule 6A, CPC it could be raised by a defendant against the claim of the plaintiff. Be that as it may, in the instant case, no such counter-claim, which can be treated as a plaint in terms of the said provision and thereby, enabling the court to pronounce a final in the same suit, both on the original claim and on the counter-claim, was filed by the second defendant. That apart, indisputably, the second D defendant did not dispute the execution of the registered sale deed dated 04.07.1978 by him in favour of the first defendant and in his written statement the second defendant had only stated that according to the provisions of the Fragmentation Act the plaintiff was not entitled to any relief. When that be so, legally how can the High Court hold the sale E deed dated 04.07.1978 executed by the second defendant in favour of the first defendant, void under the provisions of the Fragmentation Act without precisely framing an issue and then, based on it, going on to consider the validity of Ext. 128 sale deed dated 21.04.1979 executed by the second defendant in favour of the plaintiff, even-after noting the finding of the First Appellate Court that as relates the sale of one acre of F land under Ext.128 sale deed the second defendant did not have any grievance and then, observing, in tune with the same, that the second defendant did not dispute that he sold one acre of land to the plaintiff as per Ext.128 sale deed for the consideration of Rs.