No. 7976 of 2019 (Paschim Anchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited vs. Raman Ispat Private Limited and Others), delivered on 17th July, 2023, submitted that the court in the impugned had failed to consider the waterfall mechanism contained in Section 53, as also failed to consider other provisions of the IBC. They have relied upon the observations made by the co-ordinate Bench in the following paragraph: - “49. Rainbow Papers (supra) did not notice the ‘waterfall mechanism’ under Section 53 – the provision had not been adverted to or extracted in the . Furthermore, Rainbow Papers (supra) was in the context of a resolution process and not during liquidation. Section 236 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 53, as held earlier, enacts the waterfall mechanism providing for the hierarchy or priority of claims of various classes of creditors. The careful design of Section 53 locates amounts payable to secured creditors and workmen at the second place, after the costs and expenses of the liquidator payable during the liquidation proceedings. However, the dues payable to the government are placed much below those of secured creditors and even unsecured and operational creditors. This design was either not brought to the notice of the court in Rainbow Papers (supra) or was missed altogether. In any event, the has not taken note of the provisions of the IBC which treat the dues payable to secured creditors at a higher footing than dues payable to Central or State Government.” 20. Taking recourse to the said observations made by the co-ordinate bench, the learned Counsels for the Review Petitioners have urged to review the impugned . The said submission of the learned Counsels for the review petitioners deserves to be outrightly rejected for the simple reason that any passing reference of the impugned made by the Bench of the equal strength could not be a ground for review. It is well settled proposition of law that a co-ordinate Bench cannot comment upon the discretion exercised or rendered by another co-ordinate Bench of the same strength. If a Bench does not accept as correct the decision on a question of law of another Bench of equal strength, the only proper course to adopt would be to refer the matter to the larger Bench, for authoritative decision, otherwise the law would be thrown into the state of uncertainty by reason of confl icting decisions. 21. In JaiSri Sahu vs. Rajdewan Dubey and Others8, a Bench of four Judges have made very pertinent observations in this regard: - “11. Law will be bereft of all its utility if it should be thrown into a state of uncertainty by reason of confl icting decisions, and it is therefore desirable that in case of diff erence of opinion, the question should be authoritatively settled.” 8 AIR 1962 SC 83 SANJAY KUMAR AGARWAL v. STATE TAX OFFICER (1) & 237 ANR. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] 22. In Mamleshwar Prasad and Another vs. Kanhaiya Lal (Dead) Through L.Rs.ৰ, it was observed that: - “7.