However, the name of Pankaj Bansal does not fi nd mention even in the contents of the FIR. It was the specifi c case of the father and son in their writ petitions before the High Court that their arrest under the provisions of the Act of 2002 was a wanton abuse of power/authority and an abuse of process by the ED, apart from being blatantly illegal and unconstitutional. They also asserted that the ED acted in violation of the safeguards provided in Section 19 of the Act of 2002. In this milieu, they made the following prayers: ‘In view of the facts and circumstances mentioned above, it is, therefore, respectfully prayed that this Hon’ble Court may kindly be pleased to issue appropriate writ(s), (s) and/or direction(s) to:- A. Read Down and/or Read Into as well as expound, deliberate upon and delineate the ambit, sweep and scope of Section 19(1) of PMLA in consonance with the principles, inter alia, enunciated by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in “Vijay Madanlal Choudhary Versus Union of India & Ors. 2022 SCC OnLine SC 929” and hold that: - i. The expression “material in possession” occurring therein must be confined, circumscribed and limited to legally admissible evidence of sterling quality and unimpeachable character on the basis whereof “reasons to believe” could be recorded in writing that the arrestee is “guilty” of the off ence under Section 4 of PMLA; ii. The word “guilt” occurring therein would qualify a higher yardstick than a mere suspicion and the Ld. Court at the stage of remand is required to apply its judicial mind to the grounds as well as necessity for arrest as, inter alia, held in PANKAJ BANSAL v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 723 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] “Arnesh Kumar Versus State of Bihar, (2014) 8 SCC 273” and as accorded imprimatur in “Satender Kumar Antil Versus Central Bureau of Investigation and another 2022 SCC online sc 825”; iii. The expression ‘communicate’ occurring therein would defi nitely entail physical communication and furnishing the grounds of arrest to the arrestee in the context of the obligation for “reason for such belief to be recorded in writing” read with Rules 2(1)(g) & 2(1)(h) of the PMLA Rules 2005 (Arrest Rules) which postulates the meaning of the word “” to include the grounds of such arrest.’ 9. It is, therefore, clear that Pankaj Bansal and Basant Bansal did not assail the constitutional validity of Section 19 of the Act of 2002 but sought ‘reading down’ and/or ‘reading into’ the provisions thereof. Further, they asserted that the remand s were passed in a patently routine and mechanical manner by the learned Vacation Judge/Additional Sessions Judge, Panchkula, without satisfying himself about due compliance with the mandate of Section 19 of the Act of 2002, and more particularly, whether the threshold requirements of the provision were duly satisfi ed. In consequence, they prayed for a direction to quash the remand s as well as the underlying arrest s and arrest memos. 10. Though the appellants did not challenge the constitutional validity of Section 19 of the Act of 2002 in their writ petitions and had only sought ‘reading down’ and/or ‘reading into’ the provisions thereof in the light of the of this Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and others vs. Union of India and others1, the Division Bench of the Punjab & Haryana High Court failed to note this distinction and disallowed their prayer under the mistaken impression that they were challenging the constitutional validity of the provision.