The appellant has further submitted that the regulations imposing a condition that the dues relating to particular premises should be cleared before electricity supply is restored or a new G connection is given to the premises cannot be termed as arbitrary or unreasonable. To reinforce their argument, the appellant has relied upon the observations made by this Court in Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam (supra). 262. On the other hand, the respondent contended that there is no provision under the 2003 Act enabling the distribution licensee to impose H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 757 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] a pre-condition of the clearance of dues relating to the previous owner A or their premises. It has been further argued that Clause 4.1.11 affixing the dues to the premises is contrary to Section 43 of the 2003 Act, which affixes the liability to pay electricity dues and charges on the consumer. The dues relating to the premises would be a financial encumbrance on the property, and as such would be transferred with the sale of the land. B 263. In the instant case, the first part of Clause 4.1.11 provides that an application for electricity supply for any premises need not be entertained unless any dues relating to the premises have been cleared. The said clause indicates that a distribution licensee can withhold connection to the premises unless its dues with respect to the said C premises have been cleared. In our opinion, the High Court has erred in observing that the phrase “any dues relating to that premises” is inconsistent with the provisions of the 2003 Act. The use of the said phrase does not entail that the premises are deemed to be a defaulter and made liable to pay electricity dues, as the High Court suggests. According to Clause 4.1.1 of Electricity Supply Code, it is the applicant D who has to make an application in terms of Annexure A and pay all the required electricity dues and charges, including the electricity arrears of the previous owner relating to the premises. Thus, on the overall reading of the Electricity Supply Code, it becomes evident that dues of the previous consumer relating to that premises are sought to be recouped E from the new owner or occupier of the premises. 264. In the impugned , the High Court referred to the example of a multi-storied residential building to observe that “the licensee may successfully demand that a new purchaser of a different flat whose vendor was not a defaulter, would still be liable to pay F the arrears of a defaulting consumer of another flat of the same on the ground that it is a part of the same premises.” In this context, we have already held that there is a synergy between the consumer and premises. A new owner can only be obligated to pay the electricity arrears of the previous owner with respect to the premises to which electricity connection is being sought.