Contention of learned counsel for the appellant was that in the absence of any light being there PW-1 could not have seen any of the assailants, and later recognised them as being the actual perpetrators of the crime. This contention raised by counsel for the appellant Vijay Kumar is devoid of any merit as PW-1 in his testimony categorically stated that there was suffi cient street light with yellow colour lamps being lit around to see the faces of the assailants. PW-1 also deposed that the accused persons had not covered their faces at the time of occurrence. In his cross-examination he denied the suggestion that it was pitch dark at the spot of occurrence or that he could not have seen any of the assailants. With such clear stand taken by PW-1 that there was 932 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. suffi cient street light to see the faces of the assailants, we fi nd no merit in the said contention raised by counsel for the appellant Vijay. Even otherwise in the scaled site plan proved on record as Exhibit PW-8/A at point C, D and E the position of lights as were existing at the site have been duly shown.” [Emphasis supplied] 73. In para 41 of the impugned , the High Court has discussed about the identity of the accused persons. Para 41 reads thus:- “41. Learned counsel for the appellant laid much emphasis on the contention that the prosecution has utterly failed to prove the involvement of these appellants in the commission of the said crime through any cogent and clinching evidence. As per the counsel for appellant, PW-1 failed to give description of these assailants to the police in his fi rst statement and he could recognise the assailants only at the time of his deposition in court after these assailants were shown to him by the police. Counsel also justifi ed the refusal of the appellants to participate in the Test Identifi cation Parade conducted on 02.09.08 because of they being already shown to PW-1 by the police. This contention raised by counsel for the appellant lacks any merit. There can be no dispute that one of the important task of the investigation is to apprehend the real and actual culprit of the crime. The Investigation which is carried out by the Investigating Offi cer and his team should be judicious, fair, independent, transparent, totally uninfl uenced by any extraneous factors. There should not be undue and undesirable delay in the investigation of any crime as any slackness in the investigation can always prove fatal. The entire pursuit of any criminal trial is to see that no innocent man is punished and no guilty man goes scot free. PW-1, in his very fi rst statement categorically stated that he can recognise all the four assailants if brought before him. While giving his statement in court, he could easily identify all these four assailants who were present in the court. He specifi cally pointed out to the two accused persons who had snatched money from his pocket and the other two who were armed with ice pricks and started attacking him and the deceased Pappu.