The Patna High Court had found that a pamphlet whose central theme was “to bring about a bloody revolution and change completely the present of things”, fell foul of a provision targeting “words or signs or visible representations C which incite, or encourage, or tend to incite to or encourage the commission of any offence of murder or any cognizable offence involving violence.” It is submitted that this Court however found that for rhetoric of the kind used in the pamphlet to be justifiably restricted, the State would have to establish that it was addressed to an excited mob or other such exceptional D circumstance. 7.10 Shri Sanjay Parikh, learned Senior Counsel has also heavily relied upon the observations made in paragraph 45 in the case of S. Rangarajan v. P. Jagjivan Ram and others, (1989) 2 SCC 574, which read as under: E “45. …. There does indeed have to be a compromise between the interest of freedom of expression and special interests. But we cannot simply balance the two interests as if they are of equal weight. Our commitment of freedom of expression demands that it cannot be suppressed unless the situations created by allowing F the freedom are pressing and the community interest is endangered. The anticipated danger should not be remote, conjectural or far- fetched. It should have proximate and direct nexus with the expression. The expression of thought should be intrinsically dangerous to the public interest. In other words, the expression should be inseparably locked up with the action contemplated like G the equivalent of a “spark in a powder keg”. 7.11 It is further submitted that in the case of O.K. Ghosh v. E.X. Joseph, AIR 1963 812, this Court was considering the scope of the term ‘public ’ in Clause (4) of Article 19, that allows for reasonable restrictions on the right to Freedom of Association. It is submitted that H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 529 [M. R. SHAH, J.] this Court held that “the words ‘public ’ occurs even in clause (2), A which refers, inter alia, to security of the State and public . There can be no doubt that the said words must have the same meaning in both clauses (2) and (4).” It is further observed that “…a restriction can be said to be in the interests of public only if the connection between the restriction and the public is proximate and direct. Indirect or B far-fetched or unreal connection between the restriction and public would not fall within the purview of the expression “in the interests of public .” 7.12 It is further submitted that in the case of Balwant Singh v. State of Punjab, (1995) 3 SCC 214, it is observed and held by this C Court that only where the written or spoken words have the tendency or intention of creating public dis or disturbance of law and or affect public tranquility, that the law needs to step in to prevent such an activity.