This seems to be true across the world – the global turn towards democracy has created the conditions for the empowerment of queer people everywhere. Progress has perhaps been inconsistent, non-linear, and at a less than ideal pace but progress there has been. We must recognize the vital role of Indian society in contributing to the evolving social mores. The evolution may at times seem imperceptible, but surely it is. d. Who is an Indian and what practices are Indian? 99. The tenor of the arguments put forth by some of the respondents implied that a union between two persons of the same sex is not Indian. To determine whether this contention is correct, it is necessary to query when something or someone is ‘Indian.’ This question is all the more important in a country as diverse as ours, with twenty-eight States, eight Union Territories, a population of more than one billion persons, twenty-two languages recognized by the Constitution and scores more which are spoken by its people, at least eight religions, tribal and non-tribal populations, and varying cultures which are sometimes at odds with one another. A thing, an occurrence, or a practice is ‘Indian’ when it is present in India, takes place here, or is practised by Indian citizens. Something which is Indian could be present from time immemorial or it could be a recent development. Regardless, this is not a game of numbers. The constitutional guarantee certainly does not fade based on the level of acceptability that a particular practice has achieved. Sexual and gender minorities are as Indian as their fellow citizens who are cisgender and heterosexual. iii. Understanding the institution of marriage a. There is no universal conception of marriage 100. There is no universal definition of marriage. Marriage is understood diff erently in law, in religion, and in culture. Some religions consider marriage a sacrament while others consider it a contract. The law defi nes the conditions for a valid marriage, such as the minimum age required of a party to the marriage, whether both parties have consented 130 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. to the marriage, or whether the parties are within the degrees of prohibited relationship. A marriage is valid in the eyes of the law as long as the preconditions in the concerned law(s) are satisfi ed. A precondition is diff erent from a feature or characteristic in that the former is a prerequisite to a valid marriage whereas the latter is not. The law provides remedies which either party may avail of in the presence or absence of certain features or characteristics. For example, Section 27 of the SMA provides that a party to a marriage may present a petition for divorce on the ground that the other party is undergoing a sentence of imprisonment for seven years or more for an off ence as defi ned in the IPC. However, it does not automatically render a marriage void if one of the parties is imprisoned. 101. Once a couple marries, it is left to them to give meaning ang content to their relationship.