This Court after reproducing the entire Section 3 of the Act 1986 in para 10 of the interpreted and held as under:- “11. A reading of the above provisions makes it clear that the State Government, District Magistrate or Commissioner of Police are the authorities, conferred with the power to pass s of detention. The only diff erence is that the of detention passed by the Government would remain in force for a period of three months in the fi rst instance, 552 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. whereas similar s passed by the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police shall remain in force for an initial period of 12 days. The continuance of detention beyond 12 days would depend upon the approval to be accorded by the Government in this regard. Sub-section (3) makes this aspect very clear. Section 13 of the Act mandates that the maximum period of detention under the Act is 12 months. 12. Proviso to sub-section (2) of Section 3 is very clear in its purport, as to the operation of the of detention from time to time. An of detention would in the fi rst instance be in force for a period of three months. The Government alone is conferred with the power to extend the period, beyond three months. Such extension, however, cannot be for a period, exceeding three months, at a time. It means that, if the Government intends to detain an individual under the Act for the maximum period of 12 months, there must be an initial of detention for a period of three months, and at least, three s of extension for a period not exceeding three months each. The expression “extend such period from time to time by any period not exceeding three months at any one time” assumes signifi cance in this regard. 13. The requirement to pass of detention from time to time in the manner referred to above, has got its own signifi cance. It must be remembered that restriction of initial period of detention to three months is nothing but implementation of the mandate contained in clause (4)(a) of Article 22 of the Constitution of India. It reads as under: “22. (4) No law providing for preventive detention shall authorise the detention of a person for a longer period than three months unless— (a) an Advisory Board consisting of persons who are, or have been, or are qualifi ed to be appointed as, Judges of a High Court has reported before the expiration of the said period of three months that there is in its opinion suffi cient cause for such detention: Provided that nothing in this sub-clause shall authorise the detention of any person beyond the maximum period prescribed PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 553 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] by any law made by Parliament under sub-clause (b) of clause (7); or (b) such person is detained in accordance with the provisions of any law made by Parliament under sub-clauses (a) and (b) of clause (7).” 14.