Section 2(49) of the Act uses the word “includes”, in the expression, “‘person’ shall include” to defi ne a “person” with respect to the Act. Thus such extended statutory interpretation for the term, “association of persons”, it is submitted is importable from statutes like the Income Tax Act, 1961. We do not agree with the said contention. 53. This Court in Ramanlal Bhailal Patel53, while interpreting the meaning of an, “association of persons”, has held that an association of persons is one where two or more persons join in a common purpose and common action to achieve some common benefi t. Further, such common purpose, action or benefi t may vary based on the particular context of a statute. The relevant paragraph reads: “28. The terms “association of persons” and “body of individuals” (which are interchangeable) have a legal connotation and refer to an entity having rights and duties. They are not to be understood literally. For example, if half a dozen people are travelling in a car 52 (2008) 5 SCC 449; for short, “Ramanlal Bhailal Patel”. 53 Supra note 52. 386 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. or a boat, or standing in a bus-stop, they may be a group of persons or a “body of individuals” in the literal sense. But they are not an association of persons/body of individuals in the legal sense. When a calamity occurs or a disaster strikes, and a band of volunteers or doctors meet at the site and associate or cooperate with each other for providing relief to victims, and not doing anything for their own benefi t, they may literally be an association of persons, but they are not “an association of persons/body of individuals” in the legal sense. A mere combination of persons or coming together of persons without anything more, without any intention to have a joint venture or carry on some common activity with a common understanding and purpose will not convert two or more persons into a body of individuals/association of persons. An “association of persons/ body of individuals” is one in which two or more persons join in a common purpose and common action to achieve some common benefi t. Where there is a combination of individuals by volition of the parties, engaged together in some joint enterprise or venture, it is known as “association of persons/body of individuals”. The common object will have some relevance to determine whether a group or set of persons is an association of persons or body of individuals with reference to a particular statute. For example, when the said terms “association of persons” or “body of individuals” occur in a section which imposes a tax on income, the association must be one the object of which is to produce income, profi t or gain (vide CIT v. Indira Balkrishna, Mohd. Noorulla v. CIT, N.V.Shanmugam and Co. v. CIT and Meeraand Co. v. CIT). But the object need not always be to carry on commercial or business activity. For example, when the word “person” occurs in a statute relating to agriculture or ceiling on landholding, the term “association of persons/body of individuals” may refer to a combination of individuals who join together to acquire and own land as co-owners and carry on agricultural operations as a joint enterprise.” M/S.