The provisions were an exception, to keep the option open for willing exporters, subject to the condition that it would be availed at their risk. Further, exercising the option was available only when either of the ‘pre-import conditions’ was not fixed in the SION8, or exporters were willing to first fulfil their export obligation. As the process of fixing E norms was time consuming, the provisions granted an opportunity to importers to export in advance, at the risk of not being considered towards discharge of export obligation. 8. The Revenue submitted that before the introduction of the GST regime, imports allowed under AAs were exempt from payment of many duties.9 Thereafter, CVD and SAD were subsumed in IGST. Under F Section 3 of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975, IGST was made payable at specified rates upon imports. However, a major change that was brought into the policy was to not allow exemption from payment of IGST directly at the time of import under AA. Such exemption was allowed indirectly by allowing refund of IGST paid at the time of imports under AA within G a specified time. The importers, therefore, started paying IGST on goods imported under AA with effect from 1.7.2017, and were getting outright 8 Standard Input Output Norms, which are standard norms which define the number of input/inputs required to manufacture units of output for export purposes. They are applicable differently for different products. 9 Supra, para 2. H UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. COSMO FILMS LIMITED 197 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] exemption from BCD, ADD, safeguard duty, etc., and IGST paid was A refunded. The legislative intent was clear in imposing IGST on all imports made under AAs, on or after 1.7.2017, without differentiating between the status of such authorisations, whether or not it was issued prior to or after introduction of GST. It was a policy decision, which could have been reversed or altered only by the GST Council. The Revenue also B pointed out that due to problems in Goods and Service Tax Network (GSTN)10, the committed refund of IGST was getting delayed. This resulted in blocking of working capital for many business houses. To obviate this problem, the GST Council allowed exemption from IGST when imported under AAs. The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (“DGFT”) accordingly, issued Notification No. 33/2015-20 dated C 13.10.2017 which was backed by Customs Notification No. 79/2017 dated 13.10.2017, issued by the Department of Revenue, amending the Notification No. 18 / 2015-Customs, dated 1.4.2015. The Revenue further urged that exemption from the IGST leviable under Section 3 (7) was available and subject to two specific conditions. The conditions were (i) D export obligation was to be fulfilled through physical exports only; and (ii) the exemption was subject to ‘pre-import condition’, which implied that only after the import of the goods commenced, were they required to be used for manufacture of export goods, which were ultimately exported. E 9. According to the Revenue, a cut-off date could have been declared, and only AAs issued after 13.10.2017 could have been declared eligible for such benefits, but the same was not done.