3.1 It is vehemently submitted by Shri Sangwan, learned AAG appearing on behalf of the State that once the lands in question have E been acquired after following the due procedure required under the Act and thereafter, the award came to be passed and even the compensation was paid and the possession was taken over and the lands actually vested in the State Government/acquiring body. It is submitted that therefore, the High Court has materially erred in directing to release the acquired F lands from acquisition. 3.2 It is further submitted by learned AAG that the High Court has not properly appreciated the fact that other lands were released by the State pursuant to the (s) passed by the High Court in various writ petitions. G 3.3 It is further submitted by learned AAG appearing on behalf of the State that so far as the land acquired with respect to CWP No. 10452/2014 is concerned, the land in question is already utilized and used for the sewage line and Rs. 17 crores have been spent in constructing the sewage line and it is submitted that therefore, if the land H STATE OF HARYANA & ORS. v. NIRANJAN SINGH & ORS. 23 ETC. [M. R. SHAH, J.] is released, as ed by the High Court, the same shall be against the A public interest and the entire sewage line which has been constructed after spending Rs. 17 crores will have to be removed. Shri Gaurav Agrawal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the residents of the locality has also vehemently submitted that if the land in question is released from acquisition as ed by the High Court in that case the sewage line B already constructed will have to be removed which will be against the public interest and also against the interest of the residents of the locality. 3.4 It is further submitted that so far as the land with respect to CWP No. 6729/2013 is concerned, the same is required by the State for widening of the road and therefore, the State was justified in refusing to C release the land from acquisition. 3.5 Now,so far as the land with respect to CWP No. 16346/2013 is concerned, it is submitted that the said land is required for constructing the shopping mall and the parking and therefore, the prayer of the original land owners to release their land(s) from acquisition was rightly rejected D by the authority. 3.6 Making the above submissions, it is vehemently submitted by learned AAG that the High Court has materially erred in quashing and setting aside the s passed by the State/authority rejecting the prayer of the original writ petitioners – land owners to release their land(s) E from acquisition and the High Court has materially erred in directing to release the acquired land(s) in question from acquisition. 4. While opposing Civil Appeal arising out of CWP No. 16346/ 2013, Shri Neeraj Kumar Jain, learned Senior Advocate has vehemently submitted that in the present case, the State Government has released the major chunk of the land arising out of the very notification and only, F small portion of the land belonging to the original writ petitioners have not been released.