A bare reading of the above extract from trial court’s would indicate that the finding with regard to authorship of the suicide letter is completely based on the expert opinion. No doubt, an expert F opinion is relevant under Section 45 of the IEA, 1872 but whether it could be the sole basis of determination of the fact in issue has been a subject matter of discussion in various judicial pronouncements. In State of Maharashtra v. Sukhdev Singh & Another18, this Court observed: “29. It is well settled that evidence regarding the identity of the G author of any document can be tendered (i) by examining the person who is conversant and familiar with the handwriting of such person or (ii) through the testimony of an expert who is qualified and competent to make a comparison of the disputed 18 (1992) 3 SCC 700 H 758 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A writing and the admitted writing on a scientific basis and (iii) by the court comparing the disputed document with the admitted one. … But since the science of identification of handwriting by comparison is not an infallible one, prudence demands that before acting on such opinion the court should be fully satisfied about the authorship of the admitted writings which B is made the sole basis for comparison and the court should also be fully satisfied about the competence and credibility of the hand writing expert. It is indeed true that by nature and habit, over a period of time, each individual develops certain traits which give a distinct character to his writings making it possible C to identify the author but it must at the same time be realised that since handwriting experts are generally engaged by one of the contesting parties they, consciously or unconsciously, tend to lean in favour of an opinion which is helpful to the party engaging him. That is why we come across cases of conflicting opinions given by two handwriting experts engaged by opposite parties. It is, D therefore, necessary to exercise extra care and caution in evaluating their opinion before accepting the same. So courts have as a rule of prudence refused to place implicit faith on the opinion evidence of a handwriting expert. Normally courts have considered it dangerous to base a E conviction solely on the testimony of a handwriting expert because such evidence is not regarded as conclusive. Since such opinion evidence cannot take the place of substantive evidence, courts have, as a rule of prudence, looked for corroboration before acting on such evidence. True it is, there is no rule of law that the evidence of a handwriting F expert cannot be acted upon unless substantially corroborated but courts have been slow in placing implicit reliance on such opinion evidence, without more, because of the imperfect nature of the science of identification of handwriting and its accepted fallibility. …” G (Emphasis supplied) 63. In Ram Narain v. State of U.P.19, this Court observed: “6. ... Now it is no doubt true that the opinion of a handwriting expert given in evidence is no less fallible than any other expert H 19 (1973) 2 SCC 86 SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.)