In other words, the real question to be determined G in these appeals against the dated 02.09.2022 would only be as regards the prayer for temporary injunction against convening of the meeting dated 11.07.2022. Within this framework and boundaries, we may examine the rival contentions to determine the question as to whether the impugned dated 02.09.2022 calls for any interference. H THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1165 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 21. While dealing with the relevant contentions, we may usefully A take note of a few decisions cited in these appeals so as to define the parameters and contours of the discussion forthcoming. 21.1. The case of S. Thirunavukkarasu (supra) has been referred to by the learned counsel for the appellants in to submit that therein, a Division Bench of the High Court extensively interpreted B the scheme of the byelaws of the party-AIADMK and held that the scheme of byelaws does not envisage the requisitionists to convene the General Council meeting; and if the General Secretary (now replaced by the Co-ordinator and the Joint Co-ordinator jointly) fail to convene the meeting, the only option is to seek intervention of the Court but a C meeting cannot be convened by the persons not authorised to do so.The relevant paragraphs of the said decision read as under: - “69. As per rule 20(v) of the party, the General Secretary of the party is competent to convene the general council meeting. Rule 19(viii) does not authorise anyone else to convene the special D general council meeting of the party. On facts, the learned single judge having held that the letter of requisition was not posted, has also held that even otherwise the plaintiff had convened the meeting of the general council as per Rule 19(viii). We have no good reason to differ from the finding recorded by the learned single judge that the letter of requisition was not given to the plaintiff. Once we E take the view that the letter of requisition was not given to the plaintiff, the defendant had no authority to convene the meeting of the general council. Even otherwise Rule 19(viii) has not made any provision for convening the meeting of the general council by the requisitioning members in case the plaintiff as the general F secretary failed to convene the meeting. 70. In this regard, the learned senior counsel for the defendant and the learned counsel for the impleading applicants relied on the of the learned single Judge of this Court in Karuppasamy Pandian & 6 others v. All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and two others, (Application G No.119 of 1988 disposed of on 20.1.1988 is C.S.No.28 of 1988). In our view it is not an authority for the proposition that in case the General Secretary fails to convene the meeting under Rule 19(viii), the requisitioning members can convene a meeting. In the said the Court refused to convene a meeting by H 1166 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A appointment of a Commissioner.