o. It is further necessary to note that the non obstante clause in Section 13 specifi cally excludes only Sections 69 and 69A respectively of the Act 1882. This section does not specifi cally include the words “Notwithstanding anything contained in any other Act for the time being in force” which is the standard term used in non obstante clauses. In view thereof, the legislative intent should be interpreted to only exclude Sections 69 and 69A respectively of the Act 1882 and the same does not aff ect the applicability of Section 60 of the Act 1882. p. Various High Courts have consistently held that the right of redemption has to be exercised in terms of Section 60 of the Act 1882 and not under Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act and the amendment to Section 13(8) does not aff ect or take away this right in any manner. 24. The Telangana High Court in the case of Amme Srisailam v. Union Bank of India, Regional Offi ce, Guntur, rep. by its Region Head & Deputy General Manager, Andhra Pradesh & Ors., W.P. No. 11435 of 2021 decided on 17.08.2022 has referred to and relied upon on Concern Readymix (supra) and Pal Alloys (supra). The Telangana High Court in Amme Srisailam (supra) in turn has relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of S. Karthik & Ors. v. N. Subhash Chand Jain & Ors., (2022) 10 SCC 641. The Telangana High Court in Amme Srisailam (supra) held as under: “44. Before we revert back to the facts of the present case, we may also refer to Sections 35 and 37 of the SARFAESI Act. While Section 35 says that the provisions of the SARFAESI Act shall have eff ect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force, Section 37 clarifi es that provisions of the SARFAESI Act or the rules made thereunder shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other law for the time being in force. 45. This brings us to Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. Section 60 says that at any time after the principal amount has become 74 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. due, the mortgagor has a right, on payment or tender, of the mortgage money, to require the mortgagee (a) to deliver to the mortgagor the mortgage deed and all documents relating to the mortgaged property which are in possession or power of the mortgagee, (b) where the mortgagee is in possession of the mortgaged property, to deliver possession thereof back to the mortgagor, and (c) at the cost of the mortgagor either to re-transfer the mortgaged property to him or to such third person as he may direct, or to execute and to have registered an acknowledgement in writing that any right in derogation of his interest transferred to the mortgagee has been extinguished. As per the proviso, the right conferred under the aforesaid provision shall not be extinguished by any act of the parties or by decree of a Court.