Both the s are distinguishable on facts, and reasoning adopted M/S TRIVENI GLASS LIMITED REP. BY ITS DEPUTY 1113 GENERAL MANAGER (SALES AND P.R.) SHRI R.K. SINHA v. COMMISSIONER OF TRADE TAX, U.P. [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] under the impugned is just and proper for reasons more than one; fi rstly in Gujarat Steel Tubes matter (supra) it was noticed that the steel tube was galvanized and by virtue of the same, it did not cease to be a steel tube inasmuch as its structure or its function is not altered and it remained as a steel tube. Whereas in the instant case the tinted glass sheet during the process of manufacture has undergone a change and as noticed by the authorities it has more radiation absorption capacity and is also diff erent in its transparency and density than a plain glass sheet or in other words the commodity did not remain the same after the manufacturing process. Secondly, in Maqsood Mohammad matter (supra) it was noticed that after the manufacturing process the product “kala namak” remained as an edible salt or in other words it was a species of salt and as such it was held exempted from tax and cannot be taxed under Section 3A of U.P. Sales Tax Act, 1948. The analogy noted hereinabove to distinguish Gujarat Steel Tubes Limited (supra) is squarely applicable to distinguish the principles enunciated in Maqsood Mohammad case, which was on facts obtained therein. 26. When the assessee is contending that an item/product falls under the residuary category, necessarily the burden is on the assessee to prove the said fact and in the instant case, the business premises of the appellant was inspected by Special Investigation Branch of the Department and it was revealed that “tinted glass sheet” was being manufactured through a diff erent process. The process so adopted has been succinctly explained in the Assessment to the following eff ect: “An intensive inquiry XXX Rs. 9,47,28, 446.00. In the inquiry held by Allahabad Unit, this fact has come to the light that the tinted coloured glass is manufactured by the trader in a separate unit and the raw material used in its manufacture is also diff erent from the raw material used in the manufacture of sheet glass. That is the raw materials used in the manufacture of tinted coloured glass are cobalt oxide, carbon oxide, iron oxide etc. besides those used in the manufacture of sheet glass. A specifi c process is adopted for its manufacturing. The transparency density of tinted coloured glass is diff erent from the simple glass surface. The solar radiation absorption capacity of tinted coloured glass is more than that of the simple sheet glass. In ordinary common parlance of the market the tinted glass is not understood as sheet glass. 111 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Therefore, the plain sheet of tinted coloured glass cannot be deemed as sheet glass. After apprising XXX tax liability shall be determined.” In this background, when the contention of Mr. Bagaria, learned senior counsel, appearing for the appellant contending that “plain glass panes” would include ‘tinted glass sheet’ is examined, same has to be rejected as the general meaning of “glassware” could not have been attached to ‘tinted glass’ sheet or the exclusion would have been specifi c in Entry (IV) itself.