II. Remedies for the infringement of Section 3 270. While Section 18 of the Transgender Persons Act stipulates that certain actions amount to off ences which may attract a penalty between six months and two years as well as a fi ne, violations of Section 3 attract no such penalty. In fact, the Transgender Persons Act does not expressly provide for a remedy for the infringement of Section 3. 271. Section 8 enjoins the appropriate Government to take steps to secure “full and eff ective participation of transgender persons and their inclusion in society.” Since clauses (a) to (i) of Section 3 are with a view to ensure the full and eff ective participation of transgender persons in all arenas of life, Section 8, properly understood, tasks the appropriate Government with ensuring that Section 3 is complied with by all whom it governs. Rule 10(4) of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Rules 2020245 provides that the appropriate Government shall take adequate steps to prohibit discrimination in any Government or private organisation, or private and public educational institution under their purview, and ensure equitable access to social and public spaces, including burial grounds. Rule 11 of these rules requires the appropriate Government to take adequate steps to prohibit discrimination in any Government or private organisation or establishment including in the areas of education, employment, healthcare, public transportation, participation in public life, sports, leisure and recreation, and opportunity to hold public or private offi ce. Under Section 8 read with Rule 10(4) and Rule 11, the appropriate Government has a duty 244 Section 3(f), Transgender Persons Act 245 “Transgender Persons Rules” 138 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. not only to prevent discrimination against transgender persons (by persons and public as well as private establishments) but also to address it where it is found to take place. 272. Sections 10 the Transgender Persons Act inter alia requires establishments to comply with the statute. This provision places a duty on establishments to comply with Section 3 and ensure that they do not discriminate against transgender persons. Section 11 requires establishments to set up a grievance redressal mechanism by designating a person as the complaint offi cer to deal with complaints relating to the violation of the provisions of the statute. Section 11 is one of the ways in which a person who alleges the violation of the Transgender Persons Act can seek a remedy. However, Section 11 only goes as far as to provide for a mechanism by which the establishment in question can be approached for a remedy. 273. As noticed previously, the prohibition against discrimination operates against public as well as private bodies. If a public body or actor which falls within the defi nition of ‘establishment’ in Section 2(b) of the Transgender Persons Act infringes Section 3, it is open to the aggrieved person to invoke the extraordinary jurisdiction of the High Courts under Article 226 of the Constitution. The High Courts are empowered to issue directions, , or writs to any person or authority for the enforcement of the rights codifi ed by Part III and for any other purpose.