There is even no concrete evidence on record to prove that the H 5 (2020) 1 SCC 1 SALEM MUSLIM BURIAL GROUND PROTECTION 397 COMMITTEE v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU [PANKAJ MITHAL, J.] suit land prior to the year 1900 or 1867 was actually being used as a A burial ground (kabristan). Therefore, the alleged use of the suit land as burial ground prior to 1900 or 1867 is not sufficient to establish a wakf by user in the absence of evidence to show that it was so used. Thus, it cannot constitute a wakf by user also. The alleged recording of the suit land as a kabristan or as a burial ground is a misnomer or a B misconstruction inasmuch as the suit land, if at all, came to be recorded as a rudrabhoomi which denotes Hindu cremation ground and not a burial ground or a kabristan. It was only Zamin Survey No.5105 or O.T.S. No.2253 (new T.S. No.1) with two tombs existing which alone was recorded as a burial ground. The said land is specifically demarcated and separated from the suit land. The said burial land had already been C handed over to the Wakf Board and its recording as such would not impact upon the nature of the suit land so as to constitute it to be a burial ground or a kabristan. Therefore, the suit land was not proved to be a wakf land by long usage also. There is no evidence to prove creation of a wakf of the suit land either by dedication or by usage. D 30. The another limb of the argument is that the suit land has been declared to be a wakf property vide notification dated 29.04.1959. In this regard, it has to be noted that such a declaration has to be in consonance with the provisions of the Wakf Act, 1954 or the Waqf Act, 1995. Both the aforesaid Acts lay down the procedure for issuing E notification declaring any property as a wakf. 31. The Wakf Act, 1954, which actually is relevant for our purpose, provides that, first, a preliminary survey of wakfs has to be conducted and the Survey Commission shall, after such inquiry as may be deemed necessary, submit its report to the State Government about certain factors F enumerated therein whereupon the State Government by a notification in the official Gazette direct for a second survey to be conducted. Once the above procedure of survey is completed and the disputes arising thereto have been settled, on receipt of the report, the State Government shall forward it to the Wakf Board. The Wakf Board on examining the same shall publish the list of wakfs in existence with full particulars in G the official Gazette as contemplated under Section 5 of the Act. Similar provisions exist under the Waqf Act, 1995. 32. A plain reading of the provisions of the above two Acts would reveal that the notification under Section 5 of both the Acts declaring the list of the wakfs shall only be published after completion of the process H 398 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.