In this case the claim for reference was made within three years commencing from April 16, 1976 and the application was filed on December F 13, 1976. We are, therefore, of the view that the High Court was right in this case. See in this connection the observations of this Court in Inder Singh Rekhi v. D.D.A. [(1988) 2 SCC 338]” (Emphasis supplied) G 39.One would thus see that in L.K. Ahuja (supra) the Court was dealing with the twin aspects, one whether the claim made in the arbitration was barred by law of limitation under the relevant provisions of the relevant Act, and secondly whether the application under Section 20 of the Act 1940 was barred by limitation. In to be a valid claim H 620 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A with reference to Section 28 of the Act 1940 it is necessary that there should be an arbitration agreement, secondly, the differences must arise to which the agreement in question applies and thirdly that application must be within time as stipulated in Section 20 of the Act 1940. With reference to the limitation aspect the Court found that the assertion of claim and denial of the same was a necessary ingredient and then went B on to say that it would be wrong to mix up the two aspects, namely, whether there was any valid claim for reference under Section 20 of the Act 1940 and whether the claim to be adjudicated by the Arbitrator was barred by lapse of time. 40. On the aspect whether the decision on the issue of limitation C should be decided at the stage of passing of an referring the disputes to the arbitrator, this Court in the case of J.C. Budhraja v. Chairman, Orissa Mining Corporation Ltd. and Another, reported in (2008) 2 SCC 444 has drawn a fine distinction between the period of limitation for filing of a petition and as to the claims being barred by time. We D quote the relevant observations made by this Court in J.C. Budhraja (supra) in paras 25 and 26 respectively, as under: “25. The learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the limitation would begin to run from the date on which a difference arose between the parties, and in this case the E difference arose only when OMC refused to comply with the notice dated 4-6-1980 seeking reference to arbitration. We are afraid, the contention is without merit. The appellant is obviously confusing the limitation for a petition under Section 8(2) of the Arbitration Act, 1940 with the limitation for the claim itself. The limitation for a suit is calculated as on the F date of filing of the suit. In the case of arbitration, limitation for the claim is to be calculated on the date on which the arbitration is deemed to have commenced. 26. Section 37(3) of the Act provides that for the purpose of the Limitation Act, an arbitration is deemed to have been G commenced when one party to the arbitration agreement serves on the other party thereto, a notice requiring the appointment of an arbitrator.