Criminal Law – Inept drafting of FIR – Effect of – Discussed. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The complaint lodged with the Chief Minister D does specifically allege that although AS came from a very humble background, as evident from his Annual Property Return filed at the time of joining IRS, “he has managed to amass disproportionate assets of more than 2500 crores contrary to his legal sources of income”. One could view it as a tall claim, which is thoroughly unsubstantiated. However, it cannot be wished away E because of the revelations of the preliminary inquiry which led to registration of the FIR and have formed part thereof. Although it is true that it is for the prosecution to build up a case that AS, as a public servant, amassed such wealth or even wealth of any lesser value that is disproportionate to his known sources of income, F and which could not satisfactorily be accounted for by him, while it files the police report, it does not seem to be a requirement of law when the FIR was registered on 25th February, 2020 that facts and figures with exactitude need to form part of a first information report. It is found on perusal of the FIR that although not specifically mentioned, 2004 to 2018 is the “check period” G during which AS and YS have acquired property disproportionate to their known sources of income. There are certain calculations projecting the quantum of money that both AS and YS received towards salaries, interest and value for properties sold. It is true that the FIR could have been drafted better. Since a first H 136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A information report is the starting point for a long drawn investigative process and such an investigation could be scuttled by an accused taking advantage of inept drafting of such report, this is an area where all the more care and dexterity is called for to prevent many a thing. However, nothing significant turns on the inept drafting of the FIR in this case since it does make out a B case of cognizable offence having been committed by AS and YS. Indeed, if at all there are miscalculations arising out of arithmetical errors or misdescription of properties not belonging to AS and YS, they were/are free to point it out while joining the investigation. It is also open to them to point out to the C investigating officer that there has been absolutely no suppression or non-disclosure of 31 properties/assets and also that no activity amounting to ‘criminal misconduct’ had been committed by them. However, they chose to challenge the FIR on the specious ground that the same did not disclose a cognizable offence. [Paras 54- 56][155-D-H; 156-G-H; 157-A-B] D 1.2 While deciding the challenge to the FIR, the High Court – unwittingly, did not bear in mind the note of caution in Bhajan Lal to the effect that the power of quashing a criminal proceeding should be exercised very sparingly and with circumspection and that too in the rarest of rare cases; further that, the court will not E be justified in embarking upon an enquiry as to the reliability or genuineness or otherwise of the allegations made in the FIR or the complaint; and also that, the extraordinary or inherent powers do not confer an arbitrary jurisdiction on the court to act according to its whim or caprice.