The precedents of this Court, to which reference has been made in course of the foregoing discussion, do lay down the principle that the likelihood of losing his livelihood (a facet of the Fundamental Right to Life) by the appealing convict if the conviction were not stayed during the pendency of the appeal is not a good enough ground for obtaining such relief. It could be so that upon the conviction being set aside, status quo ante may be restored, however, this might not be acceptable to those principled few who put their reputation at a pedestal higher than pecuniary gains and rue the days of survival with the social stigma attached to such a removal. Restoring the status quo ante in all cases, therefore, may not be the best available solution. 45. How can one forget the second proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution ordaining dismissal/removal/reduction in rank of a person who is a member of a civil service or is a civil post holder if his conduct has led to his conviction on a criminal charge? He would be facing the same consequence as noted above. 46. There also exist recruitment rules framed by public authorities prohibiting consideration of the candidature of any selectee, howsoever high he might have ranked in the merit list, for an appointment if he is an accused in a criminal case and has been arrested in connection with investigation thereof. The fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence that an accused is presumed to be innocent unless proven guilty would seem 101 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. to be forsaken in such a case. One of the reasons for imposition of such a restriction is because of the nature of the responsibility the appointee may have to shoulder. The rationale often hinges on the nature of the position sought, with a recognition that certain roles demand an intensive and raised level of scrutiny. A selectee does not have an indefeasible right of appointment but he does have, to a limited extent, a right of consideration which itself is a Fundamental Right under Article 16. No employer, in the ordinary course of business would keep the doors of employment ajar for such a selectee to enable him to join, subject to his securing an honourable acquittal in the criminal trial. 47. In our country, laws are in place enacted by the legislature or framed by the executive in terms of delegated power to prevent any individual from entering public service if he has criminal antecedents and/or has been in custody in connection with an investigation any time prior to applying for a post. While the laws would seem to require that anyone desirous of entering public service should have a blemish less and untainted profi le, ironically, it is not a rare occurrence that a very few lawmakers create diffi cult situations for themselves and seek to be treated in a manner diff erent from how a common job aspirant seeking to enter public service is treated.