Thus, without indicating any reason for the change, the proposal now used the words “before the date of publication of notice for public 136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale of the secured assets” and the same came to be incorporated by way of the 2016 Amendment. We feel, in such circumstances, given the abrupt and signifi cant change in the proposal by the Joint Committee, the initial heading had been inadvertently left, and the same in no manner can be relied to construe the said provision as one intended to inhibit only the secured creditor. In any event, it is a well settled canon of law, that the sum and substance of a provision is determined by what is given in the provision and not by its heading or marginal note. 80. To read it otherwise in a strict manner as to only stipulating a restriction upon the secured creditor and not on the borrower’s right of redemption would lead to a very chilling eff ect, where no auction conducted under the SARFAESI Act would have any form of sanctity, and in such a situation no person would be willing to come forward and participate in any auction due to the fear and apprehension that despite being declared a successful bidder, the borrower could still at any time come and redeem the mortgage and thereby thwart the very auction process. 81. Such a scenario is all the more worrisome, because the general public who participate in such auctions are often neither aware nor informed by the secured creditors conducting the auctions, that as long as the sale certifi cate is not issued, they will not have a right in the said asset and that the borrower whose asset is being auctioned could sweep- in and redeem the mortgage any time, and thereby thwart their rights and the very auction process. 82. Thus, it is necessary to interpret the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act in such a manner where a legal sanctity is attached to an auction process and a bright line is drawn where a mischievous borrower is told ‘no more and no further’ and precluded from hastily exercising its right of redemption from nowhere at the very end of the process and thereby set the entire auction process at naught. If permitted to do so then all auctions under the SARFAESI Act would be meaningless and simply rendered otiose and the very object of Section 13 and the overall scheme of the SARFAESI Act of enabling the banks from recovering its dues in a timely manner without intervention of the courts would be simply defeated. CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 137 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] SANCTITY OF PUBLIC AUCTION 83. This Court in Valji Khimji (supra) held that once an auction is confi rmed the same can be interfered on very limited grounds as otherwise no auction would ever be complete, with the following relevant observations, being reproduced hereunder: - “11.