The- Associate shall be paid the net amount due after all deductions towards advances, retention money and recoveries towards cost of materials and other services. The payment shall normally be made within 15 days of such presentation of the bill. All monthly payment shall be treated as advance payments only. The running payment shall be made in the from of 65% in U.5$ and 35% in I.D. The rate of exchange for the purpose of calculations will be 1 ID = 3.37778 U.S. Dollar and this rate of exchange shall be operative throughout the period as contract. 32.3 Payment Adjustment: Any due payment under the Agreement to be made by the Associate or to him contrary to the work completed shall be added or deducted from the payment certifi cate issued by the Contractor. The - Contractor may adjust any payment certifi cate, if necessary, with respect to other previous payment certifi cates. The Associate shall have no right to claim; thereto for compensation. 32.4 Deduction from payment due to the Associates: All payments due by the Associate to the Contractor under this Agreement shall be deducted from any other payments due to the Associate, and if the event of no such dues, the Contractor shall recover the same against the performance bond furnished by the Associate. The Associate must, thereafter immediately replenish NATIONAL PROJECTS CONSTRUCTION CORP. LTD. v. ROYAL 397 CONSTRUCTION COMPANY PVT. LTD. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] such recoveries. All deductions shall be made irrespective of any apportion from the Associate and without any court action, but under advice to the Associate. 32.5 Retention money: Retention money shall be done by the Contractor at the rate of 10% of the gross value of each R.A. Bills subject to a total deduction of 5% of the contract value. 32.6 Currency: Payments against monthly account bill’s shall be made to the Associate by the NPCC in Iraqi Dinars and US Dollars. i) 35 % Iraqi Dinars ii) 55 % US Dollars 32.7 Payments not to be deemed as the Acknowledgements: Payments made to the Associate shall not be deemed as the acknowledgement on the part of the contractor, of acceptance of work and any part thereof and/or of materials and workmanship etc. 32.8 Exchange Rate: For the purpose of conversion of Iraqi Dinars to US Dollars, the exchange rate of 1 Iraqi Dinars equivalent to 3.37778 US Dollars shall be applicable. 32.9 Refund of Retention Money after Maintenance Period: Necessary or desirable and for that purpose, shall have power to the Associate to do and -the Associate shall do any or all of the following: - a) Increase or decrease the quantity of any work’ included in the Agreement b) Quit any such work. c) Change the -character or quality or kind of any such work. d) Change levels, lines, positions and dimensions of any part of the works and 398 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. e) Execute additional work of any kind necessary for the completion of the works and no such variation shall in any way vitiate or invalidate the Agreement.