His name, according to the D prosecution, had surfaced from digital devices and other articles seized by the police, in the expanded phase of investigation. Dr. Anand Teltumbde had surrendered on 14th April 2020 after his plea for pre-arrest bail was rejected. Subsequently, however, he has been released on bail. 8. Arguments have been advanced before us on the question as E to whether mere membership of a banned organisation constitutes an offence or not. On behalf of the appellants’ reliance was placed on the prevailing view that the same would not be sufficient to constitute an offence under the 1967 Act or the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 (which statute also has similar provisions) unless it is accompanied with some overt offending act. A three Judge-Bench F of this Court in the case of Arup Bhuyan -vs- State of Assam and Another [2023 SCC OnLine SC 338] has held that if a person, even after an organisation is declared as an unlawful association, continues to be a member thereof, would attract penalty under Section 10 of the 1967 Act. G 9.Barring Section 13, all the offences with which the appellants have been charged with under the 1967 Act fall within Chapters IV and VI of the said statute. This is apart from the offences under the 1860 Code. Hence, there is a duty of the Court to form an opinion on perusal of the case diary or the report made under Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (“1973 Code”) that there are reasonable grounds H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 883 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] for believing that the accusations against such persons are prima facie A true while considering the prayer for bail, to reject prayers for bail of the appellants. The manner in which the Court shall form such opinion has been laid down by this Court in the case of National Investigation Agency -vs- Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali [(2019) 5 SCC 1]. It has been held in this :- B “23. By virtue of the proviso to sub-section (5), it is the duty of the Court to be satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against the accused is prima facie true or otherwise. Our attention was invited to the decisions of this Court, which has had an occasion to deal C with similar special provisions in TADA and MCOCA. The principle underlying those decisions may have some bearing while considering the prayer for bail in relation to the offences under the 1967 Act as well. Notably, under the special enactments such as TADA, MCOCA and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, the Court is required to D record its opinion that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is “not guilty” of the alleged offence. There is a degree of difference between the satisfaction to be recorded by the Court that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is “not E guilty” of such offence and the satisfaction to be recorded for the purposes of the 1967 Act that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against such person is “prima facie” true.