[Para 514] – Held (per Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J.) (Concurring with Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI): The power of the President under Article 370(3) was unaff ected by the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir – The President could exercise their power anytime after the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir, in line with the aim of full integration of the State – Hence, C.O. 273, which declares that Article 370 shall cease to operate except as provided, and was issued under Article 370(3), is valid – The power to issue C.O. 272 without the concurrence of the Government of the State is valid, as the power of the President is not limited by the concurrence of the Government of the State in this case – The power under Article 370(1)(d) read with Article 367 cannot be used to do indirectly, what cannot be done directly – The power to make modifi cations under Article 370(1)(d) cannot be used to amend Article 370 and Article 367, which is an interpretation clause, cannot be used to alter the character of a provision – Therefore, Paragraph 2 of C.O. 272, which amends Article 367(4) is ultra vires Article 370 – However, the President had the power to apply all provisions of the Constitution of India to Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370(1)(d), which is similar to the power under Article 370(3) – Therefore, the remainder of Paragraph 2 of C.O. 272 is valid. [Para 112] – Held (per Sanjiv Khanna, J.) (Concurring with both Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI and Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J. ): Paragraph (2) of C.O. 272 by which Article 370 was amended by taking recourse to Article 367 is ultra vires and bad in law, albeit can be sustained in view of the corresponding power under Article 370(1)(d) – Most importantly, Article 370 has been made inoperative in terms of clause (3) to Article 370 – Lastly, C.O. 273 is valid. [Para 2] 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act 2019 – s.14 – Parliament enacted the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act 2019 which bifurcated the State of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories, Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Union Territory of Ladakh – Challenge to the Reorganisation Act on substantive grounds and on procedural grounds – Contours of the power under Art. 3 of the Constitution of India – Parliament’s exercise of power under the fi rst proviso to Art.3 – Suspension of the second proviso to Art.3 as applicable to Jammu and Kashmir – Constitution of India – Art.3. Held (per Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, B.R. Gavai and Surya Kant, JJ. ): The views of the Legislature of the State under the fi rst proviso to Article 3 are recommendatory – Thus, Parliament’s exercise of power under the fi rst proviso to Article 3 under the Proclamation was valid and not mala fi de – The Solicitor General stated that the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir will be restored (except for the carving out of the Union Territory of Ladakh) – In view of the statement, it is not necessary to determine whether the reorganisation of the State of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir is permissible under Article 3 – However, the validity of the decision to carve out the Union Territory of Ladakh is upheld in view of Article 3(a) read with Explanation I which permits forming a Union Territory by separation of a territory from any State – Steps to be taken by the Election Commission of India to conduct elections to the Legislative Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir constituted under s.14 of the Reorganisation Act by 30 September 2024 – Restoration of Statehood shall take place at the earliest and as soon as possible.