Hence, an Ordinance had to be issued on 30th December, 2016. Moreover, it is not known whether the Bank had made arrangements for printing sufficient new notes for exchange of demonetised currency. It is also not known whether the Department of F Legal Affairs was consulted in the matter as the procedure of demonetisation involves legal implications. 19.5 Hence, in my considered view, the action of demonetisation initiated by the Central Government by issuance of the impugned notification dated 8th November, 2016 was an G exercise of power contrary to law and therefore unlawful. Consequently, the 2016 Ordinance and 2017 Act are also unlawful. But, having regard to the fact that the demonetisation process was given effect to from 8th November, 2016 onwards, the status quo ante cannot be restored at this point of time. H 224 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A What relief may be awarded in the present case? 20. In view of the above conclusion, the question of moulding the relief shall now be considered. According to the petitioners, around 86 per cent of the volume of currency notes of the total currency in circulation in the Indian economy was demonetised. They also stated that the people of India were exposed to undue hardships owing to the lack of financial B resources and had to undergo not only a severe financial crunch but were also exposed to other socio-economic and psychological hardships.The problems associated with the measure of demonetisation would make one wonder whether the Central Board of the Bank had visualised the consequences that would follow. Whether the Central C Board of the Bank had attempted to take note of the adverse effects of demonetisation of such a large volume of bank notes in circulation? The objective of the Central Government may have been sound, just and proper, but the manner in which the said objectives were achieved and the procedure followed for the same, in my view was not in accordance with law having regard to the interpretation given above. D It has also been brought on record thataround 98% of the value of the demonetised currency have been exchanged for bank notes which continues to be legal tender. Also, a new series of bank notes of Rs.2,000/ - was released by the Bank. This would suggest that the measure itself may not have proved to be as effective as it was hoped to be. However, E this Court does not base its decision on the legality of a legislation, qua the effectiveness of such action in achieving the stated objectives. Therefore, it is clarified that any relief moulded in the present cases is de hors considerations of success of the measure. 20.1 I have borne in mind the submissions of learned Attorney F General appearing on behalf of the Union of India to the effect that the objectives of the Central Government have been sound, just and proper, but in my view, the manner in which the said objectives were achieved and the procedure followed for the same was not in accordance with law having regard to the interpretation given above.