The oil is not used for cure of skin but is oil for massage and it takes care of the skin. C 14. In this view of the matter, we find no substance in these appeals and they are accordingly dismissed. There shall be no as to costs.” (emphasis supplied) D 15.5. In Sharma Chemicals (supra), this Court was concerned with the issue as to whether the product Banphool Oil could be classified under as Ayurvedic medicament or as perfumed hair oil. This Court held that mere fact that a product is sold across the counter and not under a doctor’s prescription, does not ipso facto lead to the conclusion that it is not a medicament. This Court, inter alia, observed and held as under: - E “12. ….It is settled law that the onus or burden to show that a product falls within a particular tariff item is always on the Revenue. Mere fact that a product is sold across the counters and not under a doctor’s prescription, does not by itself lead to the conclusion that it is not a medicament. F We are also in agreement with the submission of Mr Lakshmikumaran that merely because the percentage of medicament in a product is less, does not ipso facto13 mean that the product is not a medicament. Generally the percentage or dosage of the medicament will be such as G can be absorbed by the human body. The medicament would necessarily be covered by fillers/vehicles in to make the product usable. It could not be denied that all the ingredients used in Banphool Oil are those which are set out in the Ayurveda 13 As per Corrigendum issued by Supreme Court of India No. F.3/Ed. B.J./92/2003 dated 9-9-2003. H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 335 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] textbooks. Of course the formula may not be as per the textbooks A but a medicament can also be under a patented or proprietary formula. The main criterion for determining classification is normally the use it is put to by the customers who use it. The burden of proving that Banphool Oil is understood by the customers as a hair oil was on the Revenue. This burden is not discharged as B no such proof is adduced. On the contrary, we find that the oil can be used for treatment of headache, eye problem, night blindness, reeling head, weak memory, hysteria, amnesia, blood pressure, insomnia etc. The dosages required are also set out on the label. The product is registered with the Drug Controller and is being manufactured under a drug C licence.” (emphasis supplied) 15.6. In the case Meghdoot (supra), while dealing with the question of classification of six items namely Bhringraj Tail, Trifla Brahmi D Tail, Neem Herbal Sat, Sat Reetha, Meghdoot Herbal Sat, Meghdoot Herbal Powder and following the decision in BPL Pharmaceuticals (supra), this Court classified the items under the heading of ‘medicaments’ and held that items which may be sold under names bearing a cosmetic connotation but would remain medicines based on the composition of the items, in the following terms: - E “5….. A product may be medicinal without having been prescribed by a medical practitioner.