e) Section 19(1) deals with financial assistance, sacrifices to he provided by central and state governments, scheduled banks or other bank, public financial institutions, state level institution or any C institution or other authority. Section 19(2) provides that only in the case of above mentioned prescribed entities that their consent is imperative as they may be required to give financial assistance. This sub- section requires the consent to be given within a span of 60 days from the date of circulation of scheme or D within such further period not exceeding 60 days, as allowed by BIFR. It is imperative that the consent is given within the prescribed period of 60 days or within such further period not exceeding 60 days, as allowed by BIFR. Otherwise, this sub-section mandatorily E provides that the consent will be deemed to have been given. f) Section 32 of the SICA provides that the provisions of the scheme framed under the SICA, i.e., the sanctioned scheme, shall override all other laws except the Foreign Exchange Regulations Act, 1973 and the F Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulations) Act, 1976. The section states that a scheme framed under the SICA will override also the memorandum and articles of association of a sick industrial company or any other instrument having effect by virtue of any law other G than this Act. g) After amendments made in SICA in 1994 (w.e.f. 1.2.1994), in particular, in section 18(1)(a), 18(3)(a), 18(8) it becomes amply clear that BIFR has the power to scale down/ vary the dues of the creditors including H MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1041 LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] decree holders/ arbitration award holders/industrial A award holders. (x) It is further submitted that as such in the case of winding up, the ordinary creditors including decree holders etc. normally do not get anything. Thus, when the BIFR scales down the dues owed to the creditors including the unsecured B creditors, in effect, there is no confiscation of property. Rather, if the sick company becomes healthy, the unsecured creditors including decree holders / arbitration award holders / industrial award holders can do business with the healthy company. C (xi) It is further submitted that Section 22(1) does not provide for any period of the implementation of scheme. The protective umbrella of Section 22 is not terminable on networth becoming positive. The scheme is binding on all covered and creditors including decree holders etc., who D cannot have the option of opting out. (xii) It is further submitted that Section 22(5) of SICA dealing with exclusion of limitation period cannot be relied upon to argue that it indicates that the dues of the creditors can be deferred to a period when the company’s networth becomes E positive or when the scheme is fully implemented. It is submitted that if such an argument is accepted, no creditor will like to give financial assistance or make sacrifices. The resultant effect may be that the company whose networth has turned positive with the assistance of financial assistance and sacrifices may again become sick making the whole F effort of taking a company out of sickness futile.