This ought not be a part of judicial inquiry and particularly having regard to the activity in question and the materials in the form of texts cited before us by F both the petitioners and the respondents, this question cannot be conclusively determined in the writ proceedings. Since legislative exercise has already been undertaken and Jallikattu has been found to be part of cultural heritage of Tamil Nadu, we would not disrupt this view of the G legislature. We do not accept the view reflected in the case of A. Nagaraja that performance of Jallikattu is not a part of the cultural heritage of the people of the State of Tamil Nadu. We do not think there was sufficient material before the Court for coming to this conclusion. In the Preamble to the Amendment Act, Jallikattu has been described to be H 474 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A part of culture and tradition of Tamil Nadu. In the case of A. Nagaraja (supra), the Division Bench found the cultural approach unsubstantiated and referring to the manner in which the bulls are inflicted pain and suffering, the Division Bench concluded that such activities offended Sections 3 and 11(1)(a) and (m) of the 1960 Act. Even if we proceed B on the basis that legislature is best suited branch of the State to determine if particular animal-sports are part of cultural tradition of a region or community, or not, if such cultural event or tradition offends the law, the penal consequence would follow. Such activities cannot be justified C on the ground of being part of cultural tradition of a State. In A. Nagaraja (supra), the sports were held to attract the restriction of Sections 3 and 11(1)(a) and (m) of the 1960 Act because of the manner it was practiced. The Amendment Act read with the Rules seek to substantially minimise the pain and suffering and continue with the D traditional sports. The Amendment having received Presidential assent, we do not think there is any flaw in the State action. “Jallikattu” as bovine sports have to be isolated from the manner in which they were earlier practiced and organising the sports itself would be permissible, in terms E of the Tamil Nadu Rules. (iii) The Tamil Nadu Amendment Act is not in pith and substance, to ensure survival and well-being of the native breeds of bulls. The said Act is also not relatable to Article 48 of the Constitution of India. Incidental impact of the said F Amendment Act may fall upon the breed of a particular type of bulls and affect agricultural activities, but in pith and substance the Act is relatable to Entry 17 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India. (iv) Our answer to this question is in the negative. In our opinion, G the Tamil Nadu Amendment Act does not go contrary to the Articles 51-A (g) and 51-A(h) and it does not violate the provisions of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India.