This is, however, subject to the proviso that the legislature has not parted with its control. It is observed that if the D delegatee acts contrary to the wishes of the legislature the legislature can undo what the delegate has done. 183. Another Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Gwalior Rayon Silk Mfg. (Wvg.) Co. Ltd. (supra) was considering the validity of Section 8(2)(b) of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 on the E ground that it suffered from the vice of excessive delegation. In the said case, H.R. Khanna, J., speaking for the majority, after surveying the earlier s of this Court including that in the case of Birla Cotton, Spinning and Weaving Mills Delhi (supra), observed thus: “13. It may be stated at the outset that the growth of the legislative F powers of the Executive is a significant development of the twentieth century. The theory of laissezfaire has been given a go-by and large and comprehensive powers are being assumed by the State with a view to improve social and economic well- being of the people. Most of the modern socio-economic legislations passed by the Legislature lay down the guiding G principles and the legislative policy. The Legislatures because of limitation imposed upon by the time factor hardly go into matters of detail. Provision is, therefore, made for delegated legislation to obtain flexibility, elasticity, expedition and opportunity for experimentation. The practice of empowering H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 97 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] the Executive to make subordinate legislation within a prescribed A sphere has evolved out of practical necessity and pragmatic needs of a modern welfare State. At the same time it has to be borne in mind that our Constitution-makers have entrusted the power of legislation to the representatives of the people, so that the said power may be exercised not only in the name of B the people but also by the people speaking through their representatives. The role against excessive delegation of legislative authority flows from and is a necessary postulate of the sovereignty of the people. The rule contemplates that it is not permissible to substitute in the matter of legislative policy the views of individual officers or other authorities, however competent they C may be, for that of the popular will as expressed by the representatives of the people.” [emphasis supplied] 184. The Court observed that the growth of the legislative powers D of the Executive is a significant development of the twentieth century. The theory of laissez faire has been given a go-by and large and comprehensive powers are being assumed by the State with a view to improve social and economic well-being of the people. It has been held that most of the modern socio-economic legislations passed by the Legislature lay down the guiding principles and the legislative policy. It is E not possible for the Legislatures to go into matters of detail. Therefore, a provision has been made for delegated legislation to obtain flexibility, elasticity, expedition and opportunity for experimentation.