date of enforcement of the Act of 1955. The amendments brought about, which are relevant for the purpose of deciding these appeals are as under: i. The preamble, as amended states that it is an Act to provide for levying a tax on passengers and goods carried by road in motor vehicles. The word ‘certain’ which earlier preceded the term ‘motor vehicle’ has been deleted by way of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997. ii. The defi nition of ‘business’ has been amended and it now includes, besides the business of carrying passengers and goods by motor vehicles, any trade, commerce or manufacture, or any adventure or concern whether or not the same is carried on with a profi t motive; and any transaction in connection with, incidental or ancillary to such trade, commerce or manufacture. iii. The defi nition of ‘fare’ was amended to include sums fi xed by the competent authority under the MV Act for hire of motor vehicle for carriage of passengers and transport of goods; sums payable for a season ticket; and where no such fare has been paid, includes the sums specifi ed under Schedule I. 24 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. iv. The term ‘owner’ has been defi ned to mean owner of the motor vehicle used for carrying passengers or transporting goods in or through the territory of the State of Himachal Pradesh. v. The following provisions defi ning the terms ‘private service vehicle’, ‘road’, and ‘transport vehicle’ were introduced by way of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997: “2(gb) “private service vehicle” means a motor vehicle constructed or adapted to carry more than six persons excluding the driver and ordinarily used by or on behalf of the owner of such vehicle for the purpose of carrying persons for, or in connection with his trade or business;” “2(gc) “road” means a track for travel or transportation to and fro, serving as a means of communication, between two places;” “2(ia) “transport vehicle” means a public service vehicle, a goods carriage, an educational institution bus or a private service vehicle;” vi. Sub-section (IA) has been added to Section 3 of the Act of 1955 and the Explanation to Section 3 (1) has been deleted. Section 3(1A) provides that notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1) of Section 3, when passengers are carried and goods are transported by a motor vehicle and no fare or freight, whether chargeable or not, has been charged or fare or freight has been charged at a concessional rate, the tax at the rates directed by Notifi cation issued by the Government under sub-section (1), shall be levied, charged and paid as if the passengers were carried or goods were transported, either on fares or freights fi xed by the competent authority, under the MV Act, for diff erent classes of roads and motor vehicles in the State; or on fares and freights specifi ed in Schedule I to the Act for diff erent classes of roads and motor vehicles, whichever is higher.