Undisputedly, the prosecution has not placed any material in that regard either before the trial court or the Appellate Court. Per contra, the Reports by the Jail Authorities and IHBAS would show that there is a possibility of the appellant being reformed. 72. No doubt that there is a history of previous conviction insofar as appellant Madan is concerned. However, this Court, in the case of Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik (supra), has held that the history of the convict by itself cannot be a ground for awarding him death penalty. 73. As discussed hereinabove, the appellant is of an advanced age. This Court, in the case of Babasaheb Maruti Kamble v. State of Maharashtra26, has held that advance age is one of the mitigating circumstances in favour of the convict. 74. This Court, in the case of Irappa Siddappa Murgannavar v. State of Karnataka27, has held that the period of incarceration while sitting in a death row is also one of the mitigating circumstances. In the present case, convict Madan has been incarcerated for a period of 18 years 3 months. 22 (2019) 12 SCC 460 23 (2009) 6 SCC 498 24 (2019) 12 SCC 438 25 (2023) 2 SCC 353 26 (2019) 13 SCC 640 27 (2022) 2 SCC 801 MADAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 811 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 75. This Court, in the case of Mohinder Singh (supra), has held that the fact that the prisoner has displayed good behaviour in prison, certainly goes on to show that he is not beyond reform. 76. Taking into consideration all these factors, we fi nd that the present case is not a case wherein it can be held that imposition of death penalty is the only alternative. Another reason that weighs with us is that from the evidence of the witnesses, it is clear that the role attributed to all the accused persons has been similar. The evidence of witnesses would show that the role attributed is that all the accused persons including both the appellants herein had fi red shots and indiscriminately indulged in the said fi ring. The trial court imposed capital sentence on appellants Madan and Sudesh Pal. However, insofar as accused Ishwar is concerned, though the evidence against him is on similar lines, he was sentenced to life imprisonment. The High Court, on the basis of the same evidence, though confi rmed the death penalty insofar as appellant Madan is concerned, partly allowed the appeal of Sudesh Pal and sentenced him to undergo life imprisonment. A perusal of the of the High Court would reveal that the only distinction drawn by the High Court between the cases of Sudesh Pal and Madan is the additional factor that Madan was already awarded life imprisonment in another case. As already observed hereinabove, this Court, in the case of Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik (supra), has held that past conduct does not necessarily have to be taken into consideration while imposing death penalty. At the cost of repetition, the role attributed in the evidence of the eye witnesses is identical to all the accused.