15. The respondent No. 1 feeling dissatisfi ed with the aforesaid passed by the CAT challenged the same before the High Court in W.P. (C) CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 747 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] No. 30620 of 2020. The High Court allowed the writ application fi led by the respondent No. 1 holding as under: “On the analysis of the above factual matrix, we fi nd that though the petitioner is functioning as Researcher under the Research Council/ National Institute, but as a requirement for upgrading the research skill, he treats patients in the OPD and IPD. In fact, he performs similar nature of duties like AYUSH doctor. Though his service condition is covered by diff erent laws, but for all practical purposes, the petitioner is performing like a doctor. Though there is a clear-cut distinguishing features between the AYUSH doctor and that of the petitioner. The petitioner herein is also treating the patients like AYUSH doctors in the OPDs and IPDs on regular basis. The Clause-34 and 35 of the bye-laws extends the force of the argument of the petitioner to be treated as AYUSH doctor, even though he has been appointed as Researcher. Clauses-34 & 35 of the said bye-laws deal with superannuation which read as under: “34. The rules governing the retirement of employees of the Government of India as amended from time to time or as desired by the Governing Body shall apply to the employees of the Central Council. Provided that an employee can be retained in service after prescribed age of superannuation if he continues to be physically fi t and effi cient and it is in the interest of the Central Council to retain him in service. 35. The Fundamental and Supplementary Rules and General Financial Rules of Government of India as amended from time to time shall apply mutatis mutandis to employees of the Central Council.” In view of the above, we are of the opinion that the view taken by the learned Tribunal vide its decision dated 02.11.2020 is erroneous. The learned CAT, Cuttack Bench, Cuttack has failed to consider the petitioner’s duty and devotion in treating the OPD and IPD patients. 748 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Hence, the dated 02.11.2020 passed by the learned CAT, Cuttack Bench, Cuttack is liable to be quashed and accordingly, it is quashed.” (Emphasis supplied) 16. Thus, the plain reading of the impugned passed by the High Court referred to above would indicate that what weighed with the High Court was that the respondent No. 1 herein used to treat patients like AYUSH doctors in the Out-Patient Departments (OPDs) and In-Patient Departments (IPDs) on regular basis and the duty and devotion exhibited by the respondent No. 1 in treating the OPD and IPD patients would entitle him to claim the benefi t of the enhanced age of superannuation i.e., up to 65 years. The High Court recorded the said fi nding despite acknowledging that the respondent No.