This proviso cannot be treated as declaratory/statutory or curative in nature. 38. There are various reasons for coming to this conclusion which C we enumerate hereinbelow. Reasons in support 39. The first and foremost poser is as to whether it was possible to make the block assessment with the addition of levy of surcharge, in the absence of proviso to Section 113? In Suresh N. D Gupta [CIT v. Suresh N. Gupta, (2008) 4 SCC 362] itself, it was acknowledged and admitted that the position prior to the amendment of Section 113 of the Act whereby the proviso was added, whether surcharge was payable in respect of block assessment or not, was totally ambiguous and unclear. The Court pointed out that some assessing officers had taken the view that E no surcharge is leviable. Others were at a loss to apply a particular rate of surcharge as they were not clear as to which Finance Act, prescribing such rates, was applicable. It is a matter of common knowledge and is also pointed out that the surcharge varies from year to year. However, the assessing officers were indeterminative F about the date with reference to which rates provided for in the Finance Act were to be made applicable. They had four dates before them viz. : (Suresh N. Gupta case [CIT v. Suresh N. Gupta, (2008) 4 SCC 362], SCC p. 379, para 35) (i) Whether surcharge was leviable with reference to the rates G provided for in the Finance Act of the year in which the search was initiated; or (ii) the year in which the search was concluded; or (iii) the year in which the block assessment proceedings under Section 158-BC of the Act were initiated; or H 706 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A (iv) the year in which block assessment was passed. 39.1. The position which prevailed before amending Section 113 of the Act was that some assessing officers were not levying any surcharge and others who had a view that surcharge is payable were adopting different dates for the application of a particular B Finance Act, which resulted in different rates of surcharge in the assessment s. In the absence of a specified date, it was not possible to levy surcharge and there could not have been an assessment without a particular rate of surcharge. As stated above, in Suresh N. Gupta [CIT v. Suresh N. Gupta, (2008) 4 SCC 362] itself, the Court has pointed out four different dates which were C bothering the assessees as well as the Department. The choice of a particular date would have material bearing on the payment of surcharge. Not only the surcharge is different for different years, it varies according to the category of assessees and for some years, there is no surcharge at all. This can be seen from D the following table prescribing surcharge for different assessment years: E F 39.2. The rate at which tax, or for that matter surcharge is to be G levied is an essential component of the tax regime.