Prima facie, the sign boards are display boards displayed by the appellants’ companies in the instant appeals would indicate that they have displayed on their respective premises the general information to the public about the products being dealt with by them and it would not refl ect any soliciting of customers or induce the general public to buy the products dealt by the appellants and displayed on the board. Even in such circumstances, if it is held that it amounts to advertisement, such levy would be without authority of law and would fi nd foul of Article 19(1)(a), 19(1)(g) and Article 265 of the Constitution of India. 19. In the instant case as noticed hereinabove, on the demand being raised both the appellants objected to the same and even before the ink on the objections so raised could dry or in other words even before it came to be considered they approached the High Court invoking the extra ordinary jurisdiction of the High court which was in due haste as such the dismissal of the petition though for a diff erent reason which we have not subscribed our approval, yet the end result requires to be sustained and at the same breadth we hold that impugned notices are required to be adjudicated by the fi rst respondent afresh in the light of objections fi led to the said notices. Hence, we direct the fi rst respondent to examine the objections fi led by the appellants to the impugned demand notices M/S HARSH AUTOMOBILES PRIVATE LIMITED v. INDORE 43 MUNICIPAL CORPORATION [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] expeditiously and at any rate with an outer limit of (8) eight weeks from the date of receipt of this and in the event of issue being answered against the appellants the demand raised there under shall not be enforced for a further period of (8) eight weeks from the date of such or determination. It is needless to state that appellants would be at liberty to challenge any adverse s passed by the Commissioner in accordance with law. It is also made clear that interim passed shall continue till the period indicated hereinabove. In the peculiar circumstances of the case costs made easy. 20. Accordingly, the appeals stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals disposed of. Ankit Gyan