To this extent, the findings of the Single H 718 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court are upheld. [Para 15.3][761-E-G] 1.7. The criteria for evaluation of a candidate’s performance in an interview may be diverse and some of it may be subjective. However, having submitted to the interview process with no B demur or protest, the same cannot be challenged subsequently simply because the candidate’s personal evaluation of his performance was higher than the marks awarded by the panel. Only 20 out of 100 marks were allocated for interview/viva-voce. The same is only 20% of the total marks which cannot be said to be an excessive proportion out of the total marks. Further Courts C cannot sit in over the award of marks by an interview panel. That is best left to the and wisdom of the interview panel. There is no merit in the contention of the writ petitioners regarding the award of marks to the candidates who appeared for viva-voce before the panel. Moreover, the award of 80% of the D total marks is on objective criteria depending upon the educational qualification of the individual candidates. [Para 16.2][762-E-F; 763-D-E] 1.8. The criteria was recast vide Corrigendum dated 12th June, 2009, by increasing the weightage accorded to candidates E possessing a Degree in pharmacy or pharmaceutical chemistry and advanced qualifications such as post–graduate degrees, Ph.D etc., with a view to incentivise more qualified persons who had applied for the said posts. Recasting the criteria was only with regard to allocation of marks for the respective educational qualification of the candidates. It was with a view to preserve the F standards of the selection process and was not motivated by mala fide or oblique motive. Higher the qualification a candidate possessed, higher marks were awarded. In other words, the minimum marks awarded for educational qualification was 65 and could increase to 80 depending on the higher qualifications of G the candidates. Therefore, the selection process cannot be interfered on the ground that the award of marks was recast unilaterally. The reallocation of marks based on the educational qualification was in recognition of the higher qualification of the candidates which cannot be termed to be arbitrary. It is a no brainer that any candidate who was aggrieved by the recast of marks H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 719 AND KASHMIR & ORS. would either withdraw his candidature or challenge the A Corrigendum dated 12th June, 2009 at a preliminary stage in the selection process. However, the writ petitioners did not do so. Having participated in the selection process without any demur or protest, the writ petitioners cannot challenge the same as being tainted with mala fides, merely because they were unsuccessful. B [Para 16.3][763-F-H; 764-A-C] 1.9. One of the directions issued by the Single Judge in the Writ Petitions was to retain the successful candidates but, at the same time, to consider the case of the writ petitioners for appointment in the available posts.