is necessarily heard before being so added” as extracted supra. Therefore, it was contended on behalf of appellants that in the instant case, there being no opportunity to the appellants herein of being heard, the summoning itself was vitiated and, therefore, the impugned of the High Court may be set aside as also the passed by the Sessions Court E summoning the accused. 30. It is necessary to consider the contentions of the learned counselfor the appellants in the light of what has been observed in paragraph 9 extracted above and in light of what has been observed by this Court in the subsequent paragraphs and having regard to the earlier F s of this Court referred to above in detail. 31. In paragraph 13 of Jogendra Yadav, it has been observed that the exercise of power under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. must be placed on a higher pedestal.Needless to say, the accused summoned under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. are entitled to invoke the remedy under law G against an illegal or improper exercise of power under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. but that cannot have the effect of the being undone by seeking a discharge under Section 227 of the Cr.P.C. Therefore, this Court categorically held that a person, who is summoned under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. cannot avail the remedy of discharge under Section H 227 of the Cr.P.C. In that context, this Court, as already noted, discussed YASHODHAN SINGH & ORS. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 1219 PRADESH & ANR. the difference between Sections 227 and 319 of the Cr.P.C, as extracted A above. This Court in the subsequent paras of the said has also not stated that if a person is to be summoned under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. to be added as an accused, then an opportunity must be given to such a person and only after hearing him, he could be added as an accused in the trial. We do not find that the ratio of Jogendra Yadavturns on the B said aspect. However, it is contented by learned Senior counsel Shri Nagamuthu that what has been observed in paragraph 9 of the said will make it a necessary mandate or a rule that a person who is to be summoned under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. to be added as an accused will necessarily be heard before being so added. Paragraph 9 cannot be considered tobe the ratio of the said . Further, the C context in which the observations are made in paragraph must relate to the facts of the said case where an opportunity was in fact provided to the persons summoned therein. Similarly, in the case of Ram Janam Yadav, on facts, it was noticed that the person summoned was, in fact, provided an opportunity of hearing. D 32. Merely because in certain proceedings the persons summoned had been provided an opportunity of being heard cannot be the same thing as stating that it is a mandatory requirement or a pre-condition that at the time of summoning a person under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C., he should be given an opportunity of being heard.That is not the mandate of E law inasmuch as Section 319 clearly uses the expression “to proceed”which means to proceed with the trial and not to jeopardise the trial at the instance of the person(s) summoned by conducting a mini trial or a trial within a trial thereby derailing the main trial of the case and particularly against the accused who are already facing trail and who may be in custody.