Sub-clause (ii) to clause (b) of the Explanation to Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 deals with all accrued holiday remuneration payable to any workmen E or, in the case of his death, to any other person in his right on termination of his employment, etc. Sub-clauses (iii) and (iv) of clause (b) of the Explanation to Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 are excluded from the proviso. These sub-clauses deal with liability of compensation under the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923 in respect of death or F disablement of the workmen or all sums due to any workman from the provident fund, the pension fund, the gratuity fund or any other fund of the welfare of the workmen8. What is clear from the provision is that the proviso applies in case of winding up of a company to the sums referred to in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (b) of the Explanation to Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 which are payable for a period G 8 For the purpose of the present decision, we are not required to comment on the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and the payment of workmen’s dues under the Companies Act,1956 or even Section 36 (4)(a)(iii) of the Code. However, see - Employees Provident Fund Commissioner v. Official Liquidator of Esskay Pharmaceuticals Limited, (2011) 10 H SCC 727 and Bhupinder Singh v. Unitech Limited, (2022) 8 SCC 749. MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 127 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] of two years preceding the winding up or such other period as A may be prescribed. We are not informed that a different period has been prescribed and, therefore, the sums referred to in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) to clause (b) of the Explanation to Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 are payable for two years preceding the winding up . Thus, this period of two years is with reference to the date of the winding up B , and not with reference to the date earlier in point of time, that is, when a winding up petition is filed. This restricts the period for which payment under sub-clauses (i) and (ii) to clause (b) of the Explanation to Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 would apply. Entire unpaid dues are not covered by the proviso to sub-section (1) to Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013. C 12. When we turn our attention to the Code, it is to be first noted that in terms of Section 36(4)(a)(iii) of the Code, all sums due to any workman or employee from the provident fund, the pension fund and the gratuity fund, do not form part and are not to be included in the liquidation proceedings.9 Sub-section (1) to Section 52 of the Code gives two options D to a secured creditor. First, the secured creditor in a liquidation proceeding may relinquish its security interest and receive the proceeds from the sale of assets by the liquidator in the manner specified in Section 53 of the Code.