13See, para 812 of Indra Sawhney (supra). H 14Saurav Yadav v State of Uttar Pradesh, (2021) 4 SCC 542. 822 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 13. This also leads to differential treatment of candidates belonging to the same backward class as recognized by Article 16(4) of the Constitution. An OBC candidate who is also a person with disabilities, will be given preference over a non-persons with disabilities OBC candidate in promotions, which is impermissible. Additionally, on a reading of T. Devadasan and N.M. Thomas (supra), it is relevant to note that B while reservations for backward classes are to be carried forward, the 2016 Act permits carrying forward of horizontal reservations for persons with disabilities candidates for a maximum period of two years. However, the amendment to the Constitution recognizes that ‘carry forward’ vacancies can exceed the 50% limit in promotional vacancies. This C amendment [inserting Article 16(4-B)] was upheld by this court in M. Nagaraj v Union of India.15 14. The laudable intent behind a provision such as Section 33 of the 1995 Act, and Section 34 of the 2016 Act, is undeniable. That persons with disabilities need to be accommodated, in public service, is a given. D At the same time, this reasonable accommodation ought not to open gates for demands by those benefitting other kinds of horizontal reservation, for reservation in promotional vacancies in public services. As stated at the outset, I concur with the relief proposed to the appellant, and accordingly agree with the directions contained in Datta, J.’s . E O R D E R In view of the conclusions recorded by Hon’ble Mr. Justice Dipankar Datta (concurred to by Hon’ble Mr. Justice S.R. Bhat) the appeal is disposed of in terms of the following directions: F “We direct RBI to grant notional promotion to Mr. Nair on the post of Assistant Manager Grade – ‘A’, to be effective from the date of presentation of the writ petition before the High Court, i.e., 27th September, 2006 and actual promotion from 15th September, 2014, i.e., the last date for compliance of the G of the High Court. This exercise must be completed within a period of 2 (two) months from date. The monetary benefits accruing to Mr. Nair with effect from 15th September, 2014 shall be computed and released by 4 (four) months from date. H 15M. Nagaraj v Union of India, (2006) 8 SCC 212. RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 823 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Since Mr. Nair has a couple of years for his retirement on A superannuation, it is needless to observe that in computing is retiral benefits due regard shall be given to his promotion, as directed above, with effect from 27th September, 2006. The appeals stand disposed of on the above terms. Parties shall bear their own costs.” B Nidhi Jain Appeals disposed of. (Assisted by : Tamana, LCRA) C D E F G H