While in the s in the cases of Purshottam s/o Shankar Ghodegaonkar (supra) and Vinayak M. Dessai (supra), the learned single judges of this Court have laid down that documents cannot be produced directly at the stage of cross-examination for confronting a witness so as to spring a surprise upon him / her, in the case of Upper India Couper Paper Mills Co. Ltd. (supra), the learned single Judge has held that the words ‘nothing in this rule’ used in VIII Rule 1-A of the 5 2004 SCC Online Bom 716 874 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. CPC demonstrate that a document can be produced directly at the stage of cross-examination and that there was no necessity of furnishing such document in advance to the witness, to ensure potency and eff ectiveness of cross-examination. 18. Having perused the above-quoted provision of VII Rule 14, VIII Rule 1-A(4) and XIII Rule 1(3) of the CPC, in my opinion, the use of the words nothing in this rule / sub-rule’, indicates that documents can certainly be produced directly at the stage of cross-examination of a party or a witness so as to confront him/ her and that this would be necessary for eff ective cross-examination of the party or witness. But, the observations made by learned single Judges in the cases of Purshottam s/o Shankar Ghodegaonkar (supra) and Vinayak M. Dessai (supra), appear to be holding a contrary view and, therefore, there appears to be confl ict of opinions with reference to the said issue also.” (Emphasis Supplied) 5.3 Thence, the judge framed three questions and referred the same to be answered. The questions and their respective conclusions arrived at by the learned Division Bench, subject matter of the present appeal are extracted as under:- “40. We, therefore answer the questions under reference as under:— 1. Whether a party to a suit i.e. A party to a suit (plaintiff /defendant) plaintiff /or defendant is also cannot be equated with a witness. a witness and the provisions The provisions of VII, Rule of VII, Rule 14, 14(4), VIII, Rule 1-A(4) which VIII, Rule 1-A(4)(a) and includes Rule 1-A(4)(a) and XIII, Rule 1(3)(a) of the XIII, Rule 1(3) which includes Rule Civil Procedure Code need 1(3)(a) of Civil Procedure Code are to be interpreted and applied not applicable to a party, who enters by equating “party” with a the witness box to tender evidence “witness” in his own cause. The provisions are applicable to a witness alone. MOHAMMED ABDUL WAHID v. NILOFER & ANR. 875 2. Whether documents can Documents can be directly produced be directly produced at the at the stage of cross-examination stage of cross-examination of a witness, (who is not a party to of a party and/or a witness the suit), to confront the witness to confront him/her without for refreshing his memory, under seeking any prior leave of the VII, Rule 14(4); VIII, Court under VII, Rule Rule 1-A(4) and XIII, Rule 14(4), VIII, Rules 1(A) 3 of Civil Procedure Code without (4)(a) and XIII, Rule seeking prior leave of the Court.