142. The decisions of this Court in Patel Engineering (supra) and Boghara Polyfab (supra) allowed for greater judicial interference at the pre-arbitral stage. In eff ect, the referral courts were encouraged to conduct mini-trials instead of summarily dealing with the preliminary issues. This was also noted by the Law Commission of India, which observed that judicial intervention in the arbitral proceedings is a pervasive problem in 142 (2009) 1 SCC 267 116 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. India leading to signifi cant delays in the arbitration process.143 The Law Commission recognized that one of the problems plaguing implementation of the Arbitration Act was that Section 11 applications were kept pending for years by the courts. To remedy the situation, the Law Commission proposed changing the then existing scheme of the power of appointment being vested in the “Chief Justice” to the “High Court” and the “Supreme Court”. It also clarifi ed that the power of appointment of arbitrators ought not to be regarded as a judicial act. 143. Signifi cantly, the Law Commission observed that there was a need to reduce judicial intervention at the pre-arbitral stage, that is, prior to the constitution of the arbitral tribunal. Accordingly, it proposed limiting the scope of the judicial intervention at the referral stage under Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act “to situations where the Court/ Judicial Authority fi nds that the arbitration agreement does not exist or is null and void.” The Law Commission suggested insertion of sub-section 6A under Section 11 which would read: “Any appointment by the High Court or the person or institution designated by it under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or sub- section (6) shall not be made only if the High Court fi nds that the arbitration does not exist or is null and void.” In light of the recommendations of the Law Commission, Parliament passed the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act 2015144 to incorporate Section 11(6-A). 144. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the 2015 Amendment Act states that sub-section (6A) is inserted in Section 11 to provide that the Supreme Court or the High Court while considering application under sub-section (4) to (6) “shall confi ne to the examination of an arbitration agreement.” With the coming into force of the 2015 Amendment Act, the nature of preliminary examination at the referral stage under Section 11 was confi ned to the existence of an arbitration agreement. It also incorporates a non-obstante clause which covers “any , decree or of any Court.” By virtue of the non-obstante clause, Section 11(6A) has set out a new position of law, which takes away the basis of the position laid down by the previous decisions of this Court in Patel Engineering (supra) and 143 Law Commission of India, 246th Report (2014) 144 “2015 Amendment Act” IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1163 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] Boghara Polyfab (supra).