The Supreme Court in a recent had the occasion to look at the process of compulsory land acquisition where the landowners had practically no means to oppose the proposed acquisition. A two judge bench in Vidya Devi v. State of H.P14 speaking through Indu Malhotra J. made the following signifi cant observation: “12.2. The right to property ceased to be a fundamental right by the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978, however, it continued to be a human right (Tukaram Kana Joshi v. Maharashtra Industrial Development Corpn. [Tukaram Kana Joshi v. Maharashtra Industrial Development Corpn., (2013) 1 SCC 353 : (2013) 1 SCC (Civ) 491] ) in a welfare State, and a constitutional right under Article 300-A of the Constitution. Article 300-A provides that no person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law. The State cannot dispossess a citizen of his property except in accordance with the procedure established by law. The obligation to pay compensation, though not expressly included in Article 300-A, can be inferred in that Article [K.T. Plantation (P) Ltd. v. State of Karnataka [K.T. Plantation (P) Ltd. v. State of Karnataka, (2011) 9 SCC 1 : (2011) 4 SCC (Civ) 414] ]. 12.3. To forcibly dispossess a person of his private property, without following due process of law, would be violative of a human right, as also the constitutional right under Article 300-A of the Constitution.” 17. The signifi cance of complying with procedural requirements cannot, therefore, be overstated. iii) Burden is on the Authority to fulfi l procedural requirements under Section 52 of the 1959 Act 14 (2020) 2 SCC 569 URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 535 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] 18. Returning to the facts of the present case, let us now consider the implication of Section 52 of the 1959 Act. The provision having a bearing in this discussion, is extracted below: “52. Compulsory Acquisition of Land- (1) Where on a representation from the Trust it appears to the State Government that any land is required for the purpose of improvement or for any other purpose under this Act, the State Government may acquire such land by publishing in the offi cial Gazette a notice specifying the particular purpose for which land is required and stating that the State Government has decided to acquire the land in pursuance of this Section. (2) Before publishing a notice under sub-section (1), the State Government shall by another notice call upon the owner of the land and any other person who in the opinion of the State Government may be interested therein to show cause, within such time as may be specifi ed in the notice, why the land should not be acquired. (3) After considering the cause, if any, shown by the owner of the land and by any other person interested therein and after giving such owner and person an opportunity of being heard, the State Government may pass such s as it deems fi t. (4) When a notice under sub-section (1) is published in the offi cial gazette, the land shall on and from the date of such publication, vest absolutely in the State Government free from all encumberances.