Shri Tewari, in a nutshell, submitted that the dwelling units cannot be construed to be the same as apartments under the 2001 Rules, and therefore it is permissible for more than one person to construct a building jointly and occupy the shares of building as per their respective E shares. It is submitted that, when the Rules and Provisions permitting three storeys are not challenged, it would not be permissible for the appellants to contend that the construction of three storeys, wherein three different persons reside, is not permissible in law. It is submitted that the CMP-2031 has considered everything and further that the said CMP-2031 has also not been challenged. F 37. Shri Tewari submitted that if the contention as raised on behalf of the appellants is accepted, then an anomalous situation would arise inasmuch as co-owners who are part of one family would be entitled to construct three apartments whereas others could not. This would lead to a situation where some co-owners are superior to others. G 38. Shri Gaurav Chopra submitted that there is nothing in law which prohibits three strangers to purchase a plot from one person and 4 1918 SCC OnLine PC 2 5AIR 1961 P&H 528 6(2009) 15 SCC 747 H 7(2020) 15 SCC 605 RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 621 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] then develop the said plot by constructing a building having three different A floors and occupy the said floors. He submitted that there is no bar for the same either under Rule 14 of the 1960 Rules or Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules. He submitted that if the contention of the appellants is accepted, it would lead to an anomalous situation wherein a person, who has in a bona fide manner purchased a share of a building and consequently B occupied a floor of such a building, would be deprived of selling the same. He submitted that such an inference would put unreasonable restrictions on the rights of the person to deal with the property. Shri Chopra submitted that a perusal of the CMP-2031 itself would reveal that the original concept itself included re-densification of Phase-I in to accommodate the growing population of the city. The learned C Senior Counsel submitted that the Expert Committee constituted for preparation of CMP-2031 has considered all these aspects. He submitted that the CMP-2031 itself would show that Phase-I (Sectors 1 to 30) had a holding capacity of 34 persons per acre whereas the present density is only 26 persons per acre. It is therefore submitted that the CMP- 2031 D itself would reveal that there was a scope for additional units in Phase-I. He submitted that when the CMP-2031, which is a result of an elaborate exercise by the experts in the field, permits such a development, there is nothing which would prohibit such development. 39. Shri Chopra further submitted that Section 5 of the Transfer E of Property Act, 1882 (for short, “the TP Act”) itself permits transfer of property to one or more living persons.