The charge-sheet under the PoC Act includes off ences for unlawful gains to a private person at the expense of the public exchequer. Reference in this regard is made to the provisions of Sections 7, 7A, 8 and 12 of the PoCAct. 23. Clauses (a) and (b) to Section 7 of the PoC Act47 apply: (a) when 47 Section 7 of PoC Act reads: “7. Off ence relating to public servant being bribed.—Any public servant who,— (a) obtains or accepts or attempts to obtain from any person, an undue advantage, with the intention to perform or cause performance of public duty improperly or dishonestly or to forbear or cause forbearance to perform such duty either by himself or by another public servant; or (b) obtains or accepts or attempts to obtain, an undue advantage from any person as a reward for the improper or dishonest performance of a public duty or for forbearing to perform such duty either by himself or another public servant; or 506 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. a public servant obtains, accepts or intends to obtain from another person undue advantage with the intent to perform or fail to improperly or to forbear or cause forbearance to cause by himself or by another person; (b) obtains or accepts or attempts to obtain undue advantage from a person as a reward or dishonest performance of a public duty or forbearance to perform such duty,either by himself or by another public servant. Explanation (2) construes the words and expression,“obtains, accepts or attempts to obtain”, as to cover cases where a public servant obtains, accepts or intends to obtain any undue advantage by abusing his position as a public servant or by using his personal interest over another public servant by any other corrupt or illegal means. It is immaterial whether such person being a public servant accepts or attempts to obtain the undue advantage directly or through a third party. 24. On this aspect of the off ences under the PoC Act, the CBI has submitted that conspiracy and involvement of the appellant – Manish Sisodia is well established. For the sake of clarity, without making any additions, subtractions, or a detailed analysis, we would like to recapitulate what is stated in the chargesheet fi led by the CBI against the appellant – Manish Sisodia: (c) performs or induces another public servant to perform improperly or dishonestly a public duty or to forbear performance of such duty in anticipation of or in consequence of accepting an undue advantage from any person, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three years but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fi ne. Explanation 1.—For the purpose of this section, the obtaining, accepting, or the attempting to obtain an undue advantage shall itself constitute an off ence even if the performance of a public duty by public servant, is not or has not been improper. Illustration.—A public servant, ‘S’ asks a person, ‘P’ to give him an amount of fi ve thousand rupees to process his routine ration card application on time.