The non-parties have come up with D applications for leave to file Special Leave Petitions and those applications have already been allowed. 92. Apart from the appeals, there were also a few applications for impleadment, which may have to be addressed separately. Therefore, for the purpose of clarity, we shall divide this into nine parts, as E detailed hereunder: Part-I — will contain the meaning of certain peculiar words and expressions used throughout. Part-II— will contain details about who is pitted against whom in this battle. F Part-III— will contain details as to how (i) the appellants;(ii) claim petitioners; and (iii)the State Government are claiming title to the very same property. Part-IV— will deal with the issues arising for consideration in G this batch of appeals (including the appeals filed by the State of Telangana). Part-V — will deal with the claims of those whose impleadment applications were dismissed by the High Court but whose cases are similar to that of the claim petitioners. H 328 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Part-VI— will deal with appeals by non-parties to the impugned challenging one portion of the impugned . Part-VII – will deal with I.A. No. 118143 of 2022 filed by Mohd. Mustaffuddin Khan and others (legal heirs of defendant No.52) seeking to intervene in the appeal arising out of SLP (Civil) No. 8884 of 2022. B Part-VIII— will deal with I.A. No.112090 of 2022 filed by an Asset Reconstruction Company. Part-IX— will deal with I.A.No. 36422 of 2023 filed by Durga Matha Co-operative House Building Society Ltd. Part-I: C Decoding certain words and expressions 93. Before we proceed further, it may be necessary to decode certain words and expressions used in these proceedings from the beginning. If not, they will continue to haunt and frighten the reader. D Therefore, a glossary is presented as under: E F G 6 (2001) 8 SCC 599 titled “Jamil Ahmad and Others vs. Vth Addl. Distt. Judge, Moradabad and Others” 7 (1987) 1 SCC 52 titled “Himmatsinghji v. State of Rajasthan”. 8 AIR 1955 SC 504, 520, 521: (1955) 2 SCR 303 titled “Thakur Amar Singhji v. State H of Rajasthan” M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 329 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] A B C Part-II: Who is fighting whom? D 94. Unlike the routine run-of-the mill matters that come up before this Court where there are usually two parties to the disputes, there are several parties to the dispute on hand. On the one hand we have persons claiming title to the property on the basis of a preliminary decree and final decree in a suit for partition. On the other hand, we have persons E (who were claim petitioners before the Executing Court) who claimed independent title on the basis of pattas granted to their predecessors, after the abolition of Jagir. We also have the State of Telangana staking a claim to the property in entirety on the ground that the property had vested in them long time ago.