Further decision taken was that in other States MALIK MAZHAR SULTAN v. U P PUBLIC SERVICE 687 COMMISSION [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] where selection of subordinate judicial offi cers is not being done by the High Courts, such selection be entrusted to the High Courts by amending relevant Rules. In this connection, with the affi davit fi led on behalf of the Calcutta High Court, a copy of the letter dated 15th September, 2006, addressed by the Registrar General of the said Court to the Secretary, Judicial Department, Government of West Bengal, has also been annexed. That letter refers to the aforesaid decision taken in the Conference of Chief Ministers and Chief Justices held on 11th March, 2006 requesting the State Government for eff ecting suitable amendment in the recruitment rules in terms of the decision in the Conference above-referred. At this stage, however, these are not the issues for our consideration. As already indicated, the selection is to be conducted by authorities empowered to do so as per the existing Rules.” 5. In the above observations, the Court observed that selections are required to be conducted in terms of existing judicial service rules in the States/Union Territories. The Court expressed the view that a consensus has to be evolved so that the selection process can be conducted by the High Courts or by the Public Service Commissions under the control and supervision of the High Courts. The above extract contains a reference to a decision which was arrived at during the Conference between the Chief Justices and Chief Ministers. Several States where the selection was being conducted by the Public Service Commissions had agreed to entrust the process to the High Courts. Certain States (Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, Punjab and Kerala) desired that the existing system may continue, but the drawing up of question papers and evaluation of answer sheets would be entrusted to the High Court. In States where the selection was not being done by the High Courts, it was expected that the selection should be entrusted to them by amending the relevant Rules. This Court rejected the submission that the constitution of a Committee by the Chief Justice to oversee the process of appointment to the judicial service would amount to an encroachment on the functioning the State Public Service Commissions, since the object and purport of doing so was to ensure that the vacancies are filled up on a timely basis and the problem of delay in the dispensation of justice is tackled. 688 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 6. On 15 January 2007, the Registrar General of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana conveyed to the State Government that in view of the dated 4 January 2007 in Malik Mazhar Sultan (supra), the vacancies in the cadre of Civil Judge and District Judge up to 15 January every year will be notifi ed by the High Court and the process of recruitment would be conducted by the High Court “at its end” by advertising the posts, conducting the examination and declaring the results.