The overall objective behind the lease, despite having changed hands from JKSL to Respondent No. 1, remained unaltered. 21. The AAIFR scheme contained various requirements that E Respondent No. 1 was mandated to fulfil. Among these included the revival of the industrial units at the site which JKSL had no longer been in sufficient financial health to operate. Further, as also necessitated by the scheme, the aforementioned tripartite settlement agreements between Respondent No. 1, JKSL, and the workers unions was to be given effect F to. The settlement agreements fixed the compensation payable to the workers at Rs. 40.42 Crores, and also envisaged that the workers in question would receive employment in the industrial units that would, henceforth, be managed by Respondent No. 1. The relevant portions of the AAIFR scheme are worth reproduction: G “9 Identification of JV Partner 9.1 The Arfat Group are identified by JKSL after an extensive search undertaken by the Company with the help of M/s Access International (Access) a Boston based consultancy Company… H 262 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 9.2 Disposal of individual assets of Kota units was not possible or practical without resolution of the on-going labour disputes and settlement of labour liabilities. One the important consideration for revival was assumption of the labour liability by the prospective buyer as workers dues were very high and without settlement of the same revival was not possible. Therefore, in to evaluate B the offers received. It was decided by the Company in consultation with Access to analyse them on the basis of Quantum offer no. of units being restarted total no. of jobs being created and willingness of the higher regarding resolution of labour disputes and assumption of labour liabilities.” C 22. Pursuant to the AAIFR scheme, Respondent No. 1 initially restarted one of the units for manufacture of acrylic fibre. The remaining 6 units remained comatose. Unfortunately, the sole unit that was rejuvenated suffered a purported fire in October, 2007, after only a brief period of operation and just 6 months after the transfer lease deeds D were signed, which resulted in the shutdown of the factory. Consequently, the overall objective of reviving the industrial units in the LIA, Kota, was frustrated. The offshoot of this was a decade of litigation primarily involving the workers unions and Respondent No. 1, regarding the latter’s failure to revive the industrial units as contemplated in the AAIFR scheme. E 23. The workmen initiated proceedings before multiple forums including the National Company Law Tribunal, the Rajasthan High Court, the BIFR and AAIFR, in their attempt to recover their dues and have the rehabilitation scheme implemented. Among these litigations was an SLP, and resultant Review Petitions filed before this Court concerning F directions issued by AAIFR to Respondent No. 1. The directions were in favour of the workmen and in furtherance of the rehabilitation scheme that AAIFR had previously approved. However, in appeal, the Rajasthan High Court ruled that AAIFR had no jurisdiction over Respondent No.