If the statement recorded is not correct, then, the very utility of recording such a statement would get lost. It is in this context that the customs offi cer who is empowered under Section 108 to record statement etc. has the onerous responsibility to see to it that the statement is recorded in a fair and judicious manner providing for procedural safeguards to the concerned person to ensure that the statement 198 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. so recorded, which is admissible in evidence, can meet the standard of basic judicial principles and natural justice. It is axiomatic that when a statement is admissible as a piece of evidence, the same has to conform to minimum judicial standards. Certainly a statement recorded under duress or coercion cannot be used against the person making the statement. It is for the adjudicating authority to fi nd out whether there was any duress or coercion in the recording of such a statement since the adjudicating authority exercises quasi-judicial powers. 29. Proceeding ahead, we fi nd that the department, after rejecting the price declared as per the import invoices, had invoked Rule 8 of the Customs Valuation Rules straightaway instead of going through Rules 5, 6 and 7 thereof sequentially. This was approved by the adjudicating authority after rejecting the submission of the respondents that contemporaneous imports of similar goods by M/s Bharat Electronics and M/s K.S. International had prices comparable with the prices declared by the respondents in the import invoices. 30. Before we deal with this aspect, we may advert to the relevant legal provisions. Section 2 (41) of the Customs Act defi nes the expression ‘value’. It says ‘value’ in relation to any goods means the value thereof determined in accordance with the provisions of sub-Section (1) of Section 14 (w.e.f. 10.10.2007 this defi nition has been amended to include sub-Section (2) of Section 14 as well). 31. Section 14 of the Customs Act provides for valuation of goods. Before the amendment in 2007, Section 14 read as under: 14. Valuation of goods for purposes of assessment- (1) For the purposes of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975), or any other law for the time being in force whereunder a duty of customs is chargeable on any goods by reference to their value, the value of such goods shall be deemed to be- the price at which such or like goods are ordinarily sold, or off ered for sale, for delivery at the time and place of importation or exportation, as the case may be, in the course or international trade, where- (a) the seller and the buyer have no interest in the business of each other; or COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 199 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] (b) one of them has no interest in the business of the other, and the price is the sole consideration for the sale or off er for sale: Provided that such price shall be calculated with reference to the rate of exchange as in force on the date on which a bill of entry is presented under Section 46, or a shipping bill or bill of export, as the case may be, is presented under section 50; (1A) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), the price referred to in that sub-section in respect of imported goods shall be determined in accordance with the rules made in this behalf.