The only condition is that such LCDs should not constitute “articles” provided more specifically in other headings. In H CCE, AURANGABAD v. M/S VIDEOCON INDUSTRIES LTD. 279 THR. ITS DIRECTOR [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the present case, it is also not in dispute that LCDs imported A by the appellant did not constitute any such “article” which is more specifically provided in other headings. On the contrary, the Revenue wants to include in the same chapter i.e. Chapter 90, though under Entry 9028.90.10 as “parts and accessories”. The only reason for including the goods B under Chapter Heading 9028 is that the LCDs were to be used in the electricity supply meters. However, Entry 9028 does not pertain to LCDs but gas, liquid, etc. and includes electricity supply meters as well. Merely because these LCDs are to be used as parts in the said electricity supply meters, can it be said that they are to be included in Entry 9028? C Here, Note 2 of this Chapter Notes becomes important since LCDs are used in the electricity supply meters only as parts thereof. Note 2(a) stipulates that parts and accessories which are goods included in the heading of the said chapter i.e. Chapter 90, are to be classified in their respective headings. D Going by the plain reading of Note 2(a) it is clear that LCDs, which are goods and are used as parts in the final product mentioned in Chapter 90, namely, electricity supply meters, are to be classified in its respective heading. Respective heading, which is specifically provided is 9013. E 18. It was sought to be argued by Ms Kiran Suri that as per Note 2(b), when these LCDs are used solely for particular instrument, namely, electricity supply meter, it has to be classified with the said meter and, therefore, Chapter Entry 9028 would get attracted. However, this argument loses sight F of the fact that Note 2(b) relates to “other parts and accessories”, namely, it would apply to those parts and accessories for which Note 2(a) is inapplicable. Once we find that in the present case Note 2(a) squarely applies, the irresistible conclusion is that the goods will be classified in Tariff Item 9013, which is the specific heading for these G goods.” 29. In view of the above decisions and the foregoing reasoning, the CESTAT’s reasoning and conclusions, in both cases, that the LCD H 280 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A sets were under Chapter 90, Entry 9013.8010, is sound and unexceptionable. Consequently, the appeals have to fail and are dismissed, without on costs. Divya Pandey Appeals dismissed. B (Assisted by : Kritika Singh and Shevali Monga, LCRAs) C D E F G H