The Court read down Exception 2 as exempting a man from the off ence of rape if his wife was above the age of eighteen. Currently, it is a punishable off ence for a man to have sexual intercourse with a child, regardless of whether that child is his wife. It is evident that the law governing marriage has come a long way from Phulmoni Das’ time. IV. Other violence in marriage 114. Acts which were once considered the norm in a marriage are no longer countenanced by the law. The giving and taking of dowry, which was and continues to be prevalent in most communities, was criminalised by the enactment of the Dowry Prohibition Act 1961. Prior to its enactment, there was no penalty in law for demanding, giving, or accepting dowry. The family of the bride was often expected to pay large sums of money or present “gift” items of value to the groom or his family, as a condition of the marriage. The maternal families of innumerable women are harassed and violence is infl icted upon them, in relation to demands for dowry. Parliament inserted Section 498-A of the IPC in 1983. Section 498-A criminalizes the act of a husband or his relative subjecting her to cruelty, as defi ned in the section. In many cases, the matrimonial families (the husband, the mother-in-law, the father-in-law, and other relatives) murdered the woman because of what they viewed as insuffi cient dowry or unmet demands for dowry. This led 104 “POCSO Act” 105 (2017) 10 SCC 800 131 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. to Parliament amending the IPC in 1986 to include Section 304-B which criminalises ‘dowry death.’ 115. These provisions of law did not, however, adequately account for gender-based violence in a marriage which are unconnected to dowry. Domestic violence was (and continues to be) prevalent. About two decades ago, the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act 2005 was enacted to protect the rights of women who were survivors or victims of domestic violence, either by their husbands or the relatives of their husbands. Prior to the enactment of the law, intimate partner violence which women are generally subject to was not criminalized. V. Inter-caste and interfaith marriage 116. Inter-caste and interfaith marriages were uncommon in the colonial era and established customs or usages did not govern such marriages. Then, as now, society subjected those who entered into inter-caste and interfaith marriages to discrimination and violence. There was initially no legal framework in place which governed such marriages. The Special Marriage Act 1872 was enacted to enable the solemnisation of marriages independent of personal law. If two people belonging to diff erent religions wished to marry, they were each required to renounce their respective religion in to avail of its provisions. The law at the time did not supply a framework in terms of which two persons belonging to diff erent religions could retain their association or spiritual connection to their respective religions and still marry one another.