It did not, however, empower the licensee company to take recourse to the coercive measure of disconnection of electricity supply, for recovery of the additional demand.” H (emphasis supplied) 708 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 128. The exposition of law by this Court in Rahamatullah Khan (supra) was considered by a coordinate bench in Prem Cortex (supra). A consumer was served with a short assessment notice and the Court had to consider whether short billing and the subsequent raising of an additional demand would tantamount to a deficiency of service. This Court observed that the bar contemplated in Section 56 operates on two B distinct rights of the licensee, namely, the right to recover and the right to disconnect. This Court observed that under the law of limitation, the remedy and not the right is extinguished. The bar with reference to the remedy of disconnection was held to be an exception to the law of limitation. This Court further considered the impact of Section 56(1) on C Section 56(2) and observed: “15. Therefore, the bar actually operates on two distinct rights of the licensee, namely, (i) the right to recover; and (ii) the right to disconnect. The bar with reference to the enforcement of the right to disconnect, is actually an exception to D the law of limitation. Under the law of limitation, what is extinguished is the remedy and not the right. To be precise, what is extinguished by the law of limitation, is the remedy through a court of law and not a remedy available, if any, de hors through a court of law. However, section 56(2) bars not merely the normal remedy of recovery but also bars the remedy of disconnection. E This is why we think that the second part of Section 56(2) is an exception to the law of limitation. …. 23. Coming to the second aspect, namely, the impact of Sub- section (1) on Sub-section (2) of Section 56, it is seen that the F bottom line of Subsection (1) is the negligence of any person to pay any charge for electricity. Sub-section (1) starts with the words “where any person neglects to pay any charge for electricity or any sum other than a charge for electricity due from him”. 24. Sub-section (2) uses the words “no sum due from any G consumer under this Section”. Therefore, the bar under Sub- section (2) is relatable to the sum due under Section 56. This naturally takes us to Sub-section (1) which deals specifically with the negligence on the part of a person to pay any charge for electricity or any sum other than a charge H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 709 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] for electricity. What is covered by section 56, under sub- A section (1), is the negligence on the part of a person to pay for electricity and not anything else nor any negligence on the part of the licensee.” (emphasis supplied) B 129.