The bar from raising finances could be fatal for the borrower leading to its ‘civil death’ in addition to the infraction of their rights under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. Since debarring disentitles B a person or entity from exercising their rights and/or privileges, it is elementary that the principles of natural justice should be made applicable and the person against whom an action of debarment is sought should be given an opportunity of being heard.Indeed, debarment is akin to blacklisting a borrower from availing credit. Black’s Law Dictionary30 explains the term ‘blacklist’ has been defined in the following terms: C “A list of persons marked out for special avoidance, antagonism, or enmity on the part of those who prepare the list or those among whom it is intended to circulate; as where a trades-union “blacklists” workmen who refuse to conform to its rules, or where a list of insolvent or untrustworthy persons is published by D a commercial agency or mercantile association.” (emphasis supplied) Similarly, P Ramanatha Aiyar’s Law Lexicon31 defines the term “blacklist” as follows: E “Black List is a list of persons or firms against whom its compiler would warn the public, or some section of the public; a list of persons unworthy of credit, or with whom it is not advisable to make contracts. Thus the official list of defaulters on the Stock Exchange is a black list. To put a man’s name on such a black list without lawful cause is actionable; and the further F publication of such a list will be restrained by injunction.” (emphasis supplied) 43. A blacklist is: (i) a list of insolvent or untrustworthy persons published by a commercial agency or mercantile association; and (ii) a G list of persons unworthy of credit, or with whom it is not advisable to make contracts. Before this Court, the RBI and lender banks have 30 Black’s Law Dictionary, 5thedn (1979) 31 P Ramanatha Aiyar, ‘The Law Lexicon: The Encyclopedic Law Dictionary’ (1997 edn) H 510 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A submitted that debarring borrowers from accessing institutional finance is necessary to not only prevent the same persons from committing frauds in other banks, but also to proscribe banks from dealing with unscrupulous borrowers in public interest. Debarring a borrower under Clause 8.12.1 of the Master Directions on Frauds is akin to blacklisting the borrower for being untrustworthy and unworthy of credit by the banks. This Court B has consistently held that an opportunity of a hearing ought to be provided before a person is put on a blacklist. 44. In Erusian Equipment & Chemicals Ltd v. State of West Bengal32, the issue before this Court was whether a person is entitled to a notice to be heard before being blacklisted by the government. This C Court held that since blacklisting affects the privileges of the blacklisted person, fundamentals of fair play require that such a person be provided an opportunity of being heard: “20. Blacklisting has the effect of preventing a person from the privilege and advantage of entering into lawful relationship with D the Government for purposes of gains.