5. Shri Nikhil Goel, learned AAG has appeared on behalf of the State of Karnataka and the respective learned counsel have appeared on behalf of the respective purchasing dealers. 6. Shri Nikhil Goel, learned AAG appearing on behalf of the State D has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has materially erred in dismissing the revision applications and confirming the respective s passed by the Appellate Authorities in allowing the Input Tax Credit in favour of the respective purchasing dealers. E 6.1 It is vehemently submitted that the High Court has not properly appreciated that when the Assessing Officer doubted the genuineness of the transactions/sales and when it was found that the sale transactions were only paper transactions and even in some of the cases, the registration of the sellers were cancelled and nothing was on record that F any tax was paid by the seller, the purchasing dealers shall not be entitled to the Input Tax Credit. 6.2 It is vehemently submitted by Shri Nikhil Goel, learned AAG appearing on behalf of the State that the High Court ought to have appreciated that as such a duty is cast upon the purchasing dealers to G prove the transactions/financial transfers, which in the present case, the purchasing dealers failed to discharge. It is submitted that for the purposes of Section 70 of the KVAT Act, 2003, the burden required to be discharged is slightly higher than showing financial transfers and should show actual movement of goods. It is submitted that mere production of invoices or even payment to the seller by cheque cannot be said to be sufficient and H THE STATE OF KARNATAKA v. M/S ECOM GILL COFFEE 653 TRADING PRIVATE LIMITED [M. R. SHAH, J.] may not be said to discharging the burden to claim Input Tax Credit, to A be discharged under Section 70 of the KVAT Act, 2003. It is submitted that actual movement of goods is required to be established and proved, over and above the invoices, payment by cheques and actual payment and even the demand of tax by the seller. 6.3 Shri Goel, learned AAG has heavily relied upon the decision B of the Karnataka High Court in the case of M/s. Bhagadia Brothers Vs. Additional Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, STA No. 4 of 2018 dated 29.01.2020, against which the special leave petition has been dismissed as well as the decision of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Madhav Steel Corporation Vs. State of Gujarat, Tax Appeal C No. 742 of 2013 and other allied tax appeals against which also the special leave petition has been dismissed, however, keeping the question of law open and has also relied upon another decision of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Shreeji Impex Vs. State of Gujarat, Tax Appeal No. 330 of 2014, 2014 SCC OnLine Guj 8074, in support of his above submissions. D 6.4 It is further submitted by Shri Nikhil Goel, learned AAG appearing on behalf of the State that the High Court has failed to appreciate that the revenue cannot recover from the seller who is not registered or who has filed ‘NIL’ returns, thereby denying sale.