LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Limited v Solar Semi-Conductors Power Company (Pvt) Ltd (Supra) A holding that if the state commission re-determines the tariff, it cannot force the appellants to continue the PPAs or enter into a contract based on such increased tariff. Furthermore, it is argued that the principle that WPDs having validly executed the PPAs cannot seek a modification to the tariff terms and conditions contained in the PPAs under a prevalent B dispensation for an increase in the tariff or for any other terms and conditions: counsel referred to Transmission Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Ltd v Sai Renewable Power Private Limited (hereafter “Transmission Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Ltd”)21; Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited v EMCO Limited (hereafter “Emco Ltd”)22; and Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited v ACME Solar Technologies C (Gujarat) Pvt Ltd & Others23 in support of the above contention. 24. Mr. Sundaram argued – for the appellants that the plea of coercion or duress or unequal bargaining etc, raised by the WPDs was patently erroneous for the following reasons: (a) the petition before the state commission was filed only by the first two Respondents; therefore, D it cannot be a ground for alleging coercion against all WPDs; (b) the allegations by the said two Respondents were vague and unsubstantiated, and an afterthought as no such plea was raised till December 2013, i.e., till after the amended CERC Regulations; and (c) as held by this Court such plea of coercion had to be specifically pleaded and proved. In this E regard, reliance was placed on Transmission Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Ltd (Supra). 25. It is further argued that there is no Regulation of the state or central commissions prohibiting a term being incorporated in PPA which permits an option to either party to switch from REC mechanism to F Preferential Tariff Mechanism. The impugned had not considered s referred to by the appellants on clauses granting power to one party to cancel the contract. In this regard, reliance is placed on Central Bank of India v Hartford Fire Insurance Co. Ltd24; and Her Highness Maharani Shantidevi P Gaikwad v Savjibai Haribai Patel & Ors25. G 21 (2010) 8 SCR 636 22 (2016) 1 SCR 857 23 (2017) 16 SCC 498 24 AIR 1965 SC 1288 25 2001 (5) SCC 101 H 690 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Respondents’ Submissions 26. Mr. Shyam Divan and Mr. Dhruv Mehta, learned senior counsels appearing for the first two respondents urged that State Commission had jurisdiction in the present case. Reliance was placed on the definitional clause of the PPA (Article 1.1) to submit that B commission meant ‘State Commission’. It was urged that in terms of the extant regulatory framework, (which provided for regulatory oversight by the appropriate commission), PPAs executed by generating companies and distribution licensees necessarily required approval by the appropriate commission. Firstly, Section 86(1)(b) of the Act specifically vests the State Commission with the power to regulate the electricity purchase C and procurement process of distribution licensees including the price at which electricity shall be procured from the generating companies.