In these circumstances, the findings of APTEL, not based on any stipulated obligations under provisions of the state regulations, requiring approval of the state H GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 673 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. commission, for its operation, cannot be sustained. [Paras 45- A 48][699-F-G; 700-B-F] 2. Whether change in the REC Regulations obliged revision of the PPA in this case Section 61 of the Act enacts the basis for tariff B determination. On the other hand, Section 62 is concerned with the fixation of various other charges and tariffs. Section 64 lists the manner and procedure for tariff determination by the Commission. Section 86 lists the functions of the Commission and reiterates the determination of tariffs to be a prominent task of the commission. Tariff determination no doubt, comprehends C the exercise of regulatory function, including purchase, sourcing, procurement of electricity from generators, by distribution and other licensees, and their sales. This part involves generating companies entering into PPA(s) with procuring entities or licensees. Tariff fixation is a statutory function. Yet, by virtue of D Section 42, it is subject to open access determination of the price of power, and subject to Section 63 wherever it involves open bidding. In the facts of this case, the PPA incorporated a tariff between the respondents and Gujarat Urja constituted the tariff fixed by the State Regulatory Commission in the exercise of its statutory powers. The issue and sale of RECs, constituted an E important part of that bargain, between the two parties, based on the assessment of their commercial interest. The important feature of the REC Mechanism is that in it, WPDs (i.e. respondents) had to sell power to distribution licensees at a mutually agreed price, not exceeding the Average Power Purchase F Cost (‘APPC’) of the DISCOMs, (such as Gujarat Urja). The WPDs were entitled to the additional benefit of Renewable Energy Certificates issued to it which could be traded in Power Exchange for a price. The consideration payable to WPDs consisted of firstly, a mutually agreed power Component and secondly a green component through RECs traded in the Exchange. The G alternative to the WPDs was to sell to licensees at a preferential tariff, determined by the state commission. In the latter event, WPDs were not entitled to the additional benefit of the green component, which was the tradable RECs the sale of which would have led to increased revenues. The respondent WPDs chose H 674 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the REC mechanism, while entering into PPAs in these cases, with Gujarat Urja. The PPAs entered by WPDs provided for the fixed tariff of 2.64/kWh for the entire term (25 years), as mutually agreed (Article 5.2 of PPA). WPDs were entitled to and were trading RECs in the power exchange, deriving extra monetary benefits: which, at the relevant period was 1.50/kWh (floor B price at the time of signing of PPA). The Preferential Tariff determined by the state commission, for WPDs not opting for the REC Mechanism was 3.56/kWh.