Despite the said finding of the Trial Court and despite that issue was pointedly raised before the High Court, obviously the High Court in the impugned did not consider the C said aspect at all. This failure on the part of the High Court is a ground specifically taken in this appeal. In the light of the decision in Anwar Ali’s case (supra) and Shivaji Chintappa Patil’s case(supra), and also based on what we held in respect of the impact of failure to establish the alleged motive in a case based on circumstantial evidence it can only be held that the said failure had weakened the case of the prosecution. This D aspect should have been given proper weight by the courts below. 22. Now, we will proceed to consider the other circumstance(s) relied on and whether they would make a complete chain of circumstances and dispel the hypothesis of the innocence of the appellant. In that context, it is only appropriate to refer to the circumstance mainly, E relied on and held as proved by the High Court for confirming the conviction of the appellants viz., that the deceased was ‘lastly seen’ in the company of the appellants just prior to the finding of his dead body. Having observed thus, the High Court held that the proof thereof would depend upon the quality and nature of the testimonies of Chintaman (PW-8) and Dhanraj (PW-10). F 23. Paragraph 14 of the impugned would reveal that after referring to evidence based on ‘last seen theory’, recovery of weapons and seizure of clothes the High Court observed that the following twin material circumstances would complete the requisite chain, namely: - G “(a) On the day of incident, at about 4.00 p.m., deceased Rahul and all the appellants were present at the house of Chintaman (PW-8). (b) Deceased Rahul left the house of Chintaman at about 5.00 H p.m., on the day of incident along with the appellants and SHANKAR v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 677 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] within two hours, the dead body of Rahul with multiple incise A and stab wounds was found lying by the side of the road, 10 kms. away from Bhandara city. There is nothing on record to show that deceased Rahul had enmity with anybody other than the appellants and in absence thereof, the possibility of somebody else committed assault on the deceased and would B have caused so many multiple injuries is completely ruled out.” 24. With respect to the material circumstance referred to as (a) in the impugned , as extracted above, what is stated by the High Court is totally against the weight of evidence. The evidence of PW-8 C when juxtaposed to that of PW-10 would reveal the said position. It is stated therein that on the day of incident, at about 04.00 pm, the deceased Rahul Pundlik Meshram and all the appellants were present at the house of Chintaman (PW-8). In a case rested on circumstantial evidence and ‘last seen’ theory is relied on as a link in the chain of circumstances, the evidence relating the time at which the deceased was lastly seen with D the accused has to be proved conclusively as when it is proximate with the time of finding the dead body the burden to establish the innocence would be that of the accused.