The scheme so notifi ed specifi cally provides that there shall be no cut off marks for the viva voce. The notifi cation which was issued by the High Court on 30 September 2015 for the conduct of the ensuing examination provided that the mode of selection would consist of two written papers, each carrying 150 marks and that candidates from the general and OBC categories who secured a minimum of 50% marks (relaxed to 40% SIVANANDAN C T AND OTHERS v. HIGH COURT OF KERALA AND 685 OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] for SC/ST candidates) would qualify for the viva-voce. The notifi cation spells out that the aggregate of the marks in the written examination and the viva-voce would form the basis of drawing the merit list. 13. In the above backdrop, it is evident that when the process of selection commenced, all the candidates were put on a notice of the fact that: (i) the merit list would be drawn up on the basis of the aggregate marks obtained in the written examination and viva-voce; (ii) candidates whose marks were at least at the prescribed minimum in the written examination would qualify for the viva-voce; and (iii) there was no cut off applicable in respect of the marks to be obtained in the viva-voce while drawing up the merit list in the aggregate. 14. The decision of the High Court to prescribe a cut-off for the viva-voce examination was taken by the Administrative Committee on 27 February 2017 after the viva-voce was conducted between 16 and 24 January 2017. The process which has been adopted by the High Court suff ers from several infi rmities. Firstly, the decision of the High Court was contrary to Rule 2(c)(iii) which stipulated that the merit list would be drawn up on the basis of the marks obtained in the aggregate in the written examination and the viva-voce; secondly, the scheme which was notifi ed by the High Court on 13 December 2012 clearly specifi ed that there would be no cut off marks in respect of the viva-voce; thirdly, the notifi cation of the High Court dated 30 September 2015 clarifi ed that the process of short listing which would be carried out would be only on the basis of the length of practice of the members of the Bar, should the number of candidates be unduly large; and fourthly, the decision to prescribe cut off marks for the viva-voce was taken much after the viva-voce tests were conducted in the month of January 2017. 15. For the above reasons, we have come to the conclusion that the broader constitutional issue which has been referred in Tej Prakash Pathak (supra) would not merit decision on the facts of the present case. Clearly, the decision which was taken by the High Court was ultra vires Rule 2(c)(iii) as it stands. As a matter of fact, during the course of the hearing we have been apprised of the fact that the Rules have been subsequently amended in 2017 so as to prescribe a cut off of 35% marks in the viva-voce examination which however was not the prevailing legal position when the present process of selection was initiated on 30 September 2015.