It also covers the land on which any building was in the process of construction on January 28, 1976 with the approval of the appropriate authority. That too is not “vacant land”. Additionally, the land appurtenant to these two kinds of buildings is also not “vacant land”. The third category likewise conditioned is of land occupied by any building in an area where there are no building regulations, which has been constructed before January 28, 1976 or is in the process of construction on such date, and the land appurtenant to these two kinds of buildings.” 21. The three-Judge Bench in Meera Gupta2, with utmost respect, misconstrued Jhonson1 as if it dealt with Section 2(q)(i) category and after distinguishing it on that count, the Court proceeded to interpret sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) of Section 2(q) in the following manner: “12. The aforesaid three categories of lands would otherwise be “vacant land” but for the defi nitional exclusion. The specifi c non- inclusion of these three categories of land is by itself an integral part of the defi nitional and functional sphere. The question that arises what happens to lands over which buildings are commenced after the 736 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. appointed day and the building progresses to completion thereafter. On the appointed day, these lands were vacant lands, but not so thereafter because of the surface change. Here the skill of the draftsman and the wisdom of the legislature comes to the fore in cognizing and fi lling up the gap period and covering it up in the scheme of sub-section (9) of Section 4. The visible contrast between “vacant land” and “any other land” held by a person on which there is a building with a dwelling unit therein becomes prominent. The said “any other land” is reckoned and brought at par with the “vacant land” for the purpose of calculating the fi nal extent of vacant land. It seems to us that the expression “vacant land” in the fi rst portion of the provision connotes land minus land under buildings constructed or in the process of construction before and on the appointed day, and the expression “vacant land” in the latter portion of the provision connotes the sum total of “vacant land” of the fi rst and distinctly the “other land” on which is a building with a dwelling unit therein of which construction commenced after the appointed day, and the land appurtenant thereto. Such an interpretation is required by the context as otherwise the concept of the appointed day and the gap period would be rendered otiose. The legislature cannot be accused to have indulged in trickery or futility in giving something with one hand and taking it away with the other. “Any other land” in the sequence would thus mean any other built-upon land except the one excluded from the expression “vacant land” on account of it being occupied by a building which stood constructed, or was in the process of construction, on the appointed day.” 22.