He further contended that the requirement of recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank in to enable the Central Government to issue a notification to D demonetise any currency would imply that the initiation of demonetisation must only be from the Central Board of the Bank and that the Central Government has no power to initiate such an action of demonetisation. 15.8 I find considerable force in the contention of the learned E Attorney General inasmuch as the Central Government cannot be said to be without powers in initiating demonetisation of bank notes. This is on the strength of Entry 36 of List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. The Central Government is not just concerned with the financial health of the country as well as its economy, but it F is also concerned with the sovereignty and integrity of India; the security of the State; the defence of the country; its friendly relations with foreign countries; internal and external security and various other aspects of governance. On the other hand, the Bank is only concerned with the regulation G of currency notes, monetary policy framework, maintaining price stability and allied matters. Therefore, if the Central Government is of the considered opinion that in to meet certain objectives such as the ones stated in the impugned notification, namely, to eradicate black money, fake currency, terror funding etc., it is necessary to H 194 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A demonetise the currency notes in circulation, then the Central Government may initiate a proposal for demonetisation. 15.9 The second prong of the Learned Attorney General’s contention qua the interpretation of sub-section (2) of B Section 26 of the Actwas that the Central Government has the power to demonetise not just any one series of currency of any one denomination but it has the power to demonetise all series of currencies of all denominations at a time. It was argued that the expression “any” in sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Actmust mean “all”. C 15.10 Per contra, it was the submission of the learned senior counsel for the petitioners that, as the said provision stands, in the absence of there being any guidance vis-à-vis the power of the Central Government to issue a notification to demonetise the currency notes in circulation and in to D save such measure from the vice of unconstitutionality, the expression “any series” and “any denomination” in sub- section (2) of Section 26 of the Act must be restricted to mean”one series” and “one denomination”, respectively. Otherwise, it could result in arbitrary exercise of power. E He further contended that if sub-section(2) of Section 26 of the Act is not read down in this context, it would confer unguided and arbitrary power on the executive Government and it would amount to impermissible delegation of legislative powers. 15.11 It was further contended by Shri Chidambaram that F demonetisation is resorted to in rare and exceptional circumstances and there are two justifiable reasons for which demonetisation could be resorted to, namely, 1) to weed out denominations of currency that are in disuse or are practically unusable; G 2) to get rid of currency which has become worthless in value because of hyperinflation.