23.2. If the practice of manual scavenging has to be brought to a close and also to prevent future generations from the inhuman practice of manual scavenging, rehabilitation of manual scavengers will need to include: (a) Sewer deaths — Entering sewer lines without safety gear should be made a crime even in emergency situations. For each such death, compensation of Rs 10 lakhs should be given to the family of the deceased. (b) Railways — Should take time-bound strategy to end manual scavenging on the tracks. (c) Persons released from manual scavenging should not have to cross hurdles to receive what is their legitimate due under the law. (d) Provide support for dignifi ed livelihood to safai karamchari women in accordance with their choice of livelihood schemes. 23.3. Identify the families of all persons who have died in sewerage work (manholes, septic tanks) since 1993 and award compensation DR. BALRAM SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 1091 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] of Rs 10 lakhs for each such death to the family members depending on them. 23.4. Rehabilitation must be based on the principles of justice and transformation. In the present writ petition, the petitioner claims several directions such as: (a) directing the respondents to implement provisions of the Water Prevention and Control of Pollution Act, 1974; The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981; The Environment Protection Act, 1986, The Public Liability Insurance Act, 1991; The Employment of Manual Scavengers and Construction of Dry Latrines (Prohibition) Act, 1993 The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 and other statutes rules and regulation pertaining to protection of environment and human health and direct respondent to (b) make provisions for underground swear /drainage system for disposal of used water and for treatment of used water in all villages towns and cities including slum areas (c) make used water reusable after treatment for use of cattle, agricultural and other purposes except for human drinking and separate ponds should be made for collecting water for human use and animals use; (d) make provisions for supply of goods, clean and un contaminated water in all villages, towns and cities and for this purpose to install big water purifi er plans so that every citizen of the country can have good and purifi ed drinking water of high quality; (e) provide for rain water harvesting system throughout the country. It must be made a pre-requisite for raising any type of construction (f) connect all toilets with sewage system (g) install sewage treatment plants waste plants in all villages, towns and cities of the country 109 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (h) convert all open drains into close one and construct all drains underground in further (i) provide for mechanical scavenging measures for cleaning drains and sewages lines and to stop manual immediately (j) repair roads within a prescribed period (k) fi x liabilities of government offi cer who do not follow and implement provisions for environmental protection.