South Africa’s truth and reconciliation commission was set up to investigate human rights violations perpetrated during the period of the Apartheid regime. It served as a means of reckoning or catharsis for victims, and fostered peace-building. Reflecting on its success, Albie Sachs, J notes: “...As a result of the TRC, the private sorrow and grief of tens of thousands was publicly acknowledged in an embracing and personalized way. Another form of acknowledgement emerged from the perpetrators themselves. They had to come forward openly in front of the television cameras, owning up to their crimes. Finally, there was acknowledgement by the whole country that these things happened and can happen again—that we needed to fit all these facts together into some kind of significant pattern which would enable us to understand their genesis and do what we could to minimize any possibility of their recurrence.”133 119. In the past, calls for setting up a truth and reconciliation commission have also been echoed by different sections of the Valley. 120. In view of the in-roads made globally, and endogenous requests for truth and reconciliation, I recommend the setting up of an impartial truth and reconciliation commission (“Commission”). The Commission will investigate and report on the violation of human rights both by State and non-State actors perpetrated in Jammu & Kashmir at least since the 1980s and recommend measures for reconciliation. 121. This Commission should be set up expediently, before memory escapes. The exercise should be time-bound. There is already 132 Id. at 63. 133 A.Sachs, Sඍඋൺඇ඀ൾ Aඅർඁൾආඒ ඈൿ Lංൿൾ ൺඇൽ Lൺඐ, 155 (OUP, 2009). IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 373 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] an entire generation of youth that has grown up with feelings of distrust and it is to them that we owe the greatest duty of reparation. At the same time, considering the signifi cance of the matter and the sensitivities involved, it is my view that it is for the Government to devise the manner in which this should be set up, and to determine the best way forward for the commission. 122. I am alive to the challenge that recommending the setting up of a truth and reconciliation is beyond the realm of this Court. However, I am of the view that transitional justice, and its constituents, are facets of transformative constitutionalism. Globally, constitutionalism has evolved to encompass responsibility of both state and non-state actors with respect to human-rights violations.134 This includes the duty to take reasonable steps to carry out investigations of violations.135 It is in this context that the proposed truth and reconciliation commission accords with constitutionalism. 123. Our Constitution is no diff erent, and is designed to ensure that courts off er justice in situations where fundamental rights have been violated. In doing justice, historically, our courts have been sensitive to the social demands of our polity and have off ered fl exible remedies. In Vishaka and Others v State of Rajasthan,136 this Court issued guidelines to address workplace sexual harassment in the absence of an enacted law, which operated until the Parliament enacted the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.