69. Respondent No. 1, while vehemently objecting to the usage of B Article 138 of RIICO’s AoA to issue directions to the Corporation for cancellation of the supplementary lease deeds and attendant approvals/ permissions, has equated such directions by the State Government to a “farman” whereby any semblance of procedure and due process are abandoned to its own prejudice. It was asserted that the method of undertaking these measures had to be followed and an opportunity of C hearing needed to be provided to Respondent No. 1. This was further elaborated upon by emphasizing on the failure to provide Respondent No. 1 with a show cause notice, and blatant non-adherence to Principles of Natural Justice. 70. Both sides have raised contentions on the need for reasons D behind the cancellation to be specified in the itself or not. Learned Senior Counsel, Mr. Dave, had cited the judgement in Sachidananda Pandey (Supra) to argue that the consideration of whether reasons were provided would include the internal deliberations within the State Government, and not be confined merely to the itself. The exact E passage relied upon by him read as follows: “27. Dr. Singhvi cited before us the well-known decisions of this Court… to urge that even an administrative decision must be arrived at after taking into account all relevant considerations and eschewing irrelevant considerations and that the reasons for an must find a place in the F itself and those reasons cannot be supplemented later by fresh reasons in the shape of an affidavit or otherwise. The submission was that neither the Cabinet memorandum of January 7, 1981 nor the Cabinet Memorandum of September 9, 1981 revealed that relevant considerations had been taken G into account. What was not said in either of the Cabinet Memoranda, it was said, could not later be supplemented by considerations which were never present to the mind of the decision making authority. We do not agree with the submission of Dr. Singhvi. The proposition that a decision must be arrived at after taking into account all relevant H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 293 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] considerations, eschewing all irrelevant considerations cannot A for a moment be doubted. We have already pointed out that relevant considerations were not ignored and, indeed, were taken into account by the Government of West Bengal. It is not one of those cases where the evidence is first gathered and a decision is later arrived at one fine morning and the B decision is incorporated in a reasoned . This is a case where discussions have necessarily to stretch over a long period of time. Several factors have to be independently and separately weighed and considered. This is a case where the decision and the reasons for the decisions can only be gathered by looking at the entire course of events and circumstances C stretching over the period from the initiation of the proposal to the taking of the final decision. It is important to note that unlike Mohinder Singh Gill’s case where that Court was dealing with a Statutory made by a statutory functionary who could not therefore, be allowed to supplement the grounds D of this by later explanations, the present is a case where neither a statutory functions nor a statutory functionary is involved but the transaction bears a commercial though public character which can only be settled after protracted discussion, clarification and consultation with all interested persons.