12,51,01,380/- and Rs. 7,51,07,462/- respectively, as indicated in the Annexure-II to IV B of this . 4. The expenditure sanctioned in para 3 above shall be debited under the relevant following head of account: “2055-00-Police – under respective sub-heads” 5. The expenditure is an item of “New Service”. The approval of C the Legislature will be obtained in due course. Pending approval of the Legislature, the expenditure will be initially met by an advance from the contingency fund, s regarding which will be issued by the Finance (BG.I) Department separately. The Director General of Police, Chennai is requested to apply for an advance D for the required amount from the contingency fund in the current year to the Government in Finance (BG.I) Department in the prescribed proforma together with a copy of this . He is also directed to send a draft explanatory note, indicating the total cost of the scheme, the cost that would be required for the implementation during the financial year etc. to Government E Finance (BG-I) Department for inclusion of the expenditure in the supplementary estimates, for bringing it to the notice of the legislature in due course. 6. This issues with the concurrence of the Finance Department vide its U.O. No. 39471/CMPC/2011-1, dated F 28.07.2011 and Additional Sanction Ledger No: 337 (Three hundred and thirty seven). (BY OF THE GOVERNOR) RAMESHRAM MISHRA PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT” G 5. By the aforesaid G.O., the Government of Tamil Nadu has constituted/formed 36 Anti Land Grabbing Special Cells to deal with the land grabbing cases. However, it is required to be noted that the type of cases can be said to be land grabbing cases has not been defined and/or mentioned in the said G.O. Therefore, it will be at the discretion of the H 856 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A concerned police officers to treat and/or consider any case relating to land as land grabbing case, which shall be investigated by the Anti- Land Grabbing Special Cell, rather than by the police officers under the Cr.P.C. It is required to be noted that as such there is no Anti-Land Grabbing Act in the State of Tamil Nadu like A.P. Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act, 1982 or Karnataka Land Grabbing Prohibition Act, 2011 or similar B Land Grabbing Prohibition Acts in other States. It is required to be noted that in the other Land Grabbing Prohibition Acts applicable in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Assam, “Land Grabbing” is specifically defined. Even the term “Land Grabber” is defined. For example, in Andhra Pradesh Land Grabbing (Prohibition) C Act, 1982, “Land Grabber” and “Land Grabbing” are defined as under: “land grabber” means a person or a group of persons who commits land grabbing and includes any person who gives financial aid to any person for taking illegal possession of lands or for construction of unauthorised structures thereon, or who collects or attempts to D collect from any occupiers of such lands rent, compensation and other charges by criminal intimidation, or who abets the doing of any of the above mentioned acts; and also includes the successors in interest.