An exception is carved out by sub-section STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. M/S. CHIRANJILAL (MINERAL) 305 INDUSTRIES OF BAGANDIH [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] (2) to Section 3A of the WBLR Act, 1955, where a non-agricultural tenant or under-tenant is holding khas possession of any land, in which case he is entitled to retain the land as Raiyat. There are also provisions relating to the transferability of land by the Raiyat. If cultivation was not being undertaken at the land in question, the classifi cation requires a change. 18. The controversy relating to Section 4-C of the WBLR Act, 1955, cannot simply be decided on the basis of Memo No. V/RTI/775/15 dated 06.03.2017 issued by the Deputy District Land and Land Reforms Offi cer, Purulia, that as per the revenue records the land was recorded as ‘Dungri’. The reason is that Raiyat land is not for mining. Thus, a contradiction arises, as the grant of Raiyat land and the classifi cation of the same land as ‘Dungri’ is contradictory. 19. Further, whether the consent letter of the owners of the land in question (Raiyats) obtained by the Respondent No. 1 - M/s. Chiranjilal (Mineral) Industries of Bagandih still hold good, would be relevant as there could be a change of hands on account of transfer, inheritance, etc. Connected with this are the legal issues. First, whether the Respondent No. 1 - M/s. Chiranjilal (Mineral) Industries of Bagandih had altered its position post the issue of the Grant dated 16.07.2015, but before enforcement of the Concession Rules, 2016, to get the benefi t of Rule 61 of the Concessions Rules, 2016? It is necessary to ascertain the facts and then alone one can adjudicate and decide the question whether the Respondent No. 1 - M/s. Chiranjilal (Mineral) Industries of Bagandih is entitled to the benefi t of the proviso to Rule 61 of the Concession Rules, 2016. This has not been verifi ed and ascertained. An issue would arise on whether the application fi led by the Respondent No. 1 - M/s. Chiranjilal (Mineral) Industries of Bagandih way back in 1998 would still hold good as at the time, when the application was fi led, approval of the Central Government was required. Another diffi culty is that WBMDTCL has not been impleaded as a party, though it was always contesting the claim made by the Respondent No. 1 - M/s. Chiranjilal (Mineral) Industries of Bagandih. On the question of cancellation or rejection of the application made by WBMDTCL, we have made observations supra. However, we need not examine these issues in light of the and directions we are issuing. Further, we feel that the remand should not be passed at this distinct point of time. 306 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 20. Having said so, it is the stand of the appellants – State of West Bengal, that they are owners of 20.87 acres of the land in question and to this extent, they have no diffi culty in executing the mining lease.