Article 168 of the Constitution reads as follows: D “168. Constitution of Legislatures in States (1) For every State there shall be a Legislature which shall consist of the Governor, and (a) in the States of Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, E Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, two houses: (b) in other States, one House (2) Where there are two Houses of the Legislature of a State, one shall be known as the Legislative Council and the other as the Legislative Assembly, and where there is only one House, it shall F be known as the Legislative Assembly.” 133. A perusal of Article 168(2) would lead us to the following inevitable conclusion: Wherever there are two Houses in a Legislature of a State, one is G designated as Legislative Assembly and the other is called a Legislative Council. In States, where there is only one House, it will be called the Legislative Assembly. So, it is that Article 170 deals with the composition of Legislative Assemblies whereas Article 171 deals with the composition of Legislative Councils. We may bear in mind that Section 27 of the 1950 Act[referred to in Shyamdeo Pd. Singh (supra)] actually deals H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 121 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] with the preparation of electoral roll for the Legislative Council and not A the Legislative Assembly. We make this observation only to remind ourselves that there is a distinction between the Legislature of a State and Legislative Assembly. Article 168 deals with the constitution of the Legislatures of the States. Apart from the Governor, a Legislative Assembly, when there is only one House, would be the other constituent B part of the Legislature of the State. Therefore, Article 326 deals with the House of the People, and the Legislative Assembly. It does not deal with Legislative Councils. As far as Article 327 is concerned, it deals with power of Parliament to make law with respect to all matters or relating to election in connection to either House of Parliament. Equally, Parliament can make law in regard to either House of the Legislature of C a State, including the preparation of electoral roll. However, there is a caveat. Article 327 begins with the words ‘subject to the provisions of this Constitution’. This would mean that Article 327 is subject to Article 326. Therefore, since Article 326 provides for the specific heads of disqualification in regard to election to the House of the People and to D the Legislative Assembly, the power to make law under Article 327 may not be available, overcoming the limitation as regards the grounds of disqualification enumerated in Article 326. This limitation is found even in Article 328, which deals with the powers of the State Legislature. 134. Undoubtedly, the Founding Fathers contemplated conferring E the right to participate in elections to the House of People and the Legislative Assemblies on all citizens, who were of a certain age. The right was, however, subject to the condition that they were not to be disqualified.