The contrary view expressed by Shri Rohatgi is obviously incorrect, as the date of commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process is only relevant for the purpose of calculating whether one year has lapsed from the date of classifi cation of a person as a non-performing asset. Further, the expression used is “has”, which as Dr. Singhvi has correctly argued, is in praesenti. This is to be contrasted with the expression “has been”, which is used in Clauses (d) and (g), which refers to an anterior point of time. Consequently, the amendment of 2018 introducing the words “at the time of submission of the resolution plan” is clarifi catory, as this was always the correct interpretation as to the point of time at which the disqualifi cation in clause (c) of Section 29-A will attach. In fact, the amendment was made pursuant to the Insolvency Law Committee Report of March, 2018. That Report clearly stated: “In relation to applicability of Section 29-A (c), the Committee also discussed that it must be clarifi ed that the disqualifi cation pursuant to Section 29-A(c) shall be applicable if such NPA accounts are held by the resolution applicant or its connected persons at the time of submission of the resolution plan to the RP.” 47. The ingredients of clause (c) are that, the ineligibility to submit a resolution plan attaches if any person, as is referred to in the opening lines of Section 29-A, either itself has an account, or is a promoter of, or in the management or control of, a corporate debtor which has an account, which account has been classifi ed as a non-performing asset, 2 (2019) 2 SCC 1 924 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. for a period of at least one year from the date of such classifi cation till the date of commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process. For the purpose of applying this sub-section, any one of three things, which are disjunctive, needs to be established. The corporate debtor may be under the management of the person referred to in Section 29-A, the corporate debtor may be a person under the control of such person, or the corporate debtor may be a person of whom such person is a promoter. 57.The interpretation of Section 29-A (c) now becomes clear. Any person who wishes to submit a resolution plan, if he or it does so acting jointly, or in concert with other persons, which person or other persons or other persons happen to either manage or control or be promoters of a corporate debtor, who is classifi ed as a non-performing asset and whose debts have not been paid off for a period of at least one year before commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process, becomes ineligible to submit a resolution plan. This provision therefore ensures that if a person wishes to submit a resolution plan, and if such person or any person acting jointly or any person in concert with such person, happens to either manage, control, or be promoter of a corporate debtor declared as a non-performing asset one year before the corporate insolvency resolution process begins, is ineligible to submit a resolution plan.