In fact, any physical disability resulting from an accident has to be judged with reference to the nature of the work being performed B by the person who suffered disability. The same injury suffered by two different persons may affect them in different ways. Loss of leg by a farmer or a rickshaw puller may be end of the road as far as his earning capacity is concerned. Whereas, in case of the persons engaged in some kind of desk work in office, loss of leg may have lesser effect. This C Court enhanced the loss of earning capacity from 50% to 90%. 10. Applying the same principle to the case in hand, we find that the appellant herein was working as a gunman with Bharat Hotel Limited.On account of amputation of his right leg above the knee, he was terminated from service w.e.f. 31.05.2015. It is not a matter of D dispute that a person with his right leg amputated cannot perform the duty of a gunman. This is his functional disability. He was 50 years & 5 months old at the time of accident. Considering the aforesaid facts, in our view, the Tribunal was right in assessing the loss of earning capacity of the appellant at 100% and assessing the compensation accordingly. The High Court was in error in reducing the loss of earning capacity to E 80%, relying upon the of High Court, despite there being a of this Court available on the issue. 11. To put the records straight, we may add that there is another error in passed by the High Court in calculating the compensation.The compensation awarded by the Tribunal was taken on F 33,34,800/-. Reducing a sum of 4,92,205/- therefrom, the compensation was assessed at 28,43,000/- (rounded off). However,, total compensation awarded by the Tribunal was 34,29,800/- and not 33,34,800/- 12. For the reason mentioned above, the appeal filed by the G appellant is allowed. The impugned passed by the High Court is set aside and the award passed by the Tribunal is restored. There shall be no as to costs. Nidhi Jain Appeal allowed. H (Assisted by : Tamana, LCRA)