for the Appellants. Gunjesh Ranjan, Sidharth Sarthi, Anil Kumar, Shantanu Sagar, Prabhat R. Raj, Advs. for the Respondent. / OF THE SUPREME COURT S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J. 1. The appellants challenge a decision of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi1 (hereinafter referred to as “NCLAT”) which ruled that as benefi ciary of a decree by the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (hereinafter referred to as “UPRERA”), the of 1 . dated 28.02.2023 by NCLAT, in C.A. (AT) No. 991/2022 VISHAL CHELANI & ORS. v. DEBASHIS NANDA 1151 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the Resolution Professional (R.P.) proposing that they be treated diff erently from other home buyers allottees, does not call for interference. 2. The brief facts are that the appellants are home buyers, who had opted for allotment in a real estate project of the respondent company (hereinafter referred to as “Bulland Buildtech Pvt. Ltd.” or “the respondent”. Aggrieved by the delay in the completion of the project, the appellants approached the UPRERA which by its s upheld this entitlement to refund amounts deposited by them, together with interest. In the meantime, proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as “IBC”) were initiated. In the course of proceedings after due consultations by the Committee of Creditors, a resolution plan was presented to the adjudicating authority. In that plan, a distinction was made between home buyers, who had opted or elected for other remedies such as i.e. applying before the RERA and having secured s in their favor, and those who did not do so. Home buyers who did not approach authorities under RERA Act were given the benefi t of 50% better terms than that given to those who approached RERA or who were decree holders. The appellants felt aggrieved; their applications were rejected by the adjudicating authority. Their appeals too were unsuccessful. Consequently, they have approached this Court. 3. Mr. Abhimanyu Bhandari learned counsel argued that having regard to the defi nition of fi nancial debt [Section 5(8)(f)] which was amended in 2018 after which home buyer allottees in real estate projects also fell within the broad description of fi nancial creditors, a distinction cannot be made between one set of such home buyer allottees and another. He relies upon a decision of the NCLT, Mumbai Bench-IV, [Mr. Natwar Agrawal (HUF) vs. Ms. Ssakash Developers & Builders Pvt. Ltd.] in CP(IB) No.21/MB- IV/2023 dated 02.08.2023, which inter alia held as follows: “3.2. Accordingly, this bench is of the considered view that decree would be categorized as either fi nancial or operational debt depending on the nature of the underlying claim which stands crystallized through the arbitral or court the nature of the debt due under decree would depend on the nature of transaction from which the decretal debt has arisen. In the present case the applicant had obtained a decree from RERA in capacity of allottee in a Real Estate Project 115 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. and allottee in Real Estate Project is covered under the defi nition of Financial Debt contained in under Explanation to Section 5(8)(f) of the Code.