There are two significant provisions which require consideration under this Act in the instant case: first is Section 10A and the second is Section 15. However, while considering the aforesaid Sections in detail, it would be worthwhile to refer to other relevant provisions of the IMC Act, 1956. E 17.2. From the point of view of opening of a new medical institution as defined under Section 2(e), Section 10A becomes relevant. It begins with a non-obstante clause and states that notwithstanding anything contained in the IMC Act, 1956 or any other law for the time being in force, a) no person shall establish a medical college; or b) no medical F college shall – i) open a new or higher course of study or training (including a post-graduate course of study or training) which would enable a student of such course or training to qualify himself for the award of any recognised medical qualification; or G ii) increase its admission capacity in any course of study or training (including a post-graduate course of study or training), except with the previous permission of the Central Government obtained in accordance with the provisions of this Section. H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 975 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Explanation 1 and Explanation 2 define the expression “person” A and expression “admission capacity” respectively. Although, the expression “medical institution” has been defined in Section 2(e) to mean any institution, which grants degrees, diplomas or licences in medicine within or outside India, the expression “medical college” has not been defined. But in our view, the said expressions could be read B interchangeably. Section 10A was inserted by the Act of 1993 with effect from 27.08.1992. 17.3. Thus, a condition precedent has been incorporated by an amendment to the IMC Act, 1956, with regard to opening of any medical institution/college in India which is, the seeking of previous permission C of the Central Government in accordance with the procedure prescribed under Section 10A. In fact, this position is highlighted on a reading of Section 10B which states that if a medical qualification is granted to any student of a medical college which has been established de hors the provisions of Section 10A, no such qualification shall be recognised under the said Act. The phrase “recognised medical qualification” is defined in D Section 2(h) to mean any of the medical qualifications included in the Schedules. There are three Schedules to the IMC Act, 1956. The First Schedule deals with recognised medical qualifications granted by the Universities or Medical Institutions in India. The Second Schedule speaks of recognised medical qualifications granted by Medical Institutions E outside India while the Third Schedule deals with recognised medical qualifications granted by Medical Institutions not included in the First Schedule. 17.4. In this context, Sections 11 and 13 are also relevant. Sub- section (1) of Section 11 states that the medical qualifications granted by F any University or Medical Institution in India which is included in the First Schedule, shall be recognised medical qualification for the purposes of the said Act.