There are number of social justice legislations giving special protection and benefi ts to vulnerable groups in the society. Prof. Madhava Menon describes it eloquently: “It is, therefore, respectfully submitted that ‘social context judging’ is essentially the application of equality jurisprudence as evolved by Parliament and the Supreme Court in myriad situations presented before courts where unequal parties are pitted in adversarial proceedings and where courts are called upon to dispense equal justice. Apart from the social- economic inequalities accentuating the disabilities of the poor in an unequal fi ght, the adversarial process itself operates to the disadvantage of the weaker party. In such a situation, the Judge has to be not only sensitive to the inequalities of parties involved but also positively inclined to the weaker party if the imbalance were not to result in miscarriage of justice. This result is achieved by what we call social context judging or social justice adjudication.” [ Keynote address on “Legal Education in Social Context” delivered at National Law University, Jodhpur on October 12, 2005, available on http://web.archive.org/ web/20061210031743/http:/www.nlujodhpur.ac.in/ceireports. htm [last visited on 25-12-2013]] 15. The provision of maintenance would defi nitely fall in this category which aims at empowering the destitute and achieving social justice or equality and dignity of the individual. While dealing with cases under this provision, drift in the approach from “adversarial” litigation to social context adjudication is the need of the hour. 16. The law regulates relationships between people. It prescribes patterns of behaviour. It refl ects the values of society. The role of the 880 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. court is to understand the purpose of law in society and to help the law achieve its purpose. But the law of a society is a living organism. It is based on a given factual and social reality that is constantly changing. Sometimes change in law precedes societal change and is even intended to stimulate it. In most cases, however, a change in law is the result of a change in social reality. Indeed, when social reality changes, the law must change too. Just as change in social reality is the law of life, responsiveness to change in social reality is the life of the law. It can be said that the history of law is the history of adapting the law to society’s changing needs. In both constitutional and statutory interpretation, the court is supposed to exercise discretion in determining the proper relationship between the subjective and objective purposes of the law. ××× ××× ××× 18. The court as the interpreter of law is supposed to supply omissions, correct uncertainties, and harmonise results with justice through a method of free decision — libre recherché scientifi que i.e. “free scientifi c research”. We are of the opinion that there is a non- rebuttable presumption that the legislature while making a provision like Section 125 CrPC, to fulfi l its constitutional duty in good faith, had always intended to give relief to the woman becoming “wife” under such circumstances.