The decree so vacated, reversed or modifi ed is then the decree that is eff ective for the purposes of a further appeal, if any, maintainable under law. But where the review petition is dismissed, there is no question of any merger and anyone aggrieved by the decree or of the Tribunal or Court shall have to challenge within the time stipulated by law, the original decree and not the dismissing the review petition. Time taken by a party in diligently pursuing the remedy by way of review may in appropriate cases be excluded from consideration while condoning the delay in the fi ling of the appeal, but such exclusion or condonation would not imply that there is a merger of the original decree and the dismissing the review petition. 25. Apart from above, there is another reason also for a revisional court not to entertain a revision against an rejecting on merits an application for review of an appealable decree, which is, if the revisional court sets aside or modifi es or alters a trial court’s decree, the decree of the trial court would merge in the one passed by the revisional court. In consequence, the right of the party aggrieved by the trial court’s decree to fi le an appeal would get 712 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. aff ected. Further, there may be a case where a person is aggrieved by a fi nding of the trial court on any issue, even though the trial court’s decree may be in its favour. In that scenario, if there is an appeal by a party aggrieved by the decree, that person would have a right to take an objection against the adverse fi nding with the aid of the provisions of XLI, Rule 22 of the CPC, but in the event of there being no appeal against the decree, such a person would lose its right to take an objection, under XLI, Rule 22 of the CPC, against that adverse fi nding. 26. No doubt revisional powers may be available on limited grounds, primarily to correct jurisdictional errors, but still it is a part of the general appellate jurisdiction of the High Court as a superior court. In Shankar Ramchandra (supra), this Court observed: “6. Now when the aid of the High Court is invoked on the revisional side it is done because it is a superior court and it can interfere for the purpose of rectifying the error of the court below. Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure circumscribes the limits of that jurisdiction but the jurisdiction which is being exercised is a part of the general appellate jurisdiction of the High Court as a superior court. It is only one of the modes of exercising power conferred by the statute; basically and fundamentally it is the appellate jurisdiction of the High Court which is being invoked and exercised in a wider and larger sense. We do not, therefore, consider that the principle of merger of s of inferior courts in those of superior Courts would be aff ected or would become inapplicable by making a distinction between a petition for revision and an appeal.” (Emphasis supplied) 27.