He also informed the H 892 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A police that he had lost gold ornaments and cash of ¹ 18,340/-. In his cross-examination, he stated that the accused were his customers and used to purchase gold or take money from him. He denied knowledge of A1 being a contractor and his financial position. 10. The Civil Assistant Surgeon, Community Health Centre, B Ichapuram (PW-19), conducted the post-mortem examination of the body of deceased No. 1. He issued a post-mortem certificate (Ex.P-14) stating that the cause of his death was shock due to brain injury and hemorrhage following a head injury. Another Civil Assistant Surgeon at the Community Health Centre, Ichapuram (PW-20), conducted the autopsy over the body of deceased No. 2 and issued a post-mortem certificate (Ex.P-15) C stating to the same effect as to the cause of her death. Both PW-19 and PW-20 denied the suggestion that the injuries on the bodies of the deceased could have been caused by falling from the first floor. In effect, it can safely be said that their deaths were homicidal in nature. More so, as blood-stained iron rods (MOs1 and 2) were found near the bodies. D 11. Though there were no eye-witnesses to the actual killings, there were three separate witnesses who spoke of seeing one or both of the accused ‘running away’ from the house of PW-1 at that late hour on the fateful night. PWs 4, 6, and 10 are those witnesses. PW-4 stated that he was also doing gold and silver business and knew PW-1 as well E as the accused. He stated that, on 21.08.2008 at about 09.00 pm, he and PW-6 were going to his sister’s house at Dabburi Street via Medaraveedhi and at that time, they heard loud voices coming from PW-1’s house. They shouted as to what was happening inside the house. A number of people gathered at the house. Then, A1 came out from the house of PW-1 and ran away. After that, the police came to the house of PW-1. F Along with them, they all went inside the house of PW-1 and found that the wife and son of PW-1 were lying dead. PW-1’s son was lying in the shop room and the body of PW-1’s wife was at the bath room which was after the shop room. PW-1 then returned from camp. During the investigation, on 11.12.2008, his statement was recorded under Section G 164 Cr.P.C. by the Judicial First Class Magistrate, Sompeta (Ex.P2). At this stage, PW-4 was declared hostile and was cross-examined by the prosecution. He denied having stated before the police that the accused had entered the house of PW-1 and had stolen gold ornaments and cash. In his cross-examination by the defence, PW-4 stated that PW-1’s house was in the centre of Chinnamedaraveedhi and on both sides, houses H DAKKATA BALARAM REDDY & ANR. v. STATE OF ANDHRA 893 PRADESH & ANR. [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] were situated. He stated that he did not know whether PW-1 used to A advance loans on pledging of gold ornaments.