We have noticed the stand of the two appellants and the writ petitioners also in this regard. We find that it is their stand that they are prepared to maintain the 10 percent area as OSR. What is B objected is to the execution of the gift deed and allowing the property rights to change hands.This is apart from the objection to the chosen site being made accessible to the general public. 169. We have noticed that in Pandit Chetram Vashishta (supra), this Court has held that in the absence of valid provision under which the C gift in the said case could be supported, the mere resolution was not sufficient. The position still was found to be that the original owner would continue to be a trustee. He cannot transfer or change the nature of the property. In fact, in the decision reported in Virender Gaur (supra), this Court discountenanced conversion of what was an OSR area into land on which construction though for what was projected as a laudable object D was carried out. We are of the view that bearing in mind the laudable object the law relating to town planning which has been the very basis for our reasoning otherwise, we must clarify that what the Rule and the Regulation mandatorily stipulated was the dedication and maintenance of 10 percent of the area for communal and recreation purposes area E only. There is inviolable duty on the part of all including the local body and the CMDA to ensure that an area which is set apart or purported to be set apart in terms of the OSR requirement under the Rule/Regulation in question is used only for communal and recreational purpose. We notice in, this regard, the complaint of Ms. V. Mohana, learned Senior Counsel, as indeed the other counsel that only lip service is being paid to F the projected sublime object of maintaining OSR. This cannot be permitted. 170. Unrelentingly persevering is the aspect relating to the contours of the word communal in the setting of the Rules/regulations and Act. Rules do shed some light in Rule 19 (b)(II)(vi). In regard to plots having a size of 3,000 square metres to 10,000 square metres, the law giver has G provided that it shall not be necessary to provide access to the public. When it comes to the impugned Rule, viz., Rule 19 (b)(II)(vi) providing for plot size in excess of 10,000 square metres, it is apparent that the access of the members of the general public to the OSR area is to be permitted. This result is inevitable having regard to the fact that unlike H 1160 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the immediate predecessors, viz., plot size having 3,000 to 10,000 square metres wherein it has been indicated that public access shall not be insisted upon such a relaxation is conspicuous by its absence. The wisdom and the value judgement, which underlies permitting or contemplating public access to the OSR area, can be understood only in terms of the difference in the size.