5.5 It is submitted that if the stand taken by the Revenue and the views taken by the High Court that even on belated remittance of the TDS there shall be penalty levied under Section 271C of the Act, is H M/S US TECHNOLOGIES INTERNATIONAL PVT. LTD. v. THE 389 COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX [M. R. SHAH, J.] accepted, in that case it would tantamount to adding something more A than which is not provided in the Section. It is submitted that words used in Section 271C are “fails to deduct the whole or any part of the tax.” It is submitted that it does not speak “fails to deduct and remitted belatedly.” 5.6 Shri Arijit Prasad, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the assessee has drawn our attention to Section 276B of the Act, B 1961. It is submitted that as per Section 276B of the Act “if a person fails to pay to the credit of the Central Government the tax deducted at source by him as required by or under the provisions of Chapter XVIIB, he shall be liable to be prosecuted and shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall C not be less than three months but which may extend to seven years and with fine.” It is submitted that therefore, Section 276B talks about “fails to pay,” the words which are missing in Section 271C of the Act. It is submitted that therefore, wherever, the Parliament wanted to provide for the consequences on non-payment of the TDS, the same is provided like Section 276B of the Act. It is submitted that therefore, D thus the words in Section 271C and Section 276B are different and distinct. 5.7 It is further submitted by Shri Arijit Prasad, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the assessee that even otherwise, the impugned and passed by the High Court has been E subsequently overruled by the Full Bench of the Kerala High Court in the case of Lakshadweep Development Corporation Ltd. Vs. Additional Commissioner of Income Tax (TDS) and Anr. (2019) 411 ITR 213 (FB). 5.8 It is further submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf F of the respective assessees in respective appeals that even otherwise in exercise of powers under Section 273B, no penalty shall be imposed on the person or the assessee, for any failure, if he proves that there was a reasonable cause for the said failure. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of CIT Vs. Bank of Nova Scotia (2016) 15 G SCC 81. 5.9 It is submitted that in the case of Civil Appeals Nos. 1258-60/ 2019, the ITAT found in favour of the assessee that there was a reasonable cause for the assessee for the failure to remit the TDS belatedly. It is submitted that once the ITAT found the case falling under Section 273B, H 390 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A the same was not required to be interfered with by the High Court as the same cannot be said to a substantial question of law.