10. What emerges from the evidence is that the appellant, the deceased and PW-13 Naik Amrik Singh had consumed liquor at the time B of dinner. There was a heated exchange of words between the appellant and the deceased on the issue of seniority. In fact, PW-13 stated in his examination-in-chief that the appellant was senior most after him and therefore, the appellant was designated as second guard commander. He stated that he treated the appellantto besenior. C 11. The appellant did not have a weapon at that time and he used the weapon of the deceased. Out of 20 rounds in the magazine of the rifle, he fired only one bullet. Moreover, after the incident, the appellant did not run away and he along with PW -13 lifted the deceased and laid him by the side of the road. He frankly disclosed his version of the D incident to PWs 13 and 14. The appellant along with two other army men, lifted the deceased for putting him in the ambulance and he accompanied the deceased to the hospital. These facts brought on record show that there was no pre-meditation on the part of the appellant. Both the appellant and the deceased had consumed liquor. There was a fight between him and the deceased over the issue of seniority. In fact, when E the appellant told the deceased to bring water for him, the deceased refused to do so on the ground that he was senior to the appellant. In a disciplined force like Army, the seniority has all the importance. Therefore, there is every possibility that the dispute over seniority resulted in the appellant doing the act in a heat of passion. It appears that in the F heat of passion, the appellant snatched a rifle held by the deceased and fired only one bullet. If there was any pre-meditation on the part of the appellant or if he had any intention to kill the deceased, he would have fired more bullets at the deceased. Hence, there was no intention on his part to kill the deceased. Whether the appellant had done a cruel act or not, has to be appreciated after considering three facts. Firstly, the G appellant was a soldier on guard duty, secondly, the appellant and the deceased had a fight over the seniority and thirdly, though there were 20 rounds in the rifle of the deceased, he fired only one round. There was a sudden fight over seniority when the appellant and the deceased had consumed liquor. There was no premeditation. The appellant, in the facts H 1146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A of the case, cannot be said to have acted in such a cruel manner which will deprive him of the benefit of exception 4 to Section 300 of IPC. The term cruel manner is a relative term. Exception 4 applies when a man kills another. By ordinary standards, this itself is a cruel act. The appellant fired only one bullet which proved to be fatal.