97 framed under the Adhiniyam. 3.1 It is further submitted by the learned Additional Solicitor General E that the learned Single Judge allowed the writ petitions declaring Scheme No. 97 as illegal and invalid and quashed and set aside the entire acquisition proceedings under the Act, 1894, mainly on three grounds, namely:- (i) That there was no delegation of power by the State Government with regard to Section 5-A of the Act, 1894 to Collector; F (ii) That IDA failed to take substantial steps to implement the scheme within a period of three years from the date of final publication as envisaged under section 54 of the Adhiniyam; and (iii) That huge and big chunk of land, out of the total land sought to G be acquired by the Authority, has been released. 3.2 Insofar as the finding recorded by the learned Single Judge, as confirmed by the Division Bench, that there was no delegation of power to the Collector with respect to Section 5-A of the Act, 1894 is concerned, learned Additional Solicitor General has submitted as under: H INDORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. BURHANI GRIH NIRMAN 93 SAHAKARI SANSTHA MARYADIT SNEH NAGAR [M. R. SHAH, J.] (i) That Section 5-A of the Act, 1894 provides for inviting and A hearing of objections from the landowners by the appropriate authority and then preparation of report thereof. It is submitted that insofar as the decision on the report by the Appropriate Government is concerned, it is taken under section 6 of the Act, 1894. Section 5-A merely declares B that the decision of the Appropriate Government on the report would be final. Thus, Section 5-A does not require any further delegation of power. The decision on the report is required to be taken under Section 6 of the Act, 1894. (ii) Further, it is submitted that the State Government vide its C letter dated 22.03.1985 delegated its power to the District Collector to act as Dy. Secretary of the Revenue Department and to the Commissioner of the Division, to act as Secretary of the Revenue Department, to adjudicate matters related to land acquisition by exercising powers given under Sections 4, 5, 6 and 17 of the Act, 1894. A bare D reading of Sections 4 to 6 of the Act, 1894 would reveal that the power given to the District Collector and to the Commissioner under these sections are consequential and cannot be separated inasmuch as one section leads to another, which finally culminates in the passing of declaration E under Section 6 of the Act, 1894. (iii) Further, a declaration under section 6 of the Act, 1894 could be passed only after the report submitted under section 5- A has been considered by the appropriate government. It is respectfully contended that even though the dated F 22.03.1985 does not specifically mention Section 5-A, the same is implied in the said . (iv) Under section 5-A of the Act, the objections are required to be considered by the Collector. Section 3(c) of the Act, 1894 defines Collector as under: G “3(c) The expression Collector means the Collector of a District, and includes a Dy.