What has been placed on record with reference to the Ideal Institute is the Receipt &Payment Accounts for the years ending 31.03.2009 and 31.03.2010. Even these statements show loan from Ideal Fine Arts Trust. A certifi cate from the Corporation Bank dated 03.06.2009, has also been produced, before this Court, showing that the account was opened on 07.07.2004, in the name of the Ideal Institute. The name of the introducer for opening the account is shown as the ‘Ideal Fine Arts Trust’. No other documents for the period from 1988 till the Commissioner's , were submitted. Even the documents pertaining to the subsequent period weaken the appellant's case. 21. Even the of this Court in Pratap Press’s case (supra) relied upon by the learned counsel for the appellant does not come to the rescue of the appellant. In that case, this Court upheld the passed by the Tribunal on appreciation of the material produced before it, wherein it was opined that both the units are distinct and separate industrial units. The matter was examined in the light of the principles laid down in the Associated Cement’s case (supra). 550 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 22. The mere fact that two Institutes, managed and controlled by the same management, off er diff erent courses or were established at diff erent times is not relevant for their clubbing under the EPF Act. The fact that one of the institutes receives 100% grant-in-aid from the government while the other is receiving to the extent of 70%,is also not relevant. After coverage of the establishments, the benefi ts, as determined for the purpose of assessing dues under the EPF Act, have already been assessed by the Commissioner. 23. From a perusal of the material available on record and the settled position of law, it can be safely opined that there is fi nancial integrity between the Society of the appellant as well as the Ideal Institute as substantial funds have been advanced to the Institutes by the Society. Further, both the Institutes are functioning from the same premises. 24. For the reasons mentioned above, the appeal is dismissed. There shall be no as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal dismissed. Divya Pandey