The doctrine of separation of powers envisages that the D legislature should make law, the executive should execute it, and the judiciary should settle disputes in accordance with the existing law. In reality such watertight separation exists nowhere and is impracticable. Broadly it means that one organ of the State should not perform a function that essentially belongs to another organ. While law-making through interpretation and expansion of the E meanings of open-textured expressions such as ‘due process of law’, ‘equal protection of law’, or ‘freedom of speech and expression’ is a legitimate judicial function, the making of an entirely new law, which the Supreme Court has been doing through directions in the above-mentioned cases, is not a legitimate judicial F function. True, the Court has not supplanted but has merely supplemented the legislature through such directions. It has said in each case that it legislated through directions only because no law existed to deal with situations such as inter-country adoption or sexual harassment of working women and that its direction could be replaced by legislation of the legislature.” G 90. In the work, “The Nature of the Judicial Process” by Benjamin N. Cardozo, in the lecture, “The Method of Sociology - The Judge as a Legislator.” Justice Cardozo observes under the following subject: - “THE JUDGE AS A LEGISLATOR H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 95 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] …No doubt the limits for the judge are narrower. He legislates A only between gaps. He fills the open spaces in the law. How far he may go without travelling beyond the walls of the interstices cannot be staked out for him upon a chart. He must learn it for himself as he gains the sense of fitness and proportion that comes with years of habitude in the practice of an art. Even within the B gaps, restrictions not easy to define, but felt, however impalpable they may be, by every judge and lawyer, hedge and circumscribe his action. They are established by the traditions of the centuries, by the example of other judges, his predecessors and his colleagues, by the collective of the profession, and by the duty of adherence to the pervading spirit of the law. C …The process, being legislative, demands the legislator’s wisdom. …Customs, no matter how firmly established, are not law, they say, until adopted by the courts. Even statues are not law because the courts must fix their meaning. That is the view of Gray in his D “Nature and Sources of the Law.” “The true view, as I submit,” he says, “is that the Law is what the Judges declare; that statues, precedents, the opinions of learned experts, customs and morality are the sources of the Law.” So, Jethro Brown in a paper on “Law and Evolution,” tells us that a statue, till construed, is not real law. It is only “ostensible” law, Real law, he says, is not found E anywhere except in the of a court… ..They have the right to legislate within gaps, but often there are no gaps.