P10), relating to seizure of the liquor bottle; Property Seizure Memo (Ex. P12), relating to seizure of the body of the deceased and his clothes along with the hair found in his right fi st; Property Seizure Memo (Ex. P11), relating to seizure of the murder weapon; and Property Seizure Memo (Ex. P19) relating to seizure of the two mobile phones; also refl ect the same style of recording. Witnesses to the panchnamas and the seizures acted as mere attestors to the documents and did not disclose in their own words as to how these objects were discovered, i.e., at whose instance and how. Ergo, no lawful validity attaches to these proceedings recorded by the police in the context of collection of all this evidence. 33. DNA evidence was also relied upon by the prosecution, by projecting a scenario that Ajit Pal had struggled with his assailant and in the course of that scuffl e, he managed to pull out some hair from the head of his assailant and they remained in his hand till the discovery of his body. DNA analysis of that hair proved that they were those of Rajesh Yadav. However, this story is found to be bereft of logic. According to Raja Yadav’s Arrest Memo (Ex. P20), he was 5.8” in height and the prosecution would have it that he caught hold of Ajit Pal, a 15-year-old boy, who was 5.4” in height from behind and Rajesh Yadav, who was 5.7” in height, as per his Arrest Memo (Ex. P36), cut his throat. The possibility of Ajit Pal, held by a much taller Raja Yadav, managing to get his hands on Rajesh Yadav’s head, who was also much taller than him, whereby he could have plucked out any hair is inherently improbable. This scenario does not lend itself to credibility and seems to have been concocted so that Rajesh Yadav’s hair would be conveniently available for DNA analysis to corroborate the prosecution’s case. Further, as there is a doubt as to when Rajesh Yadav was taken by RAJESH & ANR. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 23 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] the police and as to whether his hair could have been pulled out by the police while he was in their control, the possibility of such evidence being introduced by the police themselves cannot be ruled out. In Manoj and others vs. State of Madhya Pradesh15, a 3-Judge Bench of this Court refused to rely on DNA evidence, inter alia, as the genuineness of its recovery was suspect. Presently also, as the source and origin of the DNA evidence, viz., the hair, is rendered suspect, the end result of that DNA analysis serves no real purpose in establishing the prosecution’s case. 34. The proverbial last nails in the coffi n of the prosecution’s case, if at all needed, are the shocking lapses and the slipshod investigation on the part of the police. It is on record that when the Investigating Offi cer (PW-16) undertook the fi rst search of Om Prakash Yadav’s house under Ex.