A Single Judge of the High Court granted the application of the Indian entity, which was set aside by the Division Bench of the High Court. The primary issue before this Court pertained to the ambit and scope of Section 45 of the Arbitration Act. This Court framed the issue in the following terms: “1.3. Whether in a case where multiple agreements are signed between diff erent parties and where some contain an arbitration clause and 15 S N Prasad v. Monnet Finance Ltd, (2011) 1 SCC 320 COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 651 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] others do not and further the parties are not identically common in proceedings before the court (in a suit) and the arbitration agreement, a reference of disputes as a whole or in part can be made to the Arbitral Tribunal, more particularly, where the parties to an action are claiming under or through a party to the arbitration agreement” 25. Section 45 of the Arbitration Act in its unamended form read as follows: “45. Power of judicial authority to refer parties to arbitration.— Notwithstanding anything contained in Part I or in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), a judicial authority, when seized of an action in a matter in respect of which the parties have made an agreement referred to in Section 44, shall, at the request of one of the parties or any person claiming through or under him, refer the parties to arbitration, that the said agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed.” (emphasis supplied) In view of the language of Section 45, this Court held that the expression “any person” refl ects a legislative intent of enlarging the scope beyond “parties” who are signatories to the arbitration agreement to include non-signatories. However, the court noted that such non-signatory parties are required to claim “through or under the signatory party.” Thus, this Court accepted that arbitration is possible between a signatory to an arbitration agreement and a third party or non-signatory claiming through a party. 26. The next issue before this Court was to determine whether there was any legal relationship between the signatory and the non-signatory for the latter to “claim through or under” the former. The court noted that the group of companies doctrine has been developed by courts and tribunals in the international context to bind a non-signatory affi liate or sister concern within the same corporate group as the signatory party, to an arbitration agreement provided there was a mutual intention of all the parties. This court emphasized that the “intention of the parties” is the underlying principle for the application of the group of companies doctrine. It observed: “72. This evolves the principle that a non-signatory party could be subjected to arbitration provided these transactions were with group of 652 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. companies and there was a clear intention of the parties to bind both, the signatory as well as the non-signatory parties.