He would contend that Notifi cation No.2 of 2006 dated 01.03.2006 which was issued superseding Notifi cation No.13 of 2002 dated 01.03.2002 under the list of notifi ed goods with the respective Chapter heading/sub-heading, would cover assessment in terms of Section 4A of the CE Act. Though notifi ed, by oversight ‘zarda/ jarda scented tobacco’ under CET SH was omitted, he would contend that taxation of ‘tobacco products’ remains constant i.e., under Section 4A of CE Act on MRP basis. In this background he would contend that throughout the respondent-assessee has classifi ed its product as ‘chewing tobacco’ with the knowledge and acceptance of the Department. 30. He would also contend that the extended period of limitation could not have been invoked in the background of assessee having intimated the Department about the change in classifi cation in advance and there was no suppression of fact or mis-declaration. 31. He would also contend that assessment under Section 4 of the CE Act in terms of the transaction value of the product, the price charged and recovered by the assessee would necessarily have to be treated as cum- duty-price and assessment ought to be done and when such an exercise is undertaken the diff erential duty would be insignifi cant. 32. He would contend that the product manufactured by the assessee is only ‘chewing tobacco’ and ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’, which expressions are not defi ned under the Act and no explanation is provided on what products could possibly have been covered under the heading ‘zarda/ COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 595 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] jarda scented tobacco’, or what is the scope of that heading. In that view of the matter, he would contend that the ‘Common Trade Parlance Test’ as has been enunciated by this Court will have to be applied and tested. He would also further contend that classifi cation is a question relating to chargeability and, therefore, the burden of proof lies on the Department, for which no evidence whatsoever has been adduced by the Department to justify the change. It is his submission that any change in the classifi cation has to be based on something more than just change in tariff entry. Even otherwise, if classifi cation is possible under two entries, the one more benefi cial to the assessee would be adopted. Hence, relying upon the following s he prays for dismissal of the appeal fi led by the Revenue: 1. HPL Chemical Ltd. v. CCE 2006 197 ELT Chandigarh 324 (SC) 2. Mauri Yeast India Pvt. Ltd. v. State of U.P. (2008) 5 SCC 680 3.C.G. & S.T. CCE and ST Rohtak v. Som Flavours Masala Pvt. Ltd. - Civil Appeal No.1251 of 2023 disposed of on 17.02.2023. 4. Commissioner of Central Excise, Nagpur v. Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhawan Ltd. (2009) 12 SCC 419. ISSUES/QUESTIONS FOR CONSIDERATION 33. Questions that arise for our consideration in this group are as under: Q.1 Whether the authorities below were correct and justifi ed in invoking the proviso to Section 11A of the CE Act?