4. The petitioner, in fact, draws our attention to the following questions of law: B “1. Whether continuing the names of ancient historical cultural religious places, in the names of barbaric invaders is against the Sovereignty? 2. Whether Centre and States are obligated to restore the names of ancient historical cultural religious places in their original names C to secure Right to Dignity guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution? 3. Whether the relief claimed for restoration of names of ancient historical cultural religious places, which were changed during foreign rule, relates to Unity and Integrity of the Nation, the laudable objective sought to be achieved in the Preamble of the D Constitution of India? 4. Whether Right to profess, practice and propagate religion, is intimately connected with the names of religious places and therefore the changes made during foreign rule must be restored to enable the citizens to freely Profess, Practice and Propagate E Religion guaranteed Article 25? 5. Whether the names of places prevalent during Ramayana and Mahabharata Period were arbitrarily and illegally changed during foreign rule, ought to be restored so as to protect the Right to Conserve the Ancient Culture, guaranteed under Article 29 of the F Constitution of India? 6. Whether restoration of the names of the ancient historical cultural religious places, is connected with Right to Identity guaranteed under Article 21? G 7. Whether Right to Know guaranteed under Article 19 includes the right to know Original Names of the ancient historical cultural religious places?” 5. We may notice that we have to bear in mind being the Court dealing with the matter under Article 32 of the Constitution, that the H 188 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Court is tasked with the enforcement of fundamental rights. India, that is ‘Bharat’ in terms of the preamble, is a secular country. In His Holiness Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru v. State of Kerala and Another1, we notice that it was opined “India is a secular State in which there is no State religion” (See para 487). The secular and federal character of the Constitution has found to be among the “basic elements B of the constitutional structure” (See para 582). Secularism has been accepted by a Bench of nine learned Judges in the decision reported in S.R. Bommai and Others v. Union of India and Others2, as a facet of the basic structure of the Constitution. Therein, this Court, inter alia, declared: C “144....In such circumstances, the Ministries formed by the said party could not be trusted to follow the objective of secularism which was part of the basic structure of the Constitution and also the soul of the Constitution. 145. These contentions inevitably invite us to discuss the concept D of secularism as accepted by our Constitution. Our Constitution does not prohibit the practice of any religion either privately or publicly. Through the Preamble of the Constitution, the people of this country have solemnly resolved to constitute this country, among others, into a secular republic and to secure to all its citizens E (i) JUSTICE, social, economic and political; (ii) LIBERTY of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship; (iii) EQUALITY of status and of opportunity; and (iv) to promote among them all FRATERNITY assuring the dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the Nation.