12. The primary consideration at the stage of framing of charge is the test of existence of a prima-facie case, and at this stage, the probative 108 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. value of materials on record need not be gone into. This Court by referring to its earlier decisions in the State of Maharashtra v. Som Nath Thapa, (1996) 4 SCC 659 and the State of MP v. Mohan Lal Soni, (2000) 6 SCC 338 has held the nature of evaluation to be made by the court at the stage of framing of the charge is to test the existence of prima-facie case. It is also held at the stage of framing of charge, the court has to form a presumptive opinion to the existence of factual ingredients constituting the off ence alleged and it is not expected to go deep into probative value of the material on record and to check whether the material on record would certainly lead to conviction at the conclusion of trial.’ (emphasis supplied) 23. On a careful conspectus of the legal spectrum, juxtaposed with our view on the facts and merits expressed hereinbefore, we are satisfi ed that there is no suspicion, much less strong or grave suspicion that the appellants are guilty of the off ence alleged. It would be unjustifi ed to make the appellants face a full-fl edged criminal trial in this backdrop. In an appeal dealing with the refusal of the High Court to quash an FIR under Section 482, CrPC albeit, this Court, while setting aside the impugned therein and quashing that FIR, took the view that ‘…the Appellants are to be protected against vexatious and unwarranted criminal prosecution, and from unnecessarily being put through the rigours of an eventual trial.’15 The protection against vexatious and unwanted prosecution and from being unnecessarily dragged through a trial by melting a criminal proceeding into oblivion, either through quashing a FIR/Complaint or by allowing an appeal against an rejecting discharge or by any other legally permissible route, as the circumstances may be, in the deserving case, is a duty cast on the High Courts. The High Court should have intervened and discharged the appellants. But this Court will intervene, being the sentinel on the qui vive. 24. Accordingly, this appeal is allowed. The appellants, on bail, stand discharged of the liabilities of their bail bonds. The Impugned of the High Court as well as the of the Trial Court dismissing the prayer 15 Priyanka Mishra v State of Uttar Pradesh, 2023 INSC 729 | 2023 SCC OnLine SC 978. VISHNU KUMAR SHUKLA & ANR. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 1089 PRADESH & ANR. [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] for discharge are set aside. Consequently, there not being suffi cient material on record to proceed against them, the appellants stand discharged in the criminal case. Our shall not infl uence pending civil proceeding(s), if any, between the private parties. 25. Insofar as Minakshi Bala (supra) is concerned, having taken the view that we have and expressed our doubt on the limited aspect, yet we do not fi nd any need to burden a larger Bench to reconsider the said , at this juncture.