There is only the M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1303 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] movement of defective parts from the dealer’s location to A the manufacturer if located in another State. (iii) Learned senior counsel stressed the importance of keeping prudent commercial sense in mind while construing the contractual obligations in the present case. In this regard, the decision of the United Kingdom Supreme Court in Rainy B Sky SA & Orad vs. Kookmin Bank, (2011) UKSC 50 was cited wherein it was held that the Court was entitled to prefer the construction which is consistent with business common sense. Therefore, it was submitted that the contract of warranty cannot be equated with a contingent contract C of sale, with the contingency being the occurrence of a defect in the parts covered under the warranty. Moreover, the construction preferred by the Revenue that there is an agreement to sell an unspecified good in the future for which the manufacturer will pay the consideration is an unreasonable one. On the other hand, the decision of this D Court in Nabha Power Ltd. vs. Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd., (2018) 11 SCC 508was relied upon as it laid a five-fold test for constructing a contract of warranty as a sale. Therein, it was held that to imply a term in a contract, the same must be (i) reasonable and equitable; (ii) necessary to give business efficacy; (iii) passes officious E bystander test; (iv) be capable of clear expression; and (v) must not contradict express term of the contract. Thus, it was contended that the construction preferred by the Revenue was contradicting the express terms of the contract of warranty. F (iv) Learned senior counsel further submitted that even if the present transaction is assumed to be that of a sale between manufacturer and dealer, the same has to be treated as purchase return and not be eligible to sales tax. There is no scope for entertaining any doubt that a purchase return G would be relevant only when a purchase tax is levied on the purchaser. Furthermore, the present transaction where manufacturer-issued credits are accounted as sales return which is a recognized accounting practice and not a tax avoidance strategy. Therefore, it was argued that sales return beyond statutory time limit does not lose its character H 1304 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A of return. The only consequence could be that selling dealer may not be able to claim the deduction from gross turnover. (v) Learned senior counsel also relied upon the of the Court of Appeal, New Zealand, in the case of Suzuki New Zealand Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Inland Revenue, B (2001) 20 NZTC 17.The said case pertained to supply of spare parts by the car manufacturer to the purchaser directly or through the dealer under the terms of a warranty. Here, the parts were transferred from the overseas Suzuki Motor Corporation to Suzuki New Zealand. Rejecting the claim for imposition of Goods and Services Tax, the Court of C Appeal held that there was no export of service for GST purposes.