Report will be submitted up to 04-08-2023. Put up on 04-08-2023 for further proceedings.” 6. The of the District Judge was assailed before the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad in proceedings under Article 227 of the Constitution. By a dated 3 August 2023, the of the District Judge was affirmed subject to (i) the observations made by COMMITTEE OF MANAGEMENT ANJUMAN INTEZAMIA MASAJID, 113 VARANASI v. RAKHI SINGH [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the High Court in the text of its ; and (ii) the contents of the affidavit which was filed by the ASI before the High Court. 7. During the course of the hearing before the High Court, the ASI was called upon to assist the Court. In pursuance of the direction of the High Court, the Additional Director General, ASI fi led an affi davit setting out the nature of the proposed survey that would be carried out. Paragraphs 13 to 20 of the affi davit fi led by the ASI are extracted below for convenience of reference: “13 That it is also submitted that the GPR survey would be conducted by the renowned experts of the technical institutions such as IIT, Kanpur. 14 That it is further submitted that the survey team will study the pillars and architectural members, detail study of western wall, survey of complex and structure, study of open place/fl oor, GPR survey and photo documentations etc. 15 That it is pertinent to mention here that Scientifi c Archeological Studies do not damage or remove the structure rather they are preserved and wherever any structure is exposed that area is left untouched. 16 That it is further submitted that while Scientifi c Archeological Studies would be carried out beyond the structures and in open areas only. 17 That it is further submitted that no drilling, no cutting, no removal of brick or stone from the existing structure will be done while conducting the survey and study. 18 That it is further submitted that archeological sites will be in open place fl oor area which will not aff ect the structure at all. 19 That it is further submitted that no wall/structure would be damaged and the entire survey will be conducted by the non destructive method by using techniques such as GPR survey, GPS survey, the other scientifi c methods and other modern techniques. 20 That it is further submitted that the ASI is premier organization to conduct archeological investigations in the country, and 114 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. undertakes that entire survey will be conducted in accordance with the directions issued by the Hon’ble Courts without using any destructive method and damage to the structure. In case any further investigation/excavation is required permission of Hon’ble Court would not be sought.” 8. Apart from the affi davit, the deponent Shri Alok Tripathi, who is the Additional Director General of the ASI, appeared before the court in-person. The submissions which were made by the Additional Director General have been recorded in the following extract of the of the High Court: “...he submitted that the ASI will conduct a detail survey in accordance with law and prepare a list of the antiquities which are found in building and carry out detail survey and undertake the exercise to fi nd age and nature of the structure.