3167 of 2015 before the High Court of Punjab and Haryana for quashing the s dated 30.08.2011, 02.05.2012 and 04.07.2014. 2.5 When the matter came up for preliminary hearing before the High Court on 23.02.2015, it was stated that the land encroached upon by the original writ petitioners is part of the school premises and they are H THE STATE OF HARYANA AND ORS. v. SATPAL & ORS. 15 [M. R. SHAH, J.] ready and willing to give equivalent vacant land in exchange, to the Gram A Panchayat out of Khasra No.63, which also adjoins the school premises and which can, thus, be utilized as a playground of the school. On the basis of the aforesaid submissions, notices came to be issued by the High Court in the writ petition. B 2.6 It appears that there was a dispute with regard to the total area under occupation of the original writ petitioners, a fresh demarcation was directed to be conducted under the supervision of the Local Commissioner appointed by the Court. Pursuant thereto, the Local Commissioner submitted his report which established beyond doubt that the original writ petitioners are under unauthorized possession of the C Gram Panchayat land. 2.7 Faced with the report of the Local Commissioner, the original writ petitioners reiterated / re-stated before the High Court that the original writ petitioner Nos. 2 and 3 are ready and willing to give the land to Gram Panchayat equal to double the extent of the encroached land D and other petitioners are willing to pay its market price as may be got assessed by the Gram Panchayat. 2.8 The High Court by the impugned and dated 12.05.2016 directed the newly constituted Gram Panchayat to consider the claim of the individual encroachers on merits and take appropriate E decision. That thereafter, taking into consideration Rule 12 of the Punjab Village Common Land (Regulation) Rules, 1964, directed that the Gram Panchayat may, with the prior approval of the State Government, sell its non-cultivable land in Shamlat Deh to the inhabitants of the village, who have constructed their houses on or before 31st March, 2000, provided that they do not have any residential house and further provided that the F constructed area or an appurtenant area upto a maximum of 200 sq. yards. The said lands were to be sold at not less than the Collector rate, i.e., floor rate or market rate, whichever is higher. The aforesaid writ petition was disposed of with such direction. 2.9 By directing the parties to invoke powers under Rule 12 and G determine the market value of the land to the extent to which it is under occupation of the original writ petitioners, namely, the land where houses are constructed and wherever the vacant area can be segregated from the residential house, it can be separated and utilized for earmarked purpose, i.e., school premises, the High Court has disposed of the writ H 16 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A petition in terms of paragraphs 9 to 14, which read as under:- “(9) In our considered view, the authorities need to invoke powers under Rule 12 ibid and determine the market value of the land to the extent it is under occupation of the petitioners, namely, the land where houses are constructed.