One of them has to be an engineer with specialization in design, construction, operation E and maintenance of generating stations. One of them has to be an engineer with specialization in transmission and supply of electricity; one has to be a person who is expert in applied research in the field of electricity; one of them has to be an expert in applied economics, accounting, commerce or finance. F 97. Section 73 of the Electricity Act deals with functions and duties of the CEA. The CEA is required to advise the Central Government on various matters with regard to generation, transmission, trading, distribution and utilization of electricity. It is also required to advise the Central Government on any matter on which its advice is sought or G make recommendation to that Government on any matter if, in the opinion of the CEA, the recommendation would help in improving the generation, transmission, trading, distribution and utilization of electricity. 98. Section 76 of the Electricity Act provides for constitution of the CERC. The CERC is a five member body which consists of a H Chairperson and three other Members, and the Chairperson of the CEA MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 131 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] who shall be the ex officio Member. A high-level Selection Committee A consisting of 6 high officials selects the Members of the CERC and the learned APTEL. 99. Section 77 of the Electricity Act provides for qualifications for appointment of Members of the CERC. Sub-section (1) of Section 77 provides that Chairperson and the Members of the CERC shall be persons B having adequate knowledge of, or experience in, or shown capacity in, dealing with, problems relating to engineering, law, economics, commerce, finance or management. It further requires that one person to be appointed must be having qualifications and experience in the field of engineering with specialization in generation, transmission or distribution C of electricity. One person to be appointed has the qualifications and experience in the field of finance. Clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 77 of the Electricity Act requires that two persons are required to have qualifications and experience in the field of economics, commerce, law or management. The proviso to sub-section (1) of the Section 77 of the Electricity Act provides that not more than one Member shall be appointed D under the same category under clause (c). 100. Sub-section (2) of Section 77 of the Electricity Act, which is a non-obstante clause, empowers the Central Government to appoint any person as the Chairperson from amongst persons who is, or has been, a Judge of the Supreme Court or the Chief Justice of a High Court E notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1). However, such appointment cannot be made except after consultation with the Chief Justice of India. 101. Section 79 of the Electricity Act deals with the functions of the CERC. One of the functions of the CERC under clause (a) of sub- F section (1) of Section 79 is to regulate the tariff of generating companies owned or controlled by the Central Government.