Similarly in Apparel Export(supra)this Court had held that inquiries in respect of sexual harassment must be examined on broader probabilities keeping in mind the entire background of the case. Thus, in a disciplinary inquiry, the standard of proof is preponderance of probabilities and the courts must only interfere where the fi ndings are either perverse or based on no evidence at all. 94. Bearing the aforesaid principles of law in mind, we must look into some relevant portion of the evidence taken into consideration by the Central Complaints Committee for arriving at the conclusion that the charges are held to be proved: - a. Shri Mast Ram Thakur, SFA(H) (PW3) stated that the respondent used to quite often call the complainant in his chamber and made her sit for hours without any offi ce work. He further stated that quite often on such occasions, the respondent would draw the curtains of his chamber. He also stated that the complainant had once conveyed to him that the respondent used to make proposals of marriage to her. Nothing substantial could be elicited from the cross-examination of Mast Ram Thakur. In fact, what has been deposed by Mast Ram Thakur as referred above, has not even been remotely disputed in the cross-examination by way of even a suggestion. UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 567 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] b. Shri Rynjan Singh, peon (PW8) and Shri Chandan Sarkar (PW6) stated that they had seen the complainant being made to sit in the respondent’s chamber for hours. Shri Ashok Kumar, PA (PW17) further stated that the complainant had once told him that after being called in his chamber the respondent would often comment on her beauty and clothes. c. Shri P.K. Rawat, UDC (PW5), Shri Ranjit Patoi, Assistant (PW7) and Shri Samir Nandi, SFA(G) (PW14) have all stated that they had seen the respondent pour himself a glass of water in his chamber and then go to the complaint’s room 5-6 times a day, and while drinking he would always be looking at the complainant. Shri Runjan Singh, peon (PW8) stated that earlier the respondent used to drink water in his own chamber, but once the complainant joined the offi ce, he started frequently visiting her room to drink water. d. Shri Rabi Ram Biswas, sweeper (PW12) stated that he had seen the respondent touching the shoulder of the complaint while teaching her to operate a laptop. Smt Pema Narzary, AFO(WI) (PW9) stated that the complainant had once told her how the respondent used to call her to his chamber on the pretext of teaching her to operate the laptop. Shri Rynjan Singh, peon (PW8) stated that on one occasion, the respondent shut the door of his Chamber while teaching the complainant and when all of a sudden he entered the respondent’s chamber the respondent got startled and moved away from the complainant and instructed him to knock before entering. e. Shri Rabi Ram Biswas, peon (PW12) stated that whenever, the complainant would leave the offi ce, the respondent would also leave soon thereafter in a hurry.