The submission made by learned counsel for the appellant – Satnam Singh5 that the prosecution failed to establish the underlying facts of possession of the contraband by Satnam Singh5 and therefore, the burden of proof could not have shifted to the accused, is found to be devoid of merits having regard to the evidence placed on record by the prosecution. The prosecution was successful in establishing the fact that it was the appellant – Satnam Singh5 who was driving the car9, when he was accosted at the spot where the naka was laid by the NCB Offi cers on the relevant date. A photocopy of the registration certifi cate of the car9 was recovered on a search of the appellant – Satnam Singh5. He was the owner of the car 9. The car9 was searched by the NCB Offi cers in the presence of two independent witnesses. The contraband was recovered from the car9 being driven by the appellant – Satnam Singh5 in the presence of the independent witnesses and P.K. Sharma, a Gazetted Offi ce25, who was part of the NCB team. Even though one of the two independent witnesses [Mukesh Kumar] had turned hostile and was dropped by the prosecution, the testimony of the other independent witness [Sonu8] was consistent and nothing material could be elicited by the accused during his cross-examination. 18. Through the deposition of the Chemical Examiner [S.K. Mittal22], the prosecution successfully proved the report20 submitted by him stating inter alia that on testing the samples18, the substances drawn from the bags recovered from the car9 of the appellant – Satnam Singh5, were heroin. The samples18 drawn and sealed were found untampered and the testimony of BALWINDER SINGH (BINDA) v. THE NARCOTICS 119 CONTROL BUREAU [HIMA KOHLI, J.] Constable Balwinder Kumar10 corroborated the fact that he had carried the samples18 with him and deposited them with the CRCL, New Delhi on 14th December, 2005 with all the seals intact. 19. Given the aforesaid narrative, we are of the opinion that the prosecution was able to discharge the onus cast on it to prove the foundational facts. Thus, the initial burden of proving that the appellant – Satnam Singh5 had the knowledge that the car9 owned and being driven by him at the relevant point in time was being used for transporting narcotics, stood discharged. Once it is concluded that the prosecution had produced adequate evidence to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused – Satnam Singh5 had the knowledge, the presumption contemplated under Section 35 of the NDPS Act would have to be drawn against him to hold that he had a culpable mental state for indicting him for the off ence for which he had been charged. 20. As has been observed by this Court in the case of Ram Avatar alias Rama40 (supra), that possession of the contraband is a sine qua non to secure a conviction under Section 21 of the NDPS Act and that such a contraband article should be recovered in accordance with the provisions of Section 50 of the NDPS Act, being a statutory safeguard favouring the accused; otherwise the recovery itself shall stand vitiated in law.