It is only a rule of prudence, and if so permitted by the facts and circumstances, the dying declaration may preferably be recorded by a judicial or executive Magistrate so as to muster additional strength to the prosecution case.” Referring to the Constitution bench in Laxman (supra) the principle of a dying declaration not necessarily to be recorded by a Magistrate stands reiterated in Rajaram v. State of Madhya Pradesh23 11.9 Dying Declaration is not to be discarded by reason of its brevity is what is held in Surajdeo Ojha v. State of Bihar24. 11.9.1 It was observed in the State of Maharashtra v. Krishnamurti Laxmipati Naidu25 that if the dying declaration, while being brief, contains essential information, the courts would not be justifi ed in ignoring the same. 11.9.2 In fact, the Constitution bench in Laxman reiterated this principle, stating: – “Marely because a dying declaration does not contain the details of the occurrence, it cannot be rejected and in case there is merely a brief statement, it is more reliable for the reason that the shortness of the statement is itself a guarantee of its veracity.” 23 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1733 [2 Judge Bench] 24 1980 Supp SCC 769 [2 Judge Bench] 25 1980 Supp SCC 455 [2 Judge Bench] MANJUNATH & ORS. v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 745 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 11.10 Examination of the person who reduced into writing, the dying declaration, is essential. Particularly, in the absence of any explanation forthcoming for the production of evidence is what stands observed in Govind Narain v. State of Rajasthan26. 11.10.1 In fact, in Kans Raj v. State of Punjab27 it was held: – “11. …To make such statement as substantive evidence, the person or the agency relying upon it is under a legal obligation to prove the making of such statement as a fact. If it is in writing, the scribe must be produced in the Court and if it is verbal, it should be proved by examining the person who heard the deceased making the statement.” and; In Sudhakar v. State of Maharashtra28, this Court categorically observed: - “5. If it is in writing, the scribe must be produced in the court and if it is verbal, it should be proved by examining the person who heard the deceased making the statement. However, in cases where the original recorded dying declaration is proved to have been lost and not available, the prosecution is entitled to give secondary evidence thereof.” 11.11 The questions that a court must ask when dealing with a case concerning a dying declaration, as listed out by this Court in Irfan@ Naka v. State of U.P.29 along with the principles culled out hereinabove form the complete gamut of consideration required on part of a court when deciding the weightage to be awarded to a dying declaration. 12. Ocular evidence undoubtedly fares better than other kinds of evidence and is considered evidence of a strong nature. The principle is that if the eyewitness testimony is “wholly reliable”, then the court can base conviction thereupon.