Since, this Court observed that the stipulation or expression “date fi xed for transfer” could also mean the date of conveyance / transfer of such secured asset and being so, is not much diff erent from the ordinary process of redemption under the Act 1882, it could not be said that there was any material inconsistency between the SARFAESI Act & Act 1882, and thus it found no reason or hesitation to hold that the Act 1882 is inapplicable and thus made an endeavour of harmonizing the two. 67. It appears that while considering the right of redemption of mortgage under the unamended Section 13(8), this Court in Mathew Varghese (supra) only went so far to say that in the absence of any material inconsistency between the SARFAESI Act & Act 1882, there was no good reason to hold that the Act 1882 would not be applicable and as such, held that general right of redemption of mortgage contained in Section 60 Act 1882 would apply even in respect of the SARFAESI Act. 68. However, with the advent of the 2016 Amendment, Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act now uses the expression “before the date of publication notice for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 123 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale of the secured assets” which by no stretch of imagination could be said to be in consonance with the general rule under the Act 1882 that the right of redemption is extinguished only after conveyance by registered deed. Thus, in the light of clear inconsistency between Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act and Section 60 of the Act 1882 the former special enactment overrides the latter general enactment in light of Section 35 of the SARFAESI Act. Thus, the right of redemption of mortgage is available to the borrower under the SARFAESI Act only till the publication of auction notice and not thereafter, in light of the amended Section 13(8). 69. This aspect of inapplicability of the Act 1882 vis-a-vis the SARFAESI Act can be looked at from one another angle. In Madras Petrochem (supra) this Court made a pertinent observation that the Sections 35 and 37 respectively of the SARFAESI Act form a unique scheme of overriding provisions, however the scope and ambit of Section 37 is restricted only to the securities law. The relevant portion is given as under: - “39. This is what then brings us to the doctrine of harmonious construction, which is one of the paramount doctrines that is applied in interpreting all statutes. Since neither Section 35 nor Section 37 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 is subject to the other, we think it is necessary to interpret the expression “or any other law for the time being in force” in Section 37. If a literal meaning is given to the said expression, Section 35 will become completely otiose as all other laws will then be in addition to and not in derogation of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002.