for its confi rmation. 17. The evidence of P.W.3 is very much specifi c that on the date of occurrence in the morning, this appellant had reached the house of the informant, whereas, at that very time, P.W.3 was preparing food. In her presence, this appellant asked, rather lured the victim to accompany him for witnessing T.V. programme inside his house. At fi rst instance, P.W.3, elder sister of the victim, asked that she can go only after taking meal, but that too was prevented by the appellant and he (appellant) insisted and only thereafter, the victim, who was aged about 11 years, had gone with the appellant in the garb of witnessing T.V. programme in his house. In the evidence of P.W.2 informant/mother of the victim, this fact has come that appellant was neighbour of the informant and they were on visiting term. Meaning thereby that at the time, when the appellant had called the victim, there was nothing in the mind of the elder sister that her younger sister aged about 11 years will be raped by the appellant, who obviously on the date of occurrence was neither young nor very old. From the of conviction and sentence, it appears that his (appellant) age was assessed as 50 years. Meaning thereby that beyond stretch of imagination, the elder sister was not having any apprehension that her minor sister can be raped by a person, who was neighbour and aged about approaching 50 years. This was the reason that victim was allowed to move with the appellant. MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1029 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] The victim, who was aged about 11 years, was also oblivious of the fact that as to what was occurring in the mind of the appellant. After she was carried to the room and within few hours, when P.W.3 (elder sister of the victim) went to the house of the appellant, she noticed that this appellant after locking the door was coming out. This was not the end, even on inquiry, this appellant gave false declaration that victim had already left after witnessing T.V. programme. Again the criminal mind of the appellant was operating and this was the reason that even though, he had already committed rape and murder of 11 years old girl and concealed the dead body inside his room, he gave false information to the elder sister of the victim (P.W.3). Since the victim could not be traced by P.W.3 (Priya), the P.W.3 who was aged about 15-16 years old, and this was the reason that she was not in a position to take any further decision and she immediately ranged her mother (informant), who had gone to village Jamunia, which was about 22 km. away from the village Sabour. She informed her mother regarding missing of the victim and she also explained regarding other circumstances, which were suffi cient to raise suspicion on the appellant. Thereafter, the informant from Jamunia came on a motorcycle with son of her late sister P.W.1 (Babloo Saw) and all of them again went to the house of the appellant and this time they noticed that house as well as outer gate of the appellant was locked and there was none, then the search was made for the victim.