The conditions for grant or non-grant of aid to educational institutions have to be uniformly applied, whether it is a majority-run institution or a D minority-run institution..” 10. In a case involving similar issue as to whether a minority institute receiving an aid is bound by the conditions imposed by the Government, this Court in a recent decision in case of State of Uttar Pradesh and Others vs. Principal Abhay Nandan Inter College and Others2 E observed as under: - “32. When it comes to aided institutions, there cannot be any difference between a minority and non-minority one. Article 30 of the Constitution of India is subject to its own restrictions being reasonable. A protection cannot be expanded into a better right F than one which a non-minority institution enjoys. Law has become quite settled on this issue and therefore does not require any elaboration. 33. Thus, on the aforesaid issue we have no hesitation in reiterating the principle that an institution receiving aid is bound by the G conditions imposed and therefore expected to comply. Once we hold so, the challenge made on various grounds, falls to the ground.” 11. In light of the afore-stated legal position, we are of the opinion that the respondent-institution was bound by the provisions contained in 2 2021 SCC Online SC 807 H 496 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the Grant-in-Aid Code. There is also nothing on record to show that the appellant-State had discriminated against the respondent- institution on the ground that it was under the management of a minority, attracting Article 30(2) of the Constitution of India. The High Court therefore had committed gross error in holding that the respondent-institute had a right to continue the Principal of its school beyond his age of 60 years, and in B directing the appellants to calculate and pay the requisite amount towards the arrears of grant for the period from 2001 to 2012. 12. In that view of the matter, the impugned passed by the Division Bench confirming the passed by the Single Bench allowing the writ petition filed by the respondent institution is set aside. The present C appeal filed by the appellants stands allowed accordingly. Divya Pandey Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Bhavyata Kapoor and Shevali Monga, LCRAs) D E F G H