12. We then turn to the of this Court in Indian Council of Legal Aid and Advice & Ors. v. Bar Council of India & Anr.3. The Court struck down the endeavour of the Bar Council of India to put an age cap on the entry into the profession. The Bar Council of India E had prescribed that any person who had completed the age of 45 years on the date on which he submitted his application would not be entitled to be enrolled as an advocate. 13. Lastly, in Dr. Haniraj L. Chulani v. Bar Council of Maharashtra & Goa4, the appellant was a medical practitioner since F 1970 who insisted that even though he was a medical practitioner, he was entitled to simultaneously carry on the profession as an advocate. The Supreme Court opined that Section 49(1)(ag) when read with Section 24 of the said Act confers wide powers on the Bar Council of India to indicate the class or category of persons who may be enrolled G as advocates, which would include the power to refuse enrolment in certain cases. The Bar Council of India was held to be empowered to take all such steps as it considered necessary to filter students at the entry stage to the law course at the entry point of the profession, e.g. by 2 (supra) 3 (1995) 1 SCC 732 H 4 (1996) 3 SCC 342 BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA v. BONNIE FOI LAW COLLEGE 353 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] providing an examination or a training course before enrolment as an A advocate. In view of the magnitude of the ramifications of the issues involved, we had considered it appropriate to appoint Mr. K.V. Vishwanathan, Senior Advocate as Amicus Curiae to assist the Court in this matter. Mr. Vishwanathan gave a very comprehensive note pointing out the fallacies B in the earlier of V. Sudeer5, which are of significance and are crystalised as under: a. The Bar Council of India’s powers at a pre-enrolment stage are not ousted through amendment to Section 7(a) of the said Act. C In V. Sudeer6, this Court held that while the State Bar Councils have the function of “maintenance of rolls” under the said Act, the Bar Council of India is not concerned with the same. It was submitted by the Amicus that it is important to read the specific terminologies used in D different sections of the said Act and to cull out the underlying meaning for each of these terms. A plain reading of Sections 6(a), 6(b), Section 24(1)(e) and Section 28(2)(d) of the said Act indicates that the functions of the State bar Council relates to preparing and maintenance of rolls and the admission of persons as advocates on its roll. However, in stark contrast, the Rule making power of the Bar Council of India under Section E 49(1)(ag) of the said Act empowers the Bar Council of India to prescribe rules that could specify a class or category of persons who are entitled to be enrolled.