that the complainant, an orthopaedic surgeon, would advance huge amounts of loan to the accused, a Class IV employee, without any formal agreement/acknowledgement of loan advanced. 16. The complainant was granted special leave to appeal under Section 378 (4) CrPC before the High Court of Punjab and Haryana. Proceedings before the High Court 17. On reappreciating the evidence on record, the High Court has found no merit in the appeal and has upheld the of acquittal passed by the Trial Court. The High Court has reasoned that accused had discharged his onus in rebutting the statutory presumption raised under Section 139 NI Act. The onus, then, once again had shifted to the complainant to prove that the cheque had been issued in respect of a legally enforceable debt and complainant had failed in discharging the onus to prove that cheque was issued in respect of a legally enforceable debt. 18. The underlying basis of the fi ndings in the High Court can be summarised thus: 18.1 The presumption under Section 139 was rebutted by putting questions to the appellant in his cross examination and explaining the incriminating circumstances found in the statement recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. 18.2 The cross examination of the appellant reveals that he had given loan to accused commencing from 1st March, 2014 and on several dates thereafter. The cheque was handed over to the accused only on 19.10.2017, nearly three years thereafter. If the appellant had given loan on various dates, he must have maintained some documents to evidence such loans. He has remained silent as to the specifi c amounts loaned after 01.03.2014 and complainant ought to have tendered in evidence accounts, ledger, statement to prove the debt amount. The stand of the accused was that he did borrow money from the complainant but every month, the complainant would enhance the outstanding dues by Rs 1 lakh. Therefore, the stand of the respondent seems to be more probable than the case of the complainant. 18.3 There is a consistent allegation in the complaint, demand notice and the affi davit in evidence that the loan was given subject to payment of RAJESH JAIN v. AJAY SINGH 795 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] interest on the principal amount. The complainant ought to have mentioned the principal amount borrowed and the interest charged thereon in to arrive at the cheque amount of Rs.6,95,204/-. Since the breakup of the principal amount and interest charged is conspicuously absent in all the three documents, the complaint is bereft of material particulars and deserved to be dismissed at the very outset. 18.4 In so far as the Trial Court’s fi nding that the complaint was not maintainable since the complainant was not registered under the Money Lenders Act, the High Court has observed that there was no necessity of evaluating such a fi nding since that question would only arise if the complainant had succeeded in proving that the cheque was issued in respect of a legally enforceable debt. 19. We have heard Mr. Rajesh Jain, appellant appearing in-person, and Mr. Yudhvir Dalal, learned Counsel for the respondent.