The dated 13.03.2007, which is a public document, is well discussed and is based upon authoritative materials and was passed in consonance with the doctrine of audi alteram partem. Moreover, it has a torch bearer eff ect over the facts of the case. Accordingly, judicial notice taken by the Supreme Court of the inferences, observations and fi ndings arrived at by the Division Bench and the directions issued in its dated 13.03.2007 to the extent of the subsequent conduct of the accused, deplorable functioning of the Public Prosecutor, Police Administration and the Presiding Offi cer of the Trial Court to extend undesirable favour to the accused. [Paras 66, 67 and 68] HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 405 Evidence Act, 1872 – s.8 – Subsequent conduct of accused – Adverse inference – Maxim “qui sentit commodom, sentire debit et onus.”: Held: In the case in hand, a double murder case, the conduct of accused-respondent no.2 was not only relevant u/s.8 of the Evidence Act but also one of the major circumstances to arrive at a conclusion about his guilt. Respondent No.2 was instrumental in making all possible eff orts to wipe out the evidence against him. The tainted investigation shows the highhandedness of the Respondent no.2, who was a powerful person, being a sitting M.P. of the Ruling Party. The question is why the accused was instrumental, when he was not guilty of the off ence to which he was being tried. The obvious answer would be that his guilty mind was fearful about the result. [Paras 70, 72, 73 and 114] Evidence Act, 1872 – s.74 – Bayan Tahriri / Written Statement of deceased – Evidentiary value: Held: FIR is a public document defi ned u/s.74 of the Evidence Act. Any public document does not stand proven by the mere fact of its production. At the stage of exhibiting any document as a piece of evidence, the truth of what is stated in the document is not considered. It is left open to fi nal evaluation at the trial after cross-examination, and the entire testimony of the witness about the existence and contents of the document is weighed in conjunction with various other factors emerging during a trial. The marking of a piece of evidence as ‘exhibit’ at the stage of evidence in a trial proceeding is only for the purpose of identifi cation of evidence adduced in the trial and for the convenience of the Court and other stakeholders in to get a clear picture of what is being produced as evidence in a trial proceeding. In the present case, considering the failure of State machinery and failure of the Trial Court to ensure a fair trial from the perspective of the victim side, the aspect of non-marking of the FIR and Bayan Tahriri as an exhibit, non-production of the formal witnesses, i.e., the Constable Clerk and Investigating Offi cer to prove the lodging of FIR/Bayan Tahriri and fl imsy rejection of application fi led by a person seeking his examination as a witness along with examination of two persons (who had signed said written statement/Bayan Tahriri as attesting persons) as witnesses in the Trial proceeding do not vitiate the genuineness of the FIR and Bayan Tahriri, and no discount can be given to the accused persons for non-exhibition thereof.