Paragraph 9 of the Downlinking Guidelines which stipulates the procedure for renewal of existing permissions for downlinking is similar in terms to paragraph 10 of the Uplinking Guidelines. The provision indicates that renewal of an existing permission is not a vested right. Paragraph 10.2 provides that the ‘renewal of permission will be G considered…subject to the conditions…’ spelt out thereafter. The conditions stipulated in paragraph 10 for the renewal of uplinking and downlinking are : (i) The channel should not have violated the programme and advertisement code on five or more occasions; H 628 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (ii) The channel should not have been found guilty of violating the terms and conditions of permission; and (iii) The channel must fulfil all the terms and conditions that apply to the grant of permission as modified by the letter of permission. B Condition 1: Violation of Programme Code 24. Media One has not been found guilty of violating the programme and advertisement code on five or more occasions. On 28 February 2020, a show cause notice was issued by MIB alleging a violation of the Cable Television Network Rules 1994 and Programme Code of C the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act 1995 while telecasting reports on the violence which took place in North-East Delhi during the protests organised against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2019. 25. By an dated 6 March 2020, MIB in exercise of powers conferred by Section 20(2) and 20(3) of the Cable television Networks D (Regulation) Act 1995 and paragraphs 8.1 & 8.2 of the Uplinking Guidelines ed the prohibition on the transmission and retransmission of Media-One channel for forty eight hours. 26. However, by an dated 7 March 2020, MIB directed that MBL may resume uplinking the channel Media One from 9.30 am on E the same day. Other than this instance, there is nothing on record to indicate that Media One violated the Programme Code. Paragraph 10.2 of the Uplinking Guidelines states that the channel should not have violated the Programme Code on more than five occasions. The solitary incident of an alleged violation of the Programme Code does not fulfil the first condition of Paragraph 10 of the guidelines. F Condition 2 and 3: requirement of security clearance for renewal of license 27. Paragraph 10.4 of the Uplinking Guidelines stipulates that at the time of considering the application for renewal, the channel should G fulfil all the terms and conditions that apply to the grant of permission as modified by the letter of permission. The terms and conditions that are applicable for the grant of permission are spread across the Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines and are not concentrated in a specific paragraph or clause. Paragraph 2 of the Uplinking Guidelines (and paragraph 1 of the Downlinking Guidelines) prescribes the criteria of H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 629 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] eligibility applicable to applicant companies. The conditions, inter alia, A include minimum net worth and prior managerial experience.