Accused Prem Singh present in the court today used to comment on the chastity of my niece Sunita Yadav. Accused used to taking liquor and giving beating to Sunita. F Accused used to blame on my niece that she was not having good character. Two male issues were borned after the wed-lock. She was also told by his father in an effort to rectify accused Prem Singh to join Nasha Mukti Kendr, Auchandi Gav. On advise of her father accused was admitted to the above centre for his G treatment by my niece but on 29.04.2004 accused’s father has relieved his son from the Nasha Mukti Kendr Centre. Regarding both the issue accused Prem Singh used to comment that they were not belongs to me and used to quarreled with my niece and stated that they belongs to someone else. Once H 816 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A accused Prem Singh attempted to kill both the child by giving them electric shock but with the pursuation of my niece and showing her humbleness she was able to save both the child. Thereafter, Sunita came to our house and remained in our house for about 5- 6 months and thereafter Prem Singh has taken my daughter to his house. Accused Prem Singh after coming from the Nasha Mukti B Kendr remains quiet for 2-3 days but later on he continued his same behavior i.e, blaming on my niece and talk vulger with her. He also stated that your calling some persons in your house and indulging in bad activities (galat kaam) like sexual assault. He also used to quarrel with my daughter. C On 03.05.2009 Sunita came to my house and stated that accused Prem Singh quarreling with her. I went to his house and tried to consolidate their matter but could not succeed, ultimately I returned to my house. On the same day at about 11:00 am I received a phone call by the police that both the children of my D niece Sunita were died by drowning in the canal near Haider Pur Water treatment plant. I suspect that both the children have not been drowned as their own but they were killed by their father accused Prem Singh……. At the time of recovery of the dead body accused Prem Singh was claiming that both the children have been drowned in the canal on their own but later on after his E arrest he admitted that he has committed murder of his both the children. Police recorded the disclosure statement of accused Prem Singh in my presence same is EXPW-7/D signed by me at pt A. xxxxxx advocate by Ms. Sadhna Bhatia (Amicus Curie) for the accused. F We have not made any complaint regarding the above said behavior to the police. My statement was recorded at the PP Prashant Vihar. We have not called Panchayat in regard to the quarrel between my niece and Prem Singh. Vol. We had gone to the house of accused for number of times for reconsider the matter G but accused could not give any heed.