If the accused offers no explanation, or furnishes a wrong explanation, absconds, motive is established, and there is corroborative evidence available inter alia in the form of recovery or otherwise forming a chain of circumstances leading to the only inference for guilt of the accused, C incompatible with any possible hypothesis of innocence, conviction can be based on the same. If there be any doubt or break in the link of chain of circumstances, the benefit of doubt must go to the accused. Each case will therefore have to be examined on its own facts for invocation of the doctrine.” D (emphasis supplied) 12.8. In Satye Singh and Anr. v. State of Uttarakhand: (2022) 5 SCC 438,where the prosecution failed to prove the basic facts as against the accused, this Court emphasised that Section 106 of the Evidence Act does not relieve the prosecution of its primary duty to E prove the guilt of the accused as follows: - “19. …the Court is of the opinion that the prosecution had miserably failed to prove the entire chain of circumstances which would unerringly conclude that alleged act was committed by the accused only and none else. Reliance placed by learned advocate Mr. Mishra F for the State on Section 106 of the Evidence Act is also misplaced, inasmuch as Section 106 is not intended to relieve the prosecution from discharging its duty to prove the guilt of the accused….” 12.9. Apart from the above, we may also usefully take note of the decision of this Court in the case of Sabitri Samantaray v. State of G Odisha:2022 SCC OnLine SC 673. In that case based on circumstantial evidence, with reference to Section 106 of the Evidence Act, a 3-Judge Bench of this Court has noted that if the accused had a different intention, the facts are specially within his knowledge which he must prove; and if, in a case based on circumstantial evidence, the accused evades response to an incriminating question or offers a response which H 980 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A is not true, such a response, in itself, would become an additional link in the chain of events. This Court said, inter alia, as under: - “19. Thus, although Section 106 is in no way aimed at relieving the prosecution from its burden to establish the guilt of an accused, it applies to cases where chain of events has been successfully B established by the prosecution, from which a reasonable inference is made out against the accused. Moreover, in a case based on circumstantial evidence, whenever an incriminating question is posed to the accused and he or she either evades response, or offers a response which is not true, then such a response in itself becomes an additional link in the chain of events.” C 13.While keeping the aforesaid principles in view, and while reiterating that wholesome reappreciation of evidence is not within the scope of this appeal, we may examine if the concurrent findings call for any interference in this case.