Nayak [Abdul Rehman Antulay v. R.S. Nayak, (1992) 1 SCC 225 : 1992 SCC (Cri) 93] and P. Ramachandra Rao v. State of Karnataka [P. Ramachandra Rao v. State of Karnataka, (2002) 4 SCC 578 : 2002 SCC (Cri) 830] .” (Emphasis supplied) 29. A perusal of the record does not reflect any of the factors enumerated above, to come to the aid of justifying the delay in investigation of the instant off ence, leading the fi nal report to be submitted after nearly 3 years. the contraband substance was recovered immediately, only a few witnesses were examined, and even if systemic delays on account of transfer of personnel is considered, daytime elapsed between the date of the off ence and the submission of the fi nal report cannot be justifi ed. 30. However, mere urging that delay casts a suspicion on the investigation, without any evidence being led in furtherance thereof, cannot be sustained. Inordinate delay has been taken as presumptive proof of prejudice, but in particular cases where the accused is in custody. Record reveals that the accused was released on bail on 21st October 2003. Hence, the presumption of prejudice will not apply in the instant facts. 31. Other grounds urged such as interpolation in the Mahazar, are in the attending facts, not of such signifi cance so as to vitiate the entire case of the prosecution. Also, it has concurrently been found by both the learned courts below that such interpolation i.e., quantity of the sample being initially noted as 375ML and subsequently been corrected to 180 ML, SATHYAN v. STATE OF KERALA 107 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] with the latter indeed being the correct quantity stands corroborated by the unharmed sample, in sealed condition reaching the laboratory for chemical analysis as also the report generated therefrom which notes the sample to be corresponding to the latter, corrected quantity. 32. In view of the above discussion, we fi nd that the Appellant’s grounds to challenge the correctness of the judgement impugned, fail. 33. However, considering the facts at hand, that the off ence in question is dated 1st October 2003; the fi nal report after delayed investigation was submitted on 17th April 2006, he was convicted on 3rd November 2008, and that more than 20 years have passed since the commission of the off ence, this court fi nds it fi t to modify the sentence of the Appellant to serve a period of three months, simple imprisonment. The fi ne as awarded by the trial court and as upheld by the High Court, is confi rmed. 34. Considering the economic status, the period of time to deposit the fi ne by the Appellant, as awarded, is extended by a period of one year. The of the trial court shall stand modifi ed, also to that extent. 35. The appeal is partly allowed in the terms indicated above. 36. The exemption from surrender as granted vide dated 14thJune 2022, stands vacated. The Appellant is directed to surrender before the court concerned, forthwith.