Sharma (supra) referred to above came to be overruled in K.S. Puttaswamy v. Union of India, (2017) 10 SCC 1, to the extent that it had observed that privacy is not a 906 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. right guaranteed by the Indian Constitution. It was held in M.P. Sharma (supra) that in absence of a provision like the Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, a right to privacy could not be read into the Indian Constitution. In the case on hand, we are not concerned with the right of privacy of an accused when it comes to putting him to TIP. What has been ruled in K.S. Puttaswamy (supra) in context of Article 21, is that an invasion of privacy must be fulfi lled on the basis of a law which stipulates a procedure which is fair, just and reasonable. 26. What is prohibited by Article 20(3) of the Constitution is procuring by compulsion of the positive volitional evidentiary acts of an accused. It is true that an accused may be said to be compelled to attend a test identifi cation parade, but this compulsion does not involve any positive volitional evidentiary act. His mere attendance or the exhibition of his body at a test identifi cation parade even though compelled, does not result in any evidentiary act until he is identifi ed by some other agency. The identifi cation of him by a witness is not his act, even though his body is exhibited for the purpose. His compelled attendance at a test identifi cation parade is comparatively remote to the fi nal evidence and cannot be said by itself to furnish any positive volitional evidentiary act. [See : Peare Lal Show v. The State, AIR 1961 Cal 531] 27. In Peare Lal Show (supra), Mitter, J. of the Calcutta High Court in his separate observed thus:- “5. True, we are to construe Article 20(3), but the language of Article 20(3) is as to the material part tolidem verbis the 5th Amendment of the American Constitution. Dealing with the point, Holmes, J. in Holt v. United States, (1910) 218 US 245, observed: “A question arose as to whether a blouse belonged to the prisoner. A witness testifi ed that the prisoner put it on and it fi tted him. It is objected that he did this under the same duress that made his statements inadmissible, and that it should be excluded for the same reasons. But the prohibition of compelling a man in a criminal court to be witness against himself is a prohibition of the use of physical or moral compulsion to extort communications from him, not an exclusion of his body as evidence when it may be material. The objection in principle would forbid a jury to MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 907 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] look at a prisoner and compare his features with a photograph in proof. Moreover, we need not consider how far a court would go in compelling a man to exhibit himself.