The power to legislate which is dealt with under Article 246 has to be read in conjunction with the Entries in the three Lists which define the respective areas of legislative competence of the Union and State Legislatures. While interpreting these entries, they should not be viewed in a narrow or myopic E manner but by giving the widest scope to their meaning, particularly, when the vires of a provision of a statue is assailed. In such circumstances, a liberal construction must be given to the Entry by looking at the substance of the legislation and not its mere form. However, while interpreting the Entries in the case of an apparent conflict, every attempt F must be made by the Court to harmonise or reconcile them. Where there is an apparent overlapping between two Entries, the doctrine of pith and substance is applied to find out the true character of the enactment and the entry within which it would fall. The doctrine of pith and substance, in short, means, if an enactment substantially falls within the powers expressly conferred by the Constitution upon the legislature G which enacted it, the same cannot be held to be invalid merely because it incidentally encroaches on matters assigned to another legislature. Also, in a situation where there is overlapping, the doctrine has to be applied to determine to which Entry, a piece of legislation could be related. If there is any trenching on the field reserved to another legislature, the H same would be of no consequence. In to examine the true character BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 947 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] of enactment or a provision thereof, due regard must be had to the A enactment as a whole and to its scope and objects. It is said that the question of invasion into another legislative territory has to be determined by substance and not by degree. 11.4. In case of any conflict between Entries in List I and List II, the power of Parliament to legislate under List I will supersede when, on B an interpretation, the two powers cannot be reconciled. But if a legislation in pith and substance falls within any of the Entries of List II, the State Legislature’s competence cannot be questioned on the ground that the field is covered by Union list or the Concurrent list videPrafulla Kumar Mukherjee vs. Bank of Commerce, Khulna, AIR 1947 P.C. 60, C (“Prafulla Kumar Mukherjee”).According to the pith and substance rule, if a law is in its pith and substance within the competence of the Legislature which has made it, it will not be invalid because it incidentally touches upon the subject lying within the competence of another Legislature vide State of Bombay vs. F.N. Balsara, AIR 1951 SC 318. D 11.5. In Atiabari Tea Company Ltd. vs. State of Assam, AIR 1961 SC 232,(“Atiabari Tea Company Ltd.”) it has been observed by this Court that the test of pith and substance is generally and more appropriately applied when a dispute arises as to the legislative competence of the Legislature and it has to be resolved by reference to the Entries to E which the impugned legislation is relatable.