The only question in the present appeal is as to whether a mandamus could have been issued to the State to carry out amendment. As noticed, the answer could only be in the negative. H 1080 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 20. The other submission made on behalf of the respondents as regards refund of amount with interest in case of grant of pensionary rights does not make out any case in favour of the employees of the Board. As observed hereinabove, writ of mandamus cannot be issued to the appellant State to carry out amendments as desired by the respondent. Hence, the question of refund of the amount received by the employees B concerned does not arise in this case. 21. For what has been discussed hereinabove, we are clearly of the view that the direction issued in the impugned dated 25.10.2010 by the learned Single Judge could not have been approved. The Division Bench of the High Court was conscious of the fact that such a mandamus C cannot be issued so as to direct the State Government to carry out a particular amendment and, therefore, in the impugned and dated 20.12.2012, termed such a direction as being “advisory” in nature. However, the Division Bench went miles ahead in the very next proposition while observing that the State Government “shall” carry out D this direction. Converting an advice to the State Government into a mandate in this manner, with great respect, is neither permissible nor countenanced by law. 22. Learned counsel for the respondents, in all fairness, have made a plea in the last that this Court may exercise the powers under Article E 142 of the Constitution of India to fill the gaps and to provide for pensionary benefits to the employees of the Board so as to do complete justice. In this regard too, even while respecting the endeavour, we could only observe that under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, this Court cannot issue directions in violation of the statutory provisions; and sympathy or sentiment, by itself, cannot be a ground for passing an F beyond and contrary to the legal rights. In the face of existing Regulation 52, we find it difficult to accede to the prayer made by the learned counsel for the respondents. In this regard, we could only reiterate that nothing contained in this shall otherwise be of any impediment, if the State Government would be willing to carry out any amendment to G the Regulations of 1960. 23. Subject to the observations foregoing, this appeal succeeds and is allowed; the impugned s are set aside; and the writ petition filed by the respondent No. 1 is dismissed. No costs. H Ankit Gyan Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Vinayak and Aarsh Choudhary, LCRAs)