(4) On receipt of an application under sub-section (1), the court may, where it is appropriate and it is so requested by a party, adjourn the proceedings for a period of time determined by it in to give the Arbitral Tribunal an opportunity to resume the arbitral proceedings or to take such other action as in the opinion of Arbitral Tribunal will eliminate the grounds for setting aside the arbitral award.” BATLIBOI ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS LTD v. 469 HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM CORP. LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 34. Sub-section (1) to Section 34 of the A&C Act requires that the recourse to a court against an arbitral award is to be made by a party fi ling an application for setting aside of an award in accordance with sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 34. Sub-section (2) to Section 34 of the A&C Act stipulates seven grounds on which a court may set aside an arbitral award. Sub-section (2) consists of two clauses, (a) and (b). Clause (b) consists of two sub-clauses, namely, sub-clause (i) which states that when the subject matter of the dispute is not capable of settlement by arbitration under the law for the time being in force, and sub-clause (ii), which states that the court can set aside an arbitral award when the award is ‘in confl ict with public policy of India’. We shall subsequently examine the decisions of this Court interpreting ‘in confl ict with public policy of India’ and the explanation. 35. Under sub-clause (a) to sub-section (2) to Section 34 of the A&C Act, a court can set aside an award on the grounds in sub-clauses (i) to (v) namely, when a party being under some incapacity; arbitration agreement is not valid under the law for the time being in force; when the party making an application under Section 34 is not given a proper notice of appointment of the arbitrator or the arbitration proceedings, or was unable to present its case; and when the composition of the arbitral tribunal or the arbitral procedure was not in accordance with the agreement between the parties, unless such agreement was in confl ict with the mandatory and binding non-derogable provision, or was not in accordance with Part I of the A&C Act. Sub-clause (iv) states that the arbitral award can be set aside when it deals with a dispute not contemplated by, or not falling within the terms of submission of arbitration, or it contains a decision on matters beyond the scope of submission to arbitration. However, the proviso states that the decision in the matters submitted to arbitration can be separated from those not submitted, then that part of the arbitral award which contains the decision on the matter not submitted to arbitration can be set aside. In the present case, we are not required to examine sub-clauses to clause (a) to sub-section (2) to Section 34 of the A&C Act in detail. Hence, this decision should not be read as making any observation, even as obiter dicta on the said clauses.