A and of common intention which is to be read with Section 302 of the Penal Code, fails. For the charge of criminal conspiracy under Section 120B to be established, an agreement between the parties to do an unlawful act must exist. In some cases, direct evidence to establish conspiracy may be absent, but when the lack of evidence is apparent, it is not safe to hold a person guilty under B this section. To prove the offence of criminal conspiracy, it is imperative to show a meeting of the minds between the conspirators for the intended common object. Thus, the present appellant cannot be convicted of criminal conspiracy under Section 120B, solely for having concealed the location of the incriminating C materials/ articles and, in the absence of any evidence establishing meeting of the minds. Given that all the other co-accused have been acquitted by the courts below, meaning they were innocent of the crime, the fundamental requirement of a criminal conspiracy is not met. The charge of criminal conspiracy also fails on the ground that a single person cannot hatch a conspiracy. [Paras 30- D 33][841-E-H; 842-A,B-D] 1.5 Even about the search, the veracity of the Investigating Officer’s testimony is not found to be inspiring in confidence on account of various lapses. For he did not examine the owner of the house; did not enter his movement in the case diary; did not E record that he took the accused for effecting the recovery; was not able to describe clearly the area from where the recovery was effected; admits both the independent witnesses, who do not belong to the area from where the recoveries were effected; does not associate any of the residents of the area for conducting F the search; does not examine any of the residents for carrying out any further investigation and most importantly admits that both the memo of arrest as also the recovery not to have been prepared by him or bearing his signature and the same too, have many corrections and over-writing, thus reducing the correctness and authenticity of this document. Furthermore, he is not clear G about the description of the articles recovered. [Paras 35 and 36][843-A-C] 1.6 The Investigating Officer is the person tasked with determining a direction, the pace, manner and method of the investigation. It is a statutory duty under the Cr.P.C. and is also H MAGHAVENDRA PRATAP SINGH @ PANKAJ SINGH v. 833 STATE OF CHHATTISGARH a constitutional obligation ensuring the maintenance of peace and A the upholding of rule of law. The Magistrate concerned is not empowered to interfere with the investigation being carried out up until the submission of the report by the said officer. Needless to state then that the role of the Investigating Officer is essential and crucial. Chapter XII Cr.P.C. titled as “information to the police and their powers to investigate”, lays down the procedure B and course of action to be taken by the police upon receipt of the commission of an offence cognizable in nature.