……….. ………. 42.12. The executing court must dispose of the execution proceedings within six months from the date of fi ling, which may be extended only by recording reasons in writing for such delay. 42.13. ……..” It further directed all the High Courts to update their Rules relating to execution of decrees. It was as under: “43. We further direct all the High Courts to reconsider and update all the Rules relating to execution of decrees, made under exercise of its powers under Article 227 of the Constitution of India and Section 122 CPC, within one year of the date of this . The High Courts must ensure that the Rules are in consonance with CPC and the above directions, with an endeavour to expedite the process of execution with the use of information technology tools. Until such time these Rules are brought into existence, the above directions shall remain enforceable.” PRADEEP MEHRA v. HARIJIVAN J. JETHWA (SINCE 131 DECEASED THR. LRS.) [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] We have referred to the above decision of this Court only to highlight the slow process in the execution of a decree and the concern of this Court, and its eff orts in the past, to improve this situation. 7. The respondents herein are the tenants in the suit property at least since 1996. The present appellant is the landlord. The dispute between them was of sub-letting which led to the eviction suit before the Small Causes Court. During the proceedings, a settlement was arrived at between the parties, inter alia stipulating that the tenants would be liable for eviction if they commit a default of payment of rent for two successive months. According to the appellant / landlord, the tenants committed a default which led to the fi ling of the application under XXI Rule 11, CPC for execution of the decree. The executing court vide its dated 12.02.2013 held that the decree is liable to be executed. This was admittedly never challenged in appeal by the judgement debtor and has attained fi nality. On 19.01.2017, i.e., nearly four years later, the judgement debtors moved an application before the executing court to set aside the dated 12.02.2013, reiterating their previous stand that the tenants had never committed any default in payment of rent. Objection to the very maintainability of such an application was raised by the decree holder, inter alia on the grounds that the dated 12.02.2013 has attained fi nality and cannot be reopened. The executing court, to our mind, took the correct decision in allowing the objections of the decree holder and dismissing the application fi led by the judgement debtors on the ground of maintainability. The reasons given by the executing court are as follows: “8. Admittedly, the debtor no. 1(a) to 1(e) and debtor no. 2 have contended through their reply Exh. 20 that they are objecting to the execution of decree dated 11.06.2005 by way of application Exh. 18. It is also true that this Court being the Executing Court can consider the objections relating to the execution of decree under Section 47 of The Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.