*** 71. In the case on hand, the detaining authority has specifi cally stated in the grounds of detention that selling liquor by the appellant detenu and the consumption by the people of that locality was harmful to their health. Such statement is an expression of his subjective satisfaction that the activities of the detenu appellant is prejudicial to the maintenance of public . Not only that, the detaining authority has also recorded his satisfaction that it is necessary to prevent the detenu appellant from indulging further in such activities and this satisfaction has been drawn on the basis of the credible material on record. ***” 1004 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 78. It is indeed true that the appellant had raised a contention before the Court that the Government of Andhra Pradesh had directed detention of the appellant for the maximum period of 12 (twelve) months without any application of mind or providing reasons as to why this is necessary. 79. Having read the decision in Pesala Nookaraju (supra), it seems to us that the Court may not have considered it necessary to deal with the contention having formed a fi rm opinion on the materials on record that the appellant was indulging in activities of selling liquor to consumers which is harmful for health and, thus, prejudicial to maintenance of public . It is on such basis that satisfaction of the detaining authority for ing detention commended acceptance of the Court. 80. On the contrary, we have come to the conclusion on facts that the activities attributed to the appellant’s husband as such cannot be branded as prejudicial to maintenance of public . The decision in Pesala Nookaraju (supra), therefore, is distinguishable and does not assist Mr. Dave. We have, thus, no hesitation to reject the contentions of Mr. Dave. CONCLUSION 81. In view of the foregoing discussion, we cannot uphold the Detention . As a consequence, the impugned and of the High Court too cannot be upheld. The Detention and the impugned and stand quashed. The appeal stands allowed, without costs. 82. The appellant’s husband, i.e. the Detenu, shall be released from detention forthwith. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Ankit Gyan