For example, in the present case, it was necessary for the Appellate Court to put the appellant to notice that it intended to convict him with the aid of Section 34 of IPC, for which a charge was not framed. We may add here that the Court can give the notice of the proposed alteration or addition of the charge even by orally informing the accused or his advocate when the appeal is being heard. In a given case, the Court can grant a short time to the advocates for both sides to prepare themselves for addressing the Court on the altered or added charge. CHANDRA PRATAP SINGH v. STATE OF M.P. 767 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] 13. In the facts of the case, the appellant’s advocate was absent on the date of the hearing. Therefore, there was no occasion for the High Court to put the advocate for the appellant to the notice that the charge under Section 302 read with Sections 148 and/or 149 of IPC was proposed to be altered to a charge under Section 302 read with Section 34 of IPC. Therefore, grave prejudice has been caused to the appellant by altering the charge without giving any notice to the appellant or his advocate about the charge. The reason is that there was no opportunity available to the accused to argue that there was no evidence on record to prove the existence of common intention, which is the necessary ingredient of Section 34 of IPC. There is one more crucial aspect of the case. A perusal of the impugned shows that the High Court has extensively referred to the evidence of PW-1 Nand Kishore and PW-2 Manua. However, the entire does not mention that the Court was altering the charge for the reasons recorded. No fi nding is recorded in terms of sub-section (4) of Section 216 of Cr.PC that the proposed alteration of the charge will not prejudice the accused in his defence. 14. There is no reason recorded in the impugned to show that Section 34 of IPC was applicable. There is no discussion on this aspect in the . Only in the operative part (paragraph 15), without assigning any reasons, the High Court held that the appellant was liable to be convicted for the off ence punishable under Section 302, read with Section 34 of IPC. As stated earlier, there is a complete absence of any reason for concluding that Section 34 of IPC was attracted. The High Court has not recorded a fi nding that there was suffi cient evidence to prove that the four accused who were ultimately convicted had done the criminal act in furtherance of a common intention. 15. Obviously, the Trial Court’s conviction of the appellant under Section 302 with the aid of Section 149 of IPC could not be sustained. As per Section 141 of IPC, unlawful assembly must be of fi ve or more persons. As the High Court confi rmed the conviction of only four and acquitted all others, the off ence of unlawful assembly was not made out, and therefore, the off ences under Sections 148 and 149 were not made out.