Condemning the classifi cation, this court said that the university had “deviated from the objective for the starting of evening classes. The objective was to accommodate in the evening classes employees in general including private employees who were unable to attend morning classes because of their employment.” The justifi cation given by the university, that government employees held permanent jobs or position was held to be irrelevant for the object of opening the evening law course. 17. In Subramanian Swamy v Central Bureau of Investigation9 this court frowned upon, and declared void, a classifi cation based on status in public employment, characterizing that it defeats the purpose of the underlying law, i.e combating corruption: “59. It seems to us that classifi cation which is made in Section 6-A on the basis of status in government service is not permissible under Article 14 as it defeats the purpose of fi nding prima facie truth into the allegations of graft, which amount to an off ence under the PC Act, 1988. Can there be sound diff erentiation between corrupt public servants based on their status? Surely not, because irrespective of their status or position, 7 1988 Supp (3) SCR 353 8 1989 (1) SCR 689 9 2014 (9) SCR 283 DEV GUPTA v. PEC UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY 243 AND ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] corrupt public servants are corrupters of public power. The corrupt public servants, whether high or low, are birds of the same feather and must be confronted with the process of investigation and inquiry equally. Based on the position or status in service, no distinction can be made between public servants against whom there are allegations amounting to an off ence under the PC Act, 1988.” On an objective application of the principles outlined above, this court is of the considered opinion that the objective of introducing the sports quota i.e. 2% of intake, was to promote and encourage those who excelled and gained a certain degree of prescribed profi ciency and achievement in defi ned competitive sports. The introduction of this quota was to promote sports, and sportsmanship in educational institutions. No doubt, the state acts within its rights to prescribe a certain minimum eligibility standard or set of criteria as the threshold requirement for admission to any particular course, given its peculiar requirements. The Punjab and Haryana High Court, thus, upheld the prescription of a cut off eligibility standard of securing minimum 15% in the qualifying examination, in Jagatpreet Kaur And Ors. vs Punjab University10: “The petitioner has himself stated that the prospectus for Punjab Engineering College had specifi cally provided that there would a minimum cut- off aggregate of 15 marks. The respondents-University have only introduced the criteria which ensures the bare minimum of academic excellence which would be required of a student who is ultimately to become an Engineer. In Amardeep Singh Sahota ‘s case (supra) the Full Bench has categorically held that these are students who will ultimately serve humanity. Excellence in Sports may be a relevant consideration, but a certain minimum academic standard is required to be maintained.” The objective of introducing sports quota, however, is not to accommodate academic merit, but something altogether different: promotion of sports in the institution, the university, and ultimately, in the country.