…..” 19. Section 20 provides an inbuilt mechanism laying down the C procedure to be followed in holding preliminary inquiry and investigation which the Lokayukta, in the facts and circumstances, on receipt of a complaint may decide - either for conducting preliminary inquiry against the public servant by its inquiry wing or any agency to ascertain whether there exists a prima facie case for proceeding in the matter; or direct to hold an investigation by any agency or authority empowered D under any law to investigate, to record its satisfaction whether there exists a prima facie case. 20. Sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) provide the procedure which has to be followed by the inquiry wing or any agency which has been asked to ascertain the fact as to whether there exists prima facie case for E proceeding in the matter. Such report is placed before a Bench consisting of not less than three members of the Lokayukta to consider the same under sub-section (2) from the inquiry wing or any agency and after affording an opportunity of being heard to the public servant, may recommend to proceed with one or more of the actions as provided under Clauses (a), (b) or (c) of sub-section (3) to hold departmental F action against the public servant. Sub-section (5) prescribes the time schedule of 90 days under which preliminary inquiry has to be concluded. Sub-section (6) provides the action to be taken to carry out the investigation as expeditiously as possible and complete the investigation within a period of six months. Under sub-section (7), notwithstanding G anything contained in Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, the investigating agency may submit the investigation report to the Lokayukta. Sub-sections (8) and (9) provide the procedure to be followed after investigating agency has submitted its report for taking further action. H 572 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 21. Chapter VIII provides the power of the Lokayukta. Under Section 25, the power of superintendence and direction over the investigating agency including the State Vigilance and Crime Branch in respect of the matters in so far as they relate to the investigation made by such agency has been entrusted to Lokayukta. 22. Section 27 clarifies that for the purpose of any preliminary B inquiry, the inquiry wing of the Lokayukta holds powers of a civil Court, under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 and any proceedings before the Lokayukta shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of Section 193 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. 23. Section 28 authorise the Lokayukta to conduct any preliminary C inquiry or investigation and utilize the services of any officer or organization or investigation agency of the Government. 24. The Act, in fact, is a complete code putting in place the procedure under which the Lokayukta under the Act, 2014 within its territorial jurisdiction holds the authority to adopt a mechanism in reference D to public servants of the State of Odisha serving in and outside the State and the public servants under the control of Government of Odisha to inquire into allegations of corruption against the public functionaries and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.