4. While in regular appeal fi led under section 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, the High Court confi rmed the fi nding with regard to the claim of the appellant regarding Hiba in his favour and held that the appellant had failed to prove the same. With respect to the other argument regarding suit being maintained on the basis of an unregistered document, the High Court, although in principle agreed but proceeded to uphold the decree of possession on the ground that the respondent had fi led the suit as an Attorney for and on behalf of its owner Laiq Ahmed and that Laiq Ahmed was not objecting to the respondent seeking possession of the suit property. On this sole ground, it confi rmed the decree of possession and dismissed the appeal. 5. The learned counsel for the appellant made the following submissions: 5.1. The Court below erred in decreeing the suit for possession and mesne profi ts on the basis of unregistered documents namely Agreement to Sell, Power of Attorney, Affi davit and a Will. 5.2. The Will, although fi led, would be of no relevance in as much as it will come into force on the death of the testator i.e. Laiq Ahmed, who was said to be still alive at the time of the presentation of the suit. The other documents like Agreement to Sell and General Power of Attorney would not confer any ownership right on the respondent nor could he derive any title thereunder. 5.3. The affi davit would also not confer any title. The unregistered agreement to sell by itself is a document which is not enforceable in law. However, its only admissibility would be for collateral purposes and not for claiming any rights thereunder of ownership in a Court of law. 594 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 6. Further argument advanced on behalf of the appellant is that the appellant had successfully proved the Hiba (oral gift) by his brother Laiq Ahmed in his favour by adducing reliable and cogent evidence. However, the courts below wrongly discarded the same and decided the issue against him. 7. Further, he referred to the reasoning given by the High Court that even though the documents relied upon by the respondent were not of any help but still the respondent could have maintained the suit for possession or mesne profi ts as an Attorney and on behalf of Laiq Ahmed, the owner of the property. This reasoning, it was submitted, was untenable in as much as a reading of the plaint would clearly indicate that the suit was not fi led by the respondent as Attorney for Laiq Ahmed. It was in the individual capacity of the respondent claiming his own right, title and interest under the unregistered documents referred to above. On such submissions, learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the impugned be set aside and the suit be dismissed. 8. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent submitted that all the documents relied upon by the respondent as basis for the suit were the customary documents and they conferred full title on the respondent to be the owner of the property in question and, therefore, he can maintain the suit.