5. The High Court found substance in the appeal preferred by the E co- accused Jagtar Singh Hawara and substituted the death sentence to imprisonment for life. However, the of conviction and sentence as awarded to the petitioner was affirmed by the High Court. 6. Insofar as the conviction and sentence awarded to the co- F accused Jagtar Singh Hawara is concerned, Criminal Appeal No.1013 of 2013 at his instance along with other connected matters is pending consideration in this Court. During such pendency, a letter was written by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India on 27.09.2019 to the Chief Secretaries of the Governments of Punjab, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka and NCT of Delhi on the G occasion of commemoration of 550th Birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji proposing special remission and release of prisoners. 7. We are now concerned in this writ petition with the alleged inaction on part of the concerned authorities in not commuting the death sentence awarded to the petitioner in keeping with the H BALWANT SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 275 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] aforestated communication dated 27.09.2019. It is in this light that A the present writ petition prays that the mercy petition preferred by the petitioner on 25.03.2012 be taken up for disposal immediately and his death sentence be commuted to imprisonment for life. 8. Notably, the prosecution in the instant crime was conducted by B the Central Bureau of Investigation and as such, the authority to consider the issues regarding commutation and remission would be the Central Government.” It must be stated here that the petitioner never preferred any appeal, that is to say, no appeal was preferred by him either before C the High Court or before this Court. The then adverted to the earlier passed by this Court on 04.12.2020 and following observations made therein were also quoted: D “On a query made by the Court, Mr. K.M. Nataraj, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Union of India stated that the proposal has not been sent in view of the pending appeals of the co-accused in this Court. It is not denied that the petitioner has himself not filed any appeal against his sentence. Therefore, there is no question of awaiting the outcome E of any appeal pending before this Court. It is obvious that the factum of the appeals pending at the behest of other co-accused would have no relevance to the proposal intended to be sent for consideration under Article 72 of the Constitution of India. Mr. K.M. Nataraj, learned ASG, therefore, seeks time to make a F statement about the proposal as contemplated in the letter dated 27th September, 2019 to be sent for processing under Article 72 of the Constitution of India.” Thereafter, certain directions were issued so that the grievance raised by the petitioner could be addressed immediately. G Affidavits in response have since then been filed on behalf of respondent no.1 and the Central Bureau of Investigation (“CBI” for short).