In the absence of acceptance of the standby letter of credit and performance guarantee by the parties, no enforceable agreement could be said to have come into existence. The correspondence exchanged between the parties shows that there is nothing expressly agreed between the parties and no concluded enforceable and binding agreement came into existence between them. Apart from the correspondence relied upon by the learned Single Judge of the High Court, the fax messages exchanged between the parties, referred to above, go to show that the parties were only negotiating and had not arrived at any agreement. There is a vast diff erence between negotiating a bargain and entering into a binding contract. After negotiation of bargain in the present case, the stage never reached when the negotiations were completed giving rise to a binding contract…” Further in Babanrao Rajaram Pund v. Samarth Builders and Developers,21 this Court held: “29. It is thus imperative upon the courts to give greater emphasis to the substance of the clause, predicated upon the evident intent and objectives of the parties to choose a specifi c form of dispute resolution to manage confl icts between them. The intention of the parties that fl ows from the substance of the agreement to resolve their dispute by arbitration are to be given due weightage. It is crystal clear to us that Clause 18, in this case, contemplates a binding reference to arbitration between the parties and it ought to have been given full eff ect by the High Court.” The parties must mutually intend to refer their diff erences to arbitration as consent is the source of the arbitral tribunal’s jurisdiction over them.22 21 (2022) 9 SCC 691 [2022 INSC 935]. 22 KK Modi v. KN Modi, (1998) 3 SCC 573, para 17 [1998 INSC 63]; Bihar State Mineral Development Corporation v. Encon Builders (I) Pvt Ltd, (2003) 7 SCC 418, para 13 [2003 INSC 409]. 724 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 13. The settled jurisprudence under Section 7(4)(b) is that the non- signatory’s consent to an arbitration agreement can be made out from its conduct by way of exchange of letters, telegrams and other forms of written communication.23 These correspondences constitute the written record of the agreement. In Smita Conductors v. Euro Alloys,24 this Court was tasked with determining whether certain correspondences by the appellant therein, that were not addressed to the respondent, showed the appellant’s consent to arbitration as per the Article II(2) of the New York Convention, under the Foreign Awards (Recognition and Enforcement) Act, 1961. The Court noted that the contracts containing the arbitration clause were not signed by the appellant, nor were there any letters or telegrams between the appellant and respondent where the appellant expressly assented to these contracts. Rather, it relied on correspondences by the appellant to a bank where it acted in pursuance of the terms of the contract, as providing a record of the arbitration agreement.25 Therefore, even in the absence of a signature, the non-signatory’s consent to arbitration can be gathered from its written correspondence (even with third parties) that shows its conduct pursuant to the contract containing the arbitration agreement.