The Petitioner states that though the Petitioner and the respondent no.1 are living under the same roof, the Petitioner and Respondent no.1 have not shared the bedroom and have had no physical relations since the day the Petitioner discovered the adultery of Respondent No.1.” H 736 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 25. The pleading of the respondent extracted above to the effect that after September 2016, he has had no physical relationship with the appellant-wife means that he has at least had access to the wife both at the time when the child was begotten and for a full period of three years even thereafter. Therefore, the conclusive proof under Section 112 has actually come into play in this case. B 26. There is another fallacy in the argument of the respondent. It is the contention of the respondent that he is seeking an adverse inference to be drawn only as against the wife under Section 114(h), upon the refusal of the wife to subject the child to DNA test. But the stage at which the wife may refuse to subject the child to DNA, would arise only C after the Court comes to the conclusion that a DNA test should be ed. To put in simple terms, there are three stages in the process, namely, (i) consideration by the Court, of the question whether to DNA test or not; (ii) passing an directing DNA test, after such consideration; and (iii) the decision of the wife to comply or not, with D the so passed. The respondent should first cross the outer fence namely whether a DNA test can be ed or not. It is only after he convinces the Court to DNA test and successfully secures an that he can move to the inner fence, regarding the willingness of the wife to abide by the . It is only at that stage that the respondent can, if at all, seek refuge under Section 114(h). E 27. But today, we are actually at the outer fence in this case, adjudicating as to whether DNA test can be ed at all. Therefore, the respondent cannot jump to the inner fence by-passing the outer fence. 28. Coming to the presumption under Section 114(h), the contention of the respondent is obviously misplaced. An adverse inference, in law, F can be drawn only against the person who refuses to answer a question. In the case on hand, the appellant has a dual role to play, namely, that of the respondent’s wife and that of Master “X’s” mother. If the appellant does or refuses to do something, for the purpose of deriving a benefit to herself, an adverse inference can be drawn against her. But in her G capacity as a mother and natural guardian if the appellant refuses to subject the child to DNA test for the protection of the interests and welfare of the child, no adverse inference of adultery can be drawn against her. By refusing to subject the child to DNA test, she is actually protecting the best interests of the child.