75 marks out of total 150 marks. It is thus established that the Government changed the rules of recruitment and terms and conditions of H SURESHKUMAR LALITKUMAR PATEL v. STATE OF 555 GUJARAT [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] appointment in the midway after the selection process was initiated. A The said decision was taken on a Sunday i.e. on 12-10-2008, after the candidates had taken their exams. xxx xxx xxx 29. The counsel appearing for the respondents, however, submitted B that since these contract employees have been working for a very long time in the government schools, therefore, the Government had taken the decision to reduce the minimum qualifying marks to see that at least some of them who could qualify in the special recruitment test could be recruited and absorbed so as not to deprive them from getting absorbed in the government C employment through a regular process. 30. It was also submitted that out of 1714 candidates, who have written the special recruitment test only 894 candidates could receive more than 50% marks whereas 906 candidates could obtain less than 50%, which was minimum qualifying marks D prescribed by the Government in its earlier policy decision but obtained more than 35% marks. Consequently, it was submitted that the Government thought it fit that the said minimum qualifying marks should be reduced to 35% so as to absorb more people, who are still working in the government schools as computer E instructors. 31. We have considered the aforesaid rival submissions of the counsel appearing for the parties in the light of the records placed before us. It is clearly established from the records that in to give one-time opportunity, a special recruitment test was ed to be held for selection and recruitment as also absorption of F existing computer instructors. The said decision was taken on sympathetic consideration and with the intention of doing justice to those existing computer instructors who were working in government schools for a very long time. Such a recruitment drive and test was held by laying down rules of recruitment thereby G providing a level playing field for all concerned. 32. Prior to holding of the said test guidelines were formulated through a policy decision laying down the criteria that the minimum qualifying marks in the said test would be at least 50%. The said guidelines of recruitment as laid down through a policy decision H 556 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A were sacrosanct and were required to be followed for all practical purposes even if we accept that the Government could have filled up the said posts of computer instructors by holding a special recruitment test of the aforesaid nature as one-time exception. 33. We, however, cannot hold that the subsequent decision of the Government thereby changing qualifying norms by reducing the B minimum qualifying marks from 50% to 35% after the holding of the examination and at the time when the result of the examination was to be announced and thereby changing the said criteria at the verge of and towards the end of the game as justified, for we find the same as arbitrary and unjustified.