But the question for the consideration before this Court is whether that would decide the fate of the contents of a notification issued under the Customs Act. (129) We must notice that it is not as if the first respondent is the C only person which had a right to claim the benefit of exemption on the basis that the goods which have been imported for the purpose of their captive mine must be treated as goods used in the power project. As the history of the notifications as captured in of the Advance Ruling Authority would show over a period of time, there have been a number D of power plants which have sprung up. All of them would also be using captive mines for the purpose of generating power. It is not as if there would be a dearth of examples of exemption being extended to imports made by them and claiming the benefit of exemption under the notification. Not a single instance of an exemption granted to any other project where goods imported for use in the captive mine has been E produced before the Commission, the Tribunal or even this Court. This goes a long way to negate the claim of the first respondent that what was once exempt has ceased to be exempt only by virtue of the issuance of the OM dated 17.06.2011. (130) There is another very important circumstance which strikes F us. The material which appeals to us is to be found undoubtedly in the of the Advance Ruling Authority relied upon by the appellant. The application, no doubt, is filed in the year 2008. What impresses the Court the most is the stand of the customs authorities before the Advance Ruling Authority. We cannot proceed on the basis that the controversy G which led to the seeking of the ruling and far more importantly the persistent stand of the customs authority before the Advance Ruling Authority would not shed light on how the Department viewed the matter. This is important as it is the customs department which has issued the exemption notification. Being the authors of the notification, they would be best placed to understand the width and purport of a notification H 80 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A granting exemption. They have stoutly opposed the application and laid out various grounds which, no doubt, has appealed also to the Advance Ruling Authority. This is an aspect which goes a long way to show that the view of the customs authority which in a manner of speaking can also be viewed as forming contemporaneaexpositio should not be ignored by this Court. B (131) The first respondent also sought considerable reliance in this regard from the Mega Power Projects: Revised Policy Guidelines. The relevant portions reads as follows: “MEGA POWER PROJECTS: REVISED POLICY C GUIDELINES The following conditions are required to be fulfilled by the developer for grant of mega project status:- a) an inter-state thermal power plant of a capacity of 700 MW or more, located in the States of Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, D Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura; or b) an inter-state thermal power plant of a capacity of 1000 MW or more, located in States other than those specified in clause (a) above; or E c) an inter-state hydel power plant of a capacity of 350 MW or more.