IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 33 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] f. This Court in Krishna Kumar Singh v. State of Bihar25 has held that the President’s ordinance-making power cannot be treated as a constitutional equivalent of ordinary legislative power, notwithstanding a deeming provision which confers the same force and eff ect on it. Similarly, the functions of the Union executive or legislature cannot be treated as constitutional equivalents of the powers of the state executive or legislature, due to a “democratic defi cit”26; and g. Articles 75 and 164 of the Constitution stipulate that the Council of Ministers is collectively responsible to the Legislature. The State Legislature is vested with certain non-legislative functions such as questions and debates. Such non-legislative functions vested in the State Legislature cannot be exercised by Parliament during President’s rule27. 23. The will of the people finds no expression in the purported concurrence of the State Government, essentially the Governor, since there was no Council of Ministers in place. Thus, the COs are undemocratic for want of public will and public reason.28 24. Article 370 must be interpreted keeping in mind the following principles: a. Article 370 envisages three modes of cooperation between the Union and the State of Jammu and Kashmir: the lowest degree is under the fi rst proviso to Article 370(1)(d) where only consultation with the State Government is required; the second degree is under Article 370(1)(b)(ii) and the second proviso to Article 370(1)(d), where consent of the Government of the State is required; and the highest degree is under Article 370(3) where the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir is required29; 25 (2017) 3 SCC 1 26 Written Submissions by Mr Gopal Subramanium, Senior Advocate. 27 Written Submissions of Dr. Rajeev Dhavan, Senior Advocate. 28 Outline of Submissions on Behalf of The Petitioners by Muzaff ar H. Baig, Senior Advocate; Rejoinder on behalf of Mr. Kapil Sibal Sr. Advocate. 29 Written Submissions on Behalf of Mr. Kapil Sibal. 34 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. b. Article 370 must be interpreted in the context of three pillars namely- asymmetric federalism30, autonomy, and consent.31 Asymmetrical federalism, that is diff erential rights to certain federal sub-units is a part of the Indian federal scheme. It is a part of the basic structure, as is federalism32; c. Article 370 refl ects the agreement between two contracting parties namely the acceding State of Jammu and Kashmir and the Dominion of India, under which the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir was given the power to fi nally determine the state’s affi liation to the Union and its limits. Once this relationship was crystallised by the Constitution of the State, there was no scope of change, since the Constituent Assembly, solely empowered to change the relationship, ceased to exist33; and d. Article 370 recognized the constituent power of the people of the State of Jammu and Kashmir articulated through the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir or otherwise, to make or remake the Constitution of the state, subject to Article 1 of the Constitution of India.34 25.