District Magistrate to tender, a pardon on the same condition to such person. G 67. The change brought about by the legislature to the procedure prescribed in Sections 306 and 307 of the Code of 1973 was noted by this Court in A. Devendran vs. State of T.N.15. Incidentally, a question arose in A. Devendran (supra) as to whether the non-examination of 15 (1997) 11 SCC 720 H 52 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A the Approver as a witness after grant of pardon was a non-compliance of sub-section (4)(a) of Section 306 and whether it would vitiate the proceedings. Paragraph 10 of the decision in A.Devendran is of importance and hence it is extracted as follows:- “10.The next question that arises for consideration is as to B whether non-examination of the approver as a witness after grant of pardon and thereby non-compliance of sub-section 4(a) of Section 306 vitiates the entire proceeding. In the case in hand there is no dispute that after the Chief Judicial Magistrate granted pardon to the accused he was not examined immediately after the grant of pardon and was only examined once by the C learned Sessions Judge in course of trial. The question that arises for consideration is: When an accused is granted pardon after the case is committed to the Court of Session would it be necessary to comply with sub-section (4)(a) of Section 306 of the Code. The contention of Mr Mohan, the learned counsel appearing for D the State, in this connection is that Section 307 merely mandates that pardon should be tendered on the same condition and such condition obviously refers to the condition indicated in sub-section (1) of Section 306, namely, on the accused making a full and true disclosure of the whole of the circumstances within his knowledge relating to the offence and to every other person concerned, E whether as principal or abettor, in the commission thereof. According to the learned counsel, sub-section (4) of Section 306 is not a condition for tendering pardon but is merely a procedure which has to be followed when a person is tendered pardon by a Magistrate in exercise of power under Section 306. Since after a F case committed to the Court of Session pardon is tendered by the court to whom the commitment is made, it would not be necessary for such court to comply with sub-section (4)(a) of Section 306. Mr Murlidhar, the learned counsel appearing for the appellants, on the other hand contended, that the object and purpose engrafted in clause (a) of sub-section (4) of G Section 306 is to provide a safeguard to the accused who can cross-examine even at the preliminary stage on knowing the evidence of the approver against him and can impeach the said testimony when the approver is examined in court during trial, if any contradictions or improvements are made by him. This H right of the accused cannot be denied to him merely because A. SRINIVASULU v. THE STATE REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF 53 POLICE [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.]