Thus, their versions are not tallying with each other. If they were actually returning from their fi eld though not along with the KRISHAN KUMAR AND ANR. v. THE STATE OF 877 HARYANA [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] other, and reached near the place in question almost at the same time viz., about 08.30 pm on 25.06.1999 this kind of discrepancies could not have been there in their versions. We have also seen the improvements both of them had made to their previous statements, brought by confronting with them. Taking into account the discrepancies in their version it is relevant to refer to the oral evidence of PW-9 Krishan Kumar, the brother of the deceased Devinder. Going by the FIR his case is that it was about 08.30 pm in the evening of 25.06.1999 that his brother Devinder left the house. Before making further scrutiny of the versions of PW-8, PW-9 and PW-10 it is very relevant to refer to the evidence of PW-4 Dr. K. Goel who conducted autopsy on the body of Devinder and prepared Ext.PD. Postmortem Certifi cate. 28. The Ext.PD would reveal that he conducted the postmortem on the body of Devinder on 29.06.1999 at 02.30 pm. He opined that the time lapsed between death and the time of post mortem is about 3 ½ days. Thus, going by his opinion as to the time of death it would have been in and around 02.30 am on 26.06.1999. It is true that considering the fact that the body was fl oating and remaining in water it may not be possible to pinpoint the exact time of death. 29. There is yet another aspect which assumes relevance in this context. The evidence on record would reveal that inquest was conducted on 28.06.1999 at 10.30 am. Column 17 in the inquest report is with respect to the condition of the body. As relates the question “is the body stout thin or decomposed” the answer was given thereunder viz., “Healthy and strong, fl eshy.” True that as per the report of the postmortem conducted on the next day the body was seen decomposed. At any rate, all the aforementioned circumstances would be suffi cient to cast suspicion on the oral testimonies of PW-8 and PW-10. What makes their version susceptive to further suspicion is their evasive answers during cross-examination to conceal their relationship with the deceased Devinder. PW-10 would depose in that regard that it would be incorrect to suggest that deceased was his cousin and further that it would be incorrect to suggest that his great grandfather and great grandfather of deceased Devinder was Jug Lal. PW-8 who is his father would admit that his grandfather was Jud Lal and would state that Sukhbir who is the father of the deceased is the grandson of Shri Ram and 878 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Jug Lal and Shri Ram might have been real brothers, but he did not know. But PW-9 Krishan Kumar who is the brother of deceased Devinder would depose during his cross examination thus:- “Total family members including the witnesses cited in this case were present at the time of cremation i.e.