Section 3 of the Act makes a person guilty of the offence of money- laundering, if he (i) directly or indirectly attempts to indulge; or (ii) knowingly assists or; (iii)knowingly is a party; or (iv)is actually involved C in any process or activity. Such process or activity should be connected to ‘proceeds of crime’ including its concealment or possession or acquisition or use. In addition, a person involved in such process or activity connected to proceeds of crime, should be projecting or claiming it as untainted property. The Explanation under Section 3 makes it clear that D even if the involvement is in one or more of the following activities or processes, namely, (i)concealment; (ii)possession; (iii)acquisition; (iv) use; (v)projecting it as untainted property; or (vi)claiming it as untainted property, the offence of money- laundering will be made out. 19. Thus, Section 3 comprises of two essential limbs, namely, (i) involvement in any process or activity; and (ii)connection of such process E or activity to the proceeds of crime. The expression “proceeds of crime” is defined in Section 2(1)(u) to mean any property derived or obtained, directly or indirectly, by any person as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence or the value of such property or where such property is taken or held outside the country, then the property equivalent F in value held within the country or abroad. 20. PMLA provides for a two-pronged approach, one for dealing with the proceeds of crime and the other for dealing with the person guilty of the offence of money-laundering. While Chapter III and Chapter VI prescribe the procedure for dealing with the proceeds of crime, through G a process of attachment, confirmation through adjudication and an appellate remedy to the Special Tribunal, Chapter VII deals with the prosecution of the money launderers by Special Courts. 21. Section 43(1) of the Act provides for the constitution of Special Courts, by the Central Government, in consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court. Sub-section (2) of Section 43 empowers a Special H RANA AYYUB v. DIRECTORATE OF ENFORCEMENT 901 THROUGH ITS ASSISTANT DIRECTOR [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] Court constituted under Section 43(1), also to try an offence other than A the offence punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA, with which the accused may be charged at the same trial under the Cr.P.C. In other words, a Special Court is constituted under Section 43(1) primarily for the purpose of trying an offence punishable under Section 4. But sub- section (2) of Section 43 confers an additional jurisdiction upon such a B Special Court to try any other offence with which the accused may be charged at the same trial. Section 43 reads as follows:- “43. Special Courts.—(1) The Central Government, in consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court, shall, for trial of offence punishable under section 4, by notification, designate one or more Courts of Session as Special Court or Special Courts for such C area or areas or for such case or class or group of cases as may be specified in the notification.