Any act falling within the mischief that is addressed should be intended to be included and has to included if thought of. Further, all penal provisions, like all other statutes, need to 22 [2010) 14 (ADDL.) SCR 591. 23 2005 [Supp] (1) SCR 49. 212 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. be fairly construed in terms of expressed legislative intent. The intent to prosecute corporate bodies for the offences committed by them was clear and explicit, and the statute did not intend to exonerate them from prosecution. The court, therefore, held that it would be violence to commonsense that the legislature intended to punish the corporate bodies for minor and silly offences while at the same time, extended immunity of prosecution to major and grave economic crimes. 25. According to Stroud24, “amalgamation” is “welding or blending of two or more concerns into one.” It also states that “where there the companies concerned retain separate entities, [] there is no amalgamation”. Black25 defines amalgamation as the “act of combining or uniting; consolidation < amalgamation of two small companies to form a new corporation >…” The Companies Act, 2013 does not contain any express definition of amalgamation; it rather outlines and regulates the procedure for amalgamation and spells out its legal effect, which results in extinguishment of the corporate identity of the transferor company26 [read, in this case, LVB]. In Walker’s Settlement27, the term ‘amalgamation’ is defined as: “The word ‘amalgamation’ has no definite legal meaning. It contemplates a state of things under which 2 companies are so joined as to form a third entity or one company is absorbed into and blended with another company.” In Re: Skinner28 too referred to amalgamation schemes and their effect as follows: “…schemes and s made by virtue of Section 206 and Section 208 of the Companies Act 1948 can only transfer such rights, powers, 24 Stroud’s Judicial Dictionary of Words and Phrases (9thedition). 25 Black’s Law Dictionary, Eleventh Edition. 26 Section 233 of the Companies Act, 2013 outlines the result of acceptance of a scheme of amalgamation: “(8) The registration of the scheme under sub-section (3) or sub-section (7) shall be deemed to have the eff ect of dissolution of the transferor company without process of winding-up.” 27 1935 (1) Ch. D. 567. 28 1958 (3) All E.R 273. RELIGARE FINVEST LIMITED v. STATE OF NCT OF 213 DELHI & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] duties and property as are capable of being lawfully transferred by a party to the scheme if no such sections of the Companies Act existed. It is not necessary in a scheme to exclude specifi cally from its operation things incapable of such transfer as general words in the scheme and any in furtherance must be taken to operate in a manner not to repugnant to the general law of England.” 26. In M/s. General Radio & Appliances Co. Ltd. vs. M.A. Khader (dead) by LR’s29, the effect of amalgamation of two companies was considered by the Supreme Court.