In these circumstances, the application of the proposition in Hyundai H 76 (2018) 7 SCC 607 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 483 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] Engg(supra) to deal with the issue of unstamped document in A Garware(supra) appears to be an incorrect approach. This is because in Garware(supra), the Court found that the issue of stamping would go into the existence of the arbitration agreement in law. This was done by erroneously importing the principle enunciated in Hyundai(supra) and therefore the earlier Hyundai(supra) which had nothing to do with B the stamping of the document, should have been distinguished. At this point, we may also notice the argument of the Learned Amicus who argued that the Court in Hyundai Engg(supra) relied on Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Narbheram Power and Steel (P) Ltd77 which never had the occasion to interpret Section 11(6A). For these reasons, I am of the considered view that applying the Hyundai(supra) principle C to Garware(supra) is not acceptable. Consequently, the finding of the Court in Para 147.1 in Vidya Drolia(supra) placing reliance on the above paragraph viz. Para 29 in Garware(supra) also appears to be incorrect. The proposition of law in NN Global(supra) is therefore found to be correct. D L. Kompetenz Kompetenz and the issue of Judicial Logjam in India 85. Legal scholars have noted that the principle of Kompetenz Komptenz has been adopted in various forms in different countries78. Article 16 of the UNCITRAL Model Law adopted the principle of Kompetenz Kompetenz providing that an arbitral tribunal has the E jurisdiction to investigate and rule on its own jurisdiction. In a recent decision of the US Supreme Court in Henry Schein, Inc. v Archer and White Sales, Inc79, it was held that where an arbitration clause delegates the decision of arbitrability to arbitrators, Courts should have no say even if they consider the argument in favour as “wholly groundless”. F Justice Brett Kavanaugh opined: “Just as a Court may not decide a merits question that the parties have delegated to an arbitrator, a Court may not decide an arbitrability question that the parties have delegated to an arbitrator.” G 77 (2018) 6 SCC 534 78 John J. Barcello III, Who Decides the Arbitrators’ Jurisdiction? Separability and Competence-Competence in Transnational Perspective, Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law, Vol. 36, No.4, October 2003 79 2019 SCCOnline US SC 1 H 484 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Proceeding further, Section 16(1) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 reads as under: “16. Competence of arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction.— (1) The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including ruling on any objections with respect to the existence B or validity of the arbitration agreement, and for that purpose,— (a) an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract; and (b) a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and C void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause.” 85.1 It is clear from Section 16(1) of Arbitration Act, 1996 which uses the word “including” that an arbitral tribunal can not only rule on its own jurisdiction but also “any” objections on existence or validity.