A accordance with the procedure established by the manufacturer and reimbursed by the manufacturer to the assessee. 7.9. Two decisions of the Madhya Pradesh High Court are assailed in the present case by the assessees. Both s follow the reasoning of court in M/s. Harsh Automobiles Private Limited vs. The B Commissioner of Commercial Tax, Indore, decided on 25.01.2018. The High Court relied upon the dictum in Mohd. Ekram Khan and rejected the assessee’s contention that the replacement of motor vehicle part during the warranty period was not covered in sale and, therefore, is not liable to tax. C 7.10. The sole impugned decision from the Gujarat High Court, M/s Kataria Automobiles Pvt Ltd. vs. State of Gujarat, was decided on 20.03.2015. The High Court applied the decision of this Court in Mohd. Ekram Khan and concluded that the transaction of replacement of defective parts was taxable as the dealer had received payment in the form of credit notes for the discharge of the manufacturer’s warranty D obligation. The High Court observed that it was admitted that the dealer was purchasing the spare parts from the open market and replacing the defective parts during the warranty period. It also noted that the dealer was being compensated by way of credit notes. Moreover, the manufacturer has received the defective parts from the dealer. The High E Court reasoned that if the said defective parts were purchased from the open market, the manufacturer would have been obliged to pay sales tax. 7.11. Two decisions of the Andhra Pradesh High Court are assailed in the present case by the assessees. These cases pertain to M/s Jasper Industries (P) Ltd. vs. State of Andhra Pradesh, decided vide common F dated 11.02.2011. The High Court applied the dictum in Mohd. Ekram Khan and reasoned that it was not open to the High Court to distinguish the of the Supreme Court on a microscopic examination of the different facts situation. Therefore, the High Court refused to entertain the view of the Rajasthan High Court, as enunciated G in Marudhara Motors. Triology of Cases considered/overruled in Mohd. Ekram Khan: 8. The three cases considered in Mohd. Ekram Khan shall be discussed at this stage. H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1293 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] I. Commissioner of Sales Tax vs. Prem Nath Motors, A (1979) 43 STC 52 (Delhi): (Prem Nath Motors) (i) The aforesaid case was a sales tax reference in which the following two questions were referred to the High Court of Delhi: B “(I) Whether, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case, the replacement of the parts during the continuance of the warranty entered into by the manufacturer and/or by its authorised dealer with the purchaser would constitute a “sale” within the meaning of Section 2(g) of the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, C 1941 as in force in Delhi which is liable to be taxed under the provision of the Act?