In that backdrop, this Court held that the payment of 2% royalty on the sugar manufactured was revenue expenditure while the payment made in respect of the monopoly rights obtained was of capital nature. It was observed that payment of the 2% royalty on the price of sugar manufactured by the 468 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. appellant therein had no relationship with the payment referable to the monopoly conferred under the grant. In the said case, this Court’s dictum is clear to the eff ect that royalty based on manufacture was in no way connected to the acquisition of monopoly rights. But such a fi nding would be erroneous in the facts of the present case since what is paid is only for acquisition of a right by way of licence fee. Further, in the said case, royalty payment had been divorced from the payment for the right to carry on business since any failure to pay royalty could not have, by any stretch, resulted in the withdrawal of the right to carry on trade. The right to carry on trade would have remained unaff ected whether or not royalty payment was made. Failure to make royalty payment, could have at the most, led to civil consequences, but not a revocation of the right to carry on trade, whereas, in this batch of matters, the position is not the same. Admittedly, any failure to pay the annual variable licence fee will inevitably lead to revocation of the licence under Section 8 of the Telegraph Act. Further, the respondents will be disabled from carrying on the business of off ering telecommunication services, even for a day in the absence of a valid licence. Continuation of the right to carry on the said business is contingent on the payment of both, entry fee, as well as variable licence fee. Therefore, we are unable to rely upon the dictum in Mewar Sugar Mills Ltd. to hold in favour of the respondent-assessees in this batch of cases. 25. In light of the aforesaid discussion and having regard to the tests and principles forged by this Court from time to time, as detailed in paragraphs hereinabove, we shall proceed to consider whether the High Court of Delhi was right in apportioning the licence fee as partly revenue and partly capital by dividing the licence fee into two periods, i.e. before and after 31 July, 1999 and accordingly holding that the licence fee paid or payable for the period upto 31 July, 1999 i.e. the date set out in the Policy of 1999 should be treated as capital and the balance amount payable on or after the said date should be treated as revenue. We answer the said question in the negative, against the assesses and in favour of the Revenue for the following reasons: i. Reliance placed by the High Court on the decisions of this Court in Jonas Woodhead and Sons and Best and Co. and the decision C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 469 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.]