E 9. Thus, we are presented with a difficult situation, wherein, Appellant No.1 – Vistra, a secured creditor, is being denied the rights under Section 52 as well as Section 53 of the Code in respect of the pledged shares, whereas, the intent of the amended Section 30(2) read with Section 31 of the Code is too contrary, as it recognises and protects F the interests of other creditors who are outside the purview of the CoC. To our mind, the answer to this tricky problem is two-fold. First is to treat the secured creditor as a financial creditor of the Corporate Debtor to the extent of the estimated value of the pledged share on the date of commencement of the CIRP. This would make it a member of the CoC and give it voting rights, equivalent to the estimated value of the pledged G shares. However, this may require re-consideration of the dictum and ratio of Anuj Jain (supra) and Phoenix ARC (supra), which would entail reference to a larger bench. In the context of the present case, the said solution may not be viable as the resolution plan has already been approved by the CoC without Appellant No. 1 - Vistra being a member H 8 For short, Liquidation Process Regulations. M/S VISTRA ITCL (INDIA) LTD v. MR. DINKAR 829 VENKATASUBRAMANIAN [M. R. SHAH, J.] of the CoC. Therefore, we would opt for the second option. The second A option is to treat the Appellant No. 1 – Vistra as a secured creditor in terms of Section 52 read with Section 53 of the Code. In other words, we give the option to the successful resolution applicant – DVI (Deccan Value Investors) to treat the Appellant No.1 – Vistra as a secured creditor, who will be entitled to retain the security interest in the pledged shares, B and in terms thereof, would be entitled to retain the security proceeds on the sale of the said pledged shares under Section 52 of the Code read with Rule 21-A of the Liquidation Process Regulations. The second recourse available, would be almost equivalent in monetary terms for the Appellant No. 1 - Vistra, who is treated it as a secured creditor and is held entitled to all rights and obligations as applicable to a secured creditor C under Section 52 and 53 of the Code. This to our mind would be a fair and just solution to the legal conundrum and issue highlighted before us. 9.1 We wish to clarify that the directions given by us would not be a ground for the successful resolution applicant – DVI to withdraw the resolution plan which has already been approved by the NCLAT and by D us. The reason is simple. Any resolution plan must meet with the requirements/provisions of the Code and any provisions of law for the time being in force. What we have directed and the option given by us ensures that the resolution plan meets the mandate of the Code and does not violate the rights given to the secured creditor, who cannot be treated E as worse off/inferior in its claim and rights, viz, an operational creditor or a dissenting financial creditor.