The relevant observations are extracted below: “12. The well-settled rule in this regard is that the civil courts have the jurisdiction to try all suits of civil nature except those entertainment whereof is expressly or impliedly barred. The jurisdiction of the civil courts to try suits of civil nature is very expansive. Any statute which excludes such jurisdiction is, therefore, an exception to the general rule that all disputes shall be triable by a civil court. Any such exception cannot be readily inferred by the courts. The court would lean in favour of a construction that would uphold the retention of jurisdiction of the 540 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. civil courts and shift the onus of proof to the party that asserts that the civil court’s jurisdiction is ousted.” 25. In this case, applying the test laid down in Dhulabai (supra), it has to be determined whether the Act provides an adequate fi nal remedy of the kind the civil Court would normally grant in a suit, such that the jurisdiction of the civil court must necessarily be inferred to have been ousted. For that purpose, the statutory scheme of the Tenancy Act, 1955 is to be carefully examined. Additionally, as per the test laid down by Dhulabai (supra), jurisdiction of civil Court would not be ousted in cases where the fundamental principles of judicial procedure and the provisions of the particular Act are not complied with. 26. Proceeding with the above understanding of the law as laid down by this Court in Dhulabai (supra), let us now examine the scheme of the Tenancy Act, 1955 to determine whether the reliefs claimed in the suit, were within or outside the scope of the 1955 Act. The Preamble to the Tenancy Act, 1955 provides that it’s an Act to “consolidate and amend the law relating to tenancies of agricultural lands, and to provide for certain measures of land reforms and matters connected therewith”. The statutory scheme of the Act provides for tenancies of agricultural lands. Section 1 contained in Part I of the Act deals with short title and commencement. Section 5 deals with defi nitions. Importantly, Section 5(35) provides the defi nition of Revenue Court “as a court or an offi cer having jurisdiction to entertain suits or other proceedings relating to agricultural tenancies, profi ts and other matters connected with land or any other right or interest in land, wherein such court or offi cer is required to act judicially.” Section 5(43) provides for the defi nition of tenant. Chapter III deals with classes of tenant while Chapter IV is about Devolution, Transfer, Exchange, and Division of Tenancies. Chapter V is concerned with Surrender, Abandonment, and Extinction of Tenancies. A cursory look at the other chapters would also show that they relate to agricultural tenancies which has nothing to do with the relief of permanent injunction claimed in the suit. The title, as noted earlier, is not disputed. Section 207 and 208 of the Tenancy Act,1955 which is central to the present issue, reads as under: “207.