The PW-1 Dr. Sudesh Verma, who was called by the wife of the deceased Bisahu Singh when he was found lying in the Verandah on 23.07.2003, had stated that the patient i.e. Bisahu Singh was in semi-conscious state of mind and was not in a position to speak properly. Wheezing sound and pungent smell of liquor was coming from his mouth. According to him, Bisahu Singh told him that he consumed small quantity of liquor along with some of his mates. PW-2 Ganeshi Bai, wife of the deceased Bisahu Singh had stated that in the evening hours of 22.07.2003, her husband Bisahu had gone to the forest to bring woods, however he did not come back in the night. At 7 O’clock on the next day morning, she saw that Bisahu was sleeping in the Verandah and some wheezing sound was coming from his neck. She and her daughter Anita Bai tried to wake him up but his condition was very serious. He spoke in a low voice to call the Kotwar. The Kotwar having come, her husband told that Hari Ram had given two glasses of liquor to him, and then he mixed something in the third glass. He further told them that upon his asking, Hari Ram told him that he was mixing medicine to subside the eff ect of the liquor. PW-3 Ms. Anita Porte, the daughter of the deceased also stated the same version as stated by her mother. PW-7, the Kotwar Bhagwati also supported the version of PW-2 Ganeshi Bai. Similarly, PW-4 Ms. Sukwara Bai, PW-5 Rajesh Kumar, younger brother of the deceased also stated the same thing as stated by the PW-2 and others. 23. Having regard to the said evidence, it appears that though all the witnesses have stated the same story, none of the witnesses had any personal knowledge about the alleged incident and about the cause of the deteriorating health condition of Bisahu Singh. Even if the said version of the deceased before his wife, his daughter, his brother, the Kotwar and others is treated as his dying declaration, it would be very risky to convict the accused on such a weak piece of evidence. 24. As per the settled law, though a statement made by a person who is dying is made exception to the rule of hearsay and has been made admissible in evidence under Section 32 of the Evidence Act, it would not HARIPRASAD @ KISHAN SAHU v. STATE OF 227 CHHATTISGARH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] be prudent to base conviction, relying upon such dying declaration alone. In the instant case, even if that so-called dying declaration of the deceased is believed, at the most it could be said that the deceased on 22.07.2003 had consumed liquor along with Hari Ram and others, and that in the third glass of liquor, Hari Ram had mixed some herb, and made the deceased to drink it. It may be noted that there is no evidence on record to show as to what kind of herb was allegedly mixed by Hari Ram, and whether such herb was poisonous or not.