30. Nothing on the record suggests that the present appellant had conspired to commit the offence. At best, as shown from the testimony of this deponent, the present appellant has only concealed the relevant incriminating evidence/articles. The materials on record in no way establish that before the commission of the offence, the accused had F any common purpose, object or intention of committing the crime, without the same being borne out of the records, the charge of criminal conspiracy and of common intention which is to be read with Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code, fails. 31. For the charge of criminal conspiracy under Section 120B of G the Indian Penal Code, 1860, to be established, an agreement between the parties to do an unlawful act must exist. In some cases, direct evidence to establish conspiracy may be absent, but when the lack of evidence is apparent, it is not safe to hold a person guilty under this section. To prove the offence of criminal conspiracy, it is imperative to show a meeting H 842 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A of the minds between the conspirators for the intended common object. It was observed by a two-judge bench of this Court in Parveen v. State of Haryana, 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1184, that “A few bits here and a few bits there on which prosecution relies, cannot be held to be adequate for connecting the accused with the commission of crime of criminal conspiracy.” B 32. Keeping this abovesaid principle in view, we believe that the present appellant cannot be convicted of criminal conspiracy under Section 120B, Indian Penal Code, 1860, solely for having concealed the location of the incriminating materials/ articles and, in the absence of any evidence establishing meeting of the minds. Given that all the other C co-accused have been acquitted by the courts below, meaning they were innocent of the crime, the fundamental requirement of a criminal conspiracy is not met. 33. Needless to say, the charge of criminal conspiracy also fails on the ground that a single person cannot hatch a conspiracy. D 34. So far as the second question is concerned, we may refer to recent of this Court in Geeta Devi Vs. State of U.P. & Ors. 2022 SCC OnLine 57, wherein it was observed that the High Court, by virtue of being the First Appellate Court ought to reappreciated and discussed the evidence on record. Had that been done completely in the E present case, the High Court would have returned a finding on Section 120-B of IPC. The charge of criminal conspiracy requires meeting of the minds prior to commission of offence, and with four of the five appeals being allowed and only the present appellant being convicted, the basic requirement of the section, that is of two or more persons agreeing to or causing to be done an illegal act or an act which is not per se illegal but F it is done by illegal means, is not met.