In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such regulations may— (a) prohibit or restrict the transfer of land by or among members of the Scheduled Tribes in such area; G (b) regulate the allotment of land to members of the Scheduled Tribes in such area; 1 (1947) Federal Court Reports 130 H 2 AIR 1947 FC 32 ADIVASIS FOR SOCIAL AND HUMAN RIGHTS ACTION v. 379 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] (c) regulate the carrying on of business as money-lender by persons A who lend money to members of the Scheduled Tribes in such area. (3) In making any such regulation as is referred to in sub-paragraph (2) of this paragraph, the Governor may repeal or amend any Act of Parliament or of the Legislature of the State or any existing B law which is for the time being applicable to the area in question. (4) All regulations made under this paragraph shall be submitted forthwith to the President and, until assented to by him, shall have no effect. C (5) No regulation shall be made under this paragraph unless the Governor making the regulation has, in the case where there is a Tribes Advisory Council for the State, consulted such Council.” (emphasis added) 8. On a plain reading of sub-clause (1) of Clause 5 of the Fifth D Schedule, the power of the Hon’ble Governor under the said sub-clause (1) extends to: i. directing by a notification that a particular Central or State legislation will not apply to a Scheduled Area in the State, and; E ii. directing by a notification that a particular State or Central Act will apply to a Scheduled Area subject to certain modifications. The first part of sub-clause (1) proceeds on the footing that all the F State and Central legislations applicable to a State are applicable to the Scheduled Areas within the said State. Otherwise, there was no reason to confer a power on the Hon’ble Governor to declare that particular legislation will not apply to a particular Scheduled Area. 9. For interpreting Clause 5, the learned counsel appearing for the G appellant has relied upon the decisions of the Federal Court in the cases of Raja Bahadur1and Chhaturam2. Both the decisions deal with Section 92 of the Government of India Act, 1935, which reads thus: “Administration of Excluded Areas and Partially Excluded Areas: H 380 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 92. (1) The executive authority of a Province extends to excluded and partially excluded areas therein, but, notwithstanding anything in this Act, no Act of the Federal Legislature or of the Provincial Legislature, shall apply to an excluded area or a partially excluded area, unless the Governor by public notification so directs, and the Governor in giving such a B direction with respect to any Act may direct that the Act shall in its application to the area, or to any specified part thereof, have effect subject to such exceptions or modifications as he thinks fit.