In the instant case, when it is held, as it must be, that the appellant Dasrath Singh received serious injuries which have not been explained by the prosecution, then it F will be difficult for the court to rely on the evidence of PWs 1 to 4 and 6, more particularly, when some of these witnesses have lied by stating that they did not see any injuries on the person of the accused. Thus neither the Sessions Judge nor the High Court appears to have given due consideration to this important lacuna or infirmity appearing in the prosecution case. We must hasten to G add that as held by this Court in State of Gujarat v. Bai Fatima [(1975) 2 SCC 7 : 1975 SCC (Cri) 384] there may be cases where the non-explanation of the injuries by the prosecution may not affect the prosecution case. This principle would obviously apply 1(1976) 4 SCC 394 H 288 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A to cases where the injuries sustained by the accused are minor and superficial or where the evidence is so clear and cogent, so independent and disinterested, so probable, consistent and creditworthy, that it far outweighs the effect of the omission on the part of the prosecution to explain the injuries. The present, however, is certainly not such a case, and the High Court was, B therefore, in error in brushing aside this serious infirmity in the prosecution case on unconvincing premises.” 27. A similar view with regard to non-explanation of injuries has been taken by this Court in the cases of State of Rajasthan v. Madho and Another2, State of M.P. v. Mishrilal (Dead) and Others3 and C Nagarathinam and Others v. State (Represented by Inspector of Police)4. 28. Undisputedly, in the present case, the injuries sustained by accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar cannot be considered to be minor or superficial. The witnesses are also interested witnesses, inasmuch as D they are close relatives of the deceased. That there was previous enmity between the two families, on account of election of Sarpanch, has come on record. As observed by this Court in the case of Ramashish Ray v. Jagdish Singh5, previous enmity is a double-edged sword. On one hand, it can provide motive and on the other hand, the possibility of false E implication cannot be ruled out. 29. We have already seen herein above the injuries sustained by accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar. Much prior to lodging of the FIR at 03.15 AM on 4th November 2006 by Khomlal, the Police had taken accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar for medical examination. The memo forwarding accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar for medical examination to F Medical Officer mentions that accused No. 11 had informed the police that at around 08.30 PM, he was assaulted by Atmaram (PW-1). Undisputedly, the prosecution has suppressed information with regard to the said incident. The prosecution has also suppressed the FIR lodged by Atmaram (PW-1). It is thus clear that the prosecution has attempted G to suppress the real genesis of the incident.