140 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 13. Learned counsel went to the extent of arguing that the appellants’ conduct indicates a fraud committed by them. It was advanced that the appellants had, in fact, attempted to take posts which were meant for Ex- Servicemen who were actually without employment, and not for persons who were still employed in the Armed Forces. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 14. Having bestowed anxious thought and consideration to the rival submissions at the Bar combined with a careful perusal of the record, we are unable to fi nd any error in the Impugned passed by the High Court, much less any illegality, warranting our interference. It is well-settled that the basic question on eligibility has to be determined on the basis of the cut-off date/point of time which stands crystalized by the date of the advertisement itself, being the last date of submission of application forms, unless extended by the authority concerned. In the present scenario, none of the appellants can be said to have been Ex-Servicemen at the time of the advertisement in question, as, undisputedly, they were still in service. This Court has also examined the relevant rules and even the clarifi cation(s) to the advertisement. We are afraid that they do not indicate that the appellants can be deemed Ex-Servicemen from a prospective date, despite being in actual service on the relevant date. As such, in the case at hand at least, there is no concept of serving personnel being deemed Ex-Servicemen. It would not be proper for this Court to hold or interpret otherwise. Arguendo, if we were to venture down such a path, it would be unjust to a large number of others similarly placed as the appellants, who were not Ex-Servicemen as on the date of advertisement but came under the category later, but did not apply at the relevant time. This concern has not emanated for the fi rst time. In Rakesh Kumar Sharma v State (NCT of Delhi), (2013) 11 SCC 58, this Court observed: ‘22. It also needs to be noted that like the present appellant there could be large number of candidates who were not eligible as per the requirement of rules/advertisement since they did not possess the required eligibility on the last date of submission of the application forms. Granting any benefi t to the appellant would be violative of the doctrine of equality, a backbone of the fundamental rights under our Constitution. A large number of such candidates may not have SUDHIR SINGH AND OTHERS v. STATE OF U.P. 141 AND OTHERS [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] applied considering themselves to be ineligible adhering to the statutory rules and the terms of the advertisement.’ (emphasis supplied) 15. This Court would pause to state that the position discussed in the preceding paragraph is logical on the simple premise that even if a certifi cation is given to a person indicating a prospective date till when he would be in employment, circumstances could intercede between the date of such certifi cate and the prospective date of retirement/resignation/relieving indicated therein.