The Accused Iqbal @ Haji Iqbal @ Bala nor the other petitioners have signed the vakalatnama and affi davit and Iqbal is absconding from the law. Even, the Writ Petition under section 482 Cr.P.C. fi led before the Hon’ble High Court, has not been signed by Iqbal himself. No relief can be granted to those who have not approached this Hon’ble Court. • Accused Iqbal has absconded from the jurisdiction of this Hon’ble Court and has in all likelihood absconded from the country. It is humbly submitted that a person who is not within the jurisdiction of this Hon’ble Court and has not signed any affi davit or vakalatnama, cannot be entitled for any relief. Ï% The accused have selectively brought only a few cases before this Hon’ble Court leaving the more heinous and gross cases. B. Iqbal @ Haji Iqbal @ Bala is the Most Wanted Criminal in the area of Mirjapur District Saharanpur creating terror in the minds of the citizens. He is a known sand mafi a, land grabber having grabbed Government Land, Forest Land, Poor Farmers’ Land and built a university namely Glocal University, Saharanpur in the area of more than 700 Acres. The Offi ce of Senior Superintendent of Police, Meerut Zone, Meerut, vide its offi ce memo dated 11.02.2023, has declared Iqbal @ Bala a most wanted criminal with a prize money of Rs. 1,00,000/- • PROTECTION OF EARLIER DISPENSATION: It is evident that the Crime world of Accused Iqbal and his family has grown over the past decades with support of earlier dispensation/Government(s), and MOHAMMAD WAJID AND ANR. v. STATE OF U.P. 325 AND ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] that is why the criminal cases registered against him in the years 1990 – 1993, were withdrawn by the earlier Government(s). The Accused Iqbal terrorized the people, he is a known name of terror in the area of District Saharanpur or Western State of Uttar Pradesh, due to which, no FIR(s)/Criminal cases were registered against the Accused Iqbal and his family members. • LOOK OUT NOTICES: The accused Iqbal is absconding from the process and the number of Look Out Circulars were issued against him. But the Accused Iqbal has not appeared even once in any case and has already absconded. A person who does not cooperate with the investigation, no relief can be granted to him. • NOTICES U/S SECTION 41: A large number of notices under section 41A Cr.P.C. have been issued in a large number of cases. were issued to the accused Iqbal @ Bala, despite the service of notices, the Accused Iqbal neither appeared nor joined the investigation in any criminal case. • HISTORY SHEETER GANGSTER GANG LEADER : The Accused Haji Iqbal @ Mohd. Iqbal @ Bala is a history-sheeter, gang leader, known name of terror, if any relief to be given to such type of criminals, who are publicly involved in rape cases, dacoity cases, fraud cases, land grabbing cases, extortion cases etc will send a wrong message/signal to the society and those persons/victims who come against these wrongdoers will never get justice and no one will ever raise their voices against these criminals in future.