C. Discriminatory impact of adoption regulations on queer persons 131. Section 57(2) of that Act spells out the eligibility conditions of prospective adoptive parents. The petitioner’s argument was that the expression “marital” results in discrimination inasmuch as single parent can adopt – the only prohibition being that a single man cannot adopt a girl child. Further, if a single man and/or a single woman choose to adopt SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1497 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] separately as an individual, and live together, the resultant de facto parents would still have a choice of marrying each other – for the child in question to be legally the child of both parents. Or put diff erently, if a heterosexual couple wants to adopt a child jointly, they have the option of entering into a marriage, thereby making them eligible for joint adoption. However, in the absence of legal recognition of a queer couple union, they are left to adopt as individuals and the resultant de facto family would have no avenue for legal recognition. This iniquitous result too is an aspect which needs to be addressed as the impact here is not only on the queer couple (who have no avenue to seek legal recognition of their union) but also upon the children adopted by them (who have no say in the matter). 132. Furthermore, given the social reality that queer couples are having to adopt in law as individuals, but are residing together and for all purposes raising these children together – means that the State arguably has an even more urgent need to enable the full gamut of rights to such children, qua both parents. For instance, in an unforeseen circumstance of death of the partner who adopted the child as an individual, the child in question may well become the ward of such deceased’s relatives, who might (or might not) even be known to the child, whereas the surviving partner who has been a parent to the child for all purposes, is left a stranger in the law. Therefore, this is yet another consequence of the non-recognition of queer unions, that the State has to address and eliminate, by appropriate mitigating measures. 133. This is not to say that unmarried couples – whether queer or heterosexual– are not capable or suitable, to be adoptive parents. However, once the law permits, as it has done – adoption by both single individuals, the likelihood of their joining and co-habiting cannot be ruled out. In such event, de facto family unit can and do come about. The underlying assumption in the law as it exists, that such unmarried heterosexual or queer couples should not adopt needs to be closely examined. Similarly, the need of such couples to have and raise a family in every sense of the term, has to be accommodated within the framework of the law, subject to the best interests of the child. The existing state of aff airs which permits single individuals to adopt, and later to live as a couple in due exercise of their choice, in eff ect deprives the children of such relationships various legal and social benefi ts, which are otherwise available to children of a married couple.