He submits that appellant is in no way prejudiced by the next round of auction which was scheduled on 17.01.2022 but could not proceed because of the restraint imposed by this Court. Appellant can certainly participate in the next round of auction. 12.1. In the above context, he submits that Tribunal was not justifi ed in interfering with the decision of the Liquidator and therefore, Appellate Tribunal rightly set aside the said of the Tribunal and in restoring the of the Liquidator. He has referred to Clause 3 (k) of the auction notice which confers discretion upon the Liquidator to cancel the E-auction at any stage without assigning any reason. Adverting to the facts of the present case, he submits that the appellant was the sole bidder and his bid amount was exactly the same as the reserve price. It was in that context that the EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 877 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] Liquidator decided to cancel the auction with a view to have another round of auction to fetch a better price. There was nothing wrong or illegal in the exercise of such discretion by the Liquidator. 13. Mr. Krishnaraj Thakker, learned counsel for Respondent No.2 has also adopted and reiterated the above submissions made by learned counsel for Respondent No.1. Additionally, he submits that Liquidator had received an e-mail dated 10.09.2021 from one Mr. Amit Ghidia informing him that the promoter of the appellant was also the founder promoter of the corporate debtor. Mr. Vijay Kumar Ghidia who is one of the directors of the appellant was also a director and principal shareholder of the corporate debtor. Recent incorporation of the appellant in the month of July 2021 also raised suspicion about the nature of the appellant and its intentions. 13.1. Appellant while submitting its bid had accepted the terms and conditions of the auction process. Therefore, it is not open to the appellant to question the exercise of discretion by the Liquidator, which is one of the terms and conditions of the auction. 13.2. In so far issuance of e-mail to the appellant declaring it as the winner of the auction process is concerned, he submits that on expiry of the time for placing of bids, an auto generated e-mail from the e-auction website “www.eauctioneer.com” was sent to the appellant stating that the bid submitted by it was the highest. It was an auto-generated e-mail and cannot be construed to be the E-auction certifi cate. In so far acceptance of the balance sale consideration and issuance of sale certifi cate is concerned, he submits that the same was done as per the direction of the Tribunal. 13.3. In the course of the hearing, he submitted that there were two assets of the corporate debtor; one at Lucknow (Lot No. 2) and the other at Mirzapur (Lot No.3). Since the assets at Lot No.2 fetched Rs.4.79 crores more than the reserve price, Liquidator believed that the subject property could fetch a higher amount than the reserve price of Rs.10 crores.