They were the fi rst and the second defendants MOHIDEEN ABDUL KHADAR (DEAD)THROUGH LRS. v. 167 RAHMATH BEEVI (D) THR. HER LRS. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] respectively in Rahmat Beevi’s suit. In this suit, she also claimed ground rent from the defendants in that suit. In her suit, she referred to four schedules to describe the suit property representing diff erent interests. The fi rst schedule in O.S. No.464 of 1995 matches with the fi rst schedule of O.S. No.172 of 1995. As regards the second scheduled property, it was Rahmath Beevi’s case that it involved an area of 15x18 sq. feet. The third scheduled property in her plaint comprised of an area of 6.2x6.9 sq. feet within second scheduled land. As recorded in the of the Trial Court in respect of the third scheduled property, Sahul Hameed was the tenant thereof, but he did not contest the suit. It was held by the Trial Court that three-fourth portion of the third scheduled property was within the second scheduled land and the rest of the third scheduled property fell in the fi rst scheduled land. Said Sahul Hameed, as it appears from the cause title of this petition, is the son of Rahmath Beevi. The fourth scheduled property in the plaint in O.S. No.464 of 1995 has been described as:- “4th Schedule In the said number said street, bounded on the east of the road and the 3rd schedule, south of Ameenal Beevi shop, north of the 3rd schedule and the 1st schedule of properties. West of Ameenal Beevi land. Within these east to west on the northern side 15 feet, southern side 8 feet, 10 inches, South to north on the western side 11 feet 3 inches, easter side 18 feet.” 5. It was the case of Rahmath Beevi that Mohideen had taken on rent the fourth scheduled land from Ameenal Beevi and put up a “temporary shop” there. The pleading in the plaint gives an impression that it was a temporary structure. In her suit, Rahmath Beevi wanted vacant possession of the fourth scheduled property and removal of the construction set up thereon. The Trial Court granted declaration in favour of Mohideen in respect of fi rst scheduled property. His claim on second scheduled property was dismissed. The suit instituted by Rahmath Beevi was decreed in the following terms:- “O.S.No.464/95 is allowed with costs, it is held that the plaintiff is entitled to get the delivery of vacant possession of the 4th suit schedule property from the 1st defendant and that the plaintiff is entitled to get the delivery of vacant possession of the 3rd suit schedule property from the 2nd defendant and that in default of delivery of possession by the 168 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. two persons, the plaintiff shall get the delivery of possession through court, and the 1st defendant has to pay the sum of Rs.216/- towards the damages for use and occupation of the 4th suit schedule property till the date of suit, from the date of suit till the date of payment along with 6% further interest and that the 2nd defendant has to pay the sum of Rs.216/- towards damages for the use and occupation of the 2nd schedule of property till the date of suit, from the date of suit till the delivery of possession with further interest of 6% and from the date of fi ling of suit till the date of delivery of the 2nd schedule of property, by the defendants, the interim income of Rs.100/- to be paid by the 1st defendant to the plaintiff and Rs.50/- to be paid by the 2nd defendant to the plaintiff and the suit is decreed.” 6.