The fact of such delay and the causes of it must be reflected in the General Diary entry.” 18. Referring to the distinction between the power of the Police D to investigate and the judicial powers given to the Magistrate under Chapter XII of the Code, this Court in Abhinandan Jha v. Dinesh Mishra, AIR 1968 SC 117 has observed that although the Magistrate may have certain supervisory powers, nevertheless, from these considerations alone he cannot impinge upon the jurisdiction of the Police E to investigate. The power of the Magistrate is conferred once a report in terms of Section 157 or a report under Section 173(3) is submitted by the Police before the Magistrate. Thus, the Magistrate, who has little or no scope to interfere with the investigation, is not absolutely powerless in view of the powers conferred in terms of Sections 159 and 173, and infra, Section 202 of the Code. F Inherent power of the High Court under the Code to quash the FIR. 19. At this stage, it is important to refer to s of this Court on exercise of inherent power of the High Court in quashing the FIR. G This power is normally exercised when the allegations in the FIR or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in entirety, do not constitute the offence alleged. Thus, in these cases, no question of appreciating evidence arises and it would be manifestly unjust to allow the process of criminal court to be issued against the accused persons. H KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 163 AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] 20. Once an offence is disclosed, an investigation into the offence A must necessarily follow in the interest of justice. Investigation is required for the purpose of gathering necessary materials for establishing or proving an offence which is disclosed. Absence of proper investigation where an offence is disclosed, the offender may succeed in escaping from the consequences which would be detrimental to the cause of justice and B society at large. Whether an offence is disclosed or not must necessarily depend on the facts and circumstances of each case. It depends upon consideration of the relevant material. In other words, when an offence is disclosed, the court will not normally interfere into an investigation, however, if the materials do not disclose an offence, no investigation can be permitted. C 21. Referring to the legal position, this Court in State of Haryana and others v. Bhajan Lal and others, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335, while clarifying that it is not laying down any precise formula or an exhaustive list, highlighted the cases in which the power to quash an FIR can be exercised as: D “102. In the backdrop of the interpretation of the various relevant provisions of the Code under Chapter XIV and of the principles of law enunciated by this Court in a series of decisions relating to the exercise of the extraordinary power under Article 226 or the inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code which we have E extracted and reproduced above, we give the following categories of cases by way of illustration wherein such power could be exercised either to prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice, though it may not be possible to lay down any precise, clearly defined and sufficiently F channelised and inflexible guidelines or rigid formulae and to give an exhaustive list of myriad kinds of cases wherein such power should be exercised.