Therefore, all those co-operative societies which fall within the purview of the Section 80P of the Act are entitled to deduction in respect of any income referred to in sub-section (2) thereof. Clause (a) of sub-section (2) gives exemption of whole of the amount of profi ts and gains of business attributable to any one or more of such activities which are mentioned in sub-section (2). Sub-section (4) of Section 80P inserted by the Finance Act, 2006 is in the nature of a proviso and such a deduction under the said Section shall not be admissible to a co-operative bank. Thus, co-operative banks are now specifi cally excluded from the ambit of Section 80P of the Act. The appellant therein was not a co-operative bank and it did not require a licence of the Reserve Bank of India to conduct its business. Therefore, it 354 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. would not come within the mischief of sub-section (4) of Section 80P of the Act. However, the appellant therein was held to be not entitled to the benefi t under Section 80P of the Act as it was a co-operative society meant only for its members and providing credit facilities to its member only. There were resident members or ordinary members but there were also another category of members called nominal members who were making deposits with the appellant therein for the purpose of obtaining loans, etc. and, they were not members in real sense. Most of the business of the appellant therein was with this second category of persons i.e. members of the general public who had been giving deposits which were kept in fi xed deposits with a motive to earn maximum returns. Therefore, this Court held that the depositors and borrowers being distinct, doctrine of mutuality also did not apply to the activities of the appellant therein. f) In Mavilayi Service Co-operative Bank, the appeals before this Court were fi led by the co-operative societies which had been registered as “primary agricultural credit societies”, together with one “multi-state co- operative society” raising the question as to, whether, deductions could be claimed under Section 80P(2)(a)(i) of the Act and in particular, whether the assessees are entitled to such deductions after the introduction of Section 80P(4) of the Act by Section 19 of the Finance Act, 2006 with eff ect from 01.04.2007. It was noted that the appellants therein were providing credit facilities to their members for agricultural and allied purposes and had been classifi ed as primary agricultural credit societies by the Registrar of Co- operative Societies under State Act, 1969, had claimed a deduction under Section 80P(2)(a)(i) of the Act which had been granted up to assessment year 2007-2008. However, with the introduction of Section 80P(4) of the Act, the Assessing Offi cer denied their claims for deduction, relying upon the said provision. The Full Bench of the Kerala High Court ultimately held that if the assessee-societies ceased to be specifi c class of society for which deduction is provided, by reason of sub-section (4) of Section 80P of the Act the deduction could not be allowed.