As noted above, the Impugned dismissed all the appeals. In the meantime, A3 passed away. Aggrieved, now on account of the Impugned Judgement, the appellants have preferred the instant appeals before this Court. SUBMISSIONS BY THE APPELLANTS: 5. According to learned counsel for the appellants, as per the prosecution story and the witnesses, they (A4 and A2) were not the two persons who accompanied the deceased in the car wherein ultimately, he was shot and thus, only upon the conspiracy theory having been proved, could they have been convicted. Learned counsel submitted that in the present case, the chain 1 Hereinafter referred to as “IPC”. 2 Hereinafter referred to as “RI”. 1140 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. of events does not show any conspiracy as the main accused being A1 and A7, who were brothers, and who were said to have been in rivalry with the deceased had hatched the plan. They hired the other/remaining accused to eliminate the deceased. It was further contended that as per the complaint by the uncle of the deceased who is said to have accompanied him in the car, the two accused who had sat behind in the car on the pretext of taking the deceased to meet one Sethji, who had off ered some business deal with the deceased, after one of the said two co-accused having shot the deceased in the car, the complainant/PW1 (Chandrabhan Singh Srinath Singh) is said to have been ed to run away from the place (which he did), failing which he would be shot. 6. However, learned counsel pointed out that his conduct does not inspire confi dence as he did not go to the nearest Police Station but instead is said to have gone to the residence of one Bharatbhai Shah who was not there but his brother-in-law was present, who accompanied him to the house of the deceased, where his family members were informed and when they reached the place of occurrence, they found that the police had already arrived on the spot. Another aspect, which learned counsel for the appellants pointed out, was that it is against normal human behaviour that a person after committing such a serious off ence would leave an eyewitness alive, to later get exposed and risk getting convicted, especially for off ence(s) with serious penal consequences. 7. Learned counsel urged that there is absolutely no evidence available to link the appellants to the crime as no connection whatsoever has surfaced during the entire investigation and trial apropos them having conspired as no other conspiracy theory has even been considered by the prosecution. It was further contended that once the so-called main conspirators, at whose behest the murder has taken place, have been acquitted, there being no theory, much less proof, of any motive for the appellants to commit the crime in question; in any view of the matter, benefi t of doubt was required to be given to them. It was contended that the surfacing of PW7 (Shivshankar Mongalal Tiwari) after more than six months of the occurrence itself brings serious doubts about credibility in the statement as he has stated that he has not mentioned the factum of occurrence of the crime in question to anybody, which is highly improbable.