The allegation is that as the deceased had seen both in a compromising position, PW-12 and the appellant were annoyed with him and thus, threatened to kill him. It is not necessary for us to go into the issue of the existence of motive as the High Court in paragraph 34 of the impugned has recorded a finding after considering H ARVIND KUMAR v. STATE OF NCT, DELHI 717 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] the testimony of PW-3 Nazir Ahmed, PW-18 Sub-Inspector Ram Singh A and PW-22 Shaukat Ali, the father of the deceased that the case of the prosecution regarding the existence of motive does not inspire confidence. Therefore, we will have to proceed on the footing that the motive was not proved. Therefore, the failure to prove the existence of the motive is one of the circumstances which makes the prosecution case regarding B intentional firing by the appellant not worthy of acceptance. 10.There are two witnesses who claim that they were eyewitnesses to the incident. PW-12 Shashi Bala is one such witness who stated in her examination-in-chief that:- “On 28.12.94 I was posted as DO in PS I.P. Estate with duty C hours from 12.00 noon to 6.00 p.m. On that day deceased ct.Md.Rashid was also discharging duty as Roznamcha Munshi till 8.00 p.m. At about 5.45 p.m. deceased came to my office i.e reporting room and started making phone call while sitting chair lying in front of me leaving a table which was lying between in D two tables. He continued the phone call for nearly 5/7 minutes. I asked the deceased not to continue the talks and make the telephone engaged as some urgent call may be recd. in the PS. But the deceased did not take it seriously but he continued making the phone call. At about 5.55 p.m. I asked Santri Ct.Arvind i.e accused present in the court today to restrained the E deceased from talking the phone call for such a long period. Accd. asked the deceased to leave the telephone by putting his hand on the shoulder. Taking it as a joke deceased caught hold the SAF of accused and accd. tried to take back his SAF. During this scuffle the SAF of the accused got F entangled in the chain tied with the belt of accused and during this course the fire is opened from accused which hit the deceased on his neck and chest and blood started coming out from his wound. I got sent the decd. to JPS hospital who was declared dead by the concerned Doctor.” (emphasis added) G In the examination-in-chief, she stated that the father of the deceased after one month of the incident threatened to kill her as she was not willing to change her version. It is pertinent to note that PW-12 Shashi Bala was not declared as a hostile witness. H 718 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 11.The only other witness apart from PW-12 who claims to be an eyewitness is PW-25 Satbir Singh Sherawat.