That a Minister is not supposed to breach her/his collective responsibility towards the Cabinet and the Legislature, hence, it is advisable to have a cogent code of conduct as available in advanced democracies. F 8.4. Learned Senior Counsel lastly submitted that the instant cases do not involve a question as to conflict of any other right with Article 19. That the question herein, in sum and substance, is, whether, any restraint justifiable under the Constitution, can be placed on Ministers and public G functionaries, to regulate their speech. Arguments on behalf of the Respondent-Union of India: 9. Submissions of Learned Attorney General for India, Sri R. Venkataramani and Learned Solicitor General of India, Sri Tushar Mehta, appearing on behalf of the Respondent-Union of India, may be H summarized as under: 726 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 9.1. At the outset, Sri R. Venkataramani, Learned Attorney Generalfairly submitted that restrictions on the freedom of speech enumerated under Article 19 (2) have to be taken to be exhaustive and thus, the court cannot invoke any other fundamental right, namely, Article 21 to impose restrictions on grounds which are not enumerated under Article 19(2). B Further, that as a matter of constitutional principle, any addition, alteration or change in the norms or criteria for imposition of restrictions, on any fundamental right has to come through a legislative process. That the balancing of fundamental rights, either to avoid overlapping or to ensure C mutual enjoyment, is different from treating one right as a restriction on another right. 9.2. It was next submitted that the Constitution of India sets out the scheme of claims of fundamental rights against the State or its instrumentalities and such scheme also addresses D breaches or violations of fundamental rights by persons other than the State or its instrumentalities. Thus, any proposition to add or insert subjects or matters in respect of which claims can be made against persons other than the State, would amount to a constitutional change. That any enlargement of such constitutional principles would have E the consequence of opening a flood gate of constitutional litigation. 9.3. It was further contended that there are sufficient constitutional and legal remedies available to a citizen whose liberty is threatened by any person and beyond the F constitutional and legal remedies, there may not be any other additional duty to affirmatively protect the right of a citizen under Article 21. 9.4. Learned Attorney General urged that Ministerial misdemeanors, which have nothing to do with the discharge G of public duty and are not traceable to the affairs of the State will have to be treated as acts of individual violation and individual wrongs. Thus, the state cannot be vicariously liable for the same. That the conduct of a public servant like a Minister in the government, if was traceable to the discharge of a public duty or duties of the office, was subject H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 727 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.]