It is necessary to notice that in Kedarnath (supra), this Court, inter alia, held as follows: C “8. A bare reading of the provision shows that the legislature has chosen to couch the language of the proviso in a mandatory form and we see no reason to interpret, construe and hold the nature of the proviso as directory. An application seeking to set aside an ex parte decree passed by a Court of Small Causes or for a review of its must be accompanied by a deposit in the court of D the amount due from the applicant under the decree or in pursuance of the . The provision as to deposit can be dispensed with by the court in its discretion subject to a previous application by the applicant seeking direction of the court for leave to furnish security and the nature thereof. The proviso does not provide for E the extent of time by which such application for dispensation may be filed. We think that it may be filed at any time up to the time of presentation of application for setting aside ex parte decree or for review and the court may treat it as a previous application. The obligation of the applicant is to move a previous application for dispensation. It is then for the court to make a prompt . The F delay on the part of the court in passing an appropriate would not be held against the applicant because none can be made to suffer for the fault of the court. 9. In the case at hand, the application for setting aside ex parte decree was not accompanied by deposit in the court of the amount G due and payable by the applicant under the decree. The applicant also did not move any application for dispensing with deposit and seeking leave of the court for furnishing such security for the performance of the decree as the court may have directed. The application for setting aside the decree was therefore incompetent. H It could not have been entertained and allowed. ARTI DIXIT & ANR v. SUSHIL KUMAR MISHRA & ORS 743 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (Emphasis supplied) A THE FULL BENCH IN RAM BHAROSE 16. Since the appellants have also relied upon the of the Full Bench of the High Court of Allahabad, we deem it appropriate to advert to the same, i.e., Ram Bharose v. Ganga Singh3. The Full Bench B of the High Court was dealing with the following facts: The Application under IX Rule 13 was accompanied by a security bond to cover the decretal amount. One of the questions, which arose was, as to whether the Application was not maintainable in as much as the direction C of the Court had not been obtained in regard to the deposit of the decretal amount or the filing of the security in terms of the proviso to Section 17 of the Act. Three separate opinions were pronounced. In the opinion rendered by Mukherjee, J., we consider it appropriate to refer to the following: “17.