Referring to marginal note to Article 286, Chief Justice SR Das observed: “The marginal note to Article 286 is “restrictions as to imposition on tax on the sale or purchase of goods” which unlike the marginal notes in Acts of the British Parliament, is part of the Constitution as passed by the Constituent Assembly, prima facie furnishes some clue as to the meaning and purpose of the Article.” 306. The Court, however, clarifi ed that apart from the marginal note, the very language of Article 286 made it abundantly clear that its purpose was to place restrictions on the legislative powers of the State to impose taxes on the sale or purchase or purchases of goods. The above observations indicate that the marginal note to a provision of the Constitution being a part of the document as adopted by the Constituent Assembly was held prima facie to furnish some clue on the meaning and purpose of the provision. 307. Equally, the can well be construed to mean that a marginal note by itself will not control the plain meaning of the words used in the provision if the language of the provision is clear in itself.245 This was indeed the drift of the of Justice K S Hegde speaking for himself and Justice A K Mukherjea in Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru v. State of Kerala246. Justice Hegde observed: “620…To restate the position, Article 368 deals with the amendment of the Constitution. The Article contains both the power and the procedure for amending the Constitution. No undue importance should be attached to the marginal note which says “Procedure for amendment of the Constitution”. Marginal note plays a very little part in the construction of a statutory provision. It should have much less importance in construing 245 The marginal note to Article 368 of the Constitution which was “procedure for amendment of the Constitution” was substituted by the Twenty-fourth Constitutional Amendment with eff ect from 5 November 1971 to read “power of Parliament to amend the Constitution and procedure therefore”. 246 (1973) 4 SCC 225 188 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. a constitutional provision. The language of Article 368 to our mind is plain and unambiguous. Hence we need not call into aid any of the rules of construction about which there was great deal of debate at the hearing. As the power to amend under the Article as it originally stood was only implied, the marginal note rightly referred to the procedure of amendment. The reference to the procedure in the marginal note does not negative the existence of the power implied in the Article.” (emphasis supplied) 308. In interpretating the provisions of Article 370 as they stood prior to abrogation, we begin with the following prefatory observations namely: a. The heading of Part XXI in which Article 370 was comprised dealt with “temporary and transitional provisions” originally and after the amendment of the heading by the thirteenth Amendment with eff ect from 1 December 1963, it deals with “temporary, transitional and special provisions”; b.