E 55. Under the 2003 Act, the Central government has enacted various rules and regulations for carrying out the provisions of the Act. The government notified the Electricity (Rights of Consumers) Rules, 202031 laying down the rights of the consumers of electricity. The Rules detail the rights of consumers and obligations of distribution licensees; F release of new connections; metering arrangements; billing and payment; disconnection and reconnection; grievance redressal mechanism, among others. The Rules define an ‘applicant’ as an owner or occupier of any premises who files an application form with a distribution licensee for supply of electricity. The Rules defines ‘point of supply’ to mean the point, as may be specified by the State Commission, at which a consumer G is supplied electricity. The Rules make it evident that electricity is supplied to the consumer. 56. Thus, it is always the consumer who is supplied electricity and is held liable for defaulting on payment of dues or charges for supply of 31 “Rules” H 678 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A electricity. Perforce, the premises cannot be held to be a defaulter and no dues can be attached to the premises of the consumer. III. Whether electricity connection sought by a subsequent owner constitutes a reconnection or fresh connection 57. Another issue before us, as argued by the counsel, is whether B the connection sought by a subsequent owner constitutes a reconnection or fresh connection. In IshaMarbles (supra), the Electricity Board had disconnected electricity supplied to the erstwhile owner pursuant to its power under Section 24 of the 1910 Act. The Electricity Board insisted upon the auction purchaser paying the arrears owed by the erstwhile C owner as a condition precedent to provide an electricity connection. The Board did not place reliance on any statutory conditions of supply. This Court observed that the law, as it stood then, was inadequate to enforce such a liability. The Court further held that a connection sought by a subsequent purchaser should be regarded as a reconnection: “49.It is important to note that though the purchasers asked D for electricity connection as a new connection it cannot be regarded as a new connection. It is only a reconnection since the premises had already been supplied with electrical energy. Such a supply had been disconnected owing to the default of the consumer. That consumer had bound himself to E the Board to pay the dues. He also agreed to abide by the condition as stipulated in the Act and the Rules including the payment of the dues.” (emphasis supplied) 58. This Court further went on to hold that a distribution licensee F cannot make the auction-purchaser liable when seeking reconnection of electricity supply for the same premises. According to the Court, this was not feasible considering the fact that “with change of every ownership new connections have to be issued [which] does not appear to be the correct line of approach as such situation is brought G by the inaction of the Electricity Board in not recovering the arrears as and when they fall due or not providing itself by adequate deposits.” However, this Court also conceded that liability of previous owners could be fastened on auction-purchasers if the law so prescribed.