“The case in (1874) LR 5 PC 417 has been approvingly cited by Fazl Ali, J. who held - ‘Rai Brij Raj Krishna and Another v. Messrs S.K. Shaw and Brothers’, AIR 1951 SC 115 that an error of law does not constitute an error of jurisdiction and that a wrong decision on facts or law cannot be questioned in a civil Court. 76. It being open to the tribunals to come to one or the other conclusion on the materials before them, it cannot by any means be said that the decisions CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 787 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] are incorrect so as to attract the extraordinary jurisdiction for interference by a writ of certiorari. In a King’s Bench decision in R. v. Brighton and Area Rent Tribunal, (1950) 1 All England Reporter 946, Lord Goddard, CJ. observed that: “… As the tribunal had observed all the formalities of the Act, had off ended against none of its provisions or against the regulations made under it, there was no ground for holding that the tribunal’s determination was not in accordance with law, and, therefore, the motions for certiorari and mandamus should be refused”. 77. The purpose of certiorari, as we understand, is only to confi ne the inferior tribunals within their jurisdiction, so as to avoid the irregular exercise, or the non-exercise or the illegal assumption of it and not to correct errors of fi nding of fact or interpretation of law committed by them in the exercise of powers vested in them under the statute. The accepted rule is that where a Court has jurisdiction it has a right to decide every question which crops up in the case and whether its decision is correct or otherwise, it is bound to stand until reversed by a competent Court. This Court in G. Veerappa Pillai v. Messrs Raman and Raman Ltd. Kumbakonam, Tanjore District and Others, (1952) 1 SCC 334 observed: “26. Such writs as are referred to in Article 226 are obviously intended to enable the High Court to issue them in grave cases where the subordinate tribunals or bodies or offi cers act wholly without jurisdiction, or in excess of it, or in violation of the principles of natural justice, or refuse to exercise a jurisdiction vested in them, or there is an error apparent on the face of the record, and such act, omission, error, or excess has resulted in manifest injustice. However extensive the jurisdiction may be, it seems to us that it is not so wide or large as to enable the High Court to convert itself into a court of appeal and examine for itself the correctness of the decision impugned and decide what is the proper view to be taken or the to be made.” 78. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we have reached to the conclusion that the impugned passed by the High Court is not sustainable in law and the same deserves to be set aside.