A – clauses (iv) and (v) of Clause 5.1.1 respectively of the Tender Document. 41. He further submitted that Clause 5.1.1 (v), providing for Annexure F was a mandatory condition for being qualified as a bidder at the Technical Bidding stage. The mandatory requirement reads as under: B “5.1.1 The Proposal should be submitted in the following manner: Bid 1: Technical Submissions, which would include: i) Schedule of Guaranteed Performance & Other Technical Particulars as shown in the prescribed format in Annexure-A incorporated in the Tender document (in case of a consortium that of C a lead member), ii) Schedule of Performance of the Bidder (in case of consortium experience of any member) as in Annexure C, iii) Proforma for certification for Minimum Average Annual Turnover (“MAAT”) from Chartered Accountant as in Annexure D. (in case of consortium for lead member and in case of Aggregator, Networth D certificate or Investible fund certificate), iv) Aggregator have to submit back-to-back agreement with OEM for complete contract period for the maintenance of buses. Aggregator have also to submit Manufacturer Authorization Form (if aggregator is a sole bidder or lead bidder then such bidder shall submit Manufacturer Authorization Form) from OEM, E v) Schedule of Departures from technical specification as in Annexure F, vi) General details of Bidder with registration proof and credentials (in case of Consortium, this would need to be provided by the lead members) as in Annexure G & H, vii) Bid Security/EMD as in Annexure I, F viii) The Annexure-L. (undertaking of the Bidder not being involved/engaged in any corrupt or fraudulent malpractices or not being black-listed with any Government or Public Sector Units in India or outside India) ix) In case of Consortium, proforma of Consortium Agreement to be G entered into between members as in Annexure N, x) Covering Letter cum Project Undertaking as per Annexure Q stating the Proposal Validity Period, xi) Power of Attorney for Signing of the Proposal (in case of Consortium, this would need to be provided by all the members) as in Annexure R.” H TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE BRIHAN MUMBAI ELECTRIC SUPPLY 711 & TRANSPORT UNDERTAKING (BEST) [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 42. He submitted that TATA Motors deviated from the mandatory A requirement while filing the said Annexure F. He highlighted the portion of the Annexure which states that if variations are found contradicting BEST’s requirements then such bids would be treated as non-responsive. The non-compliant deviation was as under: “Shall meet the operating range requirement of 200 KMS @ B 80% SOC in single charge as certified per AIS 040.” 43. He submitted that none of the bidders including EVEY (successful bidder) deviated from this mandatory condition. Hence, TATA Motors was declared a non-responsive bidder at the technical stage itself. On 06.05.2022, BEST undertook the technical evaluation and took C a decision that of all the bidders found eligible and responsive, EVEY had quoted the lowest rates and accordingly the contract was awarded in its favour. 44. The learned SG further submitted that the successful bidder was required to fill up Annexure Y.