A VISIT TO THE RULES: 3.The Rules were brought into statute by the fi rst appellant in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 15 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as “1957 Act”) for regulating the grant of quarry licenses, mining leases and other mineral concessions qua minor minerals. Chapter II of the Rules deals with grant of leases. Rule 7 speaks of preferential rights of certain persons. As per the said Rule, in existence prior to the amendment made on 28.01.2011, one applicant shall have a preferential right over the others on the sole basis of his application being made prior in point of time. This preferential right was not made available when an application is received from a Government Company or Corporation. It is to be noted, that this Rule does not stand in the way of the fi rst appellant in making appropriate amendments to the Rules in general. Sub-rule (2) of Rule 7 has provided a list of entities, entitled for a lease on an of priority. 4.The Rules, aforesaid, went through amendments. By way of a Notifi cation dated 28.01.2011, sub-rule (10) had been introduced to Rule 4 placing a condition that there cannot be a mining lease in a Government land excluding marble and granite, unless the area is delineated and thereafter applications are to be invited. However, the proviso went on to say that the applications pending on the date of the Notifi cation shall be disposed of as per the prevailing Rules prior to it. Perhaps this must have been on account of a wrong understanding of the passed by the High Court. 5.A further amendment was made to Rule 7 by way of substitution of sub-rule (3), “(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1) and (2) above, the area for mining lease in the Government land for minerals other than Marble and Granite shall be reserved under rule 73, for allotment after delineation. New System shall be eff ective from the date of the issue of the notifi cation and the THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. v. 5 SHARWAN KUMAR KUMAWAT ETC. ETC [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] applications received prior to notifi cation shall be disposed of as per prevailing rules in force prior to this notifi cation. Prior to delineation all requisite NOC’s shall be procured by the department. Out of these delineated plots 50% shall be allotted by auction and the remaining 50% shall be allotted to the following categories of persons, as per percentage indicated against each category:- (i) Persons who undertake to install a crusher/mineral based industry; 10% (ii) Manual workers belonging to Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes/Other Backward Classes/ Special Backward Class employed in Mines; 5% (iii) Manual workers other than Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes/Other Backward Classes/ Special Backward Class employed in mines; 5% (iv) Persons belonging to Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes/Other Backward Classes/ Special Backward Class 20% (v) Persons identifi ed as Below Poverty Lines; 10% (vi) Ex-soldiers including member of para military forces belonging to Rajasthan, who have been permanently disabled or dependents of those who have died while in service; 5% (vii) Rajasthan State Government servants who have been permanently disabled while on duty or the dependents of those who have died while in service; 5% (viii) Societies of Unemployed youth of Rajasthan; 30% (ix) Other persons; 10% In the reserved area applications will be invited after 30 days of notifi cation and the applications received within a period of 30 days 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.