This only means that the marginalized are yet to be heard when they speak and not that they do not exist. This is not to say that society does not infl ict violence upon the LGBTQ community in cities but only to indicate potential reasons for their increased visibility in cities. In conclusion, queerness is not urban or elite. Persons of any geographic location or background may be queer. c. The rise of Victorian morality in colonial India and the reasons for the re-assertion of the queer identity 95. In pre-colonial times, the Indian subcontinent was home to a diverse population with its own, unique understanding of sexuality, companionship, 95 ibid 96 For instance, many transmen migrate from villages to metropolitan cities to escape violence and discrimination. Agaja Puthan Purayil, ‘“Families We Choose”: Kinship Patterns among Migrant Transmen in Bangalore, India’ in Douglas A Vakoch (ed. ), Transgender India: Understanding Third Gender Identities and Experiences (Springer 2022) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1303 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] morality and love. Stories, history, myths, and cultural practices in India indicate that what we now term ‘queerness’ was present in pre-colonial India. It would not be a faithful description of the times to say that queerness was “accepted” by the populace. Rather, society did not often view (many manifestations of) the queer identity as something that required acceptance to begin with because it formed a part of ordinary, day-to-day life, similar to the heterosexual or cisgender identities. This was true for many parts of the country at many points of time, though perhaps not everywhere and at all times. This is not to suggest that society did not infl ict any violence upon members of the LBGTQ community in pre-colonial times. Rather, it is to highlight that current beliefs, attitudes, and practices which are hostile to the LGBTQ community are not necessarily natural successors of the past. 96. The native way of life gradually changed with the entry of the British, who brought with them their own sense of morality. It was not their morality alone that they brought with them but also their laws. This Court discussed the legal legacy of the colonizers at length in National Legal Services Authority (supra) and Navtej Singh Johar (supra). To recapitulate, Section 377 of the IPC inter alia criminalized queer sexual acts and in so doing, imposed the morality of the British on the Indian cultural landscape. The British also enacted the Criminal Tribes Act 187197 to provide for the “registration, surveillance and control of certain criminal tribes and eunuchs.”98 It permitted the government to declare a group of persons a “criminal tribe” if it was of the opinion that the group was “addicted to the systematic commission of non-bailable off ences.”99 Part II of the Criminal Tribes Act regulated transgender persons (which it referred to as ‘eunuchs’) and subjected them to enormous indignity inter alia by permitting the government to medically examine them, providing for harsh penalties if they dressed “like a woman” or danced or played music, preventing them from making gifts, and rendering their wills invalid.