Absence of cogent evidence that Babu Ram was instigated/exhorted to fi re shots at the two deceased assumes importance as, from the testimony of these witnesses, neither Vijay nor Anil was a supporter of the rival faction i.e., Satpal with whom the accused party had animosity. In such circumstances, the question that would arise is whether for the murder of the two deceased, namely, Vijay and Anil, could it be said that the appellants shared a common intention with the assailant Babu Ram so as to warrant their conviction under Section 302 I.P.C. with the aid of section 34 I.P.C. Whether based on the evidence led, the appellants could be convicted for the off ence of murder of Anil and Vijay with the aid of Section 34 I.P.C. or only for the off ence punishable under Section 307 I.P.C. read with 34 I.P.C. SUNIL v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 401 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] 27. Before we dwell on the aforesaid issue, it would be useful to examine the law as to when conviction with the aid of Section 34 of the I.P.C. could be made. In Pandurang, Tukia and Bhillia v. State of Hyderabad19,this Court observed: “33. Now in the case of Section 34 we think it is well established that a common intention presupposes prior concert. It requires a pre- arranged plan because before a man can be vicariously convicted for the criminal act of another, the act must have been done in furtherance of the common intention of them all: Mahbub Shah v. King-Emperor. Accordingly there must have been a prior meeting of minds. Several persons can simultaneously attack a man and each can have the same intention, namely the intention to kill, and each can individually infl ict a separate fatal blow and yet none would have the common intention required by the section because there was no prior meeting of minds to form a pre-arranged plan. In a case like that, each would be individually liable for whatever injury he caused but none could be vicariously convicted for the act of any of the others; and if the prosecution cannot prove that his separate blow was a fatal one he cannot be convicted of the murder however clearly an intention to kill could be proved in his case: Barendra Kumar Ghosh v. King- Emperor and Mahbub Shah v. King-Emperor. As their Lordships say in the latter case, “the partition which divides their bounds is often very thin: nevertheless, the distinction is real and substantial, and if overlooked will result in miscarriage of justice. 34. The plan need not be elaborate, nor is a long interval of time required. It could arise and be formed suddenly, as for example, when one man calls on bystanders to help him kill a given individual and they, either by their words or their acts, indicate their assent to him and join him in the assault. There is then the necessary meeting of the minds. There is a pre-arranged plan however hastily formed and rudely conceived.