On the legislature introducing the concept of “Tribunalisation” (one may say that this concept has seen many question marks vis-a-vis different tribunals, though it has also produced some successes), the same was tested in L. Chandra Kumar case before a Bench of seven Judges of this Court. Thus, while upholding the principles of “Tribunalisation” under Article E 323A or Article 323B, the Bench was unequivocally of the view that decisions of Tribunals would be subject to the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution, and would not be restricted by the 42nd Constitutional Amendment which introduced the aforesaid two Articles. In view of this Court, this F should have put the matter to rest, and no Bench of less than seven Judges could have doubted the proposition. The need for the observations in the five-Judges’ Bench in Rojer Mathew case qua the Armed Forces Tribunal really arose because of the observations made in Major General Shri Kant Sharma & Anr. Thus, it is, reiterated and clarified that the power of the High G Court under Article 226 of the Constitution is not inhibited, and superintendence and control under Article 227 of the Constitution are somewhat distinct from the powers of judicial review under Article 226 of the Constitution. [Para 26][612-E-G; 613-A] H 600 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 4. To deny the High Court to correct any error which the Armed Forces Tribunal may fall into, even in exercising jurisdiction under Article 226, would be against the constitutional scheme. The first independent judicial scrutiny is only by the Armed Forces Tribunal. To say that in some matters, a judicial scrutiny would amount to a second appeal, would not be the correct B way to look at it. What should be kept in mind is that in administrative jurisprudence, at least two independent judicial scrutinies should not be denied. A High Court Judge has immense experience. In any exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226, the High Courts are quite conscious of the scope and nature of C jurisdiction, which in turn would depend on the nature of the matter. [Para 28][613-E-G] 5. There is no necessity to carve out certain cases from the scope of judicial review under Article 226 of the Constitution, as was suggested by the Additional Solicitor General. It was D enunciated in the Constitution Bench in S.N. Mukherjee case that even in respect of courts-martial, the High Court could grant appropriate relief in a certain scenario as envisaged therein, i.e., “if the said proceedings have resulted in denial of the fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution or if the said proceedings suffer from a jurisdictional error or any E error of law apparent on the face of the record.” [Para 29][613-G- H; 614-A-B] 6. How can courts countenance a scenario where even in the aforesaid position, a party is left remediless? It would neither be legal nor appropriate for this Court to say something to the F contrary or restrict the aforesaid observation enunciated in the Constitution Bench in S.N.