It is submitted that the impugned and passed by the High Court permitting the respondents to adduce additional evidence in an application under section 34 of the Act is against C the object and purpose of the amending section 34(2)(a), amended vide Act No. 33/2019. It is submitted that if in an application under section 34 of the Act, the applicant who is aggrieved by the award passed by the arbitral tribunal is permitted to adduce evidence, it would defeat the object and purpose of amending section 34(2)(a) of the Act by which D the expression “furnishes proof” has been substituted with the expression “establish on the basis of record of the arbitral tribunal”. It is submitted that the object and purpose of amending section 34(2)(a) of the Act is to decide and dispose of the arbitration proceedings at the earliest and to avoid delay. E 3.2 It is further submitted by Shri Krishnan Venugopal, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that though it was conceded before the High Court by the counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that section 34 of the Act prior to amendment amending section 34(2)(a) shall be applicable, the said concession is not binding as the same would be against the law and any concession contrary to law F shall not be binding. It is submitted that therefore according to him the provisions of section 34(2)(a) post amendment shall be applicable by which in the proceedings under section 34 of the Act, the applicant is not required to furnish proof on the grounds set out in section 34 (2)(a) to set aside the award and the court dealing with section 34 application has to G decide the same only on exceptional circumstances enumerated under section 34(2)(a) of the Act on the basis of the record available. It is submitted that therefore the applicants cannot have a right to produce additional evidence/evidence. 3.3 It is further submitted that even otherwise and assuming that the provisions applicable prior to amendment (Act 33 of 2019) are H M/S ALPINE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 997 PVT. LTD. v. ASHOK S. DHARIWAL [M. R. SHAH, J.] applicable, in that case also, as the respondents – original applicants A have assailed the award on the grounds enumerated under section 34(2) (b) of the Act, the expression “furnish proof” in section 34(2)(a) cannot apply to section 34(2)(b). It is submitted that the award passed by the arbitral tribunal can be assailed either on the grounds enumerated under section 34(2)(a) or under section 34(2)(b). It is submitted that the grounds B enumerated under section 34(2)(a) and section 34(2)(b) are separate grounds/clauses. It is submitted that therefore “furnish proof” in section 34(2)(a) of the Act cannot apply to section 34(2)(b) because if the Parliament intended so, Section 34(2) would have applied the proof requirement to all seven grounds, without any need for separate clauses (a) and (b). It is submitted that the effect of “the court finds that” in C section 34(2)(b) is that the court can on its own decide based on the arbitral award that the dispute was not arbitrable or that award conflicts with public policy.