547 [M. R. SHAH, J.] from the Central Government or from any office-bearer or member A of the association, it shall decide whether or not there is sufficient cause for declaring the association to be unlawful and make, as expeditiously as possible and in any case within a period of six months from the date of the issue of the notification under sub- section (1) of Section 3, such as it may deem fit either B confirming the declaration made in the notification or cancelling the same. (4) The of the Tribunal made under sub-section (3) shall be published in the Official Gazette. 8. Power to notify places for the purpose of an unlawful C association.—(1) Where an association has been declared unlawful by a notification issued under Section 3 which has become effective under sub-section (3) of that section, the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, notify any place which in its opinion is used for the purpose of such D unlawful association. Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, “place” includes a house or building, or part thereof, or a tent or vessel. (2) On the issue of a notification under sub-section (1), the District Magistrate within the local limits of whose jurisdiction such E notified place is situate or any officer authorised by him in writing in this behalf shall make a list of all movable properties (other than wearing-apparel, cooking vessels, beds and beddings, tools of artisans, implements of husbandry, cattle, grain and foodstuffs and such other articles as he considers to be of a trivial nature) found in the notified place in the presence of two respectable witnesses. F (3) If, in the opinion of the District Magistrate, any articles specified in the list are or may be used for the purpose of the unlawful association, he may make an prohibiting any person from using the articles save in accordance with the written s of the District Magistrate. G (4) The District Magistrate may thereupon make an that no person who at the date of the notification was not a resident in the notified place shall, without the permission of the District Magistrate, enter, or be on or in, the notified place: H 548 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to any near relative of any person who was a resident in the notified place at the date of the notification. (5) Where in pursuance of sub-section (4), any person is granted permission to enter, or to be on or in, the notified place, that person shall, while acting under such permission, comply with B such s for regulating his conduct as may be given by the District Magistrate. (6) Any police officer, not below the rank of a sub-inspector, or any other person authorised in this behalf by the Central Government may search any person entering, or seeking to enter, C or being on or in, the notified place and may detain any such person for the purpose of searching him: Provided that no female shall be searched in pursuance of this sub-section except by a female.