As per the hire-purchase agreements, the C hirer must pay rent to the owner during the hiring as per the sums mentioned in the agreement on the dates mentioned therein. Further, the hirer has to take proper care of the vehicle and keep it in good condition. He has to also pay all rents, rates, taxes and outgoings payable. The hirer must keep the vehicle in his sole custody and possession at the D address mentioned in the agreement, or such other place as the owner has previously consented to in writing. The owner or any person authorised by him in writing is entitled to inspect the vehicle at all reasonable times during the period of hire. The hirer may, at any time, determine the hire-purchase agreement by delivering the vehicle at his own cost to the owners. If the hirer fails to pay the hire instalments E within the stipulated time, becomes insolvent, pledges or sells, or attempts to pledge or sell or otherwise alienate or transfer the vehicle, or does or suffer any act or thing whereby, or in consequence of which, the vehicle may be distrained, seized or taken into execution under legal process, or breaks or fails to perform or observe any condition as mentioned in the F hire-purchase agreement, the owner is entitled to forthwith determine the agreement and, thereupon, entitled to enter the place where the vehicle is kept and seize, remove and retake possession thereof. The owner is also entitled to sue for all the instalments due, damages for breach of the agreement, and the cost in retaking possession of the G vehicle. The owners, if agreeable, may permit the hirer to have the registration of the vehicle in his own name, provided that the hirer shall transfer the registration in the name of the owner whenever required to do so by the owner, especially when the hirer commits breach of any of 2 For short, ‘ITAT’. H M/S. MUTHOOT LEASING AND FINANCE LIMITED v. 325 COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] the conditions of the agreement, due to which the owners are obliged to A seize the vehicle. 5. On these facts, the ITAT accepted the plea of the appellants – assessees that they are not liable to pay interest tax on the interest component imbedded in the hire-purchase instalment. The ITAT referred B to Circular No. 760 dated 13th January 1998 issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes3 and observed that the hire-purchase agreement is a composite transaction, and has elements of bailment and sale. Relying on the terms and conditions of the hire- purchase agreement noted above, the ITAT held that hire-purchase agreements are distinguishable from loans and advances. The hire instalments are something different and C more, and not the interest on loans and advances that is chargeable to interest tax. 6. The ITAT had also relied on the provisions of The Hire-Purchase Act, 1972, which, in our opinion, is palpably wrong as the said enactment was never enforced and was subsequently repealed vide the Hire- D Purchase (Repeal) Act, 2005.