3.2 It is vehemently submitted that there is a difference and B distinction between the existence and validity of an arbitration clause and non-arbitrability of the dispute. It is submitted that so far as the issue with respect to the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement at the stage of pre-referral jurisdiction under Section 11(6) of the Act, the Court has to give a specific finding finally on such issue and such an C issue should not be left to the Arbitral Tribunal. It is submitted that therefore, the High Court has misapplied and/or misread the decision of this Court in the case of Vidya Drolia (supra). 3.3 It is vehemently submitted by Shri Kapur, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellant that as such it is the duty D cast upon the referral court to protect the parties from being forced to arbitrate when the matter is demonstrably non-arbitrable. It is submitted that the dispute with respect to the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement/clause goes to the root of the matter and has to be decided first by the referral court. It is submitted that if ultimately it is held that there is no existence of an arbitration agreement and/or there is no valid E arbitration agreement and the said issue is left to be decided by the arbitral tribunal in that case the entire exercise by the arbitral tribunal will be futile. It is submitted that therefore in to prevent wastage of public and private resources and taking into consideration Section 11(6A) of the Act, the referral court has to finally conclude the issue F with respect to the existence and validity of the arbitration agreement. Reliance is placed upon the recent decision of the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of N.N. Global Mercantile Private Limited Vs. Indo Unique Flame Ltd. and Ors., 2023 SCC Online SC 495. It is submitted that in the said decision it is observed and held by this Court that Sans an agreement, there cannot be a reference to arbitration. G It is submitted that it is further held that an arbitration agreement must satisfy the requirements of Section 7(1). It is submitted that it is further observed and held that the true intention behind the insertion of Section 11(6A) in the Act was to confine the Court, acting under Section 11, to examine and ascertain about the existence of an arbitration agreement. H 406 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 3.4 Shri Kapur, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellant has also relied upon the recent decision of this Court in the case of NTPC Ltd. Vs. SPML Infra Ltd., 2023 SCC Online SC 389 (paragraphs 19, 25 and 28). 4. While opposing the present appeals, Shri Neeraj Kishan Kaul, B learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the original applicant has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has rightly followed the decision of this Court in the case of Vidya Drolia (supra) and has rightly referred the disputes between the parties to the arbitration.