4.16 It is further submitted that the Committee in the Report of B February, 2020 duly agreed that the priority for recovery to secured creditors under Section 53(1)(b)(ii) should be applicable only to the extent of the value of the security interest that is relinquished by the secured creditor. It is submitted that the Committee noted that the Code aims to promote a collective liquidation process and towards this end, it encourages secured creditors to relinquish their security interest by C providing them second highest priority in the recovery of their dues under Section 53(1)(b) of the IBC and are not treated as ordinary unsecured creditors under the IBC as they would have been under the Companies Act, 1956. That the said provision intends to promote the overall value maximization. D 4.17 It is submitted that furthermore, the Committee in its report of February, 2020 also decided whether the secured creditors who realized their security interest should contribute towards the payment of dues of workmen. Regulation 21(A) of Liquidation Process requires that secured creditors who realise their security interest contribute E towards the payment of dues of workmen as they would have if they had relinquished their security interest to the liquidation estate. It is submitted that thus, the requirement to contribute to workmen dues as provided under Regulation 21A, recognizes that workmen are key stakeholders and form the backbone of the efforts to preserve the business of the Corporate Debtor not just prior to commencement of F insolvency but also during the insolvency proceedings. 4.18 It is submitted that thus, visualizing the objects and working of the IBC, it is clear that the rights and interest of the workers have been protected from the date of enactment of the IBC. It is submitted that in either case that is of relinquishment or non-relinquishment of the G security by the secured creditor, the interest of the workmen is protected. It is submitted that in fact, the secured creditors are taking significant hair-cut and workmen are being compensated on equitable basis in a just and proper manner as per Section 53 of the IBC. It is submitted that therefore, it is unfair to say that ranking them with workmen is arbitrary, lest manifestly arbitrary to declare Section 53 as unconstitutional. H MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 109 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.19 It is submitted that from examination of waterfall mechanism A as provided under Section 53 of the IBC, it is clear that other stakeholders including the Central Government have seriously compromises their position in connection with the recovery of statutory dues so as to enable value maximization and reviving unhealthy companies on going concern basis. It is submitted that therefore, to say that workmen are in any way B adversely affected to the tune of arbitrariness or inequity contemplated under Article 14 is erroneous. 4.20 It is further submitted by Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG appearing on behalf of the respondent – Union of India that the IBC being a law relating to economic activities as observed and held by this C Court in the case of R.K. Garg Vs. Union of India and Ors., (1981) 4 SCC 675, the laws relating to economy should be viewed with greater latitude than the laws touching civil rights.