223 369. Temporary power to Parliament to make laws with respect to certain matters in the State List as if they were matters in the Concurrent List Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, Parliament shall, during a period of fi ve years from the commencement of this constitution, have power to make laws with respect to the following matters as if they were enumerated in the Concurrent List, namely: (a) (b) 224 Subs. By the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, S. 22 (w.e.f. 1-11-1956), for the original Art. 371. Prior to substitution it read as “371. Temporary provisions with respect to States in Part B of the First Schedule- Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, during a period of ten years from the commencement thereof, or during such longer or shorter period as Parliament may be law provide in respect of any State, the Government of every State specifi ed in Part B of the First Schedule shall be under the general control of, and comply with such particular directions, if any, as may from time to time be given by the President: Provided that the President may be direct that the provisions of this article shall not apply to any State specifi ed in the . 176 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 283. Article 372225 provided for the continuation of all laws in force in the territory of India at the commencement of the Constitution until altered or repealed by a competent legislature. The President was also empowered to make adaptations and modifi cations to the law including both repeal and amendment to bring such laws in conformity with the Constitution. Originally this period for making adaptations and modifi cations was two 225 372. Continuance in force of existing laws and their adaptation. (1) Notwithstanding the repeal by this Constitution of the enactments referred to in article 395 but subject to the other provisions of this Constitution, all the law in force in the territory of India immediately before the commencement of this Constitution shall continue in force therein until altered or repealed or amended by a competent Legislature or other competent authority. (2) For the purpose of bringing the provisions of any law in force in the territory of India into accord with the provisions of this Constitution, the President may by make such adaptations and modifi cations of such law, whether by way of repeal or amendment, as may be necessary or expedient, and provide that the law shall, as from such date as may be specifi ed in the , have eff ect subject to the adaptations and modifi cations so made, and any such adaptation or modifi cation shall not be questioned in any court of law. (3) Nothing in clause (2) shall be deemed- (a) to empower the President to make any adaptation or modifi cation of any law after the expiration of three years from the commencement of this Constitution; or (b) to prevent any competent Legislature or other competent authority from repealing or amending any law adapted or modifi ed by the President under the said clause.