…An essential incident of ownership of land is the right to exploit the development potential to construct and to deal with the constructed area. In some situations, under a development agreement, an owner may part with such rights G to a developer. This in essence is a parting of some of the incidents of ownership of the immovable property…” 37. Therefore, it is not very difficult to conclude, that a bundle of rights and interests were created in favour of the Corporate Debtor, by a series of documents such as (i) the MoU dated 24.01.2008; (ii) the H 1042 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A shareholders agreement dated 24.01.2008; (iii) the flow of the consideration from the Corporate Debtor to the UCO Bank and to Energy Properties; (iv)the Development Agreement dated 16.06.2008; (v) the Memorandum Recording Possession dated 02.03.2010 executed by the original shareholders of Energy Properties; (vi) the Memorandum Recording Possession dated 24.06.2010 executed by Energy Properties B in favour of the Corporate Debtor; and (vii) the Leave and License Agreement primarily executed by the Corporate Debtor in favour of Victory, which was merely confirmed by Energy Properties as a confirming party. Some of these bundle of rights and interests, partake the character and shade of ownership rights. Therefore, these rights C and interests in the immovable property are definitely liable to be included by the Resolution Professional in the Information Memorandum and the Resolution Professional is duty bound under Section 25(2)(a) to take custody and control of the same. Issue No. 2 D 38. The main ground of attack of the appellants to the impugned s of the NCLT and NCLAT is that by virtue of the Explanation under Section 18 of the Code and also by virtue of the judicial pronouncements, the disputes between the Corporate Debtor and the third-party lessee/licensee are not amenable to the jurisdiction of the E authorities under the Code. 39. But as rightly pointed out by the learned counsel for the Resolution Professional, the Explanation under Section 18 begins with a caveat namely “for the purposes of this Section”. Therefore, the exclusion of assets owned by a third-party, but in the possession of the Corporate Debtor held under contractual arrangements, from the F definition of the expression “assets”, is limited to Section 18. In other words, the Explanation under Section 18 does not extend to Section 25. 40. It must be mentioned here that the Explanation was originally limited to “the sub-section” but by Act 26 of 2018, the word “sub- section” was substituted by the word “section”. Therefore, the G Explanation under Section 18 will not provide an escape route for the appellants. In any case, the bundle of rights and interests created in favour of the Corporate Debtor may even tantamount to creation of an implied agency under Chapter-X of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 and such agency may not even be amenable to termination in view of Section H VICTORY IRON WORKS LTD. v. JITENDRA LOHIA & ANR.