The object of the exercise is to ensure that constitutional government is possible in the state20; c. Article 357(2) stipulates that the laws made by the President or the Parliament, in the exercise of the power of the state legislature, shall continue, after the Proclamation has ceased to operate, until altered or repealed or amended “by a competent Legislature or other authority.” These words presume the power 17 Written Submissions on behalf of Impleader by Manish Tewari & Mr. Abhimanyu Tewari, Advocate. 18 Thiru K.N. Rajagopal v. Thiru M. Karunanidhi, (1972) 4 SCC 733 [5 Judges], Submissions on Behalf of The Petitioners, Mr Shekhar Naphade, Senior Advocate; Written Submissions By Sh. Sanjay Parikh, Senior Advocate; Written Submissions of Gopal Sankaranarayanan, Senior Advocate on Behalf of the Petitioner; Rejoinder on behalf of Mr. Kapil Sibal Sr. Advocate. 19 SR Bommai (Paras 108,113, 288, 289), 20 Outline of Submissions on Behalf of the Petitioners by Raju Ramachandran, Senior Advocate. 32 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. of the restored legislature to alter or undo the changes made by the Union in respect of the State’s aff airs. Article 357(2) allows the subsequent State Legislature to alter or repeal any laws made by the Parliament in the exercise of such powers. Thus, the Parliament cannot make irreversible changes in the exercise of this temporary power during the Proclamation under Article 356.21 Dr. BR Ambedkar clarifi ed that the purpose of the power under Articles 356 and 357 was to ensure that the “form of constitution” was maintained22; d. Article 250(2) states that laws shall cease to have eff ect after six months from the date when the Proclamation ceases to operate23. Considering the restorative purpose and the temporary nature of the power, the President could not have, in the exercise of this power eff ected a permanent change to the Constitution by way of the impugned actions; e. In accordance with Article 356(1), the power of the Legislature and the Executive of the State are transferred to the Parliament and the President respectively. However, Article 356 does not envisage a transfer of the constituent power to the President or to Parliament. Constituent power cannot be transferred unless the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir specifi cally provides for it. The President does not acquire the power of the State Government under Article 370(1)(d), to give concurrence, and Parliament does not acquire the constituent powers of the Legislative Assembly to recommend a Presidential notifi cation under Article 370(3)24; 21 Written Submissions of Dr. Rajeev Dhavan, Senior Counsel; Written Submissions of Mr. Gopal Subramanium, Senior Advocate on behalf of the Petitioner; Written Submissions on Behalf of The Intervenor By Dr. Menaka Guruswamy, Senior Advocate; Written Submissions of Ms. Nitya Ramakrishnan, Senior Advocate on behalf of Intervenors; 22 Written Submissions of Mr. Gopal Subramanium, Senior Advocate on behalf of the Petitioner. 23 Outline of Submissions on Behalf of the Petitioners by Raju Ramachandran, Senior Advocate. 24 Outline of Submissions on Behalf of the Petitioners by Raju Ramachandran, Senior Advocate; Synopsis and Written Submissions/ Arguments.