In other words, they contend that the Sale Deed must be treated as valid until there is an explicit refusal to grant consent for transfer of rights by the Deputy G Commissioner. b) It was also argued that even otherwise, permission or approval as required from the Deputy Commissioner was granted on 16.12.1948 1 U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad v. Friends Coop. Housing Society Ltd 1995 Supp (3) SCC 456. H 960 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A as recorded in dated 07.08.1980 passed by the Commissioner in the mutation proceedings. Therefore as the approval was validly granted, albeit after the Sale Deed was executed, the predecessor of the Respondents was rightly accorded the status of ‘occupancy tenant’ under the United Provinces Tenancy Act of 1939 (hereinafter, ‘1939 Act’), which superseded the conditions in the 1924 Lease Deed as well as B provisions of the Government Grant Act of 1895. Furthermore, it was submitted that after notification dated 30.06.1969 was issued by the State, which extended the provisions of U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 to the Suit Land (hereinafter, ‘Zamindari Notification’), the predecessor of Respondents became ‘Sirdar’ as per C Section 131 as applicable vide Zamindari Notification. The relevant portion of the said notification is as follows – “X-X-X-X 130- Every person belonging to any of the following classes shall be called a bhumidhar and shall have all D the rights and be subject to all the liabilities conferred or imposed upon bhumidhars by or under this Act, namely – (a) every person who on the date immediately preceding the appointed day held land as- E F (b) every person who acquires the rights of a bhumidhar under or in accordance with the provisions of this Act.” x-x-x-x 131. Sirdar. - Every person belonging to any of the following classes shall be called a sirdars and shall have G all the rights and be subject to all the liabilities conferred or imposed upon sirdars by or under this Act, namely – (a) every person who, on the date immediately preceding the appointed day held kind as- H STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR 961 (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] A (iii) a grantee at favourable rate of rent B (iv) a lessee holding a lease under the provisions of the Government Grants Act, 1895 and having rights of hereditary tenant under the terms of the lease, but not possessing the rights to transfer the holding by sale, C (b) every person who is admitted as sirdar of vacant land under the provisions of this Act, (c) a tenant in any of the 42 Buxari villages specified in the Annexure, appended hereto, who was recorded in Class X(l) in the Khatauni of the previous agricultural year, and D (d) every person who, in any other manner, acquires the rights of a sirdar under or in accordance with the provisions of this Act. X-X-X-X” E c) Extending the abovementioned argument, it is submitted that predecessor of Respondents made application for becoming a ‘Bhumidhar’ under the applicable rules which is stated to be allowed.