6. They would also contend that imposition of “advertisement tax” on sign boards displaying the name and products of the business establishment is violative of Article 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India. 7. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant in Civil Appeal No.5363 of 2023 (Special Leave Petition No. 5761 of 2018) would also contend the Indore Municipal Corporation (advertisement, bye- laws) framed by virtue of the powers conferred under Indore Municipal Corporation Act, 1956 would mandate the imposition of advertisement tax to the premises situated within the territorial limits of Indore Municipal Corporation and the business premises of the appellant was situated outside the municipal limits namely the premises at Lasudia Mori, Tehsil and District Indore was not falling within the territorial limits of Municipal Corporation and as seen it would not be exigible for levy of advertisement tax and such levy would be without jurisdiction. Hence, they have sought for allowing the appeal. M/S HARSH AUTOMOBILES PRIVATE LIMITED v. INDORE 33 MUNICIPAL CORPORATION [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] 8. Per contra, Shri Mishra Saurabh, learned counsel appearing for the respondent No.1 (Indore Municipal Corporation) would contend that appellants were displaying the name of their business establishment, name of their principal, names of the products and services of the companies in which they were dealing, with an intent to bring it to the notice and information of the general public for commercial exploitation. Hence, he would contend if the sign board which has the purpose to make publicly known and information which is covered under the defi nition of “advertisement” it would amount to display for commercial exploitation. By referring to the of this Court in Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (2002) 4 SCC 219 and ICICI Bank Vs. Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (2005) 6 SCC 404 he would contend that appellants have admittedly displayed the trade name and also the products and services in which they are dealing so as to bring it to the notice and information of general public about their business, the product and services provided by them which fulfi lls the defi nition of “advertisement” as held in Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay Vs. Bharat Petroleum (2002) 4 SCC 219. He would further contend that display of names of the commodity would fall under the defi nition of “advertisement” and therefore the name boards containing the names of product would be liable to advertisement tax. Contending on the touchstone of the s of this Court when the facts on hand are examined it would clearly indicate that display boards of the appellants would refl ect that they had a common object to seek the attention of the customers and give information about the products and services which they would be rendering and thereby advertising to the general public about the product, its utility etc. and seeking the attention of the customers would tantamount to advertisement. Reiterating the contentions raised in the counter-affi davit and by relying upon the following s he has sought for dismissal of the appeals.