Furthermore, in the absence of any other specific allegation or grounds of ineligibility being made available to the individuals, it is certain that the non-disclosure of the Report prejudiced them. 20. Further, it emerges from the record that there was a direction G by the High Court in the exercise of its writ jurisdiction for the conclusion of the enquiry by 15 February 2020. The notice to show cause specifically referred to the direction in terms of which the Regional Joint Director was to conclude the enquiry within a stipulated time frame. Neither the 11 Supra H 726 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A of the Regional Joint Director (Sugar) nor the of the appellate authority has dealt with the facts pertaining to the eligibility of each of the members. The findings of the Regional Joint Director are summarized in the Annexure to the of which Annexures B to B-6 have been summarized in the earlier part of this . There has been no consideration of the nature of the ineligibility qua each member, the B ground of ineligibility or of the documentary material which was produced in support of the claim that the member was ineligible. 21. The submission on behalf of the appellants is that several members were enrolled as members of the society in 1984 and as a result of the action of the Regional Joint Director, they would be made to C suffer serious prejudice as a consequence of their losing the membership of the cooperative society. The under Section 11 has serious consequences for the members. An omnibus of this nature has been passed by the Regional Joint Director, preceded by a general notice to show cause which was issued to the cooperative society. There has D been no application of mind to the grounds of ineligibility which were asserted against each member. The under Section 11 operates to oust a particular individual from the membership of the society. The principles of natural justice must be observed in relation to each member whose membership is sought to be ousted. There was a clear breach of the principles of natural justice. E 22. For the above reasons, it would be appropriate to set aside the impugned of the High Court and to restore the proceedings to the Regional Joint Director. Though the High Court has proceeded exclusively on the basis of the submission with reference to Section 11, we find from the record that there were serious objections which were raised F both in the appeal and before the High Court in the pleadings in regard to the alleged ineligibility of the members. The consequence of ousting such a large group of members from the membership of a cooperative society would result in a serious miscarriage of justice unless individual facts are considered in each case. G 23. We accordingly allow the appeals in the following terms: a. We set aside (i) the impugned and of the High Court dated 22 September 2022; (ii) the of the Regional Joint Director (Sugar) dated 14 February 2020; and (iii) the in appeal of the Minister of Cooperation H dated 18 February 2021; DEEPAK ANANDA PATIL v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 727 & ORS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] b.