(ii) Secondly, the Central Government has the power to demonetise all series of bank notes of all denominations unlike the narrower powers vested with the Central Board of the Bank under the aforesaid provision, if the situation G so arises. (iii) Thirdly, the Parliament which is the fulcrum in our democratic system of governance,must be taken into confidence. This is because it is the representative of the people of the Country. It is the pivotof any democratic H 198 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A country and in it rest the interests of the citizens of the Country. The Parliament enables its citizens to participate in the decision-making process of the government. A Parliament is often referred to as a “nation in miniature”; it is the basis for democracy. A Parliament provides representation to the people of a country and makes their B voices heard. Without a Parliament, a democracy cannot thrive; every democratic country needs a Parliament for the smooth conduct of its governance and to give meaning to democracy in the true sense. The Parliament which is at the centre of our democracy cannot be left aloof in a matter C of such importance. Its views on the subject of demonetisation are critical and of utmost importance. Dr. Subhash C. Kashyap in his book, “Parliamentary Procedure: Law, Privileges, Practice and Precedents”, 3rd Ed., (2014), while discussing the functions of the Parliament D has stated as follows: “Over the years, the functions of Parliament have no longer remained restricted merely to legislating. Parliament has, in fact emerged as a multi-functional institution encompassing in its ambit various roles viz. E developmental, financial and administrative surveillance, grievance ventilation and redressal, national integrational, conflict resolution, leadership recruitment and training, educational and so on. The multifarious functions of Parliament make it the cornerstone on which the edifice of Indian polity stands and evokes admiration from many F a quarter.” It is in the above context that it is observed that on a matter as critical as demonetisation, having a bearing on nearly 86% of the total currency in circulation, the same could not have been carried out by way of issuance of an G executive notification. A meaningful discussion and debate in the Parliament on the proposed measure, would have lent legitimacy to the exercise. When an Ordinance is issued or a Bill is introduced in the Parliament and enacted as a law, it would mean that it H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 199 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] has been done by taking into confidence the Members of A Parliament who are the representatives of the people of India, who would meaningfully discuss on the proposal for demonetisation made by the Central Government. In such an event, demonetisation would be by an Act of Parliament and not a measure carried out by the issuance of a gazette B notification by the Central Government in exercise of its executive power. Such demonetisation through an Ordinance or a legislationthrough the Parliament would be “notwithstanding what is contained in sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the C Act”.