12.7. In M/s Vishnu Agencies (Pvt.) Ltd. vs. Commercial Tax Officers, (1978) 1 SCC 520, while holding that even when there was a transfer of controlled commodities in pursuance of a direction under the D Control where an element of mutual assent was absent, there was, nevertheless, sale as defined under the Act. In the said case, a Seven-Judge Bench of this Court held that the earlier decision in M/s New India Sugar Mills Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Sales Tax, AIR 1963 SC 1207 was not good law. Reliance was placed on the in Gannon Dunkerley and Co.-I to observe that in to constitute E a sale, it is necessary that there should be an agreement between the parties for the purpose of transferring title to the goods, which presupposes capacity to contract and the contract must be supported by valuable consideration and that as a result of the transaction, property must actually pass in the goods. It was observed that, “unless all these elements are F present, there can be no sale.” 12.8. In Sunrise Associates vs. Govt. of NCT of Delhi, (2006) 5 SCC 603, a Constitution Bench of this Court speaking through Ruma Pal, J. observed that when there is a sale of a lottery ticket, there is no sale of goods within the meaning of Sales Tax Acts of the different G States but at the highest a transfer of an actionable claim. Accordingly, the earlier decision of this Court in H. Anraj vs. Govt. of T.N., (1986) 1 SCC 414 was overruled. 13. Sections 12, 13 and 59 of the Act are relevant for the purpose of these cases and the same read as under: H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1313 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] “12. Condition and warranty. — A (1) A stipulation in a contract of sale with reference to goods which are the subject thereof may be a condition or a warranty. (2) A condition is a stipulation essential to the main B purpose of the contract, the breach of which gives rise to a right to treat the contract as repudiated. (3) A warranty is a stipulation collateral to the main purpose of the contract, the breach of which gives rise to a claim for damages but not to a right to reject C the goods and treat the contract as repudiated. (4) Whether a stipulation in a contract of sale is a condition or a warranty depends in each case on the construction of the contract. A stipulation may be a condition, though called a warranty in the contract. D 13. When condition to be treated as warranty. — (1) Where a contract of sale is subject to any condition to be fulfilled by the seller, the buyer may waive the condition or elect to treat the breach of the condition as a breach of warranty and not as a ground for E treating the contract as repudiated. (2) Where a contract of sale is not severable and the buyer has accepted the goods or part thereof, [***] the breach of any condition to be fulfilled by the seller can only be treated as a breach of warranty and not F as a ground for rejecting the goods and treating the contract as repudiated, unless there is a term of the contract, express or implied, to that effect.