8. Thus, this is a case of gross abuse of process of law. We wonder how a Civil Writ Petition for clubbing First Information Reports could be 216 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. entertained. In the roster notifi ed by the Chief Justice, there is a separate roster for Criminal Writ Petitions. If the Courts allow such sharp practices, the roster notifi ed by the Chief Justice will have no meaning. The Judges have to follow discipline and ought not to take up any case unless it is specifi cally assigned by the Chief Justice. A Judge can take up a case provided either the cases of that category have been assigned to him as per the notifi ed roster or the particular case is specifi cally assigned by the Chief Justice. Taking up a case not specifi cally assigned by the Chief Justice is an act of gross impropriety. Though a Civil Writ Petition was fi led, the learned Judge ought to have converted into a Criminal Writ Petition which could have been placed only before the roster Judge taking up Criminal Writ Petitions. 9. We are sure that this conduct of the second to fourth respondents will be considered by the concerned Court taking up petitions under Section 482 CrPC for quashing the First Information Reports. 10. This is a fi t case where the second to fourth respondents must be saddled with costs. We quantify the costs amount at Rs.50,000/- (Rupees fi fty thousand). 11. Hence, we allow the appeal by passing the following : (a) We hold that action of fi ling SB Civil Writ Petition No.6277 of 2023 by the second to fourth respondents was nothing but a gross abuse of process of law and it was a classic case of forum hunting; (b) Accordingly, we dismiss SB Civil Writ Petition No.6277 of 2023. Therefore, the impugned does not survive; (c) We direct the second to fourth respondents to pay costs quantifi ed at Rs.50,000/- (Rupees fi fty thousand) to the Rajasthan State Legal Services Authority within a period of one month from today and to produce the receipt before this Court within a period of six weeks from today; (d) As narrated earlier, the conduct of the second to fourth respondents shall be brought to the notice of the concerned Court which is hearing petitions under Section 482 CrPC fi led by the second to fourth respondents; and AMBALAL PARIHAR v. STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. 217 [ABHAY S.OKA, J.] (e) We direct the Registrar (Judicial) of the Rajasthan High Court to place a copy of this in all eight petitions under Section 482 of CrPC fi led by the second to fourth respondents for quashing First Information Reports. 12. The appeal is allowed on the above terms. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Divya Pandey