G 15 See State of Andhra Pradesh v. McDowell, (1996) 3 SCC 709; Tata Cellular v. Union of India, (1994) 6 SCC 651; and Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister for Civil Service, (1985) A.C 374 16 See Om Kumar v. Union of India, (2001) 2 SCC 386; Union of India v. G. Ganayutham, (1997) 7 SCC 463 H 632 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 34. This case presents the Court with an opportunity to clarify and lay down the law on the applicability of the principles of natural justice when issues of national security are involved. The Court must choose between the two visions of either permitting a complete abrogation of the principles of natural justice or attempting to balance the principles of natural justice with concerns of national security. It is imperative that B we analyse the purpose natural justice serves, and the jurisprudential development of procedural due process before choosing between these two competing visions. E. 1 Principles of natural justice: purpose and content C 35. The principles of natural justice were read into the law and conduct of judicial and administrative proceedings with an aim of securing fairness. These principles seek to realise the following four momentous purposes: 36. Fair Outcome: Procedural rules are established to prevent the seepage of bias and unfairness in the process of decision making. A D decision that is reached after following the procedural rules is expected to be fair. An outcome that is reached through a fair process is reliable and accurate. In the context of criminal proceedings, procedural rules are prescribed in the Indian Evidence Act 1872 and the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 to secure the ‘correct’ outcome and to identify the ‘truth’. E 37. In Chief Constable of North Wales Police v. Evans17, the appellant was a probationary member of the North Wales Police Force. He was removed from the force without putting forth the allegations against him. The House of Lords set aside the decision on the ground that the non-disclosure of allegations was violative of the principles of F natural justice. The Court cautioned that there was an extreme danger in proceeding without putting forth the allegations against him because the veracity of the allegations could never be tested: “As an example of the extreme danger of proceeding in this way, it must be observed that, as one of the two clinching matters which G seem to have influenced him, the appellant says in his affidavit: “Further, it became known” (sic) “to senior officers that the applicant and his wife had lived a ‘hippy’ type life-style at Tyddyn Mynyddig Farm, Bangor.” This had never been put to the respondent at all, and had the appellant or his deputy to whom he H 17 (1982) 1 WLR 1155 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 633 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] delegated the inquiry taken the trouble to ask the respondent about A it, he would have discovered at once that this allegedly clinching allegation was palpably untrue, and simply the result of a mistaken address.