The trade meaning is one which is prevalent in that particular trade where the goods is known or traded. If special type of goods is subject-matter of a fiscal entry then F that entry must be understood in the context of that particular trade, bearing in mind that particular word. Where, however, there is no evidence either way then the definition given and the meaning following (sic flowing) from particular statute at particular time would be the decisive G test.”8 (Emphasis Applied) 6 Commissioner of Customs, Bangalore v Acer India (P) Ltd. (2008) 1 SCC 382, para 17. 7 CCE v Krishna Carbon Paper Co. (1989) 1 SCC 150, para 6. H 8 ibid, para 10. HEWLETT PACKARD INDIA SALES PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 1133 OF CUSTOMS (IMPORT), NHAVA SHEVA [SURYA KANT, J.] 17. In our considered opinion, the word ‘portable’ should have A been interpreted in the context of ADPs. In this regard, relevant technical and commercial literature has been perused by us. On a minute analysis thereof, we deem it appropriate to extract the following relevant material:- The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers defines ‘portable computer’ as - B “A personal computer that is designed and configured to permit transportation as a piece of handheld luggage”9 The Dictionary of Computer and Internet Terms defines it as - “able to be carried around. A portable computer is larger C than a laptop computer, but is still easily movable”10 The Oxford Dictionary of Computer Science defines ‘portable’ in respect of computers as - “A computer that can be simply carried from one place to D another by one person. They cannot necessarily be used in transit. Examples include laptop computers.”11 The Microsoft Computer Dictionary also provides a definition along with an illustrative chart depicting various types of ‘portable computers’– “Any computer designed to be moved easily. Portable E computers can be characterized by size and weight.”12 Type Approximate Power Comments weight source Transportable 15–30 lb. House current Sometimes called luggable; usually has floppy and hard F drives; standard CRT screen. Laptop 8–15 lb. House Can be held on the lap; Current or usually has a floppy drive; batteries uses flat LCD or plasma screen. G 9The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, IEEE Standard Computer Dictionary (1990) 155. 10 Douglas A. Downing and others, Dictionary of Computer and Internet Terms (10th edn, Barron’s Educational Series 2009) 374. 11Andrew Butterfield and Gerard Ekembe Ngondi (eds), Oxford Dictionary of Computer Science (7th edn, OUP 2016). 12 Alex Blanton (ed), Microsoft Computer Dictionary (5th edn, 2002) 412-413. H 1134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. screen. A Ultralight 2–8 lb. Batteries or Easy to carry in a briefcase; transformer sometimes uses RAM drive pack or EPROM instead of floppy or hard drive; thinner models are known as notebook computers. Handheld Less than 2 lb. Batteries or Also called palmtop or transformer palm- sized; can be held in B pack one hand. 18. On a conjoint reading of the relevant material and inputs, it is explicitly clear that weight cannot be the sole factor to determine the factum of portability.