This Court in Harkirat Singh case [(2005) 13 SCC 511] tried to give various meanings of “material facts”. The relevant para 48 of the said is E reproduced as under: (SCC pp. 526-27) “48. The expression ‘material facts’ has neither been defined in the Act nor in the Code. According to the dictionary meaning, ‘material’ means ‘fundamental’, ‘vital’, ‘basic’, ‘cardinal’, ‘central’, ‘crucial’, ‘decisive’, ‘essential’, ‘pivotal’, F ‘indispensable’, ‘elementary’ or ‘primary’. [Burton’s Legal Thesaurus (3rd Edn. ), p. 349.] The phrase ‘material facts’, therefore, may be said to be those facts upon which a party relies for its claim or defence. In other words, ‘material facts’ are facts upon which the plaintiff’s cause of action or the defendant’s defence depends. What particulars could be said G to be ‘material facts’ would depend upon the facts of each case and no rule of universal application can be laid down. It is, however, absolutely essential that all basic and primary facts which must be proved at the trial by the party to establish the existence of a cause of action or defence are material facts H and must be stated in the pleading by the party.” KANIMOZHI KARUNANIDHI v. A. SANTHANA KUMAR 821 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] 27. In Ram Sukh vs. Dinesh Aggarwal(supra), this Court again A while examining the maintainability of Election petition filed under Section 100(1)(d)(iv) of the RP Act,elaborately considered the earlier decisions and observed that it was necessary for the election petitioner to aver specifically in what manner the result of the election in so far as it concerned the returned candidate was materially affected due to omission B on the part of the Returning Officer. The Court in the said case having found that such averments being missing in the Election petition, upheld the of the High Court/Election Tribunal rejecting the Election petition at the threshold. The Court observed in para 14 to 21 as under: - C “14. The requirement in an election petition as to the statement of material facts and the consequences of lack of such disclosure with reference to Sections 81, 83 and 86 of the Act came up for consideration before a three-Judge Bench of this Court in Samant N. Balkrishna v. George Fernandez [(1969) 3 SCC 238]. Speaking for the three-Judge Bench, M. Hidayatullah, C.J., inter D alia, laid down that: (i) Section 83 of the Act is mandatory and requires first a concise statement of material facts and then the fullest possible particulars; (ii) omission of even a single material fact leads to an incomplete E cause of action and statement of claim becomes bad; (iii) the function of particulars is to present in full a picture of the cause of action and to make the opposite party understand the case he will have to meet; (iv) material facts and particulars are distinct matters—material F facts will mention statements of fact and particulars will set out the names of persons with date, time and place; and (v) in stating the material facts it will not do merely to quote the words of the section because then the efficacy of the material facts will be lost.