• So far as concerned, admitted with the change of Government, complainant/terrifi ed people, aggrieved peoples, have been able to come forward to lodge or register complaints against the Accused Iqbal. Due to illegal support of earlier Government(s), no complaint or criminal cases were registered against them. Now, they have come forward to register their grievances. In the present Government, the number of aggrieved People, Terrifi ed People/ Complainant(s) have been able to come forward to register or raise a voice against the Accused Iqbal. On the basis of criminal complaint(s) actions were taken against the Accused Iqbal and his family members. • Even, if these are false cases, the honest or law abiding persons should join the investigation but the accused Iqbal is evading all notices 326 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. and has not joined any investigation in any criminal case, and hence Look Out Notices have been issued. • It is pertinent to mention here that in all criminal cases, the complainants are diff erent and the crime is diff erent and some accused are also diff erent. • Further, it is pertinent to mention that the Accused Iqbal and his family regularly threatened the witnesses. • The Accused Iqbal should be called upon to submit and appear before this Hon’ble Court or any court of law. • The Accused Iqbal is a land mafi a, sand mafi a, rapists, gangster. • The Accused Iqbal started committing fraud, theft and robbery cases in the initial days. Eventually, he became involved in the illegal mining cases and became a gang leader. Thereafter, the Accused Iqbal started to grab the forest land as well as government land in the District of Saharanpur. His family members and close associates also started to grab the land of the poor people. • The Accused Mohd. Iqbal @ Bala is the mining mafi a in western part of state of Uttar Pradesh and several number of criminal cases are registered against him and his family members. • The Accused Mohd. Iqbal, Resident of District Saharanpur and Ex- Member, Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council (BSP MLC) is involved in the various criminal activities. The main allegations against Mohd. Iqbal are as follows: • Amassed disproportionate assets; • Incorporated a number of sham companies under the Companies Act, 1956, many of which have dummy directors or fictitious shareholders; • Used Golbal University in Saharanpur (located in exceeding area more than 700 acres, where he is the founder Chancellor and managed by the Abdul Waheed Educational and Charitable Trust, a trust set MOHAMMAD WAJID AND ANR. v. STATE OF U.P. 327 AND ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] up in in his father’s name with his family members as its trustees, for creating assets out of money illegally earned through the mining contracts. • The Accused Haji Iqbal @ Bala and his family members are involved in illegal mining cases, land grabbing cases, fraud cases and other criminal cases including rape, dacoity and others. • The Accused Iqbal @ Bala, being Gang leader, and his gang members are criminal minded persons and indulges in anti-social activities and the Petitioners, to gain the illegal money, are involved in illegal mining business, grabbing the government and non-government land by taking illegal possession.