Her deposition could also be usefully reproduced as under: - “My name is Jothi. My father’s name is Veerasamy. I am residing at Perambalur. Witness Basheera is residing in the house next to B our house. About 4 or 5 months ago, one day on the date of death of the child, I had seen the accused for 10 minutes. The margin accused’s child had passed away on that day. Only on the date of the death of the accused’s child, I had seen the margin accused when she was sitting near the dead body of the child in the house C wherein witness Basheera was staying. By that time, it would be around 8 or 8.15 A.M. P.W.1 Basheera was crying and said the mother who gave birth to the child itself had murdered the child. I told her to go to the police station and not to do anything else. I told this at the time of police investigation. D Cross-examination: It is incorrect to state that I had not deposed the details as mentioned in the chief examination, during the police investigation. It is incorrect to state that I am adducing false evidence.” 5.6. As noticed, the prosecution examined two medical officers E as regards post-mortem examination of the dead body of the victim child who testified to the injuries noticed on the dead body and as regards the cause of death. PW-8 Dr. Saravanan testified that there was a wound measuring 20 cm in length and 2 cm in breadth around the neck; and the thyroid cartilage bone was fractured, which was consistent with strangulation. He also opined that if outer end of a saree was twisted, F put around the neck and strangled, there was a chance of such wound to the child. During cross-examination, he deposed that the wound would be more than 2 cm if a saree was tied around the neck. However, in re- examination, he clarified that the wound could be less than 2 cm if the saree was completely twisted in small measurement. PW-13 Dr. Karthikeyan A. has been the doctor who gave the report in respect of G the thyroid cartilage bone. As per his examination, the fracture of the thyroid bone was ante-mortem and there was a chance that it was caused due to strangling. However, during cross-examination, he stated that if the neck is strangled using a saree, there is a less likelihood of marks. The fact that the victim child died due to asphyxia because of strangulation H 960 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A is as such not a matter of dispute and hence, we need not elaborate on these testimonies. 5.7. As regards the police personnel related with this matter, PW- 10Subbulakshmi, Sub-Inspector of Perambalur, recorded the statement of PW-1 and scribed the FIR. She deposed that at around 9:00 am, PW- B 1 came to the police station to file a complaint. During cross-examination, she clarified that PW-1 had not deposed in her original complaint that she had come out of her house and shouted after realising that the child was dead and had not brought the appellant to the police station immediately after the occurrence.