Ekram Khan by underlining three distinguishing factors. Firstly, it B noted that the agreement between the manufacturer and dealer reflected a principal-to-principal relationship, and not a principal-agent relationship. Secondly, it was noted that the transaction between manufacturer and dealer, pertaining to the return of defective parts to the manufacturer and the C issue of credit notes to the dealer, is independent of the transaction between manufacturer and customer, pertaining to the discharge of warranty obligation. Thirdly, it was considered that the warranty obligation was being discharged free of cost. It was noted that, Mohd. Ekram Khan was decided on the premise that the dealer assessee had supplied D the parts and had received the price. Gist of Cases under consideration: 7. The present appeals assail s rendered by eight High Courts. While all fifteen decisions rendered by Rajasthan High Court E are in the favour of the assessee, all decisions rendered by Kerala, Karnataka, Bombay, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat High Courts are in the favour of Revenue. In the case of Allahabad High Court, one decision is in favour of Revenue while the other is in favour of the assessee. A table of cases is drawn up as under: F G H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1289 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 7.1. As is clear from the table above, fifteen out of the thirty-four A cases before us pertain to revenue’s appeals against the decisions of the Rajasthan High Court, relying upon the decision in C.T.O. (AE), Jodhpur vs. M/s Marudhara Motors, Jodhpur, (2010) 29 VST 114, (Marudhara Motors) dated 16.03.2009. In the aforementioned decision, the Rajasthan High Court distinguished the facts and reasoning in Mohd. B Ekram Khan by underlining three distinguishing factors. Firstly, it noted that the agreement between the manufacturer and dealer reflected a principal-to-principal relationship, and not a principal-agent relationship. Secondly, it was noted that the transaction between manufacturer and dealer, pertaining to the return of defective parts to the manufacturer and the issue of credit notes to the dealer, is independent of the transaction C between manufacturer and customer, pertaining to the discharge of warranty obligation. Thirdly, it was considered that the warranty obligation was being discharged free of cost. It was noted that, Mohd. Ekram Khan was decided on the premise that the dealer assessee had supplied the parts and had received the price. D 7.2. The other decision in favour of the assessee was rendered by Allahabad High Court in M/s. Vikrant Automobiles vs. Commissioner, Commercial Tax, U.P., vide dated 06.11.2015. The High Court dismissed the revision against the of Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal wherein the transaction of E replacement of spare parts as part of warranty was held not to be assessable. The High Court held that it was ‘well recognized that in supply of spare parts to the customer by the dealer during the period of warranty free of charge, no sale consideration passes from the customer to the dealer and therefore the cost of the spare parts cannot be included in the turnover of the sale of the dealer.’ F 7.3.