Section 6 (3) of the amended provision now stipulates that on “a Hindu” dying after the commencement of the amending Act, his interest in the property of a joint Hindu family governed by Mitakshara law devolves by testamentary or intestate succession, as the case may be, under the Act and not by survivorship. 34. In Vineeta Sharma, this Court held: “60…The conferral of right is by birth, and the rights are given in the same manner with incidents of coparcenary as that of a son and she is treated as a coparcener in the same manner with the same rights as if she had been a son at the time of birth. Though the rights can be claimed, w.e.f. 9-9-2005, the provisions are of retroactive application; they confer benefi ts based on the antecedent event, and the Mitakshara coparcenary law shall be deemed to include a reference to a daughter as a coparcener.” REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 353 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 35. The Amending Act of 2005 substituted Section 6 of the HSA 1956 for the erstwhile provision. The insertion of sub-sections (1) and (2) conferred coparcenary rights on daughters in Joint Hindu families governed by Mitakshara law. Property to which a female Hindu becomes entitled under sub-section (1) shall be held, in terms of sub-section (2), by her with the incidents of coparcenary ownership and is capable of being disposed of by testamentary disposition. Sub-section (3) of Section 6 has introduced a signifi cant change in the devolution of the interest in the property of a Joint Hindu family governed by Mitakshara law. Where a Hindu has died after 9 September 2005 (the date of commencement of the Amending Act), his interest in terms of sub-section (3) devolves by testamentary or intestate succession, as the case may be, under the Act and not by survivorship. Prior to the amendment, the substantive part of Section 6 stipulated that the interest of a male Hindu in Mitakshara coparcenary property at the time of his death shall (i) devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary; and (ii) not devolve in accordance with the Act. The proviso, however, enunciated an exception where the deceased had left behind a surviving female relative specifi ed in Class I of the Schedule or a male relative in the class who claimed through such a female relative. Where the proviso applied, it stipulated that the interest of the deceased male Hindu shall (i) devolve by testamentary or intestate succession, as the case may be, under the Act; and (ii) not devolve by survivorship. 36. The principle of devolution by testamentary or intestate succession under the Act which was an exception prior to the Amending Act as set out in the proviso has now become the norm in sub-section (3) of Section 6. The daughter is in terms of sub-section (3) entitled to the same share as is allotted to a son. Prior to the Amendment of 2005, Explanation I defi ned in deeming terms the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener.