8. Neither R-1 nor R-2 produced evidence to rebut the evidence B led by the appellant. COMMISSIONER’S FINDINGS 9. The Commissioner upon consideration of the evidence on record found the appellant rendered permanently unfit to do labour work, which she was doing at the time of the accident. Accordingly, appellant’s C permanent disability was assessed as total. 10. Having assessed that the appellant had incurred permanent total disability, on finding that her age was 30 years and monthly wages were Rs.3,000/- at the time of the accident, the Commissioner computed the compensation payable in terms of Section 4(1)(b) of the Act as below:- D “17. The age of applicant was 30 years at the time of the accident whose age factor is 207.98 as per Schedule IV of Section 4 of the Workmen’s Compensation Act. Multiplying this age factor by 60% of the monthly salary of Rs. 3000/- given to the applicant by Rs. 1800/-, the total compensation amount is Rs. 3,74,364/-.” E 11. After computing the compensation, the Commissioner directed as follows:- “18. Therefore, the non-applicants are ed to jointly and severally deposit an amount of Rs.3,74,364/- in this Court within 45 days from the date of this . The non-applicants will be F liable to deposit 9% interest from the date of this for not depositing the compensation amount within the stipulated time.” 12. Aggrieved by the of the Commissioner, R-1 preferred appeal, under Section 30 of the Act, before the High Court. G FINDINGS OF THE HIGH COURT 13. The High Court did not disturb the finding of the Commissioner with regard to the entitlement of the appellant for compensation as also with regard to her age and monthly wages. However, the High Court assessed her permanent disability as 40% and thereby reduced the compensation awarded. H INDRA BAI v. ORIENTAL INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. & 853 ANOTHER [MANOJ MISRA, J.] 14. On the extent of permanent disability, the High Court noticed A the certificate provided by the Board and observed:- “A perusal of the record reveals that claimant had produced certificate from District Medical Board, Jabalpur, Ex. P-8 dated 25.02.2003, whereby it is mentioned that claimant Smt. Indra Bai is an old case of compound fracture of left Radial Ulna with P.O. B Plating and screw with contracture of fingers with wrist drop with monoparesis upper limb. Disability was certified at 50% with further stipulation that unfit for labour job.” 15. The High Court also noticed the statement of the doctor who did the medical examination and observed:- C “Dr. Ravi Shankar Choudhary was examined on behalf of the claimant, who deposed that it was a case of old compound fracture of radius and ulna bone, which was fixed through an operation by fixing plate and screw. In cross-examination, this witness admitted that except for her left hand, there is no disability in her body. She D can carry out all the works which can be carried out by right hand.” 16. The High Court considered the decision of this Court in National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Mubasir Ahmed and Another1 to observe that if there is permanent partial disablement on account of E injuries not specified in Schedule 1 then loss of earning capacity is not a substitute for percentage of physical disablement though it is one of the factors to be taken into account.