Mr Maninder Singh, senior counsel, has appeared on behalf of the second respondent. 6. Article 243R of the Constitution is embodied in Part IXA of the Constitution which deals with Municipalities. In its material terms, Article 243R provides as follows: G “243R. Composition of Municipalities (1) Save as provided in clause (2), all the seats in a Municipality shall be filled by persons chosen by direct election from the territorial constituencies in the Municipal area and for this purpose each Municipal area shall be divided into territorial H constituencies to be known as wards. SHELLY OBEROI v. OFFICE OF LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR 585 OF DELHI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (2) The Legislature of a State may, by law, provide- A (a) for the representation in a Municipality of- (i) persons having special knowledge or experience in Municipal administration; (ii) the members of the House of the People and the members of the Legislative Assembly of B the State representing constituencies which comprise wholly or partly the Municipal area; (iii) the members of the Council of States and the members of the Legislative Council of the State registered electors within tile Municipal area; C (iv) the Chairpersons of the Committees constituted under clause (5) of article 243S: Provided that the persons referred to in paragraph (i) shall not have the right to vote in the meetings of the Municipality; D (b) the manner of election of the Chairperson of a Municipality.” 7. Clause (1) of Article 243R stipulates that all seats in the Municipality shall be filled in by direct election held from the territorial constituencies in the Municipal area, for which the Municipal area is E divided into wards. An exception, however, is stipulated in clause (2), in terms of which the legislature of a State may, by law, provide for the representation in a Municipality of persons fulfilling the descriptions set out in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv). Article 243R(2)(a)(i) provides that the legislature of a State may, by law, provide for the representation in a Municipality of persons having special knowledge or experience in F Municipal administration. However, the proviso to clause (2) clearly specifies that the persons who are referred to in paragraph (i) shall not have the right to vote in the meetings of the Municipality. The legislature of the State may also provide for the manner of election of the Chairperson of the Municipality. G 8. Section 3(3) of the Act is a law as contemplated by Article 243R. In terms of clause (2) of Article 243R, Section 3(3)(b) provides for the representation in the Municipality of persons who have special knowledge or experience in Municipal administration. These persons are nominated by the Administrator. However, in terms of the proviso to Article 243R(2), a similar restriction is introduced in the proviso to Section H 586 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 3(3)(b)(i) of the Act, by which the nominated members do not have a right to vote in the meetings of the Municipal Corporation.