D 138. Thus, the implication of the expression “as is where is” or “as is what is basis” or “as is where is, whatever there is and without recourse basis” is not limited to the physical condition of the property, but extends to the condition of the title of the property and the extent and state of whatever claims, rights and dues affect the property, unless stated otherwise in the contract. The implication of the expression is E that every intending bidder isput on notice that the seller does not undertake any responsibility to procure permission in respect of the property offered for sale or any liability for the payment of dues, like water/service charges, electricity dues for power connection and taxes of the local authorities, among others. F 139. The view which we take finds support in the s of this Court in Paramount Polymers (supra)and Srigdhaa Beverages (supra). In Paramount Polymers (supra), the premises of the erstwhile owner were sold under the State Financial Corporations Act 1951 on an “as is where is” basis. This Court held that an auction purchaser cannot G be considered an ignorant party and a reasonable enquiry would have put it on notice of the subsistence of such a liability. It was observed: “9. …. Before submitting its bid to the Financial Corporation the first respondent would certainly have inspected the premises and could have come to know that power connection to the premises had been snapped and this information should have put it on H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 715 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] reasonable enquiry about the reasons for the power disconnection A leading to the information that the previous owner of the undertaking or consumer was in default. Moreover, the appellant had clearly written to the Financial Corporation even before the sale was advertised by it, informing it that a sum of Rs.64,23,695/ - was due towards electricity charges to the appellant and when B selling the undertaking, that amount had to be provided for or kept in mind. Therefore, any reasonable enquiry by the first respondent as a prudent buyer would have put it on notice of the subsistence of such a liability. The sale was also on ‘as is where is’ basis…..” 140. In Srigdhaa Beverages (supra), this Court was considering C an auction sale under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act 2002.67 The Court analysed Clauses 24 and 26 of the auction notice, which stipulated an “as is where is” sale with respect to all statutory dues and absolved the authorised officer of all liabilities for any charge, encumbrances and dues, including electricity dues. It concluded that the auction purchaser D was “clearly put to notice” since there was a specific mention of the quantification of dues of various accounts including electricity dues. On the liability of the past owners to bear electricity dues when the sale is on “as is where is” and existence of electricity dues is specifically mentioned, this Court categorically held that the auction purchasers were E bound to inspect the premises and provide for the dues in all respects.