12. Finally, learned counsel submitted that as notice had been issued on the limited point of quantum of penalty, this Court may consider the circumstances under which the entire episode happened and protect the appellant as imposition of such heavy amount(s) would lead to serious fi nancial hardship and cripple the appellant from carrying out its business. SUBMISSIONS BY THE RESPONDENTS NO.1, 2, 3 AND 5: 13. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondents submitted that appellant has not made out any case for interference since the admitted position is that on the day when the consignment was intercepted in the course of inter-state movement, there was no live/valid E-way bill which exempted payment of the GST and in the absence of the same, imposition of GST and the attendant penalty is justifi ed both, in law as well as on facts. It was submitted that the Authority which has passed the underlying impugned , exercising the power under the relevant Acts had no option but to pass such an in view of the admitted factual position and as such, no 112 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. infi rmity or fault can be attributed to the course adopted by the concerned respondents. 14. Learned counsel further submitted that the Court would also consider the facts that in such a matter where the Consignment was to be shifted from Auraiya, State of Uttar Pradesh to Durgapur, State of West Bengal and the validity period of the generated E-way bill was from 30th May, 2019 till 9th June, 2019, i.e., more than ten days whereas, the consignment ultimately crossed the state bs only on 17th June, 2019, i.e., after a delay of over one week from the date of expiry of the E-way bill. The appellant cannot simply plead ignorance of such factum, as it was required to be vigilant of the consignment being transported, if at all it was for the purpose of doing work by the appellant itself at a diff erent place and by way of “inter unit transfer of capital goods from one place to another”. It was contended that even HFC to which, as per the appellant, the work of transportation of the consignment was entrusted, was fully aware of the period of expiry/validity of the E-way bill. If there was a genuine diffi culty of not having an available transportation vehicle at the relevant time, the appellant could not/would not have agreed to transport the same within the time-period of the E-way bill. But from the conduct of both, HFC and the appellant, it does not appear that such a plea was bonafi de or genuine. 15. Learned counsel summed up, submitting that in any view of the matter, the appellant as well as HFC being in the business of such transactions, cannot plead ignorance of law. It was advanced that the mere fact that an E-way bill had been generated, and was used mistakenly beyond the validity period, cannot be accepted, much less in taxation matters where the time-period fi xed for certain acts by the person, is required to comply with the same is strict, without any discretion either to the person concerned or to the authorities to relax the timelines.