Merits of the reopening of the assessments; and 7. Interest G By the impugned common and , the High Court has summarised the conclusion in paragraph 91 as under: (i) The Assessees, incorporated under the company law of Sikkim, are resident Indian companies. If any income accrued to them or was earned by them in India prior to H 1st April 1990, then such income is taxable under the Act. MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 463 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] (ii) The Revenue is justified in contending that the Assessees A not having raised such objection at the first available opportunity should not be permitted to urge the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the Delhi officers to issue notices to them under Sections 147/148 of the Act. (iii) Mr. Rattan Gupta was not only doing the audit work of the B five Assessee companies, but determining who should be the directors of the said companies. This coupled with the fact that the blank signed cheque books of all the five companies together with rubber seals, the letter heads, the blank signed cheques and other records were also found in C the office of Rattan Gupta & Co., the factual determination by the AO that the management and the control of the five companies was actually wholly situated in Delhi gets fortified. The exhaustive evidence gathered by the Revenue, without being countered by the Assessees despite opportunity being afforded, serves to substantiate the case of the D Revenue that the management and the control of the five Assessee companies was in fact located in Delhi. (iv) The findings of the AO that the Assessees failed to prove that the commission payments were earned by them exclusively in Sikkim has not been dislodged by the E Assessees by producing any tangible material. (v) There was an implied authority of Mr. Rattan Gupta to receive such notices even in terms of Section 252(2) of the Act, read with V Rule 20 CPC. Consequently, the Court is unable sustain the finding of the ITAT that notice F was not properly served on the Assessees through Rattan Gupta & Co. There was no need for the Department to have gone in for substituted service and the refusal by Rattan Gupta & Co. to receive the notice was sufficient to consider it as a deemed service of notice. G (vi) The plea of the Assessees that the proceedings under Section 148 of the Act gets vitiated in the absence of a specific vesting the ACIT with the powers under Section 127 of the Act to issue notice under Section 148 of the Act is rejected. H 464 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (vii) The plea of the Assessees that the notices under Section 142(1) and 143(2) of the Act were issued for the first time in 1998 and were time barred is rejected. (viii) On merits there were sufficient grounds for exercising the power under Section 148 of the Act.