As a matter of fact, the very applicability of the Fragmentation Act itself on sale transactions would depend upon the question whether the area in question falls under a Municipal Council or B not and if it does not, then on the further question as to whether it falls within a ‘local area’ notified under the Fragmentation Act. Above all, the case attempted to be projected and proved by the second respondent is that in regard to sale deed dated 04.07.1978 and the sale deed dated 21.04.1979 (Ext.128) they were never intended to be acted upon and in fact, they were never been acted upon. If that is accepted, then, there is C absolutely no question of applicability of the provisions of ‘the Fragmentation Act’ as they would apply only in the eventuality of an actual transfer of land or partition of land subject to the satisfaction of other conditions. 23.A conjoint reading of Section 36A and 36B of the Fragmentation D Act would reveal that when a suit is instituted in a Civil Court, the Court concerned has to consider if the suit involves any issue(s) which is/are required to be settled, decided or dealt with by any competent authority to settle, decide or dealt with, such issues under the said Act. If it does, then after staying the suit the said issue(s) is to be referred to such E competent authority for determination. Apparently, no such consideration had been made by the trial Court as also by the High Court. 24. Taking note of the fact that the regular civil suit is of the year 1979, at this distance of time and also for the reasons stated hereinabove and to be unfolded hereinafter, we are not inclined to remand the matter F to decide the question whether the second defendant/ the first respondent herein had succeeded in establishing that the subject suit involves any issue required to be settled, decided or dealt with by any competent authority under the said Act and therefore the subject suit was to be stayed as mandated under Section 36B of the Fragmentation Act and such issue was to be referred to such competent authority for G determination. The well-nigh settled position is that the jurisdiction of the Court has to be determined based on the averments in the plaint and it cannot be determined only on the basis of the uncorroborated averments made in the written statement. This position is unquestionably applicable in the case on hand in view of the specific wordings under Section 36B H 194 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of the Fragmentation Act viz., if any suit instituted in any Civil Court or Mamlatdar’s Court involves any issues which are required to be settled, decided or dealt with by any authority competent to settle, decide or dealt with under this Act. The words ‘if any suit, instituted in Civil Court’ and ‘involves any issues’ employed in Section 36B of the Fragmentation Act would undoubtedly point to the fact that involvement or otherwise B of such issues mentioned under the section in ‘the suit instituted in a Civil Court’ is the factor deciding the applicability of the procedures prescribed under Section 36B, of the Fragmentation Act.