The application of the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil rests on the overriding considerations of justice and equity.76 Often, the courts pierce the corporate veil when maintaining the separateness of corporate personality is found opposed to justice, convenience, and public interests.77 In Balwant Rai Saluja v. Air India,78 this Court cautioned that the principle of piercing the corporate veil should be applied in a restrictive manner and only in scenarios where it is evident that the subsidiary company was a mere camoufl age deliberately created by the holding company for the purpose of avoiding liability. It was further observed that the intent of piercing the corporate veil must be such that would seek to remedy a wrong done by the holding company. In the context of arbitration, the principle of piercing the corporate veil has been sparingly used because it disregards the intention of the parties by emphasizing on the overriding considerations of good faith and equity to bind the non-signatories to an arbitration agreement. 88. Moreover, since the companies in a group have separate legal personality, the presence of common shareholders or directors cannot lead to 76 Delhi Development Authority v. Skipper Construction Co. (P) Ltd., (1996) 4 SCC 662 77 Kapila Hingorani v. State of Bihar, (2003) 6 SCC 1 78 (2014) 9 SCC 407 COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 681 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the conclusion that the subsidiary company will be bound by the acts of the holding company. The statements or representations made by promoters or directors in their personal capacity would not bind a company. Similarly, the mere fact that the two companies have common shareholders or a common Board of Directors will not constitute a suffi cient ground to conclude that they are a single economic entity. The single economic entity or the single economic unit theory imposes general enterprise liability on the corporate group. In D H N Food Distributors Ltd v. Tower Hamlets London Borough Council79, Lord Denning held that a group of three companies should be treated as a single economic entity on the basis of two factors: fi rst, the parent company owned all the shares of the subsidiary companies to the extent that it controlled every movement of the given subsidiary companies; and second, all the three companies in the group virtually acted as partners and could not be treated separately. Thus, the determination of whether two or more companies constitute a single economic entity depends upon the concerted eff orts of the companies to act in pursuance of a common endeavour or enterprise. 89. From the above discussion, we can infer that entities within a corporate group have separate legal personality, which cannot be ignored save in exceptional circumstances such as fraud. The distinction between a parent company and its subsidiary is fundamental, and cannot be easily abridged by taking recourse to economic convenience.80 Legally, the rights and liabilities of a parent company cannot be transferred to the subsidiary company, and vice versa, unless, there is a strong legal basis for doing so.