Hence, whether, one can construe the credit note as a price for the same and, therefore, subject to sales tax? The ingredients of a sale have been discussed above and would not call for reiteration. When the dealer is acting pursuant to a warranty, he is no E doubt discharging his obligation not as a seller stricto sensu, but as an intermediary or an agent of the manufacturer as the case may be vis-à- vis the purchaser of the automobile. But, there is transfer of property between the dealer and the customer/purchaser of the automobile on the one hand and receipt of a valuable consideration by the dealer for the same from the manufacturer on the other in the form of a credit F note. Further, it must be borne in mind that credit note is issued only when a dealer discharges his obligation under the warranty and may be required to return the defective part to the manufacturer while seeking a recompense in the form of a credit note. 39. The contention of the revenue is that the credit note is a G valuable consideration in the account of the dealer while the dealer is discharging his obligation pursuant to the warranty and therefore exigible to sale tax. This is based on the premise that the dealer “sells” the part while acting on behalf of the manufacturer while replacing a defective part under a warranty and discharging his warranty obligation for which the consideration flows from the manufacturer to the dealer and therefore H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1331 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] is amenable to sales tax. There are two aspects to be considered here: A firstly, there is transfer of property in the spare part between the dealer and the customer and secondly, for the said transfer, the manufacturer issues a credit note to the dealer which is in substance on behalf of the customer owing to the warranty with the customer. 40. Thus, when the transaction between the manufacturer and B dealer is viewed in the larger canvas of a dealer discharging his obligations pursuant to a warranty appended to a sale of an automobile, the same cannot be narrowly construed. At the same time, whether the transaction resulting in payment by way of a credit note to a dealer/assessee is a sale within the definition of sale under the Sales Tax Acts of the respective C States under consideration has to be considered. 41. For ease of reference, the definition of “sale” and “sale price” under the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003, which is one of the legislations under consideration as per Section 2(35) and (36), are extracted for easy reference: D “(35)” sale” with all its grammatical variations and cognate expressions means every transfer of property in goods by one person to another for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration and includes– (i) a transfer, otherwise than in pursuance of a E contract, of property in goods for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration; (ii) a transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some other form) involved in the execution of a works contract; F (iii) any delivery of goods on hire–purchase or other system of payment by instalments; (iv) a transfer of the right to use goods for any purpose (whether or not for a specified period) for cash, G deferred payment or other valuable consideration; (v) a supply of goods by an unincorporated association or body of persons to a member thereof for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration; and H 1332 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.