The reasons which persuaded the learned Judges to make this preference are that when a party has failed both to appear as well as to produce evidence or to perform an act for which time was granted to it, it will be unjust in the party’s absence to assume that its failure to produce evidence or to perform the act was H unjustified he being absent and, therefore, unable to offer any PREM KISHORE & ORS. v. BRAHM PRAKASH & ORS. 659 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] explanation for its failure to produce evidence or to do acts in A furtherance of the progress of the suit. Equity demanded that the Court should proceed under XVII Rule 2 Civil Procedure Code treating the case to be one of mere absence. Wallis, C. J., a member of this Full Bench of the Madras High Court, however, expressed a different view that Rules 2 and 3 were not mutually B exclusive. M. Agaiah v. Mohd. Abdul Kareem, AIR 1961 Andh Pra 201 is a Full Bench decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court which has adopted the view taken by the Madras High Court in Pra-tivadi’s case, AIR 1918 Mad 143(2) (FB). The Andhra Pradesh High Court has not referred to the decisions of other High Courts which have taken a contrary view. The High Court C of Rangoon in Ma Hla Nyun v. Ma, Aye Myint, AIR 1937 Rang 437, the High Court of Nagpur in Bhioraj Jethmal v. Janardhan Nagorao; AIR 1933 Nag 370 and Judicial Commissioner’s Court of Bhopal in Hashmat Rai v. Lal Chand, AIR 1952 Bhopal 43 have adopted the same view as the High Court of Madras. D 9. The other view taken by the Calcutta High Court in Mariannissa v. Ramkalpa Gorsin, ILR 34 Cal 235 considered the relationship between Section 157 and 158 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1882, which correspond to XVII rules 2 and 3 respectively of the Code of Civil Procedure of 1908 and expressed E the view that the existence of material was necessary for the application of Section 158 which corresponds to Rule 3 of XVII. In this case issues were framed and after various adjournments the case came up for hearing on 10th March, 1905. The plaintiff had asked for and obtained process for witnesses but as they did not appear on the date fixed for trial the plaintiff F prayed for the issue of warrant of arrest for one of them. This application was refused. The pleader for the plaintiff thereupon intimated to the Court that he had no further instructions to appear in the case and the subordinate Judge dismissed the suit, for want of prosecution. When the plaintiff made an application to set aside G the of dismissal under Section 102 ( IX Rule 8) the defendant took a preliminary objection that the suit bad been dismissed not under Section 102 but under Section 158 ( XVII Rule 3) and consequently the remedy of the plaintiff was by way of review and not for restoration.