There is depressed podium of left parietal bone. (ii): Lacerated wound in the size of 1” X ¼” bone deep over right parietal region of scalp. There is puncture/fracture of right parietal bone. Pupils = Dilated, haggy. (iii): Lacerated wound in the size of ¾” X ¼” bone deep over occipital region of scalp. There is puncture of occipital bone on skull. (iv): Lacerated wound in the size of ½” X 1/8” bone deep, huge contusion over upper part of left leg. There is fracture of upper 1/4th portion of tibia and fi bula bone. (v): Lacerated wound in the size of ½” X ¼” deep to bone and quitesome swelling had developed near at the wound. This wound was in the lower left leg. There was fracture in lower end of tibia and fi bula bones. (vi): Swelling in medium size had developed towards the upper side of the right hand and therein there was fracture of fi rst meta-carpal bone. ….. ….. In my opinion, cause of death of Chander Nath s/o Gopunath is Head- Injury and brian haemorrhage.” 13. The injuries sustained by Rami as per her injury report dated 22.05.2001 is as follows: 1. Incised wound in the size of 2 ½” x ½” x bone deep, deep/over anterior portion of scalp trans-vertically placed, simple in nature; Advised for X-Ray Report, by Sharp weapon. 92 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 2. As defi ned swelling on right arm upto shoulder; advised for X-ray, simple in nature, by blunt object. 3. Bruise in the size of 1 ½” x ½” over lower part of left thigh, lower side, simple in nature, by blunt object. 4. Bruise in the size of 1 ½” x ½” on middle of left arm laterally, simple in nature, by blunt object. 5. Bruise in the size of 4” x 1” over lower back, simple in nature, by blunt object. 14. The Trial Court convicted all the accused under Sections 302, 323, 324, 325, 147, 148, 447 read with Section 149 of Indian Penal Code, and sentenced them inter alia for rigorous imprisonment for life. Jethnath, Dhurnath and Meghnath in addition were also convicted under Section 307 of IPC. 15. The accused fi led an appeal before the High Court which was partly allowed, as discussed above. 16. The statement given by PW-2 before the Police under Section 161 Cr.PC, during investigation were relied by the defence in to contradict the witness as to her statement in her examination-in-chief. The witness in her earlier statement before the police, had said that the accused Jethnath was working on his adjacent fi eld and he had some altercation with the deceased regarding their boundary in which heated arguments were exchanged between the two. Jethnath, then, raised an alarm which resulted in his sons and relatives coming to the spot, who were all armed with weapons. It is true that this fact of Jethnath working in the fi eld and the altercation she did not state in her examination-in-chief.