There was a further direction that any action that would be taken in pursuance of the result of the AGM would be subject to the pending appeal. The Scrutiniser was duty bound to implement the of this Court. Instead, 104 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. what emerges from the record was that after the dated 26 September 2023, the AGM took place on 29 September, 2023. The Court is apprised of the fact that a limited window was made available on 29 September 2023 for those who wished to vote to do so. At 5.55 PM on 29 September 2023, an email was addressed by the Scrutiniser to the Company Secretary of Finolex Cables Limited seeking a legal opinion about the manner in which the votes which were cast at the AGM would have to be treated. By then, voting had concluded on 28 September 2023. The Scrutiniser states that a legal opinion was obtained by the company on the basis of which he took steps to withhold the result of the AGM. 26 The benefi ciary of this action was Mr Deepak Kishan Chhabria, who was then acting as Chairman-cum-Managing Director. Mr Deepak Kishan Chhabria has been represented by Mr Shyam Divan and Mr Maninder Singh, senior counsel. The Scrutiniser, Mr VM Birajdar has been represented in these proceedings by Mr Darius Khambata, senior counsel. We have no manner of doubt that the Scrutiniser has acted in concert with Deepak Kishan Chhabria to delay the declaration of the result of the AGM, eff ectively in breach of the directions that were issued by this Court on 26 September 2023. 27 We are of the view that such action by commercial interests must be dealt with fi rmly so as to serve a clear reminder that the process of this Court cannot be allowed to be misused for partisan purposes in commercial disputes involving warring factions. 28 We accordingly and direct that Mr Deepak Kishan Chhabria shall pay a sum quantifi ed at Rs One crore to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund within a period of four weeks from the date of the . Mr VM Birajdar shall pay a sum quantifi ed at Rs Ten lakhs to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund within a period of four weeks. 29 Before concluding, we record the statement of Mr PS Patwalia, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Member (Judicial) that the Member (Judicial) has tendered his resignation from offi ce by a letter addressed to the Chairperson of the NCLAT and to the Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Aff airs today. 30 The Scrutiniser has tendered an unconditional apology through Mr Khambata. Mr Deepak Kishan Chhabria has also tendered an unconditional apology through Mr Shyam Divan, senior counsel. ORBIT ELECTRICALS PRIVATE LIMITED v. 1045 DEEPAK KISHAN CHHABRIA & ORS. 31 Since the proceedings are being closed, we reiterate the directions which were issued in the earlier of this Court setting aside the which was delivered by the Bench of the NCLAT on 13 October 2023.