85. We are not much impressed by the aforesaid submissions of D Mr. Basant. It is a settled position of law that right of appeal is the creature of statute. There is no inherent right of appeal. No appeal can be filed, heard or determined on merits unless the statute confers right on the appellant and power on the Court to do so. At this stage, we may look into the provisions of XLI Rule 22 of the CPC: E “22. Upon hearing respondent may object to decree as if he had preferred a separate appeal.—(1) Any respondent, though he may not have appealed from any part of the decree, may not only support the decree [but may also state that the finding against him in the Court below in respect of any issue ought to have been in his favour; and may also take any cross- F objection] to the decree which he could have taken by way of appeal provided he has filed such objection in the Appellate Court within one month from the date of service on him or his pleader of notice of the day fixed for hearing the appeal, or within such further time as the Appellate Court may see fit to G allow. [Explanation.—A respondent aggrieved by a finding of the Court in the on which the decree appealed against is based may, under this rule, file cross-objection in respect of the decree in so far as it is based on that finding, notwithstanding that by reason of the decision of the Court H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 69 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] on any other finding which is sufficient for the decision of A the suit, the decree, is, wholly or in part, in favour of that respondent.] (2) Form of objection and provisions applicable thereto.— Such cross-objection shall be in the form of a memorandum, and the provisions of rule 1, so far as they relate to the form B and contents of the memorandum of appeal, shall apply thereto. [3***] (4) Where, in any case in which any respondent has under C this rule filed a memorandum of objection, the original appeal is withdrawn or is dismissed for default, the objection so filed may nevertheless be heard and determined after such notice to the other parties as the Court thinks fit. (5) The provisions relating to appeals by indigent persons shall, so far as they can be made applicable, apply to an D objection under this rule.” 86. The right to prefer cross-objection partakes of the right to prefer an appeal. The learned counsel appearing for the Defendant No. 2 (Respondent No. 2 herein) that a cross-appeal under XLI Rule 22 of the CPC is as effective as a regular first appeal and the same E would sustain, even if, the regular first appeal is dismissed or withdrawn. A cross-appeal is the exercise of substantive right of appeal and only the procedure varies. (See: Urmila Devi and Others v. Branch Manager, National Insurance Company Limited and Another, (2020)11 SCC 316, para 16.)