According to the learned counsel this is a case of no evidence. He laid much emphasis on the fact that the prosecution has not been able to establish the exact cause of death. He would argue that if it is the case of the prosecution that the deceased committed suicide due to incessant harassment, then prosecution has to establish on the basis of evidence on record as to what was the exact cause of death. 12. The learned counsel laid much emphasis on the fact that the post- mortem report does not say anything about the exact cause of death. 13. He further submitted that even the histopathology report is silent about any traces of poison in the viscera. In such circumstances, according to the learned counsel, the prosecution has not been able to establish that the case on hand is one of unnatural death. 14. He further submitted that the appellants have already undergone almost six years of sentence. He would submits that assuming for the moment that there was harassment for the purpose of dowry, at best, they could have been convicted for the off ence punishable under Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code, but, in any event, not under Section 304B of the Indian Penal Code. 15. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being merit in his appeal, the same be allowed and the appellants be acquitted of all the charges. 336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE:- 16. On the other hand, this appeal has been vehemently opposed by Mr. Avishkar Singhvi, the learned counsel appearing for the State of West Bengal. He would submit that no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the Courts below in holding the appellants guilty of the off ence with which they were charged. 17. The learned counsel laid much emphasis on the fact that within couple of months from the date of marriage, the deceased died at her matrimonial home under suspicious circumstances. According to him, there is thumping evidence on record to indicate that there was incessant harassment to the deceased by all the appellants for want of dowry. 18. The learned counsel invited the attention of this Court to Section 113B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, “the Evidence Act”) which raises a presumption against the accused. Section 113B of the Evidence Act reads thus:- “Section 113B. Presumption as to dowry death. -- When the question is whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry, the court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.” 19. The learned counsel drew a fi ne distinction between Sections 113A and 113B resply of the Evidence Act. In Section 113A, the Legislature has thought fi t to use the word “may”.