In The Life and Death of King John, Shakespeare had made Lord Melun utter “Have I met hideous death within my view, retaining but a quantity of life, which bleeds away, … lose the use of all deceit” and asked, “Why should I then be false, since it is true that I must die here and live hence by truth?” William Shakespeare, The Life and Death of King John, Act 5, Scene 4, lines 22-29. Xxx xxx xxx 22. It is equally well settled and needs no restatement at our hands that dying declaration can form the sole basis for conviction. But at the same time due care and caution must be exercised in considering weight to be given to dying declaration inasmuch as there could be any number of circumstances which may aff ect the truth. This Court in more than one decision has cautioned that the courts have always to be on guard to see that the dying declaration was not the result of either tutoring or prompting or a product of imagination. It is the duty of the courts to fi nd that the deceased was in a fi t state of mind to make the dying declaration. In to satisfy itself that the deceased was in a fi t mental condition to make the dying declaration, the courts have to look for the medical opinion. 23. It is not diffi cult to appreciate why dying declarations are admitted in evidence at a trial for murder, as a striking exception to the general IRFAN @ NAKA v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 817 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] rule against hearsay. For example, any sanction of the oath in the case of a living witness is thought to be balanced at least by the fi nal conscience of the dying man. Nobody, it has been said, would wish to die with a lie on his lips. A dying declaration has got sanctity and a person giving the dying declaration will be the last to give untruth as he stands before his creator. 24. There is a legal maxim “nemo moriturus praesumitur mentire” meaning, that a man will not meet his Maker with a lie in his mouth. Woodroff e and Amir Ali, in their Treatise on Evidence Act state: “when a man is dying, the grave position in which he is placed is held by law to be a suffi cient ground for his veracity and therefore the tests of oath and cross- examination are dispensed with”. 25. The court has to consider each case in the circumstances of the case. What value should be given to a dying declaration is left to court, which on assessment of the circumstances and the evidence and materials on record, will come to a conclusion about the truth or otherwise of the version, be it written, oral, verbal or by sign or by gestures.” (Emphasis supplied) 59. This Court in Bhajju (supra) has observed as under: “23. The “dying declaration” essentially means the statement made by a person as to the cause of his death or as to the circumstances of the transaction resulting into his death.