(4) When the appellant is ultimately sentenced to imprisonment for a term or to imprisonment for life, the time during which he is so released shall be excluded in computing the term for which he is so sentenced.” H 156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 21. Suspension conveys postponement or temporarily preventing a state of affairs from continuing. According to the Black’s Law Dictionary (Seventh Edition), the word ‘suspend’ means, inter alia, to interrupt; postpone; defer. The Black’s Law Dictionary (Seventh Edition) describes the word ‘suspension’ to mean, inter alia, an act of temporarily delaying, interrupting or terminating something. Attributing the same B meaning to the word ‘suspend’ as pointed out above, the New Oxford Dictionary of English (1998 Edition) describes suspend as temporarily preventing from continuing or being enforced or given effect or defer or delay an action, event or . 22. Thus, when we speak of suspension of sentence after C conviction, the idea is to defer or postpone the execution of the sentence. The purpose of postponement of sentence cannot be achieved by detaining the convict in jail; hence, as a natural consequence of postponement of execution, the convict may be enlarged on bail till further s. 23. The principle underlying the theory of criminal jurisprudence D in our country is that an accused is presumed to be innocent till he is held guilty by a court of the competent jurisdiction. Once the accused is held guilty, the presumption of innocence gets erased. In the same manner, if the accused is acquitted, then the presumption of innocence gets further fortified. E 24. From perusal of Section 389 of the CrPC, it is evident that save and except the matter falling under the category of sub-section 3 neither any specific principle of law is laid down nor any criteria has been fixed for consideration of the prayer of the convict and further, having a of conviction erasing the presumption leaning in favour of the accused regarding innocence till contrary recorded by the court F of the competent jurisdiction, and in the aforesaid background, there happens to be a fine distinction between the prayer for bail at the pre- conviction as well as the post-conviction stage, viz Sections 437, 438, 439 and 389(1) of the CrPC. 25. In Rajesh Ranjan Yadav alias Pappu Yadav v. CBI, reported G in (2007)1 SCC 70, it has been held under paras 8, 9 and 10 respectively, which are as follows: “8. Learned counsel for the appellant then relied on the decision of this Court in Kashmira Singh v. State of Punjab [(1977) 4 SCC 291 : 1977 SCC (Cri) 559] . In para 2 H OMPRAKASH SAHNI v. JAI SHANKAR CHAUDHARY & 157 ANR. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] of the said decision it was observed as under : (SCC pp. 292- A 93) “It would indeed be a travesty of justice to keep a person in jail for a period of five or six years for an offence which is ultimately found not to have been committed by him.