Section 3(6) reads as follows: “no dealer who deals exclusively on one or more classes of goods specified in the Third Schedule shall be liable to pay any tax under this Act.” C Section 7 of the DST reads as follows: “7. Tax Free Goods (1) No tax shall be payable under this Act on the sale of goods specified in the Third Schedule subject to the conditions and D exceptions, if any, set out therein. (2) The 7[Lieutenant Governor may] by notification in the Official Gazette, add to, or omit from, or otherwise amend, the Third Schedule either retrospectively or prospectively, and thereupon the Third Schedule shall be deemed to be amended E accordingly: Provided that no such amendment shall be made retrospectively if it would have the effect of prejudicially affecting the interests of any dealer.” Entry 22 of the Third Schedule reads as follows: F “22. Tobacco as defined under the Central Excise and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944).” 9. The effect, prima facie, of an overall reading of provisions of the DST Act therefore, is that all dealers whose turnover exceeds the G quantified amount which is termed “as taxable quantum” during the relevant period, are liable to pay state or local sales tax. Section 3(6) of 7 Substituted for “The Administrator may, with the previous approval of the Central Government and “ by Notification No. F4(120)/94 -Fin. (G)/2137 to 2145 dated 02.03.1998. H 1058 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the Act states that the dealer who exclusively deals in goods specified in the Third Schedule shall not be liable to pay tax. 10. By a notification dated 31.03.2000 issued by the competent authority i.e. the Lt. Governor of the National Capital Territory of Delhi (hereafter “NCTD”), Entry 46 was inserted in the First Schedule to the B DST Act. That Entry reads as follows: “46. Pan Masala and Gutkha” 11. The First Schedule is dealt with under Section 4 of the DST Act (“rate of tax”) it broadly enacts [by Section 4(1)(a)] that the taxable turnover “in respect of the cases specified in the First Schedule” C would be at the rate of 12 paise to a rupee. Thus, goods enumerated in the First Schedule are per se subjected to be local or state sales tax levy under the DST Act @ 12%. Similarly, goods referred to in the Third Schedule are tax-free. It is also clear that the Lt. Governor is authorised to change the entries, as indicated in Section 7, that is to say, from tax- free goods to taxed goods and vice versa. D 12. The appellants had argued before the Delhi High Court, that tobacco is mentioned in the Third Schedule at Sl. No. 22 and that the expression (tobacco) refers to what is defined as such under the Central Excise Act, 1944 (hereafter “CEA”). Consequently, to ascertain “tobacco”, one has to refer to the CEA read with Chapter 24 of the E Schedule to the CET Act.