Nappinai counsel appearing for the respondents. 24. Only two arguments were advanced by Mrs. June before us. The first is that once a wakf is always a wakf and, therefore, mere non G burial of the dead bodies on the “suit land” over the last 60 years or so would not alter its nature so as to confer any right upon the claimants respondents much less that of ryotwari patta in exercise of power under Section 19A of the Abolition Act; secondly, the claims of claimants respondents in the suit land having been dismissed by the ASO, Settlement H 396 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Officer, Director of Survey and Settlement, Board of Revenue and by the High Court in writ jurisdiction, the Division Bench of the High Court in exercise of its appellate power could have either dismissed or allowed the writ appeals but could not have directed for consideration of the claims under Section 19A of the Abolition Act that too while dismissing the writ appeals. B 25. Under the Muslim law, a wakf can be created in several ways but primarily by permanent dedication of any movable and immovable property by a person professing Islam for any purpose recognized by Muslim law as pious, religious or charitable purpose and in the absence of such dedication, it can be presumed to have come into existence by C long use. 26. Ordinarily, a wakf is brought into existence by any express dedication of movable or immovable property for religious or charitable purpose as recognized by Muslim Law. Once such a dedication is made, the property sought to be dedicated gets divested from the wakif, i.e., D the person creating or dedicating it and vests in the Almighty Allah. The wakf so created acquires a permanent nature and cannot be revoked or rescinded subsequently. The property of the wakf is unalienable and cannot be sold or transferred for private purpose. 27. The dedication resulting in the creation of a wakf may at E times in the absence of any express dedication may also be reasonably inferred from the facts and circumstances of the case such as long usage of the property as a wakf property provided it has been put to use for religious or public charitable purposes. In this regard, reference may be had to the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in M. Siddiq (D) thr. L.Rs. Vs. Mahant Suresh Das and Ors.5 F 28. In the case at hand, there is no iota of evidence from the very inception as to any express dedication of the suit land for any pious, religious or charitable purpose by anyone professing Islam. Therefore, on the admitted facts, the wakf by dedication of the suit land is ruled out. G 29. The only issue, therefore, is whether the suit land would constitute a wakf by user as it was used as a burial ground which practice has been stopped at least for the last over 60 years since the year 1900 or 1867.