Therefore, we would answer Question No. 2 G as follows: 82 AIR 1950 SC 27 83 AIR 1951 SC 301 84 R.D. Shetty vs International Airport Authority (1979) 3 SCC 489 H 85 Andi Mukta vs V.R. Rudani (1989) 2 SCC 691 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 679 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] “A fundamental right under Article 19/21 can A be enforced even against persons other than the State or its instrumentalities” Question No. 3 79. “Whether the State is under a duty to affirmatively protect the B rights of a citizen under Article 21 of the Constitution of India even against a threat to the liberty of a citizen by the acts or omissions of another citizen or private agency?” is the third question referred to us. 80. Before we proceed further, it is necessary to make a small correction. Article 21 right is available not only to citizens but to all persons. C Therefore, the word ‘citizen’ mentioned in Question No.3 has to be read as ‘person’. 81. As we have pointed out in the Table under paragraph 73 above, the expression “the State” is not used in Article 21. This Article 21 guarantees every person that he shall not be deprived of his life and D liberty except according to the procedure established by law. Going by the scheme of Part-III which we have outlined both in the preceding paragraphs and in the Table in paragraph 73, it is clear that the State has two obligations, (i) not to deprive a person of his life and liberty except according to procedure established by law; and (ii) to ensure that the E life and liberty of a person is not deprived even otherwise. Article 21 does not say “the State shall not deprive a person of his life and liberty”, but says that “no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty”. 82. When the Constitution was adopted, our understanding of the F words “life” and “personal liberty” was not as it has evolved over the past seven decades. Similarly, it was not imagined or conceived at that time that anyone other than the State is capable of depriving the life and personal liberty of a person, except by committing a punishable offence. But with the expanding horizons of our philosophical understanding of law, life and liberty and the advancement of science and technology, we G have come to realize that “life is not an empty dream” and “our hearts are not muffled drums beating funeral marches to the grave”86, nor is “life a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury signifying nothing”87. 86 From H.W. Longfellow in “A Psalm of life” H 87 From Shakespeare in Macbeth 680 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 83. Over a period of time, this Court has interpreted ‘the right to life’ to include, (i) livelihood; (ii) all those aspects of life which go to make a man’s life meaningful, complete and worth living; (iii) something more than mere survival or animal existence; (iv) right to live (and die) with human dignity; (v) right to food, water, decent environment, medical care and shelter etc.