This Court observed: “30…the consistent view of this Court is that the accused cannot ask for changing the investigating agency or to do investigation in a particular manner including for court-monitored B investigation.” 52. It has been held by this Court in CBI v. Rajesh Gandhi, 1997 Cri LJ 63, that no one can insist that an offence be investigated by a particular agency. We fully agree with the view in the aforesaid decision. An aggrieved person can only claim that the offence he C alleges be investigated properly, but he has no right to claim that it be investigated by any particular agency of his choice. 53. The principle of law that emerges from the precedents of this Court is that the power to transfer an investigation must be used “sparingly” and only “in exceptional circumstances”. In assessing the plea urged by the petitioner that the investigation must be D transferred to the CBI, we are guided by the parameters laid down by this Court for the exercise of that extraordinary power.” 7.4 Bearing in mind the position of law as discussed above and, in the facts, and circumstances of the case, we are of the opinion that the High Court has not committed any error in refusing to transfer the E investigation to CBI. Even the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has not vehemently pressed such a prayer. We are in complete agreement with the view taken by the High Court insofar as refusing to transfer the investigation to CBI is concerned. 8. Now, so far as the power of the Constitutional Courts to F further investigation / re-investigation / de novo investigation even after the chargesheet is filed and charges are framed is concerned, the following decisions are required to be referred to:- 8.1 In the case of Bharati Tamang (supra), after taking into consideration the decisions of this Court in the case of Babubhai Vs. G State of Gujarat, (2010) 12 SCC 254 (paras 40 and 42) and the subsequent decision of this Court in the case of Ram Jethmalani Vs. Union of India (2011) 8 SCC 1 and other decision on the point, ultimately the principles, which are culled out are as under:- H ANANT THANUR KARMUSE v. THE STATE OF 71 MAHARASHTRA & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] “41. From the various decisions relied upon by the petitioner A counsel as well as by respondents’ counsel, the following principles can be culled out. 41.1. The test of admissibility of evidence lies in its relevancy. B 41.2. Unless there is an express or implied constitutional prohibition or other law, evidence placed as a result of even an illegal search or seizure is not liable to be shut out. 41.3. If deficiency in investigation or prosecution is visible or can be perceived by lifting the veil which try to hide the realities C or covering the obvious deficiency, Courts have to deal with the same with an iron hand appropriately within the framework of law.