C g) It was found that since 1999-2000 the assessee was showing cost of land along with other related expenditures as work in progress/inventory in the balance sheets and its Income Tax Returns for several intervening years as the above were assessed under Section 143 (3) wherein the nature of the D assessee’s business was accepted by the assessing officer. It was held that what was sold by the assessee was part of its inventory and not a capital asset and the tribunal decided the matter by taking into consideration these undisputed facts. 5.5 It is submitted that based on the aforesaid facts and findings, E the ITAT has rightly held that the impugned transaction related to transfer of stock in trade and that the assessee had shown “stock in trade/ inventories” year after year in its balance sheets and its contention was accepted by the Assessing Officer and twice the assessments were completed under Section 143(3). It is submitted that ultimately the Tribunal concluded the issues as under: - F a) The impugned transaction related to transfer of stock in trade and that the assessee had been showing “stock in trade/ inventories” year after year in its balance sheets and its contention was accepted by the assessing officer and twice the assessments were completed under Section 143(3). G b) The said transaction had taken place during the financial year 2007-08 pertaining to assessment year 2008-09. The assessee had shown the sale consideration as also the cost of land in its balance sheet and profit and loss account filed with the Return of Income for the said assessment year 2008-09. Even H COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX 8 MUMBAI v. GLOWSHINE 1017 BUILDERS & DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] in the abstract from AST, the assessing officer had referred A the said sale as part of the return for assessment year 2008- 09. c) Considering the MOU and the Deed of Rectification, the consideration was Rs 5.24 crores. The assessing officer completed assessments simply by relying on AIR data B received from the office of the Sub- Registrar, Vasai but failed to consider the Deed of Rectification registered by the same Sub-Registrar and did not even care to verify the figure from the said Sub-Registrar, Vasai. d) Perusal of balance sheets of the assessee since 1999-2000 C clearly showed that the assessee had been showing work in progress/inventories year after year and apportioned the cost in proportion to the part of the land transferred and the cost of the land was as per the cost shown in the Return of Income for assessment year 2008-09. D e) Since the impugned transaction related to the business of the assessee and was to be assessed as such under the head “profit and gains of business or profession” the provisions of section 50C of the Income Tax Act, 1961 were not applicable to the facts of the case. E 5.6 It is submitted that the above findings recorded by the ITAT which were upheld by the High Court are pure findings of facts and therefore, no substantial question of law arises in the matter.