Land is also to be left as a divider to bifurcate the two -way roads. Therefore, it would not be justified in saying that no development cost at all would be incurred. Hence, taking all aspects into consideration and also taking into consideration that the sale exemplar for a smaller extent is being relied on for the B reasons noted, in the facts and circumstance arising herein, it would be appropriate to reckon the deduction towards development cost at 25 per cent of the value taken into consideration under the document Ex. PX dated 07.12.2004. Therefore, from the amount of Rs.33,60,000/-which is the value therein, a sum of Rs.8,40,000/-being 25 per cent is to be deducted. C Hence the market value to be determined in the instant case would be Rs.25,20,000/-per acre, which would be payable with all statutory benefits as compensation for the lands acquired. [Para 21][927-G-H; 928-A-B] 1.10. In the first round of the case, a higher rate of D compensation was determined and before the was set aside and remanded, in some of the cases the execution was levied and the amount was paid to the land losers. In view of the determination of the compensation at a lower rate in the present round of proceedings, the excess amount is being recovered by E the respondents. The appellants contended that if this Court determines the market value at a lesser rate than what has been paid to some of the appellants, such of those land losers who have received the amount, be protected against recovery whereas the respondents opposed such a request. Having considered this aspect of the matter, it would not be possible for this Court to F create two sets of land losers who are otherwise similarly placed, in respect of the same acquisition process after having determined the market value at a particular rate which is applicable to all of them. Therefore, it is needless to mention that if any excess amount has been received by any of the land G losers than the extent of the compensation determined herein, the excess amount, in any event, is recoverable. It cannot be lost sight of the fact that such a situation has arisen due to the earlier s of the Court determining the compensation. Though it is not a mistake of the Court, it has led to the present situation due to the act of the Court. It would therefore be H 918 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A appropriate to invoke the principle of ‘actus curiae neminem gravabit’ so that both parties are not prejudiced to the extent possible. Taking note that the amount which has been received will be invested or utilised, to enable repayment after making arrangement, the balance is directed to be refunded, back in three half-yearly instalments, free of interest. However, if the B amount is not refunded within the time period as provided above, the same shall thereafter carry interest at 9% p.a. and the respondent-HSIIDC would be entitled to recover the same, including the right to make recovery as arrears of land revenue.