4. 807485 Deshmukh Minor error in the name of the father of Rrajshree the candidate in the I&AC which indicated Shantaram, complete name including surname which was 719, IRMS not mentioned in the DAF-I. Subsequently, the candidate submitted an affidavit clarifying the mistake and the candidature was cleared. 80. It will be noticed that UPSC has considered these omissions as trivial and as not going to the root of the eligibility, unlike in the case of the petitioners herein. In Ajay Kumar Mishra vs. Union of India [2016] SCC OnLine Del 6563, Indira Banerjee, J. (as Her Ladyship then was) speaking DIVYA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 79 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] for the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court felicitously put the issue about the examining body’s right to decide as to which errors are material and which are inessential and trivial. We do nothing more except to extract paras 6, 7 & 9 from the said :- “6. There can be no doubt that a candidate applying for a government job, or for that matter, any job should fi ll in the application form carefully. No candidate can claim any vested right to rectifi cation of arrears in an application. Union Public Service Commission and the State Public Service Commissions deal with lacs of applications, which are received pursuant to an advertisement. Such applications are required to be processed within a short time. A candidate, who is not short-listed and/or not allowed to participate in the selection process by reason of his own laches in making careless mistakes, cannot claim any right to be allowed to participate in the selection process. 7. It is for the body conducting the selection process to decide whether mistakes should be allowed to be rectifi ed, if so, whether they should be rectifi ed within any specifi c time and what are the mistakes which can be allowed to be rectifi ed and other similar questions. However, in view of the mandate of Articles 14 to 16 of the Constitution of India, there should be no discrimination or arbitrariness in deciding these questions. All candidates applying for the particular post/posts should be treated equally. 9. It is true that whenever any material discrepancy is noticed in the application form and/or when any suppression and/ or mis- representation is detected, the candidature might be cancelled even after the application has been processed and the candidate has been allowed to participate in the selection process. However, after a candidate has participated in the selection process and cleared all the stages successfully,his candidature can only be cancelled, after careful scrutiny of the gravity of the lapse, and not for trivial omissions or errors.” 81. In Gaurav Singh’s case (supra) also the distinction between a defect that is material and not material and the right of the examining body 80 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. to condone has been noticed. We hold that the UPSC was justifi ed, in the case of the petitioners, in denying the benefi t of categorization as EWS candidates.