In either case it does not attract the doctrine of merger. An refusing special leave to appeal does not stand EXPERION DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. v. HIMANSHU 1139 DEWAN AND SONALI DEWAN [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] substituted in place of the under challenge. All that it means is that the Court was not inclined to exercise its discretion so as to allow the appeal being fi led. (v) If the refusing leave to appeal is a speaking i.e. gives reasons for refusing the grant of leave, then the has two implications. Firstly, the statement of law contained in the is a declaration of law by the Supreme Court within the meaning of Article 141 of the Constitution. Secondly, other than the declaration of law, whatever is stated in the are the fi ndings recorded by the Supreme Court which would bind the parties thereto and also the court, tribunal or authority in any proceedings subsequent thereto by way of judicial discipline, the Supreme Court being the Apex Court of the country. But, this does not amount to saying that the of the court, tribunal or authority below has stood merged in the of the Supreme Court rejecting the special leave petition or that the of the Supreme Court is the only binding as res judicata in subsequent proceedings between the parties. (vi) Once leave to appeal has been granted and appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court has been invoked the passed in appeal would attract the doctrine of merger; the may be of reversal, modifi cation or merely affi rmation. (vii) On an appeal having been preferred or a petition seeking leave to appeal having been converted into an appeal before the Supreme Court the jurisdiction of the High Court to entertain a review petition is lost thereafter as provided by sub-rule (1) of 47 Rule 1 CPC.” 26.3. Once we hold that the law laid down in Kunhayammed is to be followed, it will not make any diff erence whether the review petition was fi led before the fi ling of special leave petition or was fi led after the dismissal of special leave petition. Such a situation is covered in para 37 of Kunhayammed case.” 31. No doubt, in Pawan Gupta’s case (supra), this Court had not exercised the power or jurisdiction conferred by Article 136 of the Constitution of India, but had exercised its appellate power, which would, in terms of the ratio in Kunhayammed (supra), becomes the fi nal which 1140 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. is executable. Thus, the dismissal of the appeal by this Court in the case of Pawan Gupta (supra), had put a fi nality and an end to the litigation in the said case. To this extent, therefore, the application of the general principle of res judicata would bar the party from raising the plea once again. The passed by this Court, on the application of the principle of judicial discipline, bars and prevents any tribunal or parties from canvassing or taking a view which would have the eff ect of re-examination of the issues and points determined in the case of Pawan Gupta (supra) inter-se the parties to the decision.