The Administrative 686 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Committee of the High Court decided to impose a cut off for the viva-voce examination actuated by the bona fi de reason of ensuring that candidates with requisite personality assume judicial offi ce. However laudable that approach of the Administrative Committee may have been, such a change would be required to be brought in by a substantive amendment to the Rules which came in much later as noticed above. This is not a case where the rules or the scheme of the High Court were silent. Where the statutory rules are silent, they can be supplemented in a manner consistent with the object and spirit of the Rules by an administrative . 16. In the present case, the statutory rules expressly provided that the select list would be drawn up on the basis of the aggregate of marks obtained in the written examination and the viva-voce. This was further elaborated in the scheme of examination which prescribed that there would be no cut off marks for the viva-voce. This position is also refl ected in the notifi cation of the High Court dated 30 September 2015. In this backdrop, we have come to the conclusion that the decision of the High Court suff ered from its being ultra vires the 1961 Rules besides being manifestly arbitrary. ii. Legitimate Expectation 17. Another important aspect that arises for our consideration in these batch of petitions is whether the High Court’s decision frustrates the legitimate expectation of the petitioners. Article 233 of the Constitution provides that the appointment of persons to be posted as district judges in any state shall be made by the Governor of the State in consultation with the High Court exercising jurisdiction in relation to such state. Further, Article 235 vests with the High Court the control over district courts including the posting and promotion of district judges. The maintenance of effi ciency of judicial administration is entirely within the control and jurisdiction of the High Court.6 The Governor, in consultation with the High Court, prescribes rules laying down the method of appointment and the necessary eligibility criteria for the selection of suitable candidates for the post of district judges. According to the 1961 Rules, the High Court of Kerala was designated as the appointing authority and tasked with the responsibility of conducting the written examination and the viva voce. The actions of the High Court, 6 State of Bihar v. Bal Mukund Sah, (2000) 4 SCC 640 SIVANANDAN C T AND OTHERS v. HIGH COURT OF KERALA AND 687 OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] in pursuance of its public duty, would give rise to the legitimate expectation that the process of selection of candidates will be fair and non-arbitrary. a. Doctrine of legitimate expectation under common law 18. The basis of the doctrine of legitimate expectation in public law is founded on the principles of fairness and non-arbitrariness in government dealings with individuals. It recognizes that a public authority’s promise or past conduct will give rise to a legitimate expectation.