He was also convicted for the offence punishable under Section 307 read with Section 120-B of IPC, C for which he was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 7 years. 3. The allegation against this accused, along with one Vimal (since deceased) and five others, was that on 01st October 1995, around 03:30 pm, they conspired to criminally intimidate and commit the murder of D Jawahar Lal (PW-3) and his relatives. The allegation is that PW-3 was running his own cable TV network, and the accused wanted him to stop the said cable TV network. The allegation of the prosecution is that on 01st October 1995 at about 03:30 pm, the accused entered the house of PW-3 Jawahar Lal where he, along with his family members, were E residing. Accused nos.4 and 5 fired bullets from their revolvers at Omi Devi, mother of PW-3 and Chander Shekhar (deceased – brother of PW-3). Accused no.3 and deceased Vimal attacked Chander Shekhar (deceased) and Omi with daggers and knives. PW-3 and PW-7 suffered serious injuries. As noted earlier, Chander Shekhar died. We may note that admittedly the only allegation against the present appellant (accused F no.2) is that while 6 other accused entered the house of PW-3, the appellant was standing near the gate of the gallery with katta (country- made handgun) in his hand. By the impugned , the High Court has confirmed the conviction of the appellant. SUBMISSIONS G 4. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant pointed out that only PW-5 Ved Prakash deposed that the appellant was standing near the gate of the gallery with katta in his hand. However, PW-3, in the cross-examination, accepted that he had not seen the present appellant on the day of the incident and his name was told to him by PW-5. Learned H RAJ KUMAR @ SUMAN v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 759 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] counsel submitted that though the High Court, in paragraph 84 of the A impugned , has recorded a finding that even PW-13 had seen the appellant, in fact, PW-13 has not deposed anything about the appellant. 5. He submitted that the only circumstance appearing in the evidence against the appellant that he was standing outside near the gate of the gallery with a katta was not put to him in his statement under B Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, ‘CrPC’). He submitted that this argument was specifically canvassed before the High Court, which finds a place in the written submissions filed on behalf of the appellants, but the High Court did not consider it. He relied upon decisions of this Court in the case of Ranvir Yadav v. State of Bihar1; C Sukhjit Singh v. State of Punjab2; Maheshwar Tigga v. State of Jharkhand3; and Samsul Haque v. State of Assam4. He submitted that as a result of the failure of the Trial Court to put the only circumstance appearing against the appellant during his examination under Section 313 of CrPC, grave prejudice has been caused to the appellant resulting in failure of justice.