Restrictions are made in larger public interest. Such B restrictions, indisputably must be reasonable ones. (See Balram Kumawat v. Union of India [(2003) 7 SCC 628] ; Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti v. PilibhitPantnagar Beej Ltd. [(2004) 1 SCC 391] and Union of India v. West Coast Paper Mills Ltd. [(2004) 2 SCC 747] ) The statutory scheme contemplates C that a person and owner of land should not ordinarily be deprived from the user thereof by way of reservation or designation. 58. Expropriatory legislation, as is well-known, must be given a strict construction. (Emphasis supplied) D 77. An owner of land may not have an absolute and unqualified right which is the idea which not unnaturally comes to mind when the idea of ownership is under consideration. As we have already noted, the right is capable of being regulated and restricted under a law relating to Town Planning. Proceeding on the basis that DCR is law, the question E would arise under the said law whether a person can use his land as he chooses. Zoning requirements have been put in place. Primarily in a residential zone, can anyone put up an industrial establishment if the said use is prohibited? The answer is quite clearly in the negative. Can anyone construct a building in excess of the stipulated requirement as to the height of the building or contravening restrictions such as setback, floor F space area etc.? The answer cannot be in the affirmative. 78. At this juncture, we may also notice the scheme of the Constitution as regards property rights. When Constitution was originally enacted the right to acquire, hold and dispose of property was guaranteed as a fundamental right to citizens of India vide Article 19(1)(f). This G was, however, made subject to reasonable restrictions which could no doubt be imposed by a law under Article 19(5). That apart, Article 31 originally provided as follows: “31. (1) No person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law. H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1095 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (2) No property, movable or immovable, including any interest in, A or in any company owning, any commercial of industrial undertaking shall be taken possession of or acquired for public purposes under any law authorising the taking of such possession or such acquisition, unless the law provides for compensation for the property taken possession of or acquired and either fixes the B amount of the compensation, or specifies the principles on which, and the manner in which, the compensation is to be determined and given. (3) No such law as is referred to in clause (2) made by the legislature of a State shall have effect unless such law, having C been reserved for the consideration of the President, has received his assent. (4) If any Bill pending at the commencement of this Constitution in the legislature of a State has, after it has, been passed by such Legislature, been reserved for the consideration of the President D and has received his assent, then, notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the law so assented to shall not be called in question in any court on the ground that it contravenes the provisions of clause (2).