There will be a direction to the High Court to intimate all the available vacancies as on 15th October, 2011 to the Commission and the Government on or before 17th October, 2011. Steps for fi lling up for those vacancies shall be taken by the Commission and the Government from the select list of 2010 and the appointments shall be made before 29th October, 2011. 5. It is informed that the select list happened to be limited to the clear cut vacancies and actual number of anticipated vacancies in view of the directions already issued by the Government in 2008-09. We fi nd that the Government had issued such instructions in to avoid unnecessarily (Sic unnecessary) litigation. But apparently, the Government has not taken note of directions issued by the Apex Court, which is already referred to above. Therefore, there will be a direction to the Public Service Commission to publish a revised select list of the candidates from the year 2010 merit list by including 2/3 of the actual and anticipated vacancies. 6. The select list and the merit list are two concepts. The merit list is the VIVEK KAISTH & ANR v. THE STATE OF HIMACHAL 623 PRADESH & ORS [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] list of candidates ranked according to their score in the examination- cum-interview. The select list is one which is prepared according to the communal roster. 7. Pursuant to the of this Court in CWP No. 3828 of 2009, titled Hakikat v. State of H.P., the roster is now to be maintained by the High Court; earlier it was maintained by the Government. Since the select list is to be published by the Public Service Commission, there will be direction to the High Court, Government and the Public Service Commission to jointly take up this exercise of preparation of select list immediately after the publication of the merit list and this exercise shall be completed within two weeks of the publication of the merit list, every year. Thereafter, the Public Service Commission shall publish the select list. Once the select list is published, the appointment shall be strictly made according to the said list prepared on the basis of merit-cum-communal rotation.” 10. The directions given by the Division Bench of the High Court in paragraphs 5 and 7 are important. The fi rst direction is regarding the additional vacancies, which were to be 2/3rd of the actual and anticipated vacancies and second direction was the joint exercise to be undertaken by the State Commission, State Government and the High Court in determining and fi lling these vacancies. This also explains why the joint exercise was undertaken on 21.10.2013 by the three-member Committee, which we have already referred to, in the preceding paragraphs. 11. What is not clear though, is why in addition to clear and anticipated vacancies further vacancies i.e., 2/3rd of clear and anticipated vacancies were to be published. If that had to be a waiting list then such a direction could not have been given after the selections were over.