H 862 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A [AIR 1965 SC 202 : (1965) 1 Cri LJ 226] where this Court explained that cases in which persons who are merely passive witnesses and had joined the assembly out of curiosity, without sharing the common object of the assembly stood on a different footing; otherwise it was not necessary to prove that the person had committed some illegal act or was guilty of some omission B in pursuance of the common object of the assembly before he could be fastened with the consequences of an act committed by any other member of the assembly with the help of Section 149 IPC. The following passage is apposite in this regard : (Masalti case [AIR 1965 SC 202 : (1965) 1 Cri LJ 226], AIR C p. 211, para 17) “17. …The crucial question to determine in such a case is whether the assembly consisted of five or more persons and whether the said persons entertained one or more of the common objects as specified by Section 141. While D determining this question, it becomes relevant to consider whether the assembly consisted of some persons who were merely passive witnesses and had joined the assembly as a matter of idle curiosity without intending to entertain the common object of the assembly. It is in that context that the observations made by this Court in Baladin [AIR 1956 E SC 181 : 1956 Cri LJ 345] assume significance; otherwise, in law,it would not be correct to say that before a person is held to be a member of an unlawful assembly, it must be shown that he had committed some illegal overt act or had been guilty of some illegal omission in pursuance F of the common object of the assembly. In fact, Section 149 makes it clear that if an offence is committed by any member of an unlawful assembly in prosecution of the common object of that assembly, or such as the members of that assembly knew to be likely to be committed in prosecution of that object, every person G who, at the time of the committing of that offence, is a member of the same assembly, is guilty of that offence; and that emphatically brings out the principle that the punishment prescribed by Section 149 is in a sense vicarious and does not always proceed on the basis H RANVIR SINGH ETC. ETC. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA 863 PRADESH [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] that the offence has been actually committed by every A member of the unlawful assembly.” (emphasis supplied) 37. Again in Bajwa v. State of U.P. [(1973) 1 SCC 714] this Court held that while in a faction-ridden society there is always a B tendency to implicate even the innocent with the guilty, the only safeguard against the risk of condemning the innocent with the guilty lies in insisting upon acceptable evidence which in some measure implicates the accused and satisfies the conscience of the court.