It was urged that without Parliamentary legislation, such treaties are unenforceable, having regard to the express terms of Article 2538 which clothe Parliament alone with the power to make laws “notwithstanding” other provisions in that chapter- which delineates and distributes legislative power between the Union and States. Counsel submitted that India follows the “dualist” practise, which means that international treaties and conventions are not, upon their ratifi cation, automatically assimilated into municipal law (i.e. the national legal system) but would require enabling legislation. This 6 W.P. (C) No. 3243 of 2021 decided on 04.06.2021 7 Petition for Special Leave to Appeal (C) No. 5360/2022 8 Article 253 “Legislation for giving eff ect to international agreements Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions of this Chapter, Parliament has power to make any law for the whole or any part of the territory of India for implementing any treaty, agreement or convention with any other country or countries or any decision made at any international conference, association or other body. “ ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1151 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] is in contrast to those countries which are “monist”, wherein the treaty provisions are enforceable like municipal law, and are to be given equal weight by courts. 8. The ASG relied upon the decisions in Gramaphone Co. of India Ltd v. Birendra Bahadur Pandey & Ors.9 and Union of India (UOI) & Ors. v. Azadi Bachao Andolan & Ors.10 to urge that the position in India is entrenched that without enabling legislation, any convention or event fl owing from a convention, as in creation of rights and liabilities of third parties to conventions or treaties, do not operate on their own, and needs an intervening action by the Union, giving eff ect to such obligation. 9. The ASG relied on Section 90 which requires the issuance of a notifi cation, to give eff ect to any treaty or convention. It is argued that in the absence of any law, mere entering into a treaty or convention or protocol cannot give rise to any right under the taxation laws having regard to the structure of Section 90. Therefore, in the present case, the trigger to the MFN clause can occur at a later point in time when India enters into a treaty or convention with other nations which happens to be a member of the OECD at the time it enters into treaty or convention with India and if the DTAA with such country provides for taxation at rate lower than or benefi t over and above conferred upon the parties of the existing DTAA between India and the other nation. However, it would still require issuance of a notifi cation to give eff ect to such consequence. The incident involved in the present case – i.e., the mere fact that India entered into DTAAs with Slovenia, Lithuania, and Columbia at certain points in time and that some of them gained membership of OECD, ipso facto could not lead to claims by the respondents assessees that similar or identical treatment had to be extended to them as tax residents of Netherlands, France, and Switzerland respectively.