Clause (2)(b) D of Article 25 does not cover the basic essentials of the creed of a religion which are protected by clause (1) of Article 25; (f) The power of ex-communication for the purpose of ensuring the preservation of the community has a prime significance E in the religious life of every member of the group; and (g) The legislation which penalizes the power to ex- communicate even when exercised for the purposes of preservation of the community cannot be sustained as a measure of social welfare or reform without eviscerating F the right guaranteed under clause (1) of Article 25, thereby rendering the protection illusory. 18. In his dissenting opinion, B.P. Sinha, C.J., came to the following conclusions: G (a) The expressions ‘matters of religion’ and ‘activities associated with religious practice’ in clause (b) of Article 26 do not cover exactly the same ground. The activities associated with the religious practice may have serious ramifications, such as economic and financial; H CENTRAL BOARD OF DAWOODI BOHRA COMMUNITY 307 v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] (b) The autonomy that a religious denomination enjoys under A clause (b) of Article 26 is in matters of religion. Article 26 itself indicates that a religious denomination has to deal not only with matters of religion but also with other matters such as managing property owned and possessed by the religious community; B (c) The matters of religion under clause (b) of Article 26 are subject not only to public , morality and health but also to legislation contemplated by clause (2)(b) of Article 25. In the case of Sri Shirur Mutt9, it is distinctly laid down that clause (b) of Article 26 must be read subject to clause C (2)(b) of Article 25; and (d) The right of ex-communication vested in the head of the community is not purely a religious matter. Therefore, the Ex-communication Act is valid as it does not infringe the right conferred by clause (b) of Article 26. D WHETHER THE WRIT PETITION SURVIVES FOR CONSIDERATION 19. By a majority, the Constitution Bench held that the Ex- communication Act was void being in violation of Article 26(b) of the Constitution. We must note here that considering the definition of E ‘community’ under Section 2(a) of the Ex- communication Act, the applicability thereof was not confined only to the Dawoodi Bohra community. The provisions of the Ex- communication Act were applicable to the practice of ex- communication prevailing in different religions, castes or sub- castes. The findings rendered by the majority view are F only in respect of the right of the head of the Dawoodi Bohra community to ex-communicate a member of the community. With the greatest respect to the Constitution Bench, while recording a finding regarding violation of Article 26(b) only in relation to Dawoodi Bohra community, the Ex-communication Act in its entirety could not have been declared void. Therefore, even assuming that the view taken by the Constitution Bench G is correct, the question which certainly survives for consideration is whether the practice of ex-communication prevailing in other religions, castes or sub-castes is constitutionally valid.