I have in my possession or power the documents relating to the A matters in question in this suit set forth in the first and second parts of the first schedule hereto. 2. I object to produce the said documents set forth in the second part of the first schedule hereto [state grounds of objection.] B 3. I have had but have not now, in my possession or power the documents relating to the matters in question in this suit set forth in the second schedule hereto. 4. The last-mentioned documents were last in my possession or C power on. [State when and what has become of them and in whose possession they now are.] 5. According to the best of my knowledge, information and belief I have not now, and never had, in my possession, custody or power, or in the possession, custody or power of my pleader or agent, or in the possession, custody or power of any other person on my D behalf, any account, book of account, voucher, receipt, letter, memorandum, paper or writing, or any copy of or extract from any such document, or any other documents whatsoever, relating to the matters in question in this suit or any of them, or wherein any entry has been made relative to such matters or any of them, E other than and except the documents set forth in the said first and second schedules hereto. (emphasis supplied) 135. After the court has directed disclosure of all documents, the party who is directed to disclose all the relevant documents may object F to the disclosure of specific documents in its possession in the form prescribed in Annexure C of the Code. It must be noted that XI Rule 13 CPC stipulates that the form of discovery may be changed if circumstances require. The purpose of referring to the provisions of the CPC on discovery, inspection, and production is to elucidate and expand G upon the principle that guides these provisions. That is, while a party seeks discovery of documents that are in the possession of the other party, it is not necessary to prove that disclosure of the documents would be relevant to the outcome of the proceedings. Such a consideration does not arise at the stage of discovery. It is only justified that the burden H 694 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A of proof lies entirely on the party objecting disclosure to prove injury to public interest, and to justify the claim of public interest immunity. It is of utmost importance that the burden that is placed on the party seeking production at the discovery stage is not conflated with the burden placed on the party opposing such discovery at the stage of objection to the discovery. B 136. The Constitution Bench of this Court in SP Gupta (supra) has held that if the state objects to disclosure of documents on the ground of public interest immunity, then the Courts shall assess the validity of the objection based on the reasons in the affidavit.