Such a provision, he submits, fi nds manifestation in Section 43A whereby and whereunder a generating company has been given the liberty to enter into a contract for the sale of electricity generated by it with the State Electricity Board. He submits that under the successor Electricity Act, 2003, there is also provision for captive generation of electricity. 12.6. Learned counsel has referred to a decision of this Court in M/s Printers House Private Limited Vs. Mst. Saiyadan, (1994) 2 SCC 133, to buttress the point that market value of a thing has to be determined by reference to the price which a willing vendor might reasonably expect to obtain from a willing purchaser. Though that was a case relating to land acquisition, he submits that the principle laid down therein for computation of market value would hold good for the present case as well. He submits that market value or market price is relatable to the price at which the goods are available in the open market where prices are determined by the laws of supply and demand. 12.7. Learned counsel has also referred to Section 80A more particularly to sub-section (6) thereof which he submits is pari-materia to 500 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the provision of sub-section (8) of Section 80 IA including the explanation thereto. He submits that the expression “market value” has been defi ned in relation to any goods or services sold or supplied to mean the price that such goods or services would fetch if those were sold by the undertaking or unit or enterprise or eligible business in the open market, subject to statutory or regulatory restrictions. Applying the above provision to the present case, he submits that the price at which surplus electricity was supplied by the assessee to the State Electricity Board was subject to the power purchase agreement which was a statutory arrangement. Therefore, the price paid by the State Electricity Board to the assessee for supply of excess electricity would be the market value which would mean that Rs. 2.32 per unit would be the market value of electricity supplied by the assessee to its captive industrial units. In this connection, learned counsel has also placed reliance on Circular No.5/2010 dated 03.06.2010 of the Central Board of Direct Taxes which clarifi es that the explanation to sub-section (8) of Section 80 IA has been amended retrospectively from 01.04.2003 onwards to the eff ect that Section 80 IA would not apply to a business referred to in sub-section (4) which is in the nature of a works contract awarded by any person including the central or state government and executed by an undertaking or enterprise referred to in sub-section (1). He therefore submits that both the Tribunal and the High Court fell in error in accepting the contentions of the assessee that Rs. 3.72 per unit was the market value of electricity supplied by its captive generating plants to its own industrial units. 12.8. Learned counsel has placed reliance on a decision of the Calcutta High Court in Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. I.T.C.