In our opinion, in view of these facts allowing the police G investigation to continue would amount to an abuse of the process of court and to prevent the same it was just and expedient for the High Court to quash the same by exercising the powers under Section 482 Code which it has erroneously refused.” (emphasis supplied) H 368 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 30. The law on the subject was also examined in Parbatbhai Aahir v State of Gujarat, (2017) 9 SCC 641. In Habib Abdullah Jeelani, (2017) 2 SCC 779, it was opined: “inherent power in a matter of quashment of FIR has to be exercised sparingly and with caution and when and only when B such exercise is justified by the test specifically laid down in the provision itself There is no denial of the fact that the power under Section 482 CrPC is very wide but it needs no special emphasis to state that conferment of wide power requires the Court to be more cautious. It casts an onerous and more diligent duty on the Court.” C (emphasis supplied) 31. In Vinod Natesan v State of Kerala, (2019) 2 SCC 401, this Court took the position outlined hereunder: “11. … Even otherwise, as observed hereinabove, we are D more than satisfied that there was no criminality on part of the accused and a civil dispute is tried to be converted into a criminal dispute. Thus to continue the criminal proceedings against the accused would be an abuse of the process of law. Therefore, the High Court has rightly exercised the powers under Section 482 CrPC and has rightly quashed the criminal E proceedings. In view of the aforesaid and for the reasons stated above, the present appeal fails and deserves to be dismissed and is accordingly dismissed.” (emphasis supplied) 32. The legal position was also considered in Kamal Shivaji F Pokarnekar v State of Maharashtra, (2019) 14 SCC 350. In Mahendra K C v State of Karnataka, 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1021, this Court stated: “23. … the High Court while exercising its power under Section 482 of the CrPC to quash the FIR instituted against G the second respondent-accused should have applied the following two tests : i) whether the allegations made in the complaint, prima facie constitute an offence; and ii) whether the allegations are so improbable that a prudent man would not arrive at the conclusion that there is sufficient ground to H proceed with the complaint.” SRI GULAM MUSTAFA v. THE STATE OF KARNATAKA & ANR. 369 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 33. We are equally mindful of Arnab Manoranjan Goswami v A State of Maharashtra, (2021) 2 SCC 427, where at Paragraph 68, it was stated that “… The other end of the spectrum is equally important: the recognition by Section 482 of the power inhering in the High Court to prevent the abuse of process or to secure the ends of justice is a valuable safeguard for protecting liberty.” We are at one with B this comment.