The test to be applied by this Court would therefore not address which of the terms and conditions between B the theatre owners and the movie goers are binding upon them and whether the prohibition on carrying outside food within the theatre premises is a binding term. Similarly, this Court is not called upon to decide whether Respondents 3 and 4 suffered any injury due to the enforcement of the prohibition on outside food and whether they are entitled to damages, as a result of the injury suffered. Rather, this Court C will evaluate whether this was a case fit for the exercise of the High Court’s writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. 18. If it was the case of Respondents 3 and 4 that they had suffered some injury due to the prohibition on carrying food and beverages into the movie hall or that the terms of the contract were made known to D them only at the time of its enforcement and they sought a refund of the amount paid for the ticket because they did not assent to such a term or damages, the proper remedy would be to file a suit and not to seek the issuance of a writ. The decisions in Parker (supra), Olley (supra), McCutcheon (supra), and Thornton (supra) which the respondents E rely on do not have a bearing on the issue before this Court i.e., whether the High Court was justified in exercising its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. It is therefore not necessary for this Court to address itself to the ratio decidendi of these cases any further. C. The High Court has transgressed its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution F 19. Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution recognizes the right of citizens to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. This right includes all activities which enable citizens to generate economic benefits and earn a livelihood.2 The right recognized in Article 19(1)(g) is not an unfettered right and the state may impose G reasonable restrictions on the exercise of that right, in terms of Article 19(6). 20. The fundamental aspect which needs to be noted is that the trade and business of operating cinema theatres is subject to regulation 2 Alagaapuram R. Mohanraj v. T.N. Legislative Assembly, (2016) 6 SCC 82 H 584 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A by the state. In this case, the State Government has framed the 1975 Rules to regulate the industry. Admittedly, the 1975 Rules do not contain a rule compelling the owner of a cinema theatre to allow a movie goer to bring food or beverages from outside within the precincts of the theatre. Similarly, other enactments and rules which regulate the industry, namely, the Cinematograph Act 1952, the Cinematograph (Certification) Rules B 1983, the Jammu and Kashmir Cinematograph Act 1989, and the Jammu and Kashmir Cinematograph Rules 1989 do not contain a provision which requires theatre owners to permit movie goers to carry food and beverages of their own into the cinema hall.