Take another case of a man who molests women in lonely places. As a result of his activities girls going to colleges and schools are in constant danger and fear. Women going for their ordinary business are afraid of being way laid and assaulted. The activity of this man in its essential quality is not diff erent from the act of the other man but in its potentiality and in its aff ect upon the public tranquility there is a vast diff erence. The act of the man who molests the girls in lonely places causes a disturbance in the even tempo of living which is the fi rst requirement of public . He disturbs the society and the community. His act makes all the women apprehensive of their honour and he can be said to be causing disturbance of public and not merely committing individual actions which may be taken note of by the criminal prosecution agencies. It means therefore that the question whether a man has only committed a breach of law and or has acted in a manner likely to cause a disturbance of the public 576 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. is a question of degree and the extent of the reach of the act upon the society...” 57. The concept of ‘public ’ and ‘law and ’ has been dealt with in the case of Pushkar Mukherjee & Others v. The State of West Bengal,AIR 1970 SC 852. In this case, this Court had relied on the important work of Dr. Allen on ‘Legal Duties’ and spelled out the distinction between ‘public’ and ‘private’ crimes in the realm of jurisprudence. In considering the material elements of crime, the historic tests which each community applies are intrinsic wrongfulness and social expediency which are the two most important factors which have led to the designation of certain conduct as criminal. Dr. Allen has distinguished `public’ and `private’ crimes in the sense that some off ences primarily injure specifi c persons and only secondarily the public interest, while others directly injure the public interest and aff ect individuals only remotely. There is abroad distinction along these lines, but diff erences naturally arise in the application of any such test. 58. This Court in the case of Babul Mitra alias Anil Mitra v. State of West Bengal & Others, (1973) 1 SCC 393, had an occasion to deal with the question of “public ” and “law and ”. This Court observed that the true distinction between the areas of “law and ” and “public ” is one of degree and extent of the reach of the act in question upon society. The Court pointed out that the act by itself is not determinant of its own gravity. In its quality it may not diff er but in its potentiality it may be very diff erent. 59. In Dipak Bose alias Naripada v. State of West Bengal, (1973) 4 SCC 43, a three-Judge Bench of this Court explained the distinction between “law and ” and “public ” by giving illustrations.