This report was made available to all the bidders before bid submission so that the bidders could factor in the cost of the water intake system in preparation of their financial bid i.e. the tariff at which power would be supplied to the Procurers. The total estimated cost for the construction of water intake system for the location and route G indicated in the report by WAPCOS was estimated to be approximately 92 Crore. After RPower acquired the project, WAPCOS was appointed to confirm the technical feasibility as part of detailed engineering exercise. During this process, it was discovered that the water intake location as finalized by WAPCOS H before the bidding was not an appropriate location and does not HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 21 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] ensure reliable supply of water to the power plant. It was also A found that the water intake at the original location indicated by WAPCOS in the pre-bid report would have resulted in shutdown of power plant for a considerable period during the lean season. Thereafter, WAPCOS conducted detailed bathymetric studies and recommended a new location for water intake, which was 23 km B from the power plant as against 12.5 km initially indicated at the time of bidding (original location). It was highlighted that new location would ensure reliable water supply to the power plant. Due to increase in distance, submergence area along the route and construction time, there has been considerable increase in cost of the water intake system as per following details (Annexure C P-26 of the petition) and as per the earlier report of WAPCOS:- D E 31. MPPMCL has submitted that it is an expense incurred by the petitioner but is not covered under “Change in Law” under Article 13.1.1 of the PPA. However, it is concluded that the cost has been incurred by F the petitioner and exceeds the estimates given by the procurer’s authorized representative prior to bid submission. HPCC has submitted that the price and other details given in the bidding document were by way of information and it was for the bidders to conduct independent enquiry and verify the information and details. There is no misrepresentation by the procurers or by the Bid Process Coordinators at the time of bidding G in relation to water intake for the project. In view of the specific disclaimer and the requirement to conduct independent enquiry, the petitioner was required to make appropriate enquiries into the matter before bidding and the bidders were not entitled to proceed only on the basis indicative information given by the Bid Process Coordinator. H 22 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 32. We have considered the submission of the petitioner and respondent. As against the indicative cost of 92.40 crore, the cost for the construction of water system for the new location is 244 crore out of the aforesaid amount, a sum of 185 crore has already been incurred and balance of 59 crore is to be spent.