1 only and that too pertaining to the Licence Agreement/ Supplementary Licence Agreement and cannot be given effect and extended and made applicable to the subsequent transactions and/or agreements so executed between the plaintiff and F defendant No. 1 with the strangers. ARBITRATION AGREEMENT: 17. Now the question arises is as to what is an “arbitration agreement” and/or “a valid arbitrationagreement”? To meet with the aforesaid issue, the provisions of Section 7 of the G Arbitration Act requires to have a glance wherein the arbitration agreement means an agreement between the parties to submit to arbitration of or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a definite legal relationship, whether contractual or not. H GUJARAT COMPOSITE LIMITED v. A INFRASTRUCTURE 117 LIMITED & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 18. It is further provided that the arbitration agreement must be in A writing and signed by the parties and also in exchange of statement – defence in which the existence of the agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by the other party. 19. Thus, considering the facts of the case on hand while applying the provisions of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act, the powers of B the Court to refer the parties to arbitration are subject to fulfilment of the required conditions i.e. there should be an arbitration agreement and if the Court finds that no valid arbitration agreement exists between the parties, then to invoke the powers under Section 8 and the issue thereof does not arise. C 20. Hence, on the aforesaid account and as discussed in the foregoing paragraphs, the clause of arbitration so inserted is between the plaintiff and defendant No.1 as inserted in the Licence Agreement and the same cannot be applied to the subsequent transactions and with the persons who are not the parties to the D arbitration agreement who cannot be compelled to or referred to arbitration. Hence, in view of the aforesaid, the arbitration clause, the binding effect applies to the plaintiff and defendant No.1 only and cannot be extended to the rest, admittedly who are not the parties to the arbitration agreement. E 21. Thus, the sum and substance of the aforesaid discussion is that the reference to the arbitration is possible only if there is a valid arbitration agreement between the parties, but if the dispute is between the parties to an arbitration with the other parties as also non-parties to the arbitration agreement, a reference to the arbitration or even the appointment of the arbitrator can only be F made with respect to only the parties to the arbitration agreement and not the non-parties.” 4.2. In terms of the requirements of Section 8 of the Act of 1996 the Commercial Court held that the matter could be referred to arbitration only if it were a part of the subject-matter of the agreement. The reliefs G sought by the plaintiff involved its challenge to the conveyance deeds as violative of the undertaking submitted before the Industrial Tribunal as also the fact that the transaction was entered into during the operation of stay granted by the High Court4.