Even the learned trial Court also did not frame the issue, “whether agreement to sell was a forced agreement to sell/contract or not”. On appreciation of entire evidence on record, the learned trial Court after recording the findings on the execution of the agreement to sell by the defendants and receipt of part sale consideration and that the plaintiff was always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract, C decreed the suit for specific performance. By the impugned and , the High Court, as such, has not commented upon and/or set aside any of the findings recorded by the learned trial Court, recorded while passing a decree for specific performance. Straightway, the High Court has considered Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act and has D observed and held that by enhancing the amount of sale consideration, the learned trial Court has wrongly exercised the discretion in favour of the plaintiff. The High Court has commented upon the passed by the learned trial Court enhancing the amount of sale consideration and directing the plaintiff to pay more amount than the sale consideration mentioned in the agreement to sell. E 7. When to do the complete justice and relying upon and/or considering the decision of this Court in the case of Pratap Lakshman Muchandi v. Shamlal Uddavadas Wadhwa, (2008) 12 SCC 67, the learned trial Court directed the plaintiff to pay some more amount than the amount mentioned in the agreement to sell, at the most, the plaintiff F can be said to be aggrieved. Still, the High Court has considered such an passed by the learned trial Court against the defendants. As such, the learned trial Court was absolutely justified in compensating the defendants by paying some more amount while passing a decree for specific performance. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the G case and more particularly when the learned trial Court exercised the discretion in favour of the plaintiff after having observed and recorded the findings on the execution of the agreement to sell by the defendants and that the part sale consideration was paid by the plaintiff which was accepted by the defendants and thereafter the finding that the plaintiff was always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract, the H 258 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A learned trial Court was absolutely justified in passing the decree for specific performance. The High Court has erred in interfering with the and decree passed by the learned trial Court, without setting aside the findings recorded by the learned trial Court recorded while passing the decree for specific performance. The impugned and passed by the High Court is unsustainable, both, on law as B well as on facts. 8. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the present appeal succeeds. The impugned and passed by the High Court is hereby quashed and set aside and the and decree passed by the learned trial Court for specific performance of C agreement to sell is hereby restored.