We have carefully perused the evidence of PW-1 and PW-2. There is no evidence of the presence of common intention. Only the act of stopping the deceased Uma Prasad will not, by itself, bring the case within the purview of Section 34 of IPC. There is no overt act attributed to the appellant by any prosecution witness in the assault on deceased Uma Prasad. It is diffi cult to infer a prior meeting of minds in this case. There is no material to prove the existence of common intention which is the necessary ingredient of Section 34 of IPC. In this case, there is no overlap between a common object and a common intention. Therefore, the conviction of the appellant under Section 302, read with Section 34 will have to be set aside. 19. However, the evidence of two eyewitnesses (PW-1 and PW-2) is very consistent on the role played by the appellant in dragging the dead body of the deceased and throwing the same into a well. There is hardly any cross-examination on this aspect of both PW-1 and PW-2. Therefore, there is every justifi cation for convicting the appellant for the off ence punishable under Section 201 of IPC of causing the disappearance of the evidence of the crime. Hence, the conviction and sentence of the appellant for the off ence under Section 201 of IPC will have to be maintained. The dated 20th April 2012 passed in this appeal records that the appellant was enlarged on bail as he remained incarcerated for about nine years. The appellant was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for fi ve years for the off ence under Section 201 of IPC, which he has already undergone. 20. Hence, the appeal partly succeeds. We set aside the appellant’s conviction for the off ence punishable under Section 302, read with Section 34 of IPC. However, the appellant’s conviction for the off ence punishable under Section 201 of IPC is confi rmed. The appellant has 770 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. already undergone the sentence for the said off ence. Therefore, the bail bonds of the appellant stand cancelled. 21. The appeal is allowed on the above terms. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal partly allowed. Nidhi Jain