This Court by relying upon the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, 1979 (“CEDAW”) and the Beijing Declaration, 1995, which directs all State C parties to take appropriate measures to prevent discrimination of all forms against women, observed that gender equality is one of the basic principles of our Constitution and in the event the word ‘after’ is to be read to mean a disqualification of a mother to act as a guardian during the lifetime of the father, the same would definitely run counter to the basic requirement of the constitutional mandate and would lead to a D differentiation between a man and a woman. This Court therefore held that the father, by reason of being conferred a dominant personality, cannot be ascribed to have a preferential right over the mother, in the matter of guardianship, since both fall within the same category and the word ‘after’ shall have to be interpreted in E terms of the constitutional safeguards and guarantee given to gender equality so as to give a proper and effective meaning to the words use. (iv) In Anuj Garg & Ors. vs. Hotel Association of India & Ors. (2008) 3 SCC 1,this Court upheld the right of women to have equal treatment in employment in the hospitality sector. In the said case, F the constitutional validity of Section 30 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, which prohibited employment of “any man under the age of 25 years” or “any woman” in any part of the premises in which liquor or any intoxicating drug was consumed by the public, was challenged. This Court observed that, when the original Act was enacted, the concept of equality between G two sexes was unknown. The makers of the Constitution intended to apply equality amongst men and women in all spheres of life by virtue of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution. The Court was of the view that: “26. When a discrimination is sought to be made on the purported ground of classification, such classification must be founded on a rational criterion. The criteria which in absence of any constitutional H ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 347 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] provision and, it will bear repetition to state, having regard to the A societal conditions as they prevailed in early 20th century, may not be a rational criterion in the 21st century. In the early 20th century, the hospitality sector was not open to women in general. In the last 60 years, women in India have gained entry in all spheres of public life. They have also been representing people at grass B root democracy. They are now employed as drivers of heavy transport vehicles, conductors of service carriage, pilots et. al. Women can be seen to be occupying Class IV posts to the post of a Chief Executive Officer of a Multinational Company. They are now widely accepted both in police as also army services.” In the said case, this court relied upon the of the South C African Constitutional Court in Bhe and Ors.