[Para 69][206-C-E] 4. Both Article 324 of the Constitution and the Election Commission (Conditions of Service of Election Commissioners and Transaction of Business) Act, 1991 are silent on the selection C process of the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioner. [Para 90][211-F] 5. This Court has plenary power under Article 142 to issue directions to do “complete justice”. An analysis of the s of this Court shows that the Court has created jurisprudence, D where it has exercised its power under Article 142 to fill legislative gaps. The series of case laws authoritatively demonstrate the commitment of this Court to intervene to preserve and promote the “Rule of Law”, by supplementing the legislative gaps till the Legislature steps in. This has been done in exercise of the plenary power of this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution. In E to fill the legislative vacuum, i.e. the absence of any law made by the Parliament for the appointment of members of the Election Commission and in the light of the views expressed in various reports of the Law Commission, Election Commission, etc., this Court is of the considered view that the instant case thus aptly F calls for the exercise of the power of this Court under Article 142 to lay down guidelines to govern the process of selection and removal of Chief Election Commissioner and Election Commissioners, till the Legislature steps in. [Paras 109,113 and 118][237-A-B; 238-G; 241-E-F] G 6. In to allow independence in the functioning of the Election Commission as a Constitutional body, the office of Chief Election Commissioners as well as the Election Commissioners have to be insulated from the executive interference. The protection available to the Chief Election Commissioners is not available to other Election Commissioners. Various reports have H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 17 recommended that the protection against removal available to A the Chief Election Commissioner should be made available to the other Election Commissioners to ensure the independence of the Election Commission. In the facts and circumstances, keeping in view the importance of maintaining the neutrality and independence of the office of the Election Commission to hold B free and fair election which is a sine qua non for upholding the democracy as enshrined in our Constitution, it becomes imperative to shield the appointment of Election Commissioners and to be insulated from the executive interference. It is the need of the hour and advisable, to extend the protection available to the Chief Election Commissioner under the first proviso to C Article 324(5) to other Election Commissioners as well until any law is being framed by the Parliament. [Paras 119,120 and 125][241-G; 242-C-D; 244-D-F] 7. Until the Parliament makes a law in consonance with Article 324(2) of the Constitution, the following guidelines shall be in effect: (1) It is declared that the appointment of the Chief D Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners shall be made on the recommendations made by a three-member Committee comprising of the Prime Minister, Leader of the Opposition of the Lok Sabha and in case no Leader of Opposition is available, the Leader of the largest opposition party in the Lok E Sabha in terms of numerical strength and the Chief Justice of India.