Following the view expressed by their D Lordships, the Punjab High Court in Ram Gopal Ram Sarup v. Commissioner of Income-tax [[1963] 47 I.T.R. 611 (Punj.).] , held that the mere fact that there is some remote connection between a loss and the business would not bring the loss within the expression “loss incidental to the the”. E xxx xxx xxx 22. As pointed out by Lord Loreburn L.C. in Strong & Co. Ltd. v. Woodi-field [[1906] A.C. 448, 452 (H.L.).] , “They cannot be deducted if they are mainly incidental to some other vocation or fall on the trader in some character other than that of trader. The F nature of the trade is to be considered.” 23. This court in Commissioner of Income-tax v. Chakka Narayana [[1961] 43 I.T.R. 249 (A.P.).] , in a case of loss sustained by an assessee on account of theft at a railway station, held that the loss resulting thereof was not incidental to the assessee’s business G and was not an allowable deduction and that the mere fact that there was some remote connection between the loss and the business would not bring the loss within the expression “loss incidental to the the”. The loss sustained by confiscation of the smuggled gold is absolutely foreign to the vocation or business of the assessee-firm. It is a loss incurred in some character other H 124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A than that of a trader. The confiscation of the gold, being the result of a proceeding in rem, falls completely outside the trade or business which the assessee was carrying on. Confiscation of contraband goods is one of the penalties provided under the Sea Customs Act and the penalty is enforced against the goods irrespective of the fact whether the offender is known or not traced. Infraction or B violation of the law is not a normal incident of a trade or business and, therefore, the penalty by way of confiscation of the contraband gold is not a commercial loss so as to be allowed as a permissible deduction.” 22.3 The aforesaid reasoning of the Andhra Pradesh High Court C arrived at after taking note of the earlier decisions rendered by this Court in its support, deserves to be approved. 23. J.S Parkar v. V.B Palekar and Others,(1973) SCC Online Bom 161 23.1 Majority view of the Bombay High Court was in line with D Soni HindujiKushalji& Co. (supra),though not referring to the said decision. It is to be noted that though Justice Mukhi dissented with the view of Justice Deshpande, the third Judge, Justice Tulzapurkar by a separate , concurred with the view of Justice Deshpande. Therefore, themajority while broadly interpreting the view of this Court E in Haji Aziz (supra), held that confiscation of goods incurred for an infraction of law cannot be said to be a normal incident of business, and this loss falls on the assessee in some character other than that of a trader. The Court further noted that this principle would equally apply to a case where the business itself is prohibited by law while disagreeing with the view of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Piara Singh(1970) F SCC OnLine P&H 429,which decision did not reach this Court at that point of time.