Confi rmation of a Plan***(b)(1) Notwithstanding Section 510(a) of this title, if all of the applicable requirements of sub-section (a) of this section other than para (8) are met with respect to a plan, the court, on request of the proponent of the plan, shall confi rm the plan notwithstanding the requirements of such paragraph if the plan does not discriminate unfairly, and is fair and equitable, with respect to each class of claims or interests that is impaired under, and has not accepted, the plan.”] 690 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. and accords rights and obligations that are strictly regulated and coordinated by the statute and its regulations. To argue that a residuary jurisdiction must be exercised to alter the delicate economic coordination that is envisaged by the statute would do violence on its purpose and would be an impermissible exercise of the adjudicating authority’s power of judicial review. The UNCITRAL, in its Legislative Guide on Insolvency Law, has succinctly prefaced its recommendations in the following terms [Available at <https://uncitral.un.org/sites/uncitral.un.org/fi les/media- documents/uncitral/en/05-80722_ebook.pdf> last accessed 6-8-2021, pp. 14-15.] : “C. Balancing the goals and key objectives of an insolvency law 15. Since an insolvency regime cannot fully protect the interests of all parties, some of the key policy choices to be made when designing an insolvency law relate to defi ning the broad goals of the law (rescuing businesses in fi nancial diffi culty, protecting employment, protecting the interests of creditors, encouraging the development of an entrepreneurial class) and achieving the desired balance between the specifi c objectives identifi ed above. Insolvency laws achieve that balance by reapportioning the risks of insolvency in a way that suits a State’s economic, social and political goals. As such, an insolvency law can have widespread eff ects in the broader economy.” 47. Hence, once the requirements of IBC have been fulfi lled, the adjudicating authority and the appellate authority are duty-bound to abide by the discipline of the statutory provisions. It needs no emphasis that neither the adjudicating authority nor the appellate authority have an unchartered jurisdiction in equity. The jurisdiction arises within and as a product of a statutory framework.’ (emphasis supplied) 29. In the case at hand, we fi nd that there was no occasion before the Adjudicating Authority-NCLT to be swayed only on the per se ground that the hair-cut would be about 94.25% and that it was not convinced that the fair value of the assets have been projected in proper manner as the bid of the appellant was very close to the fair value of the assets of ACIL. ing re- RAMKRISHNA FORGINGS LTD v. RAVINDRA LOONKAR, 691 R. P. OF ACIL LTD.[AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] valuation of the assets, by the OL, Ministry of Corporate Aff airs, Government of India, in-charge of the particular area, cannot be justifi ed. As explained in Innoventive Industries Ltd. v ICICI Bank, (2018) 1 SCC 407 and Swiss Ribbons Private Limited v Union of India, (2019) 4 SCC 17, the Code was specifi cally introduced by Parliament for ensuring quick and time-bound resolution of insolvency of corporate entities in fi nancial trouble, by fi rst attempting to revive the Corporate Debtor, failure whereof would entail liquidation of the Corporate Debtor’s assets, and no unnecessary impediment should be created to delay or derail the CIRP.