Indisputably, in contrast to the aforesaid statement therein what is deposed by Chintaman (PW-8) is that on the day of the incident at about 05.00 pm, the deceased came to his house E and then asked for a glass of water and thereafter, Raju Pande (the deceased accused No.4) along with three other persons with respect to whom he got only nodding acquaintance, came to the house. He would also depose that thereafter Raju Pande started hurling abuses on the deceased. Both the Trial Court and the High Court noted the case of the prosecution that Raju Pande hurled abuses on the deceased for having F assaulted the brother of accused No. 1, along with his friend Sri Parag Sukhdeve. However, a scanning of the oral testimony of PW-8 would show that he did not depose that Raju Pande hurled abuses on the deceased on the ground of assault on the brother of accused No. 1. Naturally, he did not mention the name Parag Sukhdeve as well. So also, G it would go to show that he had stoutly denied involvement in the sale of ganja, or availability of ganja in his house. According to him Raju Pande and accused No. 1 alone had come to the chappari of his house and the remaining two accused were standing in the courtyard of his house. That apart, as per PW-8 it was about 06:00 PM that accused Raju Pande and the deceased left his house. Thus, it is obvious that the statement in H 678 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the material circumstance mentioned as ‘a’ in paragraph 14 of the impugned is based on the oral testimony of Dhanraj (PW-10). It is true that PW-10, deposed that at about 04.00 pm he was returning home from S.T. Stand and then he found two motorcycles parked at the house of Chintaman (PW-8), that at the house of Chintaman, 4 to 5 persons were then sitting and at that time accused Nos. 2 and 3 viz., B deceased first appellant and the surviving appellant in the former appeal, whom he knew by face and one Pande were present. It is pertinent to note that PW-10 did not depose about the presence of the deceased in the house of Chintaman when himself, Pande and the other accused persons were there in the said house. Naturally, in his oral testimony he C had not deposed anything about the hurling of abuses by Pande on the deceased. Another aspect of his oral testimony is that he deposed about the query made by Pande about the identity of a pregnant girl who resides behind the house of Chintaman. According to him, Chintaman told Pande that he did not know anything about that girl and then Pande asked him about her. On being told that he did not know anything about her, Pande D asked him to leave that place, going by the deposition of PW-10. At this juncture, it is to be noted that PW-10 did not make any mention about this aspect in his evidence.