[…] Society has no role to play in determining our choice of partners. […] 88. […] Intimacies of marriage, including the choices which individuals make on whether or not to marry and on whom to marry, lie outside the control of the State. Courts as upholders of constitutional freedoms must safeguard these freedoms.” (emphasis supplied) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1335 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 173. In Shakti Vahini (supra), proceedings under Article 32 of the Constitution were instituted seeking directions (i) to State Governments and the Central Government to initiate steps to combat “honour crimes” or caste- based or religion-based murder and submit a national plan of action and a State plan of action to curb such crimes; (ii) to direct State Governments to constitute special cells in each district; and (iii) to launch prosecutions in each case of “honour killing” or caste-based or religion-based murder. This Court disposed of the writ petition by directing preventive steps, remedial measures, and punitive measures to curb honour killings. Writing for a three- Judge Bench, Dipak Misra, C.J. observed that the ability of an individual to make choices is an inextricable part of dignity and “that when two adults choose to marry out of their own volition […] they have a right to do so.”165 174. In Justice KS Puttaswamy (9J) (supra), Justice Nariman (in his concurring opinion) observed that the right to privacy extends beyond the right to be let alone to recognising the vital personal choices such as the right to abort a fetus, and the right of same sex to marry. In Navtej (supra), this Court while decriminalising homosexuality did not hold that the Constitution recognises a right to marry. Dipak Misra, C.J. writing for the majority held that an individual has a right to a union which encompasses physical, mental, sexual or emotional companionship under Article 21 of the Constitution. 175. In Shafi n Jahan (supra) and Shakti Vahini (supra), the issue before this Court was whether State or non-State actors could interfere with a person’s choice of whom to marry. The law prescribes certain essential conditions for a valid marriage. In both these cases, this Court dealt with situations where State or non-State actors prevented a couple which was otherwise entitled to marry, from marrying. In the case of Shafi n Jahan (supra), the restriction was sought to be imposed because the partners belonged to diff erent religions and in Shakti Vahini (supra), this Court dealt with the issue of restraints placed by the society on the exercise of a person’s right to marry a person of a diff erence caste and religion. In Shafi n Jahan (supra) this Court held that religion and caste cannot be impediments in the exercise of a person’s right to choose whom to marry. In Shafi n Jahan 165 Paragraph 45 of the . 133 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (supra) this Court held that no State or non-State entity can interfere with their right to marry a person of their choice.