Their stand in the examination-in-chief is diametrically opposite to the one in the cross-examination. The fact that the parents and sister of the Deceased have resiled from their earlier standpoint where they had been found to be agitating vigorously before diff erent forums since the year 2019, implores us to invoke our Constitutional powers under Article 142 read with Section 311 CrPC and direct their recalling for a fresh cross- examination after ensuring a congenial environment, free from any kind of threat, psychological fear, or any inducement. 30. We, thus, fi nd it a case fi t for recalling the witnesses (PW-1, PW-4 and PW-5) for their further cross-examination to reach an eff ective decision in the subject trial. 31. We, however, hasten to add that power to recall witnesses under Section 311 CrPC ought to be exercised sparingly and mere hostility by a witness, per se, would not be a suffi cient ground to infer misuse of concession of bail. Still further, the observations made hereinabove shall have no bearing on the merits of the pending trial. D. CONCLUSION: 32. In view of the above discussion and without expressing anything on merits, we allow this Appeal with the following directions: (i) the impugned dated 12.08.2020 is set aside and the bail granted to Respondent No. 1 is hereby cancelled; (ii) Respondent No. 1 is directed to surrender not later than one week. He shall remain in custody till the conclusion of trial or till this Court releases him on bail in changed circumstances; (iii) the Trial Court is directed to recall PW-1, PW-4, and PW-5 for their further cross-examination; (iv) the Commissioner of Police, Bengaluru is directed to provide security to the Appellant and her family, including her daughter (PW-4), round the clock at least till their fresh depositions; 107 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (v) the Commissioner of Police, Bengaluru is further directed to investigate as to whether the Appellant and her family members were threatened, induced, or subjected to any extraneous pressure for retracting their statements. Such a report be presented before the Trial Court within 2 weeks subject to the right of objection to Respondent No. 1 and his co-accused, if there is any fi nding against them in such report; and; (vi) the Trial Court will closely observe the demeanour of Respondent No.1 or his counsel during further cross-examination of the Appellant, PW-4, PW-5 and other important prosecution witnesses. No minacious gesture or appeasing expressions be allowed so that the voluntary, free and unpolluted version of all the material witnesses is brought on record. 33. The present appeal is disposed of in the above terms. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal disposed of. Divya Pandey