14. This Court dismissed the appeal of the petitioner and confirmed the of the Madras High Court on 5 February 2013. Both the High Court and this Court entered into a detailed appreciation of facts before confirming the conviction. E C. Scope of Review Jurisdiction 15. Article 137 of the Constitution states that the Supreme Court has the power to review any pronounced by it subject to provisions of law made by the Parliament or any rules under Article 145. The Supreme Court Rules 20134 have been framed under Article 145 of F the Constitution. XLVII Rule 1of the 2013 Rules provides that the Court may review its own 16. or but no application for review will be entertained in a civil proceeding except on the ground mentioned in XLVII Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908, and in a criminal proceeding except on the ground of an error apparent on the face of the record. G 17. In Mofil Khan v State of Jharkhand5,a three judge Bench of this Court while discussing the scope of the power of review held that: 3 “IPC” 4 “2013 Rules” 5 2021 SCC OnLineSC 1136 H 1030 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 2. […] Review is not rehearing of the appeal all over again and to maintain a review petition, it has to be shown that there has been a miscarriage of justice (See: Suthendraraja v. State). An error which is not self-evident and has to be detected by a process of reasoning can hardly be said to be an error apparent on the face of the record justifying the Court to exercise its power of review B (See: Kamlesh Verma v. Mayavati). An applicant cannot be allowed to reargue the appeal in an application for review on the grounds that were urged at the time of hearing of the appeal. Even if the applicant succeeds in establishing that there may be another view possible on the conviction or sentence of the accused C that is not a sufficient ground for review. This Court shall exercise its jurisdiction to review only when a glaring omission or patent mistake has crept in the earlier decision due to judicial fallibility. There has to be an error apparent on the face of the record leading to miscarriage of justice. D D. Error Apparent on the Face of the Record? D.1 Submissions of Counsel 18. We have heard the counsel for the petitioner and for the State of Tamil Nadu. The counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the following errors are apparent on the face of the record and call for a E review of the dismissing the appeal: a. There is no proof that the phone number through which the ransom calls were allegedly made by the petitioner i.e. the number ending with XXX5961, belongs to the petitioner; b. That the call detail records show that the above-mentioned F number is registered with one individual with residence in Alathur, Palakkad whom the petitioner has no connection with; c. That the 15-digit IMEI number for the cell phone, allegedly belonging to the petitioner containing the SIM with mobile G number ending with XXX5961, mentioned in the seizure memo differs from the IMEI number mentioned in the call detail record; d. There is no evidence that the number on which the ransom call was allegedly made to PW1 (mother of the deceased),i.e.