Similarly, there may be various other allegations E that SEBI must include in its investigation. 10. As a part of its ongoing investigation, SEBI shall also investigate the following aspects of the issues raised in the present batch of petitions: a. Whether there has been a violation of Rule 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules 1957; F b. Whether there has been a failure to disclose transactions with related parties and other relevant information which concerns related parties to SEBI, in accordance with law; and c. Whether there was any manipulation of stock prices in G contravention of existing laws. 11. The above directions shall not be construed to limit the contours of the ongoing investigation. SEBI shall expeditiously conclude the investigation within two months and file a status report. H 956 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 12. Further, SEBI shall apprise the expert committee (constituted in paragraph 14 of this ) of the action that it has taken in furtherance of the directions of this Court as well as the steps that it has taken in furtherance of its ongoing investigation. The constitution of the expert committee does not divest SEBI of its powers or responsibilities in continuing with its investigation into the recent volatility in the securities B market. 13. In Prakash Gupta (supra), we took note of the developing nature of the regulations pertaining to the securities market. This Court noted that: C “101. Therefore, the SEBI Act and the rules, regulations and circulars made or issued under the legislation, are constantly evolving with a concerted aim to enforce in the securities market and promote its healthy growth while protecting investor wealth.” 14. In to protect Indian investors against volatility of the D kind which has been witnessed in the recent past, we are of the view that it is appropriate to constitute an Expert Committee for the assessment of the extant regulatory framework and for making recommendations to strengthen it. We hereby constitute a committee consisting of the following members: E a. Mr. O P Bhatt; b. Justice J P Devadhar (retired) c. Mr. KV Kamath; d. Mr. Nandan Nilekani; and F e. Mr. Somashekhar Sundaresan. The Expert Committee shall be headed by Justice Abhay Manohar Sapre, a former judge of the Supreme Court of India. 15. The remit of the Committee shall be as follows: G a. To provide an overall assessment of the situation including the relevant causal factors which have led to the volatility in the securities market in the recent past; b. To suggest measures to strengthen investor awareness; H VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 957 c. To investigate whether there has been regulatory failure in A dealing with the alleged contravention of laws pertaining to the securities market in relation to the Adani Group or other companies; and d. To suggest measures to (i) strengthen the statutory and/or regulatory framework; and (ii) secure compliance with the B existing framework for the protection of investors. 16.