G (vii) We further direct that hereinafter, the Central Government and Chandigarh Administration will freeze FAR and shall not increase it any further; (viii) That the number of floors in Phase-I shall be restricted to three with a uniform maximum height as deemed appropriate by the Heritage Committee keeping in view the requirement H 676 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A to maintain the heritage status of Phase-I; and (ix) That the Chandigarh Administration shall not resort to formulate rules or bye-laws without prior consultation of the Heritage Committee and prior approval of the Central Government. 167. Before we part with the , we observe that it is high B time that the Legislature, the Executive and the Policy Makers at the Centre as well as at the State levels take note of the damage to the environment on account of haphazard developments and take a call to take necessary measures to ensure that the development does not damage the environment. It is necessary that a proper balance is struck between C sustainable development and environmental protection. We therefore appeal to the Legislature, the Executive and the Policy Makers at the Centre as well as at the State levels to make necessary provisions for carrying out Environmental Impact Assessment studies before permitting urban development. 168. We direct the copy of this to be forwarded to the D Cabinet Secretary to the Union of India and the Chief Secretaries to all the States to take note of the aforesaid observations. We hope that the Union of India as well as the State Governments will take earnest steps in that regard. 169. We must place on record our deep appreciation for the E valuable assistance rendered by Shri P.S. Patwalia and Shri Ranjit Kumar, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants and Shri K.M. Natraj, learned ASG, Shri Kapil Sibal, Shri Ajay Tewari and Shri Gaurav Chopra, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents. 170. In the result, the appeals are allowed in the aforesaid terms. F 171. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of in the above terms. No as to costs. Bibhuti Bhushan Bose Appeals allowed and directions issued. (Assisted by : Shubhanshu Das, LCRA) G H