Normal conditions under Section 437(3) read with Section 438(2) should be imposed; if there are specific facts or features in regard to any offence, it is open for F the court to impose any appropriate condition (including fixed nature of relief, or its being tied to an event), etc. 91.2. As regards the second question referred to this Court, it is held that the life or duration of an anticipatory bail does not end normally at the time and stage when the accused is summoned G by the court, or when charges are framed, but can continue till the end of the trial. Again, if there are any special or peculiar features necessitating the court to limit the tenure of anticipatory bail, it is open for it to do so.” 29 (2020) 5 SCC 1 H 1128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 16. In the light of the answers given to the Reference, the Constitution Bench went on to clarify the factors that would be required to be kept in mind while dealing with applications moved under Section 438 CrPC and observed that :- “92.3. Nothing in Section 438 CrPC, compels or obliges courts to B impose conditions limiting relief in terms of time, or upon filing of FIR, or recording of statement of any witness, by the police, during investigation or inquiry, etc. While considering an application (for grant of anticipatory bail) the court has to consider the nature of the offence, the role of the person, the likelihood of his influencing the course of investigation, or tampering C with evidence (including intimidating witnesses), likelihood of fleeing justice (such as leaving the country), etc…… 92.4. Courts ought to be generally guided by considerations such as the nature and gravity of the offences, the role attributed to the applicant, and the facts of the case, while considering whether to D grant anticipatory bail, or refuse it. Whether to grant or not is a matter of discretion; equally whether and if so, what kind of special conditions are to be imposed (or not imposed) are dependent on facts of the case, and subject to the discretion of the court. xxxx xxxx xxxx E 92.6. An of anticipatory bail should not be “blanket” in the sense that it should not enable the accused to commit further offences and claim relief of indefinite protection from arrest. It should be confined to the offence or incident, for which apprehension of arrest is sought, in relation to a specific incident. F It cannot operate in respect of a future incident that involves commission of an offence.” [emphasis added] 17. In Myakala Dharmarajam and Others v. State of Telangana and Another30, holding that the Appellate Court or a superior G Court can set aside an granting bail if the concerned Court that granted bail, failed to consider the relevant factors, this Court observed that:- H 30 (2020) 2 SCC 743 MS. X v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA AND ANOTHER 1129 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] “9.