sense in which they understand it that constitutes the definitive A index of the legislative intention, when the statute was enacted. 19. The submissions of learned senior counsel, in Heinz were substantially adopted on behalf of GSK, in the Tamil Nadu case. In addition, Ms. CharanyaLaxmikumaran, learned counsel urged that the statute in TGST Act is different, because in the Entry, relied on by the B revenue, is dependant solely on the Explanation [to Entry I (iii) of Part F of the First Schedule]. However, the product, by its description, purpose, and application of the common parlance test, squarely fell within Entry 20A of Part C of the First Schedule, which were medical preparations, to be used internally or meant for external use or application “for C treatment of diseases or diss”. It was underlined that the exclusion from this entry was of products capable of use as creams, hair oils, tooth pastes,tooth powders, cosmetics, toilet articles, soaps and shampoos. Learned counsel submitted that the specific mention of one class of powders, i.e. tooth powder, and use of “cosmetic” with other expressions, clarifying that if the use of the product was only or D predominantly as cosmetic, would it not fall under Entry 20A. It was submitted that having regard to the literature and the essential purpose of Nycil powder, it did not fit the description as a cosmetic [which is excluded], even if the Explanation to Entry I (iii) of Part F were taken into account. Thus, it has to be treated as a medicine. E 20. Learned counsel relied on S. Sundaram Pillai v V. R. Pattabiraman15 and urged that the Explanation, to Entry I (iii) has to be considered in the context of the established rule that while a proviso excepts something out of the enactment which would otherwise be within its purview yet, if the text, context or purpose so require a different rule F may apply. Likewise, an explanation is to explain the meaning of words of the section but if the language or purpose so require, the explanation can be so interpreted. All that the explanation did was to say that if the exclusion of cosmetic articles from Entry 20 per se did not result in its falling within the Entry relating to cosmetics, i.e. Entry I of Part F. It continued to be essentially a medicine, for prickly heat. G 21. Next, Share Medical Care v Union of India16 was relied upon, to urge that if two interpretations are possible, that favouring the assessee should be adopted. Pappu Sweets and Biscuits v. Commr. Of 15 [1985] 2 SCR 643 16 2007 (3) SCR 44 H 440 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Trade Tax, U.P17 (hereafter “Pappu Sweets and Biscuits”) and Collector of Excise v. M/s Parle Exports (P) Ltd18 were cited for the argument that the words used in the provision, imposing taxes or granting exemption should be understood in the same way for which they are understood in ordinary parlance in the area in which the law is in force or by the people who ordinarily deal with them.