113 of 2016. F Under Article 32 of The Constitution of India With Special Leave Petition @ (Diary) No. 34629 of 2017 Ms. Aparjitha Singh, Sr.Adv. (A.C.) Ms. Uttara Babbar, Ms. Shipra G Jain, Advs. Kaleeswaram Raj, Ms. Thulasi K. Raj, Ms. Radhalakshmi R., Suvidutt M. S., Ms. Somlagna Biswas, Rishesh Sikarwar, Aman Khullar, H 608 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Mrs. Renu Yadav, Samerjit Singh Chaudhry, Hitesh Kumar Sharma, Akhileshwar Jha, Ms. Mirdula Singh Chauhan, Ms. Sandhya Singh for Ms. Manju Jetley, Advs. for the Petitioner. R. Venkataramani, AG, Tushar Mehta, SG, Balbir Singh, Ms. Madhavi Divan, ASGs, R. Bala, Pradeep Rai, Ms. Garima Prasad, B Sr. Advs., Naman Tandon, Samarvir Singh, Presenjeet Mohapatra, Rajat Nair, Ankur Talwar, Kanu Agrawal, Anirudh Bhatt, Shyam Gopal, Ms. Monica Benjamin, Ms. Sujatha Bagadhi, Ms. Shraddha Deshmukh, Udai Khanna, Ms. Anu S., Mayank Pandey, Vinayak Mehrotra, Chitvan Singhal, Ms. Sonali Jain, Abhishek Kumar Pandey, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Mukesh Kumar Maroria, Ajay Vikram Singh, Ms. Rajshree Rai, Vinay C Kumar, Shashank Rai, Arnav Mittal, Ms. Ritika Gaur, Ms. Banshika Garg, Vipin Bharti, Amrendra Kumar Singh, Ms. Priyanka Singh, Ms. Pranjali Goel, Sharjeel Ahamad, Mrs. Swarupama Chaturvedi, Pradeep Misra, Abhishek, Lakshmi Raman Singh, Advs. for the Respondents. Ranjith B. Marar, Ms. Lakshmi N. Kaimal, Arun Poomulli, D Santhosh M. Jose, Keshav Raj Nair, Ashu Jain, Davesh Kumar Sharma, Ms. Preetha Chandran, Abhijith Sreekumar, Joseph Kurian, Advs. for the Intervenor. The s of the Court were delivered by V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J. E PRELUDE F Said the Tamil Poet-Philosopher Tiruvalluvar of the Tamil Sangam age (31, BCE) in his classic “Tirukkural”. Emphasizing the importance of sweet speech, he said that the scar left behind by a burn injury may heal, but not the one left behind by an offensive speech. The translation of this verse by G.U. Pope in English reads thus: G “In flesh by fire inflamed, nature may thoroughly heal the sore; In soul by tongue inflamed, the ulcer healeth never more.” H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 609 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] A Sanskrit Text contains a piece of advice on what to speak and A how to speak. B The meaning of this verse is: “Speak what is true; speak what is pleasing; Do not speak what is unpleasant, even if it is true; And C do not say what is pleasing, but untrue; this is the eternal law.” The “Book of Proverbs” (16:24) says: “Pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and healing to the bones” D Though religious texts of all faiths and ancient literature of all languages and geographical locations are full of such moral injunctions emphasising the importance of sweet speech (more than free speech), history shows that humanity has consistently defied those diktats. The present reference to the Constitution Bench is the outcome of such behaviour by two honourable men, who occupied the position of Ministers E in two different States. I. Questions formulated for consideration 1. By an dated 05.10.2017, a Three Member Bench of this Court directed Writ Petition (Criminal) No.113 of 2016 to be placed before the Constitution Bench, after two learned senior counsel, appointed F as amicus curiae, submitted that the questions arising for consideration in the writ petition were of great importance.