[2023] 16 S.C.R. 765 : 2023 INSC 990 CASE DETAILS MADAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH (Criminal Appeal Nos. 1381-1382 of 2017) NOVEMBER 09, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI, B.V. NAGARATHNA AND PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Six deaths were caused on account of brutal fi ring by the appellants and other accused persons. The trial court imposed sentence of capital punishment to the appellants (‘M’ and ‘S’) herein for the off ence punishable u/s. 302 r/w. s.149 of IPC, while it sentenced accused ‘I’ to imprisonment for life for the same. (i) Whether the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt the case for conviction u/s. 302 of IPC; (ii) Whether the present case falls in the category of rarest of rare cases; (ii) Whether on the facts of the present case, the capital punishment imposed on appellant- deserves to be maintained or not. Penal Code, 1860 – s. 302 r/w. s.149 – The High Court, by the impugned , while commuting the sentence of appellant ‘S’ from capital punishment to imprisonment for life, dismissed the appeals fi led by appellant ‘M’ and accused ‘I’ and confi rmed their conviction and sentence awarded by the trial court – The High Court further confi rmed the Death Reference of the appellant ‘M’ – Propriety: Held: The incident has taken place in two parts: The fi rst place is near the house of ‘R’ – Appellant ‘M’ along with ‘I’ and other accused armed with licensed guns, rifl es and country-made pistols came from behind and started fi ring indiscriminately – As a result of which, two fell down on the Khadanja and died on the spot – When ‘MA’, after hearing the sound of gunfi re, came out of his house, the accused persons also fi red shots at him – As a result of which, he also fell down – The second place is the house of Up-Pradhan- 765 766 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. ‘RN’ – After indiscriminate fi ring by the accused persons, deceased ‘RK’ and PW-2 ran away to save their lives and RK entered the house of ‘RN’ – The accused persons followed them and entered into the house of ‘RN’ and fi red shots at RK and two other persons – As a result of which, all three died – The prosecution has duly proved its case beyond reasonable doubt in view of the testimony of PW-1 being duly corroborated by the testimonies of PW-10 and PW-11 – This Court is of the considered view that the testimonies of these witnesses duly establish that these witnesses have witnessed the fi ring on three persons, who died on the spot – These witnesses have also seen the accused persons assaulting RK and PW-2 who had received the fi rearm injuries, who ran to the house of to take shelter – This Court is further of the considered view that though PW-7 is a sole witness insofar as the fi ring on deceased three persons is concerned, his testimony is cogent, reliable and trustworthy and can be made basis for coming to a conclusion that it is the present appellants along with other accused who have caused the death of deceased – In any case, his testimony is duly corroborated by the evidence of PW-1 who had immediately come to the second spot after the occurrence of the incident when PW-7 informed PW-1 about the incident occurring in his house – In the instant case, both the High Court and the trial court have meticulously scrutinized the evidence and found the testimony of the eye witnesses trustworthy and reliable – This Court after scrutinizing the evidence again fi nd that merely because there are certain inconsistencies in the evidence of the witnesses, their evidence cannot be discarded – In totality of the circumstances, the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt the case for conviction u/s.