Article 310(1) makes the tenure of Government servants subject to the pleasure of the President or the Governor of a State except as expressly provided for by the Constitution. This Article is analogous to the rights of the Crown in England where all public officers and servants of the Crown C are appointed at the pleasure of the Crown and their services can be terminated at will, without assigning any cause41. That is the reason why the tenure of the Government servant is subject to the pleasure of the President or the Governor of a State, except as expressly provided for under the Constitution. All members of such services who receive their D stipend from the public exchequer, whether at the top of the hierarchy or at the very bottom, are finally answerable to the public and expected to discharge their duties responsibly, efficiently, effectively and above all, for the higher good of the public. It can, therefore, be seen that though the origin of Government servants may be contractual, once appointed to the post or office, they acquire a status and their rights and obligations E are no longer determined by the consent of both the parties, but are governed by the Statute or Statutory Rules42. (c) ARTICLE 311 : A MANIFESTATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURAL JUSTICE 31. This Court has held that in matters of dismissal, removal or F reduction in rank of public servants, Article 311 of the Constitution is a manifestation of the essential principles of natural justice. It imposes a duty on the Government to ensure that any such decision against the public servant is preceded by an inquiry that contemplates an opportunity of hearing to be granted to the public servant, who is also entitled to G make a representation against such a decision43. Article 311 reads as under : 40 Moti Ram Deka v. The General Manager, North East Frontier Railway, (1964) 5 SCR 683 41 Union of India and Another v. Tulsi Ram Patel, (1985) 3 SCC 398 42 Roshan Lal Tandon v. Union of India, (1968) 1 SCR 185 H 43 Nisha Priya Bhatia v. Union of India and Another, (2020) 13 SCC 56 796 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “311. Dismissal, removal or reduction in rank of persons employed in civil capacities under the Union or a State.—(1) No person who is a member of a civil service of the Union or an all India service or a civil service of a State or holds a civil post under the Union or a State shall be dismissed or removed by an authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed. B (2) No such person as aforesaid shall be dismissed or removed or reduced in rank except after an inquiry in which he has been informed of the charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of those charges: C Provided that where it is proposed after such inquiry, to impose upon him any such penalty, such penalty may be imposed on the basis of the evidence adduced during such inquiry and it shall not be necessary to give such person any opportunity of making representation on the penalty proposed: Provided further that this clause shall not apply— D (a) where a person is dismissed or removed or reduced in rank on the ground of conduct which has led to his conviction on a criminal charge; or (b) where the authority empowered to dismiss or remove a E person or to reduce him in rank is satisfied that for some reason, to be recorded by that authority in writing, it is not reasonably practicable to hold such inquiry; or (c) where the President or the Governor, as the case may be, is satisfied that in the interest of the security of the F State it is not expedient to hold such inquiry.