Maneka Gandhi [Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India, (1978) 1 SCC 248] ratioextricated it from this moribund and put its elasticity for egalitarian path finder lest the classification would deny equality to the larger segments of the society. The classification based on employment in Government, semi-Government and reputed F commercial firms has the insidious and inevitable effect of excluding lives in vast rural and urban areas engaged in unorganised or self-employed sectors to have life insurance offending Article 14 of the Constitution and socio-economic justice.” 27. Shri K.V. Viswanathan, learned senior counsel while contending G that the right which had accrued cannot be taken away and the ‘things done’ or ‘omitted to be done’ before such supersession is to be kept in view, has relied on the decision in (1961) 1 SCR 305 Universal Imports Agency & Ans. Vs. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports and Ors.wherein it is held as hereunder: H ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 273 ORS. “16. What were the “things done” by the petitioners under the A Pondicherry law? The petitioners in the course of their import trade, having obtained authorization for the foreign exchange through their bankers, entered into firm contracts with foreign dealers on C.I.F. terms. In some cases irrevocable Letters of Credit were opened and in others bank drafts were sent towards B the contracts. Under the terms of the contracts the sellers had to ship the goods from various foreign ports and the buyers were to have physical delivery of the goods after they had crossed the customs barrier in India. Pursuant to the terms of the contracts, the sellers placed the goods on board the various ships, some before and others after the merger, and the goods arrived at C Pondicherry port after its merger with India. The prices for the goods were paid in full to the foreign sellers and the goods were taken delivery of by the buyers after examining them on arrival. Before the merger if the Customs Authorities had imposed any restrictions not authorised by law, the affected parties could have D enforced the free entry of the goods in a court of law. On the said facts a short question arises whether para 6 of the protects the petitioners. While learned counsel for the petitioners contends that “things done” take in not only things done but also their legal consequences, learned counsel for the State contends that, as the goods were not brought into India before the merger, it was not a E thing done before the merger and, therefore, would be governed by the enactments specified in the Schedule. It is not necessary to consider in this case whether the concept of import not only takes in the factual bringing of goods into India, but also the entire process of import commencing from the date of the application F for permission to import and ending with the crossing of the customs barrier in India. The words “things done” in para 6 must be reasonably interpreted and, if so interpreted, they can mean not only things done but also the legal consequences flowing therefrom.