Consensual queer relationships are not criminalized; their right to live their lives, and exercise choice of sexual partners has been recognised. They are no longer 38 The principle of non-discrimination was explained in Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors 2017 [12] SCR 827 as existing to “ensure that all persons can equally enjoy and exercise all their rights and freedoms. Discrimination occurs due to arbitrary denial of opportunities for equal participation”. 145 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. to be treated as “sub-par humans” by law. Yet, that ipso facto, the petitioners allege, is not suffi cient, because the fact that they are allowed to be by themselves, “let alone” in the privacy of where they live, is not adequate. Discrimination and prejudice faced by the queer community has been acknowledged, and discussed at length by this court in NALSA (supra) and Navtej Johar (supra). The draft opinion of the Chief Justice, also highlights these aspects, so is only briefl y touched upon in the following section, for the sake of completeness. B. Rights fl owing from previous decisions of this court relating to the queer community 41. The Constitution assures dignity; also, various fundamental rights guarantee a panoply of rights (to equality, non-discrimination on enumerated grounds, to freedom of speech, expression, of association, of right to travel freely, of right to reside, of the right to trade, commerce and business, to personal liberty, freedom to profess one’s religion, all being important ones). Various rights not expressly stated or enumerated, have been declared as facets of the right to life - of livelihood, access to healthcare, right to shelter, right to a clean environment, etc. 42. Sexual relation between persons of the same sex was outlawed, by virtue of Section 377 of the IPC. It characterized such acts as “unnatural sex”, enacted an off ence, and prescribed sentence. This provision was read down by a Division Bench ruling of the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation v. State (NCT of Delhi) (hereafter, “Naz Foundation”)39, which de-criminalized consensual sex between persons of the same sex. However, Naz Foundation (supra) was over turned, and its holding disapproved by this Court in Suresh Kumar Kushal v. Naz Foundation40 that became the fi nal word for a time so to say, resulting in the criminalization of physical intimacy between same sex consenting adults. Implicit in this was the chilling eff ect on the exercise of other freedoms by such couples particularly in exhibiting even bare, decent expressions of aff ection – which was a position that prevailed till the later fi ve-judge bench decision in Navtej Johar (supra). 39 (2009) 111 DRJ 1 (DB) 40 (2014) 1 SCC 1: (2013) 17 SCR 1019 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1453 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 43. NALSA (supra) was a signifi cant ruling regarding the rights of transgender persons. It was held that “discrimination on the ground of sexual orientation or gender identity, therefore, impairs equality before law and equal protection of law and violates Article 14 of the Constitution of India”.41 This court, for the fi rst time, recognized what now is obvious but was not perceived to be till then, i.e., that the transgender persons have the same rights and have to be treated as full citizens, entitled to their self- expression of gender identity.