[2023] 11 S.C.R. 731 : 2023 INSC 733 CASE DETAILS CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC SCIENCES & ANR. v. BIKARTAN DAS & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 3339 of 2023) AUGUST 16, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI AND J.B. PARDIWALA, J.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: High Court, if erred in setting aside the passed by the Central Administrative Tribunal and holding that respondent No.1 was entitled to the benefi t of enhancement of retirement age from 60 to 65 years as applicable to the AYUSH doctors working under the Ministry of AYUSH. Service Law – Grant of benefi t of enhancement of retirement age – Unsustainability: Held: Respondent No.1 was appointed as a Research Assistant by the appellant-Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS) and was functioning as a Researcher under the Research Council and his service conditions were also diff erent compared to the AYUSH doctors serving with the Ministry of AYUSH – Appellant-Council is a registered autonomous body and is administratively controlled by the Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India – The recruitment rules, procedure and the service conditions of its employees are governed by the Bye-Laws and Memorandum of Association of the Council – High Court misdirected itself saying that the benefi t of enhanced age of superannuation can also be granted if the duties performed are the same like AYUSH doctors – Governing body of the Council is not obliged to take a decision in tune with the decision of the Ministry of AYUSH regarding superannuation more particularly having made it clear that enhancement of retirement age is not applicable 731 732 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. to an autonomous body like CCRAS – Age of superannuation is always governed by the statutory rules governing appointment on a particular post – Hence, even if it is averred that the nature of work involved in the two posts is similar, the same cannot be a ground to increase or alter the service conditions of an employee as each post is governed by its own set of rules – Impugned not sustainable, set aside – Society Registration Act, 1860. [Paras 23, 34, 44 and 48] Service Law – Interim relief for continuation in service granted – Impropriety: Held: Court or the Tribunal should be slow and circumspect in granting interim relief for continuation in service, unless prima facie evidence of unimpeachable character is produced because if the public servant succeeds, he can always be compensated – But if he fails, he would have enjoyed undeserved benefi t of extended service and caused injustice to his immediate junior – In the present case, High Court went to the extent of granting interim relief extending the period of service beyond 60 years till the disposal of the Original Petition by the CAT – By virtue of such interim which the High Court ordinarily should not grant, the respondent No. 1 although was to retire in 2018 yet continued in service till 2021 – It is only when Supreme Court stayed the operation of the impugned passed by the High Court while issuing notice that the service of the respondent No.1 came to an end.