In countries having sophisticated modes of investigation, every trace left behind by the culprit can be followed and pursued immediately. Unfortunately it is not G available in many parts of this country. That is why courts have insisted (i) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should in the first instance be fully established; (ii) all the facts so established should be 1 1993 SCC (Cri) 860 H 668 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilty of the accused and should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one sought to be proved; (iii) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature; and (iv) the chain of evidence should not have any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused. B 6. Further it was held therein as under:- 7. …It has been impressed that suspicion and conjecture should not take the place of legal proof. It is true that the chain of events proved by the prosecution must show that C within all human probability the offence has been committed by the accused, but the court is expected to consider the total cumulative effect of all the proved facts along with the motive suggested by the prosecution which induced the accused to follow a particular path. The existence of a motive is often an enlightening factor in a process of presumptive reasoning in D cases depending on circumstantial evidence. 7. In Brijlal Prasad Sinha v. State of Bihar2, this Court held thus: “In a case of circumstantial evidence the prosecution is bound to establish the circumstances from which the conclusion is E drawn must be fully proved; the circumstances should be conclusive in nature; all the circumstances so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of guilt and inconsistent with the innocence; and lastly the circumstances should to a great certainty exclude the possibility of guilt of F any person other than the accused. The law relating to circumstantial evidence no longer remains res integra and it has been held by catena of decisions of this Court that the circumstances proved should lead to no other inference except that of the guilt of the accused so that, the accused can be convicted of the offences charged. It may be stated as a rule G of caution that before the court records conviction on the basis of circumstantial evidence, it must satisfy itself that the circumstances from which inference of guilt could be drawn have been established by unimpeachable evidence and the H 2 (1998) SCC (Cri) 1382 SHANKAR v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 669 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] circumstances unerringly point to the guilt of the accused and A further, all the circumstances taken together are incapable of any explanation on any reasonable hypothesis save the guilt of the accused.” 8. In the decision in Prakash v. State of Rajasthan3, this Court took note of the following principles laid down regarding the law relating B circumstantial evidence in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra4: - “153.