If the aforesaid interpretation is adopted, then the state, by way of amendments, can entice persons and institutions to act in a certain manner with the expectation of a certain outcome, and suddenly, without any demonstration G of public interest, rescind the same. Such a scenario, if allowed to manifest into reality, would remove any and all certainty of the legal system, and directly become an antithesis to the rule of law. Further, if a blanket bar of the doctrine of legitimate expectation against a statute is to be allowed, no domestic or foreign investor would ever invest in local H 17 (1994) 5 SCC 509 M/S. K.B. TEA PRODUCT PVT. LTD. v. COMMERCIAL TAX 853 OFFICER, SILIGURI [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] business and ventures, as any legitimate expectation by way of a statute A would translate only to a façade, as such a benefit could be snatched away arbitrarily at any point in time. Hence, any contrary interpretation of the doctrine of legitimate expectation, would cause great havoc, and only cause detriment to the rights of individuals and the society at large. 32. Further, it must be borne in mind that the doctrine of legitimate B expectation and the doctrine of promissory estoppel are two separate principles, and as such, the blanket ban on promissory estoppel against a statute cannot be applicable to the doctrine of legitimate expectation. 33. The doctrine of promissory estoppel and the doctrine of legitimate expectation, while they share a common root and a similar C theme, by way of going through the rigours of common law, have developed into two distinct doctrines. The doctrine of promissory estoppel is a remedy in private law; however, the doctrine of legitimate expectation is a remedy in public law, and as stated above, is rooted in Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 34. Such a distinction between public law and private law becomes D important, because once a law enters the public sphere, it affects the rights of the society, and thus becomes liable to a stricter level of scrutiny, and as such, becomes more susceptible to judicial review. 35. In light of the abovementioned discussions, and to bring clarity to the scope and limitations of the doctrine of legitimate expectations, I E find it essential to chart out the following principles for the application of legitimate expectations: I.The expectation must be reasonable: The expectation of the individual or group must be reasonable and not based on any arbitrary or irrational grounds. The expectation must be based on F an established practice or a clear promise made by the public authority. II. The expectation must be based on a clear representation: The expectation must be based on a clear and unambiguous representation made by the public authority. G III. The representation must be made by an authorized person: The representation must be made by an authorized person or body within the public authority. The authority must have the power and competence to make such a representation. IV. The representation must be legitimate: The representation made by the public authority must be legitimate and not against H 854 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.