The High Court, however, E persuaded the appellant to reconsider the claim of the first respondent for reinstatement on the basis of the two decisions of this Court in Kavita Solunke and Shalini noted above. Both these decisions have since been overruled by a larger bench of three Judges of this Court in Chairman and Managing Director, Food Corporation of India Vs Jagdish Balaram Bahira10. F 19. The first respondent obtained employment against a post reserved for Scheduled Castes to which she was clearly not entitled. The effect is to displace a genuine candidate, who would otherwise have been entitled to the post. No fault can be found with the conduct of the appellant in convening a disciplinary enquiry. The findings of the G enquiry are unexceptionable. The punishment which was imposed could not be regarded as disproportionate. Irrespective of whether or not the caste claim of the first respondent was fraudulent or otherwise, it is evident that the benefit which she obtained securing employment against 9 (2013) 16 SCC 526 10 (2017) 8 SCC 670 H 600 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A a reserved post would have to be set aside once the caste claim has been rejected. 20. In view of the clear principle of law which has been formulated in the of this Court in Chairman and Managing Director, Food Corporation of India (supra), we are of the view that the single B Judge of the High Court was in error in issuing a direction for reconsideration. 21. However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, we and direct that no recovery shall be made from the first respondent of the salary which was paid to her for the period to which she had C actually worked. 22. With the above reasons and subject to the aforesaid clarification, we allow the appeal and set aside the impugned and of the High Court dated 30 October 2019. In consequence, the of the single Judge shall also stand set aside and the writ petition instituted by the first respondent shall stand dismissed. D 23. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Ankit Gyan Matters disposed of. E F G H