[…] 40. Salaries and allowances of Ministers for the State.” E (emphasis supplied) Referring to the provisions of the GNCTD Act which deal with these entries, Justice D.Y Chandrachud in his concurring opinion observed that even Parliament did not construe the use of the word ‘State’ in an F Entry to mean that it was not available to Union Territories, as it acknowledged the power of the Legislative Assembly of GNCTD to deal with said issues. We agree with the above observations. The mere use of the word ‘state’ in the entries will not exclude the legislative competence of NCTD. By that logic, all the entries in List II would be impliedly excluded from the legislative competence of NCTD because G list II of the Seventh Schedule is titled ‘State list’. 121. Furthermore, the conclusion of the Balakrishnan Report that Entry 41 of the State List of the Seventh Schedule is not available to Union Territories because the Constitution does not envisage a third category of services covering the services of Union territories is contrary H 564 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A to the of this Court in Prem Kumar Jain (supra), which had upheld services for NCTD. The in Prem Kumar Jain (supra) was rendered prior to the Balakrishnan Committee Report of December 1989. The Balakrishnan Committee did not refer to the said . Thus, the report of the Balakrishnan Committee cannot be relied upon determine if “Services” is available to NCTD. B L. Applicability of Part XIV to Union Territories 122. The Union of India has submitted that NCTD does not have legislative competence over Entry 41 of List II because Part XIV of the Constitution does not contemplate any services for Union Territories. It C has been argued that the legislative power of NCTD can be restricted if Part XIV does not contemplate services to Union Territories since Article 239AA begins with the phrase “Subject to the provisions of the Constitution”. (a) Meaning of “State” for the purpose of Part XIV of the D Constitution 123. It needs to be seen if the phrase “State” in Part XIV of the Constitution includes Union Territory. Article 308 provides the definition of ‘State’ for Part XIV of the Constitution. Article 308 as it stood prior to the Constitution (Seventh amendment) Act 195640 provides as follows: E “308.In this part, unless the context otherwise requires the expression ‘State’ means a State specified in Part A or Part B of the First Schedule.” 124. The States Reorganization Act 1956 and the consequential 1956 amendment altered the provisions of the First Schedule. Prior to F the amendment in 1956, States were divided into three categories as specified in Parts A, B and C of the First Schedule of the Constitution. By the seventh amendment, Article 308 was amended and State for the purposes of Part XIV was defined as follows: “308. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires, the G expression “State” does not include the State of Jammu and Kashmir.” 125.