The cooperative banks are functioning on a par with other commercial banks, which do not enjoy any tax benefi t. Therefore Section 80-P has been amended and a new sub-section (4) has been inserted to provide that the provisions of the said section shall not apply in relation to any cooperative bank other than a primary agricultural credit society or a primary cooperative agricultural and rural development bank. The expressions “cooperative bank”, “primary agricultural credit society” and “primary cooperative agricultural and rural development bank” have also been defi ned to lend clarity to them.” 41. A clarifi cation by the CBDT, in a letter dated 9-5-2008, is also important, and states as follows: “Subject.—Clarifi cation regarding admissibility of deduction under Section 80-P of the Income Tax Act, 1961. *** 358 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 2. In this regard, I have been directed to state that sub-section (4) of Section 80-P provides that deduction under the said section shall not be allowable to any cooperative bank other than a primary agricultural credit society or a primary cooperative agricultural and rural development bank. For the purpose of the said sub-section, cooperative bank shall have the meaning assigned to it in Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 3. In Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, “Cooperative Bank” means a State Cooperative bank, a Central Cooperative Bank and a primary cooperative bank. 4. Thus, if the Delhi Co-op Urban T & C Society Ltd. does not fall within the meaning of “Cooperative Bank” as defi ned in Part V of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, sub-section (4) of Section 80-P will not apply in this case. 5. Issued with the approval of Chairman, Central Board of Direct Taxes.” 42. The above material would clearly indicate that the limited object of Section 80-P(4) is to exclude cooperative banks that function on a par with other commercial banks i.e. which lend money to members of the public. Thus, if the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 is now to be seen, what is clear from Section 3 read with Section 56 is that a primary cooperative bank cannot be a primary agricultural credit society, as such cooperative bank must be engaged in the business of banking as defi ned by Section 5(b) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, which means the accepting, for the purpose of lending or investment, of deposits of money from the public. Likewise, under Section 22(1) (b) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as applicable to cooperative societies, no cooperative society shall carry on banking business in India, unless it is a cooperative bank and holds a licence issued in that behalf by RBI. As opposed to this, a primary agricultural credit society is a cooperative society, the primary object of which is to provide fi nancial accommodation to its members for agricultural purposes or for purposes connected with agricultural activities. KSCARDB v. THE ASSESSING OFFICER, TRIVANDRUM 359 AND ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 43. As a matter of fact, some primary agricultural credit societies applied for a banking licence to RBI, as their bye-laws also contain as one of the objects of the Society the carrying on of the business of banking.