140 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 4E PSO.CR.RT.S 140 [2023] 4 S.C.R. A MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS (Civil Appeal No. 2965 of 2022) JANUARY 13, 2023 B [M. R. SHAH AND B. V. NAGARATHNA, JJ.] Registration Act, 1908 – ss. 32, 33 and 60 – Execution of sale deed on the strength of a deed of Power of Attorney – Non- production of the deed of power of attorney – Effect of, to the case of plaintiff in the suit – Power of attorney (PoA) executed outside C India – Presumption as to correctness of the PoA – On facts, PoA allegedly executed in East Pakistan by the original owner in favour of respondent No. 2 – Respondent No. 2 thereafter executed two sale deeds transferring the suit property firstly in his own favour and then in favour of his wife – Respondents then filed suit for D declaration of title over the subject land and recovery of khas possession from the appellants – Respondent no. 2 claimed his ownership on the basis of sale deed executed by the respondent no. 1 in his own favour on the basis of PoA executed by the original owner, however, the same PoA not produced before the trial court – Appellant’s case that they are the owner of the part of the suit E property and have been in possession for more than 40 years – Trial court dismissed the suit since no right, title or interest was established in favour of respondent No.2 for want of PoA for proper execution of the sale deed in his favour; and that the provisions of s. 33(1)(c) not complied with – First appellate court upheld the F same – However, the High Court allowed the Second Appeal by drawing presumption u/s. 60 in respect of PoA by virtue of endorsement – High Court directed the appellants to handover the vacant possession of the suit land to the respondent – On appeal, held: In view of the difference of opinion, the matter referred to the larger bench – Reference to larger Bench – Power of attorney. G Referring the matter to larger Bench, the Court Per M.R. SHAH, J. HELD: 1.1 When the plaintiffs claimed title on the basis of the aforesaid two sale deeds dated 2.9.1968 and 29.09.1968, it H was for the plaintiffs to prove even the execution of the sale deeds. 140 MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 141 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS The defendants were not required to challenge the sale deeds in A the suit filed by the plaintiffs, who prayed for a decree for a declaration of title in their favour. When plaintiff No.2 claimed title on the basis of the PoA executed by the original owner and thereafter executed the sale deed in favour of plaintiff No.1 as PoA of the original owner, the conditions provided under Section B 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act are required to be strictly complied with.