Commissioner i. Payment made i. The Th at payments of Income by the assessee, expenditure calculated as a Tax vs. Sarada of a fi xed sum of i n c u r r e d certain percentage Binding Works, Rs. 5000/- per towards the of profi ts of a (1976) 102 ITR annum to acquire right to run business for an 187 (Madras the right to run the business of indefi nite period High Court) the business of ‘Chandamama of time cannot be ‘Chandamama Publications’ treated as payments Publications’; was held to by instalments of ii.Royalty paid be Capital a capital sum. Th e annually on sales expenditure; payment of royalty equivalent to 10% ii. was related to the of the annual net Royalty was future profi ts of the profi ts. held to be in assessee and had the nature no nexus with the of revenue capital sum. expenditure. 446 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 3. Commissioner i. Payment of i. Technical Th at by making of Income Tax technical collaboration a payment of vs. Southern collaboration/ fee was held royalty, the assessee Switch Gear technical to be capital had acquired an Ltd., (1984) aid fees by expenditure; exclusive privilege 148 ITR 272 the assessee ii. 25% of the to manufacture and (Madras High to a foreign royalty was sell the products. Court) company; held to be Th erefore, the said D e c i s i o n ii. Royalty capital in expenditure was to affi rmed by payable in fi ve nature, while be treated partly as this Court instalments for 75% was capital and partly in Southern the acquisition stated to revenue. Th e value Switch Gear of an exclusive be revenue of the royalty related Ltd. vs. CIT, privilege of expenditure. to the acquisition (1998) 232 ITR manufacturing of the right of 35 (SC). and selling the enduring nature products. was estimated at 25% and treated as capital expenditure, while the rest was stated to be revenue expenditure. 4. CIT vs. Saw Service charges Revenue Th at the service Pipes Ltd., paid by the expenditure lines did not (2008) 300 assessee to belong to the ITR 35 (High Maharashtra assessee but to the Court of State Electricity MSEB and were Delhi) Board (MSEB) laid out to enable to set up a the assessee service line to conduct its for supplying business more electricity, eff ectively. Hence, as part of an the same was arrangement to be regarded wherein the as revenue ownership of expenditure. the cables would remain with the MSEB. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 447 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 5. CIT vs. J.K. Payment made R e v e n u e Th at the assessee Synthetics, by the assessee expenditure only acquired (2009) 309 under an “access” to ITR 371 agreement to the technical (High Court access technical information of Delhi) information which related of a foreign to the process c o m p a n y , of manufacture, whereby there which was not would be no related to any transfer of secret process ownership of or intellectual the know-how property rights.