As last chance, post on 23-06-2022.” D 27. From the afore-stated s, it clearly transpires that the High Court after the dismissal of the petitions filed by the appellant – Archbishop under Article 482 of Cr.P.C., invoked its Suo motu jurisdiction directing the State Government to make detailed inquiry with regard to the execution of sale deed and settlement deed in respect of some of the E properties sold out by the appellant, and find out whether the said properties belonged to the Government or were Poramboke land, and whether the said settlement deed was created with the aim to manipulate a document of title over Government land. Thereafter, also the concerned judge retained the matters with him even after the change of roster, and continued to pass the s one after the other on the issues which F were neither the subject matter of the main petitions under Section 482 nor were argued by the concerned advocates for the parties. The concerned judge also assumed his plenary-advisory role by calling upon and advising the State Government to legislate a comprehensive law addressing the issues pertaining to the legal status of unincorporated G organisation acting under the guise of religion or charity. On non- submission of the second report by the State, the High Court directed the concerned officer to appear in person, and directed the Registry to implead CBI as an additional respondent in the main case, though the same was already disposed of. H 1036 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 28. The High Court in its overzealous approach had travelled not only beyond the scope and ambit of Section 482 Cr.P.C and of Article 226 of the Constitution of India, but had crossed all the boundaries of judicial activism and judicial restraint by passing such s under the guise of doing real and substantial justice. B 29. In our opinion, the jurisprudential enthusiasm and wisdom for doing the substantial justice has to be applied by the courts within the permissible limits. The belief of self-righteousness or smugness of the High Court in exercise of its powers of judicial review should not overawe the other authorities discharging their statutory functions. We may not have to remind the High Courts that judicial restraint is a virtue, and the C predilections of individual judges, howsoever well intentioned, cannot be permitted to be operated in utter disregard of the well-recognized judicial principles governing uniform application of law. Unwarranted judicial activism may cause uncertainty or confusion not only in the mind of the authorities but also in the mind of the litigants. D 30. In that view of the matter, all the subsequent s passed by the High Court after the passing of the impugned dated 12.08.2021, being unwarranted deserve to be quashed and set aside, and are accordingly quashed and set aside. 31. In the aforesaid premises and subject to the afore-stated E observations/directions, the Criminal Appeal filed by the Appellant- Archbishop, and all the SLPs filed by Eparchy of Bathery and Catholic Diocese of Thamarassery are dismissed.