or (b) may purchase the spare part from the open market by paying the requisite taxes and replace the defective part and return the same to the manufacturer, or (c) may replace F the defective part from his stock maintained in his showroom and return the defective part to the manufacturer. [Para 31] [1327-A-G] 3. In situation (a), since the manufacturer himself has dispatched the spare part to the dealer for the purpose of G replacement, there is no investment made by the dealer on the said part. The dealer merely acts on behalf of the manufacturer, pursuant to the warranty. [Para 32][1327-G-H] 4. In situations (b) and (c), the dealer would have invested on the spare part either by buying it from the open market or H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER 1271 OF COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. earlier would have purchased the same from the manufacturer of A the automobile or from the manufacturer of the particular part by paying the requisite price and taxes. The dealer has every right to sell such a part and seek a return on his investment and possibly a profit also. But when the same is used for the purpose of replacement of a defective part pursuant to a warranty, the B dealer does not “sell” the part to the customer who has approached the dealer with the defective part. The dealer does not receive any consideration in the form of a price from the customer but on the basis of the warranty, the dealer is obliged to replace the defective part with a new part. The dealer then sends the defective part to the manufacturer of the automobile, C who had given the warranty. The manufacturer, from whom the automobile has been purchased, then issues a credit note which may be equivalent to the value of the spare part used by the dealer. This credit note is in to recompense the dealer for his investment made on the spare part which was “not sold” by D him to the customer so as to earn any return but has been utilised to replace a defective part of the automobile as an obligation under a warranty given at the time of the sale of the automobile on behalf of the manufacturer. In such a situation, whether, the recompense made to the dealer can be termed to be a “sale” between manufacturer and the dealer within the meaning of the E definition of “sale” under the Sales Tax Acts is the question. [Para 33][1328-A-F] 5. There is no transfer of property between the manufacturer and the dealer when the spare part from the stock of the dealer is used for the purpose of replacement of defective part in the F automobile. The spare part used from the stock of a dealer is the property of the dealer which could have been either sold to any other customer and seek a return on his investment, in which case, the customer would have paid the requisite taxes to the dealer.