Similarly, the Appellate Tribunal has erred in applying the principles of non-discrimination in relation to the related party (as held in point E). B However, the other findings in relation to points C2, C3 and D1 and the consequential passed by the Appellate Tribunal deserve to be approved. 67.1. Therefore, the impugned and dated 17.02.2022 in relation to the issues covered by points for determination C A, B, C1, D2, E and F is not approved and findings of the Appellate Tribunal in that regard are set aside. However, rejection of the resolution plan is maintained in view of the answers to points C2, C3 and D1. 68. Putting it in different words, we are clearly of the view that even while respecting the commercial wisdom of CoC, in the present D case, the resolution plan in question could not have been approved by the Adjudicating Authority for two major reasons: one, for the ineligibility of the resolution applicant; and second, for not placing of the revised resolution plan in the CoC before seeking approval from the Adjudicating Authority. Of course, on the questions relating to the valuation reports, and want of publication of Form G on the website, we are at one with E the Adjudicating Authority that these aspects were not of material bearing in the process in question and the resolution professional had taken reasonable steps as permissible in law and feasible in the circumstances. Similarly, we are not inclined to endorse the views of the Appellate Tribunal regarding the treatment of related party in the resolution plan as also F regarding the settlement offer of the promotor; and the process in that relation cannot be said to be suffering from any illegality. 69. So far the subsequent events concerning invitation of fresh EOIs and approval of the fresh settlement proposal of the promoter by the CoC are concerned, all the relevant aspects are kept open for consideration of the Adjudicating Authority. G Conclusion 70. In view of the above, these appeals are disposed of in the following terms: - H 916 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 1. The impugned and dated 17.02.2022 is not interfered with only insofar the Appellate Tribunal has not approved the resolution plan in question for the reasons which have been affirmed by us in points C2, C3 and D1 hereinbefore. Other findings, observations and directions of the Appellate Tribunal are set aside. B 2. The question of dealing with fresh settlement proposal of the promoter, as approved by the CoC in its nineteenth meeting dated 12.10.2022 after receiving fresh resolution plans, is left open for consideration of the Adjudicating Authority, who shall be expected to deal with this aspect of the matter while keeping in view the law applicable and the facts of the present case as also the observations foregoing. C Bibhuti Bhushan Bose Appeals disposed of. (Assisted by : Rahul Rathi, LCRA) D E F G H