This holds ground as the proviso mandatorily envisaged an expression of democratic will of the people of the State, which was not possible as there was no elected assembly at the relevant time, since it had been dissolved and the power assumed by the Governor. ii. The suspension of the Proviso to Article 3 must have a direct nexus to the objective to be achieved by proclamation of the President’s Rule under Article 356. If the objective was restoration and preservation of State, then there was no need to suspend the Proviso. The second Proviso, as applicable to the State of Jammu & Kashmir, stipulated that no bill providing for increasing or diminishing the area of the 336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. State of Jammu & Kashmir or altering the name or boundary of that State should be introduced in Parliament without the consent of the Legislature of that State. iii. Mr. Dhavan emphasized that the President of India did not have a carte blanche under Article 356. Article 356(1)(c) provides that the President can suspend provisions of the Constitution ‘relating to any body or authority in the State’. The proviso under Article 3 could not be said to fall in this category. iv. The President can exercise only Legislative powers of the Assembly under Article 356(1)(b) read with Article 357. The latter refers only to the power to ‘make laws’. The power under the proviso to Article 3 is non-legislative in character and more akin to the power of election and consultation. The Constitutional defense of the respondents 1. The nature of the Constitutional relationship between the Union and the State of Jammu and Kashmir prior to the impugned Executive actions. A. No semblance of sovereignty remained with the State of Jammu & Kashmir, as its integration was complete. i. As per Section 6 of the Government of India Act, 1935, as confi rmed by Section 6 of Indian Independence Act, 1947, accession is complete in all respects once a ruler has accepted the Instrument of Accession. Thus, both the Attorney General and Solicitor General, urged that States are thereafter ‘united in a Federation’ (in terms of Section 5 of the Government of India Act), leaving no vestige of separate sovereignty. The supremacy of the Constitution of India had been accepted by Yuvraj Karan Singh in his Proclamation of 25.11.1949. ii. Jammu & Kashmir was stated as standing on the same footing as other acceding States. The rationale for the said submission was: a) 63 other States had their own Constitution prior to accession. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 337 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] b) representatives from Jammu & Kashmir also participated in the Constituent Assembly; and c) many other States did not sign any Merger Agreement. On all three accounts, it was urged that there was nothing distinct about the accession of the State of Jammu and Kashmir on the principle of sovereignty. iii. Once authority was surrendered to the Dominion, the Jammu & Kashmir Constituent Assembly had no sovereignty or plenary power to create a document that had the status of a Constitution.