We, have not been shown any compelling reasons taken into consideration by the Central Government to make a departure from the existing policy of allotment with reference to seniority in registration by introducing a new guideline. On the contrary, Mr Jaitley the learned C counsel has submitted that the DDA and/or Central Government do not intend to challenge the decision of the High Court and the impugned memorandum of January 20, 1990 has since been withdrawn. We therefore feel that in the facts of the case it was only desirable that before introducing or implementing any change in the guideline for allotment, an opportunity to make D representations against the proposed change in the guideline should have been given to the registered Group Housing Societies, if necessary, by way of a public notice.” 29. On behalf of the petitioners the decision to explain the Doctrine of Ultra Vires was also relied in (2007) 13 SCC 673J.K. Industry Ltd. E vs. Union of Indiawherein it is held ashereunder: “127. At the outset, we may state that on account of globalisation and socio-economic problems (including income disparities in our economy) the power of delegation has become a constituent element of legislative power as a whole. However, as held in F Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) (P) Ltd. v. Union of India, SCC at p. 689, subordinate legislation does not carry the same degree of immunity which is enjoyed by a statute passed by a competent legislature. Subordinate legislation may be questioned on any of the grounds on which plenary legislation is questioned. G In addition, it may also be questioned on the ground that it does not conform to the statute under which it is made. It may further be questioned on the ground that it is inconsistent with the provisions of the Act or that it is contrary to some other statute applicable on the same subject-matter. Therefore, it has to yield to plenary legislation. It can also be questioned on the ground that H ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 277 ORS. it is manifestly arbitrary and unjust. That, any inquiry into its vires A must be confined to the grounds on which plenary legislation may be questioned, to the grounds that it is contrary to the statute under which it is made, to the grounds that it is contrary to other statutory provisions or on the ground that it is so patently arbitrary that it cannot be said to be in conformity with the statute. It can B also be challenged on the ground that it violates Article 14 of the Constitution. 128. Subordinate legislation cannot be questioned on the ground of violation of principles of natural justice on which administrative action may be questioned. A distinction must, however, be made C between delegation of a legislative function in which case the question of reasonableness cannot be gone into and the investment by the statute to exercise a particular discretionary power. In the latter case, the question may be considered on all grounds on which administrative action may be questioned, such as, non- application of mind, taking irrelevant matters into consideration, D failure to take relevant matters into consideration, etc.