The District Consumer Forum relied upon the of this Court in Emaar MGF Land Ltd. v. Aftab Singh, (2019) 12 SCC 751 (“Emaar III”) (this seminal decision of the Supreme Court, we would be discussing in detail in a while), wherein it has been 268 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. held that an Arbitration Clause in the agreement does not bar the jurisdiction of the Consumer Forum to entertain the complaint. After the dismissal of their Section 8 application, the appellants moved an application before the Telangana High Court seeking review of its dated 19.05.2022. The Review Petition was also dismissed vide dated 25.11.2022 on the ground that the earlier had been acted upon by the appellants. 9. Now before this Court, there is a long line of decisions, including the decision which had come up post amendment to sub-section (1) of Section 8 and post insertion of sub-section 6A to Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996, where it has been held that in spite of sub-section (1) to Section 8 the Court has to fi nd out not only whether there is an arbitration clause in the agreement but whether the dispute is arbitrable or not. All disputes are not capable of being referred to arbitration2. The nature of certain disputes may be such that they should never be sent near an arbitration table. To give an illustration, there would be certain types of criminal matters, matters involving public corruption, etc. This aspect has been well considered by this Court in Booz Allen and Hamilton Inc. v. SBI Home Finance Limited and Others, (2011) 5 SCC 532 and it has been held as under: “35. The Arbitral Tribunals are private fora chosen voluntarily by the parties to the dispute, to adjudicate their disputes in place of courts and tribunals which are public fora constituted under the laws of the country. Every civil or commercial dispute, either contractual or non- contractual, which can be decided by a court, is in principle capable of being adjudicated and resolved by arbitration unless the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunals is excluded either expressly or by necessary implication. Adjudication of certain categories of proceedings are reserved by the legislature exclusively for public fora as a matter of public policy. Certain other categories of cases, though not expressly 2 “Not all matters are capable of being referred to arbitration. As a matter of English law certain matters are reserved for the court alone and if a tribunal purports to deal with them the resulting award will be unenforceable. These include matters where the type of remedy required is not one which an Arbitral Tribunal is empowered to give.” [Russel on Arbitration (22 Edn.)] SMT. M. HEMALATHA DEVI & ORS. v. B. UDAYASRI 269 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] reserved for adjudication by public fora (courts and tribunals), may by necessary implication stand excluded from the purview of private fora. Consequently, where the cause/dispute is inarbitrable, the court where a suit is pending, will refuse to refer the parties to arbitration, under Section 8 of the Act, even if the parties might have agreed upon arbitration as the forum for settlement of such disputes.