case and the period of sentence already undergone by the convict and in the facts and circumstances of the case, may decide the appeal on its own merits, keeping in view the prejudice caused to the accused.” (Emphasis supplied) 42. In Shobhit Chamar & Another v. State of Bihar23, this Court, after examining a series of decisions, held that a challenge to the conviction based on non-compliance of Section 313 CrPC fi rst time in the appeal before the Supreme Court cannot be entertained unless the appellants demonstrate that prejudice has been caused to them. The relevant observations, as contained in paragraph 24, are extracted below: “24. We have perused all these reported decisions relied upon by the learned advocates for the parties and we see no hesitation in concluding that the challenge to the conviction based on non-compliance of Section 313 CrPC fi rst time in this appeal cannot be entertained unless the appellants demonstrate that the prejudice has been caused to them. In the present case as indicated earlier, the prosecution strongly relied upon the ocular evidence of the eyewitnesses and relevant questions with reference to this evidence were put to the appellants. If the evidence of these witnesses is found acceptable, the conviction can be sustained unless it is shown by the appellants that a prejudice has been caused to them. No such prejudice was demonstrated before us and, therefore, we are unable to accept the contention raised on behalf of the appellants.” (Emphasis supplied) 43. Building on the observations of this Court in Shobhit Chamar22, which have been extracted above, in Satyavir Singh Rathi, ACP & Others18, it was observed: “7 7. … These observations proceed on the principle that if an objection as to the Section 313 statement is taken at the earliest stage, the court can make good the defect and record an additional statement as that would be in the interest of all but if the matter is allowed to linger on 23 (1998) 3 SCC 455 412 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. and the objections are taken belatedly it would be a diffi cult situation for the prosecution as well as the accused. 78. In the case before us, as already indicated, the objection as to the defective 313 statements had not been raised in the trial court. We must assume therefore that no prejudice had been felt by the appellants even assuming that some incriminating circumstances in the prosecution story had been left out. We also accept that most of the fi fteen questions that have been put before us by Mr. Sharan, are inferences drawn by the trial court on the evidence. The challenge on this aspect made by the learned counsel for the appellants, is also repelled.” (Emphasis supplied) 44. From the decisions noticed above, the legal position that emerges, inter-alia, is that to enable an accused to explain the circumstances appearing in the evidence against him, all the incriminating circumstances appearing against him in the evidence must be put to him.