Additionally, the Registry of the District Judge shall retain the document in digital format. 198.3.5. The JMFC shall cause to inform the immediate family members of the executor, if not present at the time of execution, G and make them aware about the execution of the document. 198.3.6. A copy shall be handed over to the competent officer of the local Government or the Municipal Corporation or Municipality or Panchayat, as the case may be. The aforesaid authorities shall nominate a competent official in that regard who shall be the custodian of the said document. H 1140 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 198.3.7. The JMFC shall cause to hand over copy of the Advance Directive to the family physician, if any. 198.4. When and by whom can it be given effect to? 198.4.1. In the event the executor becomes terminally ill and is undergoing prolonged medical treatment with no hope of recovery and cure of the ailment, the treating physician, when made aware B about the Advance Directive, shall ascertain the genuineness and authenticity thereof from the jurisdictional JMFC before acting upon the same. 198.4.2.The instructions in the document must be given due weight by the doctors. However, it should be given effect to only after being fully satisfied that the executor is terminally ill and is C undergoing prolonged treatment or is surviving on life support and that the illness of the executor is incurable or there is no hope of him/her being cured. 198.4.3. If the physician treating the patient (executor of the document) is satisfied that the instructions given in the document D need to be acted upon, he shall inform the executor or his guardian/ close relative, as the case may be, about the nature of illness, the availability of medical care and consequences of alternative forms of treatment and the consequences of remaining untreated. He must also ensure that he beliefs on reasonable grounds that the person in question understands the information provided, has E cogitated over the options and has come to a firm view that the option of withdrawal or refusal of medical treatment is the best choice. 198.4.4. The physician/hospital where the executor has been admitted for medical treatment shall then constitute a Medical Board consisting of the Head of the treating department and at F least three experts from the fields of general medicine, cardiology, neurology, nephrology, psychiatry or oncology with experience in critical care and with overall standing in the medical profession of at least twenty years who, in turn, shall visit the patient in the presence of his guardian/close relative and form an opinion whether to certify or not to certify carrying out the instructions of withdrawal G or refusal of further medical treatment. This decision shall be regarded as a preliminary opinion. 198.4.5. In the event the Hospital Medical Board certifies that the instructions contained in the Advance Directive ought to be carried out, the physician/hospital shall forthwith inform the jurisdictional Collector about the proposal. The jurisdictional H COMMON CAUSE (A REGD.