This is because when there is suppression or non-disclosure of material information bearing on his character, that itself becomes a reason for not employing the declarant. 14 (2010) 14 SCC 103 THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND OTHERS v. 451 BHUPENDRA YADAV [HIMA KOHLI, J.] (d) Where the attestation form or verifi cation form does not contain proper or adequate queries requiring the declarant to disclose his involvement in any criminal proceedings, or where the candidate was unaware of initiation of criminal proceedings when he gave the declarations in the verifi cation roll/attestation form, then the candidate cannot be found fault with, for not furnishing the relevant information. But if the employer by other means (say police verifi cation or complaints, etc.) learns about the involvement of the declarant, the employer can have recourse to courses (a) or (b) above.” (emphasis added) 12. In State of Madhya Pradesh and Others v. Abhijit Singh Pawar15 where the State Government had invited applications for fi lling up the post of Subedars, Platoon Commanders and Inspectors of Police, the respondent candidate who participated in the selection process, fi led an affi davit disclosing pendency of a criminal case against him which was subsequently compounded on a compromise arrived at between him and the complainant under Section 320 of the Code of Criminal Procedure16. Though the respondent was selected on clearing the written examination his candidature was rejected. The reasons off ered for declining him an appointment were that the candidate selected is required to maintain law and of the State and it was considered improper to appoint a person having a criminal record. The said decision was overturned by the learned Single Judge of the High Court and the view taken was affi rmed by the Division Bench. When the State Government approached this Court in appeal, citing the decisions in Mehar Singh9(supra); R.K. Kapur v. Union of Indian and Another17; State of Madhya Pradesh and Others v. Parvez Khan18; Pradeep Kumar11 (supra); and Avatar Singh10(supra), the following observations were made :– 15 (2018) 18 SCC 733 16 For short ‘the Cr.P.C’ 17 AIR 1964 SC 787 18 (2015) 2 SCC 591 452 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 13. In Avtar Singh [Avtar Singh v. Union of India, (2016) 8 SCC 471 : (2016) 2 SCC (L&S) 425] , though this Court was principally concerned with the question as to non-disclosure or wrong disclosure of information, it was observed in para 38.5 that even in cases where a truthful disclosure about a concluded case was made, the employer would still have a right to consider antecedents of the candidate and could not be compelled to appoint such candidate. ××× ××× ××× 16. We must observe at this stage that there is nothing on record to suggest that the decision taken by the authorities concerned in rejecting the candidature of the respondent was in any way actuated by mala fi des or suff ered on any other count. The decision on the question of suitability of the respondent, in our considered view, was absolutely correct and did not call for any interference.