Based on your notarized resignation and personal confirmations, F we have obtained our Management’s approval for accepting your resignation. We regret to inform you that your request to withdraw the resignation cannot be considered at this stage, due to the above- mentioned reasons. Thanking you, G Yours faithfully, For INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED (Samson Chacko) Chief Divisional Retail Sales Manager H 692 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A //TRUE TYPED COPY//” 8. IOC took possession of the Petroleum Outlet on 23.12.2006. Thereafter, the new dealer came to be awarded the dealership on 28.12.2006. An appeal was carried by the first respondent before the General Manager of the IOC, Karnataka. The appeal came to be B dismissed on 02.04.2007. This led to matter being referred to arbitration. The Sole Arbitrator by award dated 15.01.2009 found inter alia that “inasmuch as the IOC and its officers had communicated the acceptance of the claimant’s resignation of the dealership vide their letter dated 22.11.2006, which brings the contract between both parties to an end, their rejection of the claimant’s subsequent request dated 11.12.2006 for C withdrawing the resignation was in accordance with law”. In regard to the question as to whether the action of the first respondent in withdrawing the resignation from the dealership by letter dated 11.12.2006 was in accordance with law, it was found that acceptance of the resignation having been conveyed on 22.11.2006, the action of the first respondent D in withdrawing was not in accordance with law. In regard to the issue whether the first respondent had withdrawn the notice of resignation within the time as prescribed in clause (3) of the Memorandum of Agreement, it was found as follows: “Clause 3 of the Memorandum of agreement does not specifically E mention a time limit for withdrawal of resignation. The notice period of 3 months mentioned in the contract is only the outer limit by which time the party who gets the notice have to make their alternate arrangements. At any time during the notice period, the recipient party can convey acceptance thereby bringing the contract between the parties to an end. Moreover, Section 5 of F the Indian Contracts Act states that a proposal may be revoked at any time before the communication of it’s acceptance, but not afterwards. Since the Respondents have communicated their acceptance of the resignation of the Claimant vide their letter dated 22.11.2006, the Claimant’s subsequent letter dated G 11.12.2006 requesting for withdrawing the resignation letter is not in accordance with law. Hence the issue as to whether the Claimants have withdrawn their resignation within the time limit has no relevance.” (Emphasis supplied) H INDIAN OIL CORP. LTD. AND ORS. v. M/S. 693 SATHYANARAYANA SERVICE STATION [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 9. The arbitrator further found that the Letter of Intent being issued A in favour of the new dealer was not flawed. Answering all other issues which need not detain us against the first respondent, the award was passed. The first respondent knocked at the doors of the Principal and Sessions Judge, Mysore under Section 34 of Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”).