Apart from the language of the sections, this Court highlighted that the captive consumers incur huge expenditure or invest substantial amounts for the purpose of construction, maintenance and operation of the CGP and sometimes on the dedicated transmission lines. Thus, captive consumers form a separate class diff erent viz the, “consumers”, defi ned under Section 2(15).22They are not be subjected and liable to pay the additional surcharge. 17. In Chhattisgarh State Power23, reference was made to the National Electricity Policy, 2005,24 notifi ed by the Government of India in exercise of its powers under Section 3 of the Act on 12.02.2005. Clauses 5.2.24 to 5.2.26 of the Policy dealing with captive generation and use are relevant, and read: “Captive Generation 5.2.24 The liberal provision in the Electricity Act, 2003 with respect to setting up of captive power plant has been made with a view to not only securing reliable, quality and cost eff ective power but also to facilitate creation of employment opportunities through speedy and effi cient growth of industry. 5.2.25 The provision relating to captive power plants to be set up by group of consumers is primarily aimed at enabling small and medium industries or other consumers that may not individually be in a position to set up plant of optimal size in a cost eff ective manner. It needs to be noted that effi cient expansion of small and medium industries across the country would lead to creation of enormous employment opportunities. supplying electricity to the public under this Act or any other law for the time being in force and includes any person whose premises are for the time being connected for the purpose of receiving electricity with the works of a licensee, the Government or such other person, as the case may be;” 22 Supra note 21. 23 Supra note 18. 24 For short, “Policy”. M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 361 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 5.2.26 A large number of captive and standby generating stations in India have surplus capacity that could be supplied to the grid continuously or during certain time periods. These plants off er a sizeable and potentially competitive capacity that could be harnessed for meeting demand for power. Under the Act, captive generators have access to licensees and would get access to consumers who are allowed open access. Grid inter-connections for captive generators shall be facilitated as per section 30 of the Act. This should be done on priority basis to enable captive generation to become available as distributed generation along the grid. Towards this end, non- conventional energy sources including co-generation could also play a role. Appropriate commercial arrangements would need to be instituted between licensees and the captive generators for harnessing of spare capacity energy from captive power plants. The appropriate Regulatory Commission shall exercise regulatory oversight on such commercial arrangements between captive generators and licensees and determine tariff s when a licensee is the off -taker of power from captive plant.” 18.