F (3) Notwithstanding that an application has been made under sub- section (1) and that the issue is pending before the judicial authority, an arbitration may be commenced or continued and an arbitral award made.” 73. The Section provides that the Court can examine, whether G prima facie there does not exist an arbitration agreement. The scope of this Section can be seen from the 246th Law Commission Report23, which made the following note while suggesting amendment to Section 8: 23 LAW COMMISSION OF INDIA Report No. 246 Amendments to the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996, pg. 43 H 412 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “….of the amendment contemplates a two-step process to be adopted by a judicial authority when considering an application seeking the reference of a pending action to arbitration. The amendment envisages that the judicial authority shall not refer the parties to arbitration only if it finds that there does not exist an arbitration agreement or that it is null and void. If B the judicial authority is of the opinion that prima facie the arbitration agreement exists, then it shall refer the dispute to arbitration, and leave the existence of the arbitration agreement to be finally determined by the arbitral tribunal. However, if the judicial authority concludes that the agreement does not exist, then the conclusion C will be final and not prima facie. The amendment also envisages that there shall be a conclusive determination as to whether the arbitration agreement is null and void.” 74. A plain reading of the Section 8 indicates that it limits the intervention of the Court to only one aspect i.e., when it finds that prima D facie no valid arbitration agreement exists or is null and void. 75. The scheme of the Act, 1996 manifests that Sections 8 and 11 are complementary in nature and both relate to reference to arbitration and have the same scope and ambit with respect to judicial interference. The Court, under Sections 8 and 11, has to refer the matter to arbitration E or to appoint an Arbitrator, provided the party has established a prima facie existence of an arbitration agreement, nothing more nothing less. At the same time, the Court should refer the matter if the validity of the arbitration agreement cannot be determined on a prima facie basis, as laid down above i.e. “when in doubt, do refer”. F 76. At this stage, we would like to observe that the statutory scheme has been framed for appointment of an Arbitrator by various High Courts and also by this Court - called the Appointment of Arbitrators by the Chief Justice of India Scheme, 1996,the relevant portion of the same is extracted hereunder:- G 1. Short title.-This Scheme may be called The Appointment of Arbitrators by the Chief Justice of India Scheme, 1996. 2. Submission of request.-The request to the Chief Justice under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or sub-section (6) of section 11 shall be made in writing and shall beaccompanied by- H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 413 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS.