C 39. That in a faction-ridden village community, there is a tendency to implicate innocents also along with the guilty, especially when a large number of assailants are involved in the commission of an offence is a matter of common knowledge. Evidence in such cases is bound to be partisan, but while the courts cannot take an easy route to rejecting out of hand such evidence only on that ground, D what ought to be done is to approach the depositions carefully and scrutinise the evidence more closely to avoid any miscarriage of justice.” 36. This Court in Binay Kumar Singh v. State of Bihar, (1997) 1 SCC 283, observed that: E “31. …There is no rule of evidence that no conviction can be based unless a certain minimum number of witnesses have identified a particular accused as a member of the unlawful assembly. It is axiomatic that evidence is not to be counted but only weighed and it is not the quantity of evidence but the quality F that matters. Even the testimony of one single witness, if wholly reliable, is sufficient to establish the identification of an accused as a member of an unlawful assembly. All the same, when the size of the unlawful assembly is quite large (as in this case) and many persons would have witnessed the incident, it would be a prudent exercise to insist on at least two reliable witnesses to G vouchsafe the identification of an accused as a participant in the rioting. In Masalti v. State of U.P. [AIR 1965 SC 202 : (1964) 8 SCR 133] a Bench of four Judges of this Court has adopted such a formula. It is useful to extract it here: H 864 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A “… where a criminal court has to deal with evidence pertaining to the commission of an offence involving a large number of offenders and a large number of victims, it is usual to adopt the test that the conviction could be sustained only if it is supported by two or three or more witnesses who give a consistent account of the incident.” B Testimony of the Eye Witness: 37. Much reliance has been placed on the evidence of P.W.12. There is no difficulty in appreciating the submission that an injured witness has to be placed on a higher pedestal. However, P.W.12 has not been C examined by P.W.20 at all. In his deposition, P.W.12 repeatedly makes this position clear. The statement of P.W.12 under Section 161 CrPC, if recorded, has also not been marked. Even P.W.20 at one stage acknowledges the said fact, though with some contradictions. This again brings us to the conclusion that it would be unsafe to rely upon the evidence of P.W.12, who once again identifies the accused for the first D time before the Court. There is absolutely no explanation for not examining him during the investigation. Thus, we find that the evidence of P.W.12 cannot be relied upon, particularly in the light of the charges under Section 149 IPC, and insofar as the appellants are concerned.