Policy’) which had been released by the Ministry of Power on 22nd A May, 2017. As per Clause 6.1 of the SHAKTI Policy, the Appropriate Commission was required to consider the cost of imported/market based e-auction coal procured for making up the shortfall in the domestic coal for pass-through. 5. The MERC dismissed the said review petition. However, liberty B was granted to APML to file a fresh petition to seek extension of Change in Law relief for domestic coal shortfall beyond March, 2017 in view of the introduction of the SHAKTI Policy. Subsequently, APML filed a fresh petition, being Case No. 290 of 2018, before the MERC seeking relief in support of Change of Law under the respective PPAs for non- C availability/short supply of domestic coal under SHAKTI Policy after March, 2017. 6. The MERC, vide its dated 7th February 2019, allowed the petition and granted relief for Change in Law due to the promulgation of SHAKTI Policy. However, the relief was directed to be computed on D the same methodology and parameters as approved by the MERC vide its dated 7th March, 2018. Cross appeals were filed before the APTEL by APML and MSEDCL against the aforesaid . 7. The learned APTEL framed the following five issues for adjudication : E “Issue No.1:- Whether introduction SHAKTI Policy does not amount to Change in Law under the PPAs entered into between APML and MSEDCL and whether APML has not provided notice of such Change in Law to the Respondent MSEDCL. F Issue No.2:- Whether the MERC is correct in holding that for the purpose of Change in Law compensation, shortfall in domestic coal shall be limited to a maximum of 25% of ACQ after the introduction of SHAKTI Policy. G Issue No.3:- (a) whether the MERC was correct in holding that the SHR submitted by the Appellant in its bid or SHR and Auxiliary Consumption norms specified for new generating stations under the MYT Regulations, 2011, whichever is superior H 672 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A shall form the basis for computing Change in Law compensation under the PPAs? (b) Whether the MERC was correct in holding that the reference GCV of domestic coal supplied by CIL shall be the middle value of GCV range of assured coal grade in LoA/ B PSA/MoU and not the GCV as received? Issue No.4:- Whether the MERC was justified in directing APML to provide advance intimation of impact on energy charge by using alternate coal for the purpose of Merit Despatch? C Issue No.5:- Whether the Respondent MSEDCL is justified in contesting APML’s entitlement to Carrying Cost.” 8. The APTEL, vide and dated 28th September 2020, answered the issues as under: D “15.1 Issue No.1:-We hold that the introduction of SHAKTI POLICY amounts to change in law and all the ingredients of change in law are:, duly met under the respective PPAs. The impugned is therefore affirmed on this issue. E 15.2 Issue No.2:- We hold that findings in the impugned relating to the issue of restricting the quantum of shortfall in domestic coal to a maximum of 25% are against the basic principles of restitution I under the change in law provisions of the PPAs.