One of the witnesses, during trial, had also allegedly B mentioned that Rs. 50,000 was received from the present appellant. It was held that there was a prima facie case against him, and no grounds to rely on the exceptions of Section 37 of the NDPS Act; therefore, application for regular bail was refused, with a direction to the trial court to expedite the trial and conclude it within six months. Aggrieved, the C appellant is now before this court, renewing his plea for grant of regular bail. 8. Ms. Tanya Agarwal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, urged that the period of long incarceration suffered, entitled the appellant to grant of bail. Further, 34 more witnesses were yet to be D examined, with little or no progress to the trial since the High Court’s direction to expedite the trial. It was also pointed out that main accused Virender Singh @ Beerey and another co-accused Nepal Yadav, had both already been granted bail by the High Court6. Counsel urged bail on the ground of parity. E 9. Mr. Vikramjit Banerjee, learned Additional Solicitor General of India, appearing for the State, strongly opposed grant of bail, citing Section 37 of the NDPS Act. It was urged that the appellant was actively involved in the commission of the offence – with call records and bank transactions implicating him with the main accused Virender Singh @ Beerey. The ASG submitted that such cases are deeply concerning, as the accused F persons are said to be involved in a drug peddling network. The public interest of protection against sale and use of illegal drugs, outweighed the concerns regarding individual liberty of the accused, and justified continued custody of the appellant. Provisions like Section 37 of the NDPS Act have been upheld by this court, as necessary to ensure public G and to prevent recurrence of serious crimes like drug dealing. The learned ASG also submitted that the role of the appellant, though he is a co-accused is prominent, as he appears to be the mastermind behind the supply and delivery of narcotic substances from Chhattisgarh. 6 dated 10.12.2018 in Bail Application No. 2188/2018, and dated 26.07.2018 H in Bail Application No. 944/2018, respectively. MOHD MUSLIM @ HUSSAIN v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 705 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Analysis and Conclusions A 10. Section 37 of the NDPS Act reads as follows: “Offences to be cognizable and non-bailable—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973— B (a) every offence punishable under this Act shall be cognizable; (b) no person accused of an offence punishable for a term of imprisonment of five years or more under this Act shall be released on bail or on his own bond unless— C (i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity to oppose the application for such release, and (ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the application, the court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence and that he is D not likely to commit any offence while on bail.