Learned amicus clarifi ed that anticipatory bail and ‘transit anticipatory bail’ are diff erent, as the former may or may not be restricted to a time period, whereas the latter is always granted for a specifi c time period, until an applicant can make an application for anticipatory bail before a Court that can take ‘cognizance’ of the off ence. It was further submitted that this Court had adopted the ‘transit anticipatory bail’ approach in State of Assam vs. Brojen Gogol PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 537 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (Dr), (1998) 1 SCC 397 (Brojen Gogol) and Amar Nath Neogi vs. State of Jharkhand, (2018) 11 SCC 797. iii. Learned amicus further submitted that this Court in Nathu Singh vs. State of U.P., (2021) 6 SCC 64 (Nathu Singh) had emphasized a liberal approach to the grant of anticipatory bail in view of the serious impact that the unfair denial of the same can have on the right to life and liberty under Article 21. iv. Referring to the judgement of this Court in Navinchandra Majithia vs. State of Maharashtra, (2000) 7 SCC 640, learned amicus apprised this Court of an alternative approach that is based on the ‘cause of action’ theory in criminal law. In view of the facts of the present case, it was submitted that the cause of action essentially arose in the matrimonial home of the parties in Bengaluru, Karnataka and continued in the complainant-wife’s paternal home in Chirawa, Rajasthan. Therefore, Courts at either of these places may exercise their jurisdiction. 7.2. Learned senior counsel Sri Paul appearing for the complainant- wife/appellant herein submitted as follows: i. The right to fair and impartial investigation and trial of an off ence is a fundamental right not only of the accused but also of the complainant. ii. Grant of bail by the Court at Bengaluru in an F.I.R which was not lodged within its territorial Jurisdiction, had left the complainant- wife without an opportunity to oppose the same. iii. The complainant-wife could not oppose the bail petition and the jurisdictional prosecutor from Chirawa, Rajasthan was also absent during the hearing. That only the Public Prosecutor of Bengaluru was present at the time of the hearing of the bail petition seeking anticipatory bail. The said prosecutor neither had the case diary of the investigation with him nor any assistance from the area police station where the F.I.R had been lodged. Hence, the impugned s may be set aside. 538 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 7.3. Learned senior counsel for the State of Rajasthan Dr. Manish Singhvi submitted as under: i. The existence of territorial jurisdiction is the undergrid of the institution of any case before a Court of law. The concept of territorial jurisdiction is of cardinal significance to the administration of justice. More specifi cally, both Chapter XIII of the CrPC and the existing/general criminal jurisprudence recognize that cognizance of an off ence and not the off ender is taken. That this Court in Raghubans Dubey vs. State of Bihar (1967) 2 SCR 423 (Raghubans Dubey) held that the Magistrate takes cognizance of an off ence and not the off ender.