We may note from a preliminary round of this very matter that an endeavour was made by some counsel, contending that the matter be considered by a Bench larger than fi ve Judges. The plea to refer to a larger Bench was negated by the of this Court in Dr. Shah Faesal and Ors. v. Union of India and Anr77. The contention before us was in a way simply a repetition of what was urged at that time and was therefore specifi cally negated for reasons recorded in paras 42 to 45 of that while opining that there was no confl ict of in Prem Nath Kaul v. State of J&K78 and Sampat Prakash79 case. vii. Article 370 could be abrogated only through Article 368, assuming that 370(3) of the Constitution, survived post the dissolution of the Jammu & Kashmir Constituent Assembly as per Mr. Dushyant Dave and Mr. S. Naphade. We may note that some of the counsel in turn did not refrain from commenting on it as according to them such a course of submissions was not required. It was their understanding that Article 370(3), post the Jammu & Kashmir Constituent Assembly dissolution, had a vestigial existence on paper, and in its operative sense, it did not survive since Article 378 is not the passage through which alleged off ensive action was taken. It was Mr. Sibal’s view that this would be an academic exercise in the present proceedings. 76 supra 77 (2020) 4 SCC 1 78 1969 Supp (2) SCR 270 79 supra IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 329 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] C. The eff ect of Article 370(3) of the Constitution: i. Article 370(3) is actually a fulcrum upon which the arguments of both sides hinge on. It is the petitioner’s submission that the power under Article 370(3) can be exercised only till the Constituent Assembly of the State was in seizin. Once recommendations of the State Constituent Assembly were made and the said Assembly was dissolved, the power under Article 370(3) of the Constitution stands extinguished. The statement in the Constituent Assembly of India debates by Shri Gopalaswami Ayyangar extracted in Prem Nath Kaul80 case was relied upon for this purpose. ii. The petitioners referred to Article 370(3), submiting that the phraseology “notwithstanding” used in the beginning in the context of provisions of Articles 370 is followed by the phrase “the President may”. Thus, there is a conditional characteristic present. The proviso to Article 370(3) requires the recommendation of the State Constituent Assembly, albeit sub clause (2) makes a provision for such recommendation to be “necessary” before the President issues a notifi cation. Thus, the State Constituent Assembly’s recommendation is mandatory before the President of India can exercise the power. The exercise of power by the President was, thus, conditional as submitted by Mr. Gopal Shankarnarayan. iii. A reading of the documents executed by the Maharaja as the Instrument of Accession, seeks to preserve the preliminary legislative power of the Maharaja and the powers provided by the Jammu & Kashmir Constitution were not proscribed by Article 370 of the Constitution.81 iv.