Along with it the application of OCs dated 09.03.2021 was also attached which was moved under section 12A of IBC. The application for withdrawal was registered as IA No. 196 of 2021. F 7. In the meantime, an appeal was preferred against the admission dated 01.03.2021 before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal9 apparently on the ground that section 9 of IBC petition was not maintainable as there was a pre-existing dispute. On 26.03.2021, the G 3 In short, “IBC” 4 In short, “CIRP” 5 In short “OC” 6 In short “CoC” 7 In short “IRP” 8 In short “IBBI Regulations” 9 In short “NCLAT” H 602 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A appeal was withdrawn before the NCLAT with liberty to apply for revival of the appeal in case the settlement failed. The NCLAT while allowing the withdrawal of the appeal granted stay of formation of CoC. The said dated 26.03.2021 is reproduced below: “Mr. Vikram Nankani, Advocate appears for the Appellant. He B submits that Respondent No.1 – Operational Creditor filed CP (IB) No.503/9/NCLT/AHM/2019 before Adjudicating Authority (NCLT Ahmedabad Bench, Court No.1). The Application was filed under section 9 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (IBC in short) against the Respondent No.2 M/s.Manpasand Beverages Ltd. the Corporate Debtor. Appellant is the Director C of the Suspended Board of the Corporate Debtor. Respondent No.3 is Interim Resolution Professional. 2. Learned counsel for the Appellant submits that the Application was admitted by the Impugned and Appeal is filed. It is stated that thereafter the Appellant has settled the claim of D Operational Creditor and the Operational Creditor has filed Application for withdrawal copy of which is at Page 348 and even the IRP has filed Application before the Adjudicating Authority copy of which is at page 368. The Application for withdrawal under section 12A of IBC has been filed through IRP. Mr. Salil Thakore, Advocate agrees with the Learned Counsel for the E Appellant that there has been a settlement and accordingly Application under section 12A of IBC has ben filed. The Learned Counsel for IRP however states that the money has been paid violating moratorium which the IRP has reported to the Adjudicating Authority. F 3. Mr. Hitesh Buch, PCS also agrees that settlement has taken place. 4. Learned counsel for the Appellant submits that considering these facts, the Appeal may be allowed to be withdrawn with liberty to seek restoration in case the effort with regard tosection 12 A of G IBC runs into difficulty. The Learned Counsel for IRP accepts that Committee of Creditors (CoC in short) has not been constituted. 5. The learned counsel for the Appellant submits that he is making request for withdrawal of the Appeal under instructions from the H Appellant. ABHISHEK SINGH v. HUHTAMAKI PPL LTD. & ANR. 603 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 6. Considering the objects of IBC, we have no reason to doubt A that the Adjudicating Authority without standing on technicalities would pass appropriate s, if settlement has taken place between the Original Operational Creditor and Corporate Debtor and CoC is not yet constituted.