6.2 On the levy of interest, the ITAT concluded that the interest could not have been levied since the AO had not applied his mind before D levying interest following the decision of the Patna High court in the case of Ranchi Club Limited (supra). Findings recorded by the High Court: 1. That a company, though incorporated in Sikkim, if it had earned E any income outside Sikkim and within India, Income Tax Act, 1961 would apply to such income and the jurisdiction of the income tax authorities would not get excluded as long as what is sought to be brought to take is the income of the company incorporated in Sikkim, which income accrued to it and was earned in India. F 2. While referring to the various statements made by the directors who are all stationed in Delhi, the High Court has given the following findings: i) Rattan Gupta had not acted merely as an auditor giving G professional advice to the 5 entities; ii) His own employees are appointed as directors; iii) The explanation offered for signed cheque books, rubber seals and letter heads being available in his office is not convincing; H MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 481 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] iv) Rattan Gupta had tried to shift the entire responsibility A of handling of cheques to Mr. Verma; Mr. Verma was never produced by the assessee; v) The burden of proof could not be discharged in the instant case and therefore, the High Court upheld the findings of the AO that the precise role of Mr. Rattan Gupta as B being in de facto control of the 5 entities appears to be correct; vi) That two persons who had been identified to have handled the business and supervised it, namely, H.L. Verma and Uma Shankar Sitani were produced by the assessees C for their statements to be recorded. The High Court found that Mr. R.K. Goswami, Mr. Vedant Mehta and Mr. Rajiv Jain had all become directors on the request of Mr. Rattan Gupta, a fact which was not disproved or found to be incorrect. D 6.3 Thereafter, the High Court concluded that the control and management of affairs was wholly in India for the following reasons: a) Rattan Gupta was not only doing audit work but determining who should be the directors of the said companies. b) The rubber seals, letter heads, blank signed cheques and other E records were all found in the office of Rattan Gupta. The factual determination by the AO remains undisputed and this fortifies that the control and management was in Delhi. c) The statement of Rattan Gupta suggesting that H.L. Verma or Uma Shankar Sitani were actually handling the affairs of the 5 F entities could not be made good by offering either of them for examination. d) Once documents were seized and statements were recorded from various persons, the burden gets shifted to the assessees to produce some evidence to counter the picture and, the court found G that its extremely unusual that the seals and the signed blank cheques would be lying with the Chartered Accountant.