Specifically, Section 18(2)(f) and (m) provide: G (f) the reduction of the interest or rights which the shareholders have in the sick industrial company to such extent as the Board considers necessary in the interests of the reconstruction, revival or rehabilitation of the sick industrial company or for the maintenance of the business of the sick industrial company; H 1046 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A (m) such incidental, consequential and supplemental matters as may be necessary to secure that the reconstruction or amalgamation or other measures mentioned in the scheme are fully and effectively carried out. 6.4 It is further submitted that the draft Scheme is examined by B the Board and then published in daily newspapers for suggestions and objections [Section 18(3)(a)]. Thereafter, the Board makes such modifications as considered necessary in light of the suggestions and objections received [Section 18:31(b)]. Thereafter the scheme is sanctioned by the Board [Section 18(4)]. C 6.5 It is submitted that SICA being a special statute, the provisions thereof, shall prevail over the general law for recovery of money in respect of price of goods sold and delivered. SICA provides for a special mechanism for revival of a company declared sick, and the fate of such a scheme cannot be upset by the refusal of one creditor, secured or unsecured, to adhere to the provisions of the scheme. D 6.6 It is submitted that the scheme framed by the BIFR in terms of the provisions of SICA is binding on all creditors of the sick company and it is not open to any creditor to contend that the scheme framed shall not bind such creditor irrespective of whether such consent of such unsecured creditor was not taken prior to sanction of the scheme. The E provisions of SICA do not provide for the creditors’ consent white framing of the scheme under Section 18 or its implementation. In section 19(2), the scheme under Section 19(1) is required to be circulated to every person providing financial assistance “for his consent”. However, the scheme under Section 18 envisages no such “consent. F 6.7 Further, the Scheme under Section 18 remains binding even after revival of the company. Here, it is necessary to contrast the provisions of Section 22, which provide that legal proceedings, contracts, etc., in respect of a sick company against whom an inquiry is pending under Section 16, or a scheme is under preparation or implementation, etc., shall remain suspended in terms of a declaration of the Board under G Section 22(3), and would revive upon the declaration ceasing to have effect [Section 22(4)]. However, the scheme under Section 18 does not lose its finality/efficacy upon revival of the company. 6.8 It is further submitted that SICA, being a special Act, the provisions thereof and the scheme sanctioned thereunder, would prevail H MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1047 LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] over any other obligation that may have arisen against a sick company A under any other law for the time being in force.