However, in the statement NARESH @ NEHRU v. STATE OF HARYANA 779 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] made before the court, he improvised his version by deposing that the victim was being chased by four motorcycles. In the cross-examination, PW-9 admitted to have informed the police about deceased having been chased by four motorcycles and reiterated the contents of his statement in Ex.PM as true. These inconsistencies give rise to suspicion and raises doubt in the prosecution story. 9.2 PW-9 had named only Ravi and Shoaib in his statement Ex.PM, and for the fi rst time before court he had identifi ed Naresh (A-4), Irshad and Sonu (A-9 and A-6). He admitted in his cross-examination that he only knew Ravi and Shoaib before the incident, and had known about the names of the other accused persons when they were arrested. This raises doubts about PW-9’s presence at the scene of the incident itself. Undisputedly no recovery was made from Irshad and Sonu. Contradictions in PW-9’s statement is glaring. In his deposition he admits his statement was written by the police at 10:45 PM on 22.04.2016, whereas PW-12 (ASI Ram Kishan) deposed that written statement EX.PM was handed over to the police by the complainant’s party at 11:30 PM on 22.04.2016. PW-9 and also deposes that police arrived at the scene of crime between 10:30-11:00 PM, creating serious doubt about the recording of PW-9’s statement at the place of crime as claimed by the prosecution. 9.3 As noticed hereinabove, the evidence of the eye-witness should be of very sterling quality and calibre and it should not only instil confi dence in the court to accept the same but it should also be a version of such nature that can be accepted at its face value. This Court in the case of Rai Sandeep @ Deepu alias Deepu Vs. State (NCT of Delhi) (2012) 8 SCC 21 has held: “22. In our considered opinion, the “sterling witness” should be of very high quality and caliber whose version should, therefore, be unassailable. The court considering the version of such witness should be in a position to accept it for its face value without any hesitation. To test the quality of such a witness, the status of the witness would be immaterial and what would be relevant is the truthfulness of the statement made by such a witness. What would be more relevant would be the consistency of the statement right from the starting point till the end, namely, at the time when the witness makes the initial statement and ultimately before the court. It should be natural and consistent 780 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. with the case of the prosecution qua the accused. There should not be any prevarication in the version of such a witness. The witness should be in a position to withstand the cross-examination of any length and howsoever strenuous it may be and under no circumstance should give room for any doubt as to the factum of the occurrence, the persons involved, as well as the sequence of it.