Part III of the Constitution was therefore enacted to C dictate the relationship between citizens and the State- this is the true character and utility of Part III. This idea has also found resonance in Puttaswamy, wherein it was observed as follows: “251. Constitutions address the rise of the new political hegemon that they create by providing for a means by which to guard against D its capacity for invading the liberties available and guaranteed to all civilized peoples. Under our constitutional scheme, these means - declared to be fundamental rights - reside in Part III, and are made effective by the power of this Court and the High Courts Under Articles 32 and 226 respectively. This narrative of the progressive expansion of the types of rights available to individuals E seeking to defend their liberties from invasion - from natural rights to common law rights and finally to fundamental rights - is consistent with the account of the development of rights that important strands in constitutional theory present.” Therefore, the primary object of Part III of the Constitution was F to forge a new relationship between the citizens and the State, which was the new site of Governmental power. The realm of interaction between citizens inter-se, was governed by common law prior to the enactment of the Constitution and continued to be so governed even after the commencement of the Constitution because as recognised G hereinabove, the common rights and remedies were not obliterated even after the Constitution was enacted. These inalienable rights, although subsequently placed in Part III of the Constitution, retained their identity in the arena of common law and continued to regulate relationships between citizens and entities, other than the State or its instrumentalities. It is therefore observed that the incidence of the duty to respect H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 779 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Constitutional and Fundamental Rights of citizens is on the State and the A Constitution provides remedies against violation of Fundamental Rights by the State. These observations are in consonance with the recognition by this Court in People’s Union for Civil Liberties vs. Union of India, (2005) 2 SCC 436 (“People’s Union for Civil Liberties”) that the objective of Part III is to place citizens at centre stage and make the B state accountable to them. 41. On the other hand, common law rights, regulate the relationship between citizens inter-se. Although the content of a common law right may be similar to a Fundamental Right, the two rights are distinct in so far as, the incidence of duty to respect a common law right is on citizens C or entities other than State or its instrumentalities; while the incidence of duty to respect a Fundamental Right, except where expressly otherwise provided, is on the State. Remedies against violation of Fundamental Rights by the State are Constitutionally prescribed under Articles 32 and 226; while common law remedies, some of which are statutorily recognised, are available against violation of common law rights.