The was delivered on 04.11.2020. The affi davit was to be submitted in all maintenance proceedings including pending proceedings. The directions given are extracted as under: “72. Keeping in mind the need for a uniform format of Affi davit of Disclosure of Assets and Liabilities to be fi led in maintenance proceedings, this Court considers it necessary to frame guidelines in exercise of our powers under Article 136 read with Article 142 of the Constitution of India: 72.1. (a) The Affi davit of Disclosure of Assets and Liabilities annexed at Enclosures I, II and III of this , as may be applicable, shall be fi led by the parties in all maintenance proceedings, including pending proceedings before the Family Court/District Court/Magistrate’s Court concerned, as the case may be, throughout the country; 72.2. (b) The applicant making the claim for maintenance will be required to fi le a concise application accompanied with the Affi davit of Disclosure of Assets; 72.3. (c) The respondent must submit the reply along with the Affi davit of Disclosure within a maximum period of four weeks. The courts may not grant more than two opportunities for submission of the Affi davit of Disclosure of Assets and Liabilities to the respondent. If the respondent delays in fi ling the reply with the affi davit, and seeks more than two adjournments for this purpose, the court may consider exercising the power to strike off the defence of the respondent, if the conduct is found to be wilful and contumacious in delaying the proceedings ADITI ALIAS MITHI v. JITESH SHARMA 251 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] [Kaushalya v. Mukesh Jain, (2020) 17 SCC 822 : 2019 SCC OnLine SC 1915] . On the failure to fi le the affi davit within the prescribed time, the Family Court may proceed to decide the application for maintenance on the basis of the affi davit fi led by the applicant and the pleadings on record; 72.4. (d) The above format may be modifi ed by the court concerned, if the exigencies of a case require the same. It would be left to the judicial discretion of the court concerned to issue necessary directions in this regard. 72.5. (e) If apart from the information contained in the Affi davits of Disclosure, any further information is required, the court concerned may pass appropriate s in respect thereof. 72.6. (f) If there is any dispute with respect to the declaration made in the Affi davit of Disclosure, the aggrieved party may seek permission of the court to serve interrogatories, and seek production of relevant documents from the opposite party under 11 CPC. On fi ling of the affi davit, the court may invoke the provisions of 10 CPC or Section 165 of the Evidence Act, 1872, if it considers it necessary to do so. The income of one party is often not within the knowledge of the other spouse. The court may invoke Section 106 of the Evidence Act, 1872 if necessary, since the income, assets and liabilities of the spouse are within the personal knowledge of the party concerned.