It is submitted that as held by this Court in the case of Assistant Collector of Customs, Bombay v. L.R. Melwani, reported in AIR 1970 SC 962, D the Court before which the complaint was filed could not have thrown out the same on the sole ground that there has been delay in filing it. It is observed that the question of delay in filing a complaint may be a circumstance to be taken into consideration in arriving at the final verdict. But by itself it affords no ground for dismissing the complaint. It is submitted that in the present case the complainant had given cogent and E specific reasons for the delay giving open threats to her. It is submitted that further, section 468 Cr.P.C. does not law down the period of limitation for offences punishable with imprisonment exceeding three years. It is submitted that therefore on the ground of delay, the application of the complainant could not have been dismissed. F 5.8 It is submitted that in the present case, the learned CJM also ought not to have opined at the stage of 156(3) Cr.P.C. that the allegations appear to be unbelievable. It is submitted that the application of judicial mind at this stage is limited only to the extent of causing investigation to find out whether the offence alleged is cognizable or not and the G ingredients prima facie satisfied. 5.9 Summing up the submissions, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the original complainant has submitted that on reading the decisions of this Court in the cases of Lalita Kumari (supra) and Priyanka Srivastava (Supra) harmoniously and the limited scope of H 156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A enquiry at the stage of Section 156(3) application, the learned CJM erred in rejecting the application under Section 156(3) and therefore the High Court has rightly directed to register the complaint as FIR and investigate into the matter. 5.10 Making above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present B appeals. 6. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length. 6.1 The present proceedings arise out of a complaint filed by the original complainant under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. The learned CJM, by C a detailed and giving cogent reasons, dismissed the said application/ complaint under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C and refused to direct the police to register an FIR. It is not even disputed by the State that prior to filing of the application/complaint by the complainant under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., complaints were made to the police authorities, namely, Officer in Charge of Bahela Police Station, DCP (South Division) and the SHO. D The SHO conducted a preliminary enquiry as mandated by a Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra) and upon finding that there was a delay of about two years in filing the complaint, refused to register the FIR. That thereafter, the original complainant filed a complaint/application before the learned CJM under Section 156(3) E Cr.P.C.