We are of the opinion that the requirements of the law were met when notices were served upon the recorded owners as per the record- of-rights. Again we do not think in a case like the present one, it is for the Collector to make enquiries from the registration offi ce to fi nd out if the land had since been sold by the recorded owners. In Winky Dilawari v. Amritsar Improvement Trust [(1996) 11 SCC 644], this Court observed that the public authorities were not expected to go on making enquiries in the Sub-Registrar’s offi ce as to who would be the owner of the property. The Collector in the present case was thus justifi ed in relying on the offi cial record being the record-of-rights as to who were the owners of the land sought to be requisitioned and prudence did not require any further enquiry to be made. We are therefore of the view that notices were properly served under Section 3(2) of the Act on the owners of the land.” 13. It could be seen from the above that service of notice on a person shown as owner or occupier in the record-of-rights is suffi cient even though the said person had already sold the land prior to the said notifi cation unless it is substantiated otherwise that the authorities concerned had knowledge of the rights or interest of any person other than those found recorded as owner/occupier in the revenue records. It is further held that the Collector is not obliged to make a roving enquiry about the ownership of the land. If the name of the purchaser URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 567 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] is not yet entered in the record-of-rights then non-service on such a person does not vitiate the acquisition proceedings. Admittedly, the appellant had not got his name entered in the revenue records as owner or occupant of the said land and therefore he could not complain about non-service of notice on him nor about the failure to grant a hearing to him. Contention that as per provision of the Land Revenue Act there was no obligation on his part to either inform the Revenue Authorities about the sale in his favour or to request them to transfer the katha in his name cannot stand as it has not been brought on record with reference to any pleadings with supporting documents that in fact the appellant had made payment for making the necessary entries in the record-of-rights and the register in his name at the time of registration of the sale deed in his favour. This apart, failure to make entries on the part of the Revenue Authorities by itself would not cast any obligation on the authorities under the Act to make a roving enquiry and try to locate an owner who may have subsequently purchased the land from the previous owner. Failure on the part of the Revenue Authority to make entry in the register of mutation in favour of the subsequent owner would not render the acquisition proceedings bad in law on account of non-issuance of notice inviting objections to the acquisition proceedings or service thereof.” (Emphasis supplied) 48.