Term ‘custody’ within statute requiring that petitioner be ‘in custody’ to be entitled to federal habeas corpus relief does not necessarily mean actual physical detention in jail or prison but rather is synonymous with restraint of liberty. US ex rel Wirtz v. Sheehan, 319 F Supp 146 at p. 147 (DC Wis 1970). Accordingly, persons on probation or released on own recognizance have been held to be ‘in custody’ for purposes of habeas corpus proceedings.” V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 895 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] To be noted, this Court was concerned with the bail application and therefore there was no occasion to draw a distinction between a judicial custody and a police custody. 59. We further note that sub-section (2) of Section 167 of the CrPC, 1973 consciously omits to mention the word “police custody”. What is important is the grant of custody which is to be decided by the Magistrate. The fact that the proviso makes a mention about police custody would only mean the outer limit an investigating agency can have. 60. We are conscious of the fact that a diff erent interpretation has been given as to how the total 15 days which could be sought for by an investigating agency, should be construed and reckoned. We have already made an elaborate discussion on this aspect. Even assuming that such custody can only be sought for by an agency within the fi rst 15 days, there has to be a physical custody to count the days. In a case where custody is shifted from judicial to an investigating agency by an of Court, the starting point will be from the actual custody. We would only reiterate that the moment a person is produced before the Court, it assumes custody, divesting the agency of its own. When an is passed granting police custody, any interdiction by any extraneous circumstance or a Court would not kick-start the period of custody. The situation may be diff erent in a case where a further custody is not possible due to external factors. Further, an of Court can never be a factor to prevent an investigation when the said merges with the fi nal one, upholding such custody. In such a case, the doctrine of actus curiae neminem gravabit would certainly apply, as Court’s action can never prejudice anyone, more so, an investigating agency performing its statutory mandate. In Bharat Damodar Kale v. State of A.P. (2003) 8 SCC 559: “10. On facts of this case and based on the arguments advanced before us, we consider it appropriate to decide the question whether the provisions of Chapter XXXVI of the Code apply to the delay in instituting the prosecution or to the delay in taking cognizance. As noted above, according to the learned counsel for the appellants, the limitation prescribed under the above Chapter applies to taking of cognizance by the court concerned, therefore even if a complaint is fi led within the period of limitation mentioned in the said Chapter of 896 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.