Applying all of the above-noted principles to the facts of the case, we fi nd that neither was it the case of the delinquent employee that the trial to which he was subjected to begin within one year of the commission of the off ence nor does the record speak to this eff ect. It is in the inquiry report10, dated 3rd December 2001, that an objection to the disciplinary proceedings being conducted while a criminal case was being tried is registered, but even there, no date stands specifi ed. 25. Further, it is not the case of the delinquent employee that the principles of natural justice were not complied with in the disciplinary proceedings of the bank. 10 Annexure P-4 Pg.109 of the Paperbook STATE BANK OF INDIA v. P. ZADENGA 751 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 26. Both these aspects, taken along with the fact that it is not mandatory to stay the disciplinary proceedings, particularly when they have been initiated after the prescribed period of one year, we cannot bring ourselves to agree with the courts below. The restriction within clause 4 is not complete and is to be applied on facts. In such a situation, the Division Bench’s reliance on United Commercial Bank & Ors. v. P.C. Kakkar,11 is entirely misconceived. Contrary to the conclusion arrived at by the High Court in Writ Appeal, Kakkar (supra) furthers the position of the appellant-bank as it states, “acquittal in the criminal case is not determinative of the commission of misconduct or otherwise, and it is open to authorities to proceed with the disciplinary proceedings, notwithstanding acquittal in the criminal case.” 27. Surprisingly, having referred to Kakkar (supra), which takes the above-mentioned position, the High Court, in the very next paragraph, takes a diametrically opposite view without any reasoning to that. We may, in fact, refer to Kakkar (supra) to reiterate what is expected of persons employed in a bank while also observing that the conduct of the delinquent employee herein fl ies in the face of these principles. This Court noted : - “14.A bank offi cer is required to exercise higher standards of honesty and integrity. He deals with the money of the depositors and the customers. Every offi cer/employee of the bank is required to take all possible steps to protect the interests of the bank and to discharge his duties with utmost integrity, honesty, devotion and diligence and to do nothing which is unbecoming of a bank offi cer. Good conduct and discipline are inseparable from the functioning of every offi cer/ employee of the bank… The very discipline of an organization more particularly a bank is dependent upon each of its offi cers and offi cers acting and operating within their allotted sphere. Acting beyond one’s authority is by itself a breach of discipline and is a misconduct.” (Emphasis Supplied) 28. Given the foregoing discussion and in the light of judicial pronouncements discussed supra, the appeal succeeds. We set aside the and dated 7th January 2009 passed in Writ Appeal 11 (2003) 4 SCC 364 752 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.