c. The High Court proceeded on the correct premise that Section 10(10) read with Clause 7.3 of the UGC Regulations only prescribes the procedure for the initial appointment to the post of Vice-Chancellor. The respondent No. 4 at the time of initial appointment fulfi lled all the necessary qualifi cations required to be appointed, and therefore, even at the time of reappointment such eligibility conditions stood fulfi lled. Clause 7.3 does not talk of reappointment and thus would not be applicable to the respondent No. 4 since the reappointment was not a fresh appointment by any stretch of imagination. d. Section 10(9) and Section 10(10) respectively are two separate & distinct provisions and as such should be read conjunctively and not disjunctively. e. Neither Section 10(10) nor the UGC Regulation prescribe for any limitation on reappointment of a person as Vice-Chancellor. DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 405 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Section 10 (9) only specifi es that no person shall be ‘appointed’ as Vice- Chancellor above the age of 60. The term reappointment has, in the wisdom of the legislature, not been used in the Statute for the express purpose that Section 10(10) existed and to facilitate the continuation of eligible, qualifi ed and experienced person on such post. H. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT NO. 1- CHANCELLOR 19. The learned Attorney General for India appearing for the Chancellor made the following submissions: a. The plain reading of regulation 7.3, indicates that the selection of Vice- Chancellor should be through proper scrutiny of merit by a panel of 3 to 5 persons (Search-cum-Selection Committee) through a public notification. The Search-cum-Selection Committee should be of persons of eminence in the sphere of Higher Education and the members should not be in any manner connected with the university concerned or its colleges. The Regulations further mandate that one of the members of the Search-cum-Selection Committee shall be nominated by the UGC for selection of Vice-Chancellor of State. In the present case, Regulation No. 7.3 of the UGC Regulations has not been complied with at all and therefore on this ground alone the reappointment of the respondent No. 4 as the Vice-Chancellor should be cancelled by a writ of quo-warranto. b. The State Government having adopted the UGC Regulations, the Regulations made by the Parliament under Entry 25 of List III shall prevail over the State legislation. Once the UGC Regulations prescribe the procedure and method for appointment of Vice- Chancellor, the University has to comply with the Regulations, which has not been followed in the present case. Therefore, the High Court erred in not following the UGC Guidelines. 20. The learned Attorney General invited the attention of this Court to a press release issued by the Kerala Raj Bhavan dated 03.02.2022 which is at Annexure P-18 at page 136: 406 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “03 February 2022 PRESS RELEASE Kannur Varsity: Facts grossly distorted. Kerala Raj Bhavan strongly refutes the claim in some news reports that it was on the direction of Hon’ble Governor that the name of Dr. Gopinath Ravindran was suggested for reappointment as Vice Chancellor, Kannur University.