(iii) This Court has to scrutinise the dying declaration carefully and must ensure that the declaration is not the result of tutoring, prompting or imagination. The deceased had opportunity to observe and identify the assailants and was in a fi t state to make the declaration. (iv) Where dying declaration is suspicious it should not be acted upon without corroborative evidence. (v) Where the deceased was unconscious and could never make any dying declaration the evidence with regard to it is to be rejected. (vi) A dying declaration which suff ers from infi rmity cannot form the basis of conviction. (vii) Merely because a dying declaration does not contain the details as to the occurrence, it is not to be rejected. (vii) Equally, merely because it is a brief statement, it is not to be discarded. On the contrary, the shortness of the statement itself guarantees truth. (ix) Normally the court in to satisfy itself whether the deceased was in a fi t mental condition to make the dying declaration look up to the medical opinion. But where the eyewitness has said that the deceased was in a fi t and conscious state to make this dying declaration, the medical opinion cannot prevail. (x) Where the prosecution version diff ers from the version as given in the dying declaration, the said declaration cannot be acted upon. 934 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 25. After referring to the decision of this Court in Khushal Rao v. State of Bombay, this Court in Vikas reiterated the legal position that where a dying declaration is recorded by a competent Magistrate, it would stand on a much higher footing inasmuch as a competent Magistrate has no axe to grind against the person named in the dying declaration of the victim and in absence of circumstances showing anything to the contrary, he should not be disbelieved by the court.” 13. In the light of above discussion, we are of the considered view that the dying declaration Ex.P-45 in the instant case which came to be accepted by the courts below cannot be found fault with, particularly, in the backdrop of the evidence tendered by the person who recorded the same as per Ex.P-45 and he having stood to his ground in the cross-examination and having spoken about her mental capability to make such statement and that too consciously. Dr. M.C. Kori PW-32 in whose presence the dying declaration Ex.P-45 came to be recorded by PW-25 has categorically stated that deceased Mahadevi was conscious and she was in a condition to speak. There is no prescribed format for recording the dying declaration. The perusal of the dying declaration in the instant case clearly suggests the same to be genuine and the maker has stated the true story. On going through the same, it appears to our mind as it appeared to the trial court and the High Court to be genuine, true and not tainted with doubt or shrouded with mystery. The contents of the dying declaration Ex.P-45 suggests the possible explanation of the occurrence of the incident and it also appears to be the truthful version of the maker.