If there be no interventions, the B investigation that is likely to follow in terms of the Cr. P.C., could enable the investigating officer to collect and collate the entire evidence establishing the essential links between the public servant and the property or pecuniary resources in dispute. Since snapping of any link in the chain of circumstances could prove fatal to the whole exercise, it is of utmost necessity that care and dexterity are not compromised. C 53. It is in the light of section 13 of the P.C. Act and the above principles that we need to read the FIR and the preceding complaint to assess whether any cognizable offence is made out against AS and, a fortiori, against YS, his wife. D 54. The complaint that US lodged with the Chief Minister does specifically allege that although AS came from a very humble background, as evident from his Annual Property Return filed at the time of joining IRS, “he has managed to amass disproportionate assets of more than 2500 crores contrary to his legal sources of income”. One could view it as a tall claim, which is thoroughly unsubstantiated. However, E it cannot be wished away because of the revelations of the preliminary inquiry which led to registration of the FIR and have formed part thereof. Although it is true that it is for the prosecution to build up a case that AS, as a public servant, amassed such wealth or even wealth of any lesser value that is disproportionate to his known sources of income, and which F could not satisfactorily be accounted for by him, while it files the police report, it does not seem to be a requirement of law when the FIR was registered on 25th February, 2020 that facts and figures with exactitude need to form part of a first information report. 55. Moving forward, it is found on perusal of the FIR that although G not specifically mentioned, 2004 to 2018 is the “check period” during which AS and YS have acquired property disproportionate to their known sources of income. There are certain calculations projecting the quantum of money that both AS and YS received towards salaries, interest and value for properties sold. Particulars of immovable properties acquired by AS and YS at different locations with particulars of “price” also find H 156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A mention therein. It is thereafter stated that in addition to these properties, there is possibility of there being other properties in other places of the country in the names of AS and YS. There are also references to possible investments made by AS abroad, either in his own name or in the names of his wife and dependent members. Deposits of money in lakhs in the bank account of YS regularly have been suspected to be receipt of B consideration (profit) from investment of big amounts. It is also revealed from the FIR that Rs.1,01,83,869.00 during April, 2013 to July, 2016 and Rs.75,55,058.00 during October, 2018 to November, 2019 were deposited by Cargill India Pvt.