1. Educational and professional qualifi cations of the other spouse: 2. Whether spouse is earning? If so, give particulars of the occupation and income of the spouse. 3. If not, whether he/she is staying in his/her own accommodation, or in a rented accommodation or in accommodation provided by employer/business/ partnership? 4. Particulars of assets and liabilities of spouse as known to the deponent, along with any supporting documents. K. Details of Applicant or the other Spouse, in case parties are Non- Resident Indians, Overseas Citizens of India, Foreign Nationals or Persons living abroad outside India 1. Details of Citizenship, Nationality and current place of residence, if the Applicant or other spouse is residing abroad outside India, temporarily or permanently. 2. Details of current employment and latest income in foreign currency of such applicant/spouse, duly supported by relevant documentation of employment and income from such foreign employer or overseas institution by way of employment letter or testimonial from foreign employer or overseas institution or latest relevant bank statement. 3. Details of household and other expenditure of such applicant/spouse in foreign jurisdiction. 4. Details of tax liability of applicant/other spouse in foreign jurisdiction. 5. Details of income of applicant/other spouse from other sources in India/foreign jurisdiction. 6. Details of expenses incurred or contribution made on account of spousal maintenance, child support or any other educational expenses, medical treatment of spouse or children. ADITI ALIAS MITHI v. JITESH SHARMA 259 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 7. Any other relevant detail of expenses or liabilities, not covered under any of the above headings and any other liabilities to any other dependent family members in India or abroad. Declaration 1. I declare that I have made a full and accurate disclosure of my income, expenditure, assets and liabilities from all sources. I further declare that I have no assets, income, expenditure and liabilities other than as stated in this affi davit. 2. I undertake to inform this Court immediately with respect to any material change in my employment, assets, income, expenses or any other information included in this affi davit. 3. I understand that any false statement in this affi davit, apart from being contempt of court, may also constitute an off ence under Section 199 read with Sections 191 and 193 of the Indian Penal Code punishable with imprisonment up to seven years and fi ne, and Section 209 of the Indian Penal Code punishable with imprisonment up to two years and fi ne. I have read and understood Sections 191, 193, 199 and 209 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. DEPONENT Verifi cation Verifi ed at ___on this _____day of _____ that the contents of the above affi davit are true to my personal knowledge, no part of it is false and nothing material has been concealed therefrom, whereas the contents of the above affi davit relating to the assets, income and expenditure of my spouse are based on information believed to be true on the basis of record. I further verify that the copies of the documents fi led along with the affi davit are the copies of the originals.