The 2007 Amendment Act in its Section 1(3) expressly states that:– “Section 1 - Short title, extent and commencement – x-x-x-x (3) Section 2 shall be deemed to have come into force with eff ect on and from 21st, January, 1977 and the remaining provisions shall come into force from the date as the Government may, by notifi cation, appoint.” (Emphasis Applied) It is signifi cant to note that Section 4(1)(c) was introduced through Section 2 of the 2007 Amendment Act. The legislature explicitly gave it retrospective eff ect and even introduced an Ordinance on similar lines prior 652 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. to the said amendment. The legislative intention can be further illuminated from the relevant part of the Statement of Object and Reasons in the Bill which introduced the 2007 Amendment and the same reads as follows:– “x-x-x-x On account of rapid urbanization in certain areas i.e., Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam, Ranga Reddy Districts etc., most of the assigned lands have been alienated by the original assignees and the lands were converted to non-agricultural use. It is found not possible to reassign these lands after resumption, either to the original assignee or his/her legal heir. It is also practically not possible to assign these lands to other landless poor persons, since the nature of these lands has been changed and they are not useful for agriculture purpose. Keeping in view of the above said position, Government have decided to amend clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the said Act empowering the Government to notify certain areas where the Government can resume the assigned lands and utilize them for public purposes such as Weaker Sections Housing, Public Utilities, Infrastructure Development or for any other public purpose in such areas as may be notifi ed by it. The amendment also proposes that in the areas other than those notifi ed, the land can be restored once to the original assignee or it can be assigned to other eligible persons. However, if either the original assignee or no eligible landless poor are available in the village, then it gets restored to the Government for public purpose. As the Legislative Assembly was not then in session and it has been decided to give eff ect to the above decision immediately, the Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) (Amendment) Ordinance, 2006 has been promulgated by the Governor on the 5th November, 2006.” (Emphasis Applied) 69. It deserves to be mentioned that in the Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) (Amendment) Ordinance, 2006 YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 653 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] [Hereinafter, ‘2006 Ordinance’] also, a similar provision for resumption for certain notifi ed lands akin to what has been provided in the 2007 Amendment Act, was incorporated. The intention of the legislature in respect of retrospective application of Section 4(1)(c) is thus crystal clear from the very inception. Furthermore, at the time of rebuttal arguments, the Respondents have produced a Notifi cation dated 11.12.2006 whereby the village comprising the Subject Land has been notifi ed as the area liable for resumption for violation of Section 3 of 1977 Act.