It is said that the entire problem under the equal protection clause is one of classification or of drawing lines [ Dowling : Cases on Constitutional Law, 4th Edn. 1139.]. In making the C classification the legislature cannot certainly be expected to provide “abstract symmetry”. It can make and set apart the classes according to the needs and exigencies of the society and as suggested by experience. It can recognise even “degrees of evil” [Skinner v. Oklahoma, 86 L Ed 1655 : 316 US 535 at p. 540 (1942) : 1942 SCC OnLine US SC 125] , D but the classification should never be arbitrary, artificial or evasive. It must rest always upon real and substantial distinction bearing a reasonable and just relation to the thing in respect to which the classification is made; and classification made without any reasonable basis should be E regarded as invalid [Southern Railway Co. v. Greene, 54 L Ed 536 : 216 US 400 at p. 412 (1910) : 1910 SCC OnLine US SC 59] . These propositions have not been controverted before us and it is not disputed also on behalf of the respondents that the presumption is always in favour of the constitutionality of an enactment and the burden is upon him F who attacks it, to show that there has been transgression of constitutional principles. I am not at all impressed by the argument of the learned Attorney General that to enable the respondents to invoke the protection of Article 14 of the Constitution it has got to be G shown that the legislation complained of is a piece of “hostile” legislation. The expressions “discriminatory” and “hostile” are found to be used by American Judges often simultaneously and almost as synonymous expressions in connection with discussions on the equal protection clause. If a legislation is H discriminatory and discriminates one person or class of RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 453 PRADESH [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] persons against others similarly situated and denies to the A former the privileges that are enjoyed by the latter, it cannot but be regarded as “hostile” in the sense that it affects injuriously the interests of that person or class. Of course, if one’s interests are not at all affected by a particular piece of legislation, he may have no right to complain. But if it is B established that the person complaining has been discriminated against as a result of legislation and denied equal privileges with others occupying the same position, I do not think that it is incumbent upon him, before he can claim relief on the basis of his fundamental rights, to assert and prove that in making the law, the legislature was actuated C by a hostile or inimical intention against a particular person or class. For the same reason I cannot agree with the learned Attorney General that in cases like these, we should enquire as to what was the dominant intention of the legislature in enacting the law and that the operation of Article 14 would D be excluded if it is proved that the legislature had no intention to discriminate, though discrimination was the necessary consequence of the Act.