Once the respondent is bound by the terms and conditions, the fi nal rate determined by the Board in its 141st meeting, being the prevailing rate of the Collector, would be binding on the respondent. 25. It is true that the appellant had fi led repeated review applications both before the learned Single Judge as also the Division Bench, which had resulted into delay in fi ling the appeal before the Division Bench. The Division Bench ought not to have taken into consideration the delay of 459 days to be without any satisfactory explanation in dismissing the appeal of the appellant. As a matter of fact, the Division Bench failed to exercise its discretion vested under the law in condoning the delay in to advance justice inter se parties thereby resulting into serious prejudice and fi nancial loss to the appellant Corporation which is a public entity. Four s relied upon by the respondent regarding fi ling of review petitions have no application on facts to the present case. In the case of M.Naghabhushana (supra), the party had reagitated the issue before the High Court after having lost upto this Court. The principle of res judicata was applied. The case of Dnyandeo Sabaji Naik (supra) was regarding fi ling of frivolous and groundless fi ling of applications/ petitions, which is not the case in hand, as we have already held that the s passed by the Single Judge and the Division Bench are not tenable in law. The case of Vinod Kapoor (supra) related to fi ling of a second KARNATAKA STATE ELECTRONICS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 791 LTD. v. KUMAON ENTERTAINMENT AND HOSPITALITIES PVT. LTD. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] S.L.P. after withdrawal of the fi rst without liberty to fi le a fresh one. The case of Sandhya Educational Society (supra) also has no application as it related to maintainability of the S.L.P. only against the passed in the Review by the High Court, without challenging the main . The other two s relied upon by the respondent regarding applicability of Section 14 of the Limitation Act also are of no assistance as we are not extending any benefi t under Section 14 of the Limitation Act to the appellant. In our considered view, the delay in fi ling the appeal before the Division Bench had been satisfactorily explained and as such it ought to have been condoned under Section 5 of the Limitation Act. 26. Another argument advanced on behalf of the respondent that the fi nal rate ought to have been determined at the earliest i.e. soon after the Letter of Allotment and there being suffi cient delay in determining the fi nal rate, the respondent should be allowed to get the sale deed executed at the tentative rate. Reference has been made to the phrase ‘as soon as it may be’ in Clause 13(b). Further reliance has been placed upon the in the case of Prakash Dal Mill (supra) This argument has no legs to stand prior to the request for execution of the sale deed, the fi nal rate had already been determined in the 141st Board Meeting and, therefore, the respondent would be bound to and abide by the same.