It is submitted that section 132 of the Act, 1961 is a tool for collecting information relating to tax evasion by D an assessee. There are other provisions to ensure that the assessees are assessed correctly on their ‘total income’, namely, sections 142, 131, 133, 133A and 285BA. It is submitted that apart from this, the Department keeps getting information relating to assessee from various sources, viz. : E (i) Suspicious Transaction Report from the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) (ii) Information from other taxation authorities viz. GST, and Law Enforcement Agencies, viz. ED, etc. (iii) Information from foreign tax jurisdictions under Automatic F Exchange of Information as well as on request basis under Tax Treaties and International conventions. (iv) Gathering of documents and evidence from and based on third party sources. G (v) It also collects information available in public domain and gets the same from informants, tax evasion petitions, etc. It is submitted that the information collected from all these sources, including search and seizure, is eventually to be used for assessing ‘total income’. H 908 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A iv) Shri N. Venkataraman, learned ASG has taken us to the scheme of assessment in a search case. It is submitted that for the period prior to 30/06/1995, initially, there was no special provision for assessment of search cases. Those assessments were made in accordance with the regular provisions relating to assessment of income, i.e., section 143(3) or section 147 of the Act, 1961. B Therefore, the assessment took into considering the incriminating material found during the search as well as that coming to the AO’s notice from any other source. It is submitted that thereafter the Finance Act, 1995 introduced a special procedure for assessment of search cases. C A set of provisions comprising of Sections 158B to 158BG was introduced by Chapter XIV-B – Special procedure for assessment of search cases. The salient features of Chapter XIV-B are as follows: (i) Any search initiated u/s 132 or 132A of the Act after 30th D June, 1995, the AO shall proceed to assess the undisclosed income in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XIV-B. (ii) It mandated the assessment of the total undisclosed income relating to the block period to be taxed at the rate specified under Section 113 of the Act as the income of the block period, E irrespective of the previous year or years to which such income relates and irrespective of the fact whether regular assessment for any one or more of the relevant assessment years is pending or not. (iii) Section 158B(a) defines “block period”- F “block period” means the period comprising previous years relevant to six assessment years preceding the previous year in which the search was conducted under section 132 or any requisition was made under section 132A and also includes the period up to the date of the commencement of such search or G date of such requisition in the previous year in which the said search was conducted or requisition was made: Provided that where the search is initiated or the requisition is made before the 1st day of June, 2001, the provisions of this clause shall have effect as if for the words “six assessment years,” the H words “ten assessment years” had been substituted;” PRINCIPAL COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, CENTRAL-3 909 v. ABHISAR BUILDWELL P. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.]