Impressed by the fact that the Plaintiff s neither produced any evidence to challenge the Sale Deed from 1919, nor sought any declaratory relief against the Sale Deed, High Court proceeded to allow the application under VII Rule 11, CPC in part, and rejected the Plaint with respect to Schedule-A property. Shri Yogeshwaran submitted that the High Court committed an error in allowing the Revision and consequently, the application under VII Rule 11, CPC. 5. Shri S. Nandakumar, learned counsel appearing for the respondents, with the assistance of Ms. Deepika Nandakumar, Mr. Ashok Kumar Singh, Mr. Rajeev Gupta and Mr. Naresh Kumar, on the other hand, supported the reasoning and conclusion of the High Court. 6. Before considering the legality of the approach adopted by the High Court, it is necessary to consider VII Rule 11, CPC2 and the precedents on the subject. The relevant principles have been succinctly explained in a recent decision of this Court in Dahiben v. Arvindbhai Kalyanji Bhanusali,3 as follows: 2 11. Rejection of plaint.—The plaint shall be rejected in the following cases— (a) where it does not disclose a cause of action; (b) where the relief claimed is undervalued, and the plaintiff , on being required by the court to correct the valuation within a time to be fi xed by the court, fails to do so; (c) where the relief claimed is properly valued but the plaint is written upon paper insuffi ciently stamped, and the plaintiff , on being required by the court to supply the requisite stamp paper within a time to be fi xed by the court, fails to do so; (d) where the suit appears from the statement in the plaint to be barred by any law; (e) where it is not fi led in duplicate; (f) where the plaintiff fails to comply with the provisions of Rule 9: Provided that the time fi xed by the court for the correction of the valuation or supplying of the requisite stamp-papers shall not be extended unless the court, for reasons to be recorded, is satisfi ed that the plaintiff was prevented by any cause of an exceptional nature from correcting the valuation or supplying the requisite stamp-paper, as the case may be, within the time fi xed by the court and that refusal to extend such time would cause grave injustice to the plaintiff . 3 (2020) 7 SCC 366. KUM. GEETHA, D/O LATE KRISHNA v. NANJUNDASWAMY 157 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. ] “23.2. The remedy under 7 Rule 11 is an independent and special remedy, wherein the court is empowered to summarily dismiss a suit at the threshold, without proceeding to record evidence, and conducting a trial, on the basis of the evidence adduced, if it is satisfi ed that the action should be terminated on any of the grounds contained in this provision. 23.3. The underlying object of 7 Rule 11(a) is that if in a suit, no cause of action is disclosed, or the suit is barred by limitation under Rule 11(d), the court would not permit the plaintiff to unnecessarily protract the proceedings in the suit.