(b) COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENTS NO. 2 AND 3 F 23. On the other hand, Ms. Ruchira Gupta, learned counsel appearing for the respondents no.2 and 3 strongly refuted the arguments advanced on behalf of the appellant. She submitted that the appellant having failed to challenge the decision taken by the respondent no.2 – University of dispensing with the inquiry contemplated in the G Memorandum dated 8th September, 2009 at the appropriate stage, he is precluded from doing so belatedly. To substantiate this submission, she referred to the preliminary objections taken by the appellant in his letter dated 18th April, 2009 where he had raised five preliminary objections 30 ILR 2006 (11) Del 1313 31 (2019) SCC Online Kar 3508 H 792 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A relating to the reconstitution of the Committee and its composition, the prejudice allegedly harboured against him by two members of the Committee and the fact that he was denied access to the records sought by him. But the grievance subsequently sought to be raised about the competence or jurisdiction of the Committee to conduct the inquiry and the procedure adopted by it, was never questioned by the appellant. B 24. Referring to the correspondence exchanged between the Committee and the appellant, learned counsel submitted that the appellant was granted at least three opportunities to submit his reply and eighteen hearings were conducted by the Committee but he did not participate in the proceedings on several dates. Only after the appellant failed to turn C up and made flimsy excuses of indisposition and repeatedly sought adjournments, did the Committee proceed ex parte against him and submitted its Report to the Registrar on 5th June, 2009. It was thus sought to be argued that the situation would not have changed in any manner had another opportunity been afforded to the appellant, as requested by D him vide letter dated 4th June, 2009. In this context, the attention of the Court was drawn to the proviso to Rule 14(2) of the CCS (CCA) Rules, which enjoins the Complaints Committee to hold an inquiry into the complaint of sexual harassment, “as far as practicable”, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules. The decision of the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in Avinash Mishra v. Union of India32 E has been cited to justify the stand of the respondents that the expression “as far as practicable” itself indicates that the Committee is vested with the discretion not to strictly follow the entire procedure as long as the officer charged has been afforded adequate opportunity to explain his stand in respect of the complaint and the relevant material has been F disclosed to him. 25. Learned counsel for respondents no. 2 and 3 went on to state that the Committee had afforded adequate opportunities to the appellant to cross-examine the witnesses, produce his witnesses and complete his own deposition but he kept on delaying the proceedings under one pretext G or the other.