Therefore, an dated 07.05.1993 was passed cancelling the of offering the compensation. However, the acquisition and the consent award, both continued. However, thereafter, the land owner continued to make D representations to release the land from acquisition. Therefore, it was the original land owner who did not accept the compensation offered and continued to make representations to release the land from acquisition. In these circumstances, the Division Bench of High Court has committed a very serious error in setting aside the consent award on E the aforesaid ground. The consent award under Section 11 of the Act, 1894 ought not to have been set aside in the manner in which it is set aside. The High Court has not at all properly appreciated and considered the conduct on the part of the land owner. At this stage it is required to be noted that at many places the High Court has observed in paragraph 11 that “the petitioner, alongwith other land owners of the area, agreed F to acquisition of his land on a fixed rate of compensation”. Even the High Court has also taken note of the fact that the amount of compensation was offered but the original land owner refused to accept the same. Once the land owner refuses to accept the amount of compensation offered by the Acquiring Body, thereafter it will not be G open for the original land owner to pray for lapse of acquisition on the ground that the compensation has not been paid. As observed hereinabove, there shall be deemed lapse of acquisition under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013 if there is a lapse on the part of the Acquiring Body / beneficiary in not taking the possession and the compensation is not paid. Even otherwise as observed and held by this Court in the case H 712 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A of Indore Development Authority (Supra), for the deemed lapse under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013, twin conditions of not taking the possession and not paying the compensation, both are required to be satisfied. Therefore, if one of the conditions is not satisfied, there shall not be any deemed lapse. B 8. Now, so far as the prayer on behalf of the land owner to remand the matter to the High Court to consider the legality and validity of the subsequent dated 21.01.2009 cancelling the earlier dated 07.03.1995 is concerned, at the outset it is required to be noted that the dated 21.01.2009 was as such not the subject matter of the writ petition before the High Court. No prayer was made to set aside the C dated 21.01.2009 passed by the Assistant Commissioner, Sardar Sarovar Rehabilitation Agency. What was challenged before the High Court was award under Section 11 of the Act, 1894 and the subsequent communication dated 05.04.2010 issued by the Special Land Acquisition Officer calling upon the land owner to remain present in the office of D Talati cum Mantri to accept the compensation and to release the land.