(2) Where a charge is registered with the Registrar under sub- section (1), he shall issue a certificate of registration of such B charge in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed to the company and, as the case may be, to the person in whose favour the charge is created. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, no charge created by a company shall C be taken into account by the liquidator or any other creditor unless it is duly registered under sub-section (1) and a certificate of registration of such charge is given by the Registrar under sub-section (2). (4) Nothing in sub-section (3) shall prejudice any contract or D obligation for the repayment of the money secured by a charge.” 55. Section 78 enacts, that when a company whose property is subject to charge, fails to register it, the charge holder (or the person entitled to the charge over the company’s assets) can seek its registration. E Section 3 (31) of the IBC defines “security interest” in the widest terms. In this court’s opinion, the liquidator cannot urge this aspect at this stage, because of the concurrent findings of the NCLT and the NCLAT that PVVNL is a secured creditor. 56. The record further shows that after the NCLT passed its F , the appellant preferred its claim on 10.04.2018. Based on that application, the liquidator had filed an application before the NCLT for modification of its dated 21.08.2018, and contended that PVVNL also came under the definition of ‘secured operational creditor’ in realization of its dues in the liquidation proceedings as per law. The G application sought amendment of the list of stakeholders. The application was allowed. In view of these factual developments, this Court does not consider it appropriate to rule on the submissions of the liquidator vis-a- vis the fact of non-registration of charges under Section 77 of the Companies Act, 2013. H PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1267 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] V. CONCLUSION A 57. For the above reasons, it is held that the appeal deserves to fail. At the same time, the liquidator is directed to decide the claim exercised by PVVNL in the manner required by law. It shall complete the process within 10 weeks from the date of pronouncement of this decision, after providing such opportunity to the appellant, as is necessary B under law. 58. The appeal is dismissed, subject to the above direction, without on costs. C Divya Pandey Appeal dismissed. (Assisted by : Shevali Monga, LCRA) D E F G H