The party or parties may pay the duty chargeable to the person who has the authority to receive evidence by law or by consent of parties. Section 35 is signifi cant because it gives teeth to the Stamp Act by ensuring that stamp-duty is paid before rights and obligations arising from an agreement are enforced. 40. Section 38(1) indicates how an instrument which is impounded is to be dealt with: “38. Instruments impounded how dealt with.— (1) Where the person impounding an instrument under Section 33 has by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence and admits such instrument in evidence upon payment of a penalty as provided by Section 35 or of duty as provided by Section 37, he shall send to the Collector an authenticated copy of such instrument, together with a certifi cate in writing, stating the amount of duty and penalty levied in respect thereof, and shall send such amount to the Collector, or to such person as he may appoint in this behalf. (2) In every other case, the person so impounding an instrument shall send it in original to the Collector.” 41. The Collector is conferred with the power to impound an instrument under Section 33. If any other person or authority impounds an instrument, it must be forwarded to the Collector under clause (2) of Section 38. Once the Collector receives an instrument, he has the power to stamp it under Section 40, if it is not a bill of exchange, a promissory note, or an instrument that is chargeable with a duty that exceeds ten naye paise. The Collector may: a. Certify by endorsement that the instrument is duly stamped, if they are of such an opinion;40 b. Certify by endorsement that the instrument is not chargeable with duty, if they are of such an opinion;41 and 40 Section 40(1)(a), Stamp Act 41 ibid 111 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. c. Require the payment of the proper duty or the amount required to make up the proper duty, if they are of the opinion that the instrument is chargeable with duty and is not duly stamped.42 The Collector may also levy a penalty, as provided by Section 40. If the instrument has been sent to the Collector under Section 38, it must be returned to the impounding offi cer after it is dealt with as described above.43 42. In terms of Section 42 of the Stamp Act, an instrument is admissible in evidence once the payment of duty and a penalty (if any) is complete. It stipulates that either the person admitting the instrument in evidence or the Collector, as the case may be, shall certify by endorsement that the proper duty has been paid. 43. The procedure contemplated by the Stamp Act facilitates the collection of revenue. It permits instruments to be impounded not only by persons in charge of a public offi ce or those who are empowered by law to receive evidence but also by any person who is empowered to receive evidence by consent of parties.