12. Further, in the context of cases where the driver’s licence was found to be fake, the Bench observed that the question would be whether the insurer could prove that the owner was guilty of willful breach of the conditions of the insurance policy. It was pointed out that the defence to the eff ect that the licence held by the person driving the vehicle was a fake one would be available to the insurance company but whether, despite the same, the plea of default on the part of the owner has been established or not would be a question which would have to be determined in each case. The earlier decision in United India Insurance Co. Ltd. vs. Lehru and others4 was considered and the Bench observed that the ratio therein must not be read to mean that an owner of a vehicle can, under no circumstances, have any duty to make an inquiry with regard to the genuineness of the driving licence and the same would again be a question which would arise for consideration in each individual case. The argument that the decision in Lehru (supra) meant that, for all intent and purport, the right of the insurer to raise a defence that the licence was fake was taken away was, however, rejected as not being correct and it was held that such a defence can certainly be raised, but it will be for the insurer to prove that the insured did not take 4 (2003) 3 SCC 338 IFFCO TOKIO GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. 71 GEETA DEVI [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] adequate care and caution to verify the genuineness or otherwise of the licence held by the driver. The fi ndings summed up by the Bench, to the extent presently relevant, are as under: ‘(iii) The breach of policy condition e.g. disqualifi cation of the driver or invalid driving licence of the driver, as contained in sub-section (2)(a)(ii) of Section 149, has to be proved to have been committed by the insured for avoiding liability by the insurer. Mere absence, fake or invalid driving licence or disqualifi cation of the driver for driving at the relevant time, are not in themselves defences available to the insurer against either the insured or the third parties. To avoid its liability towards the insured, the insurer has to prove that the insured was guilty of negligence and failed to exercise reasonable care in the matter of fulfi lling the condition of the policy regarding use of vehicles by a duly licensed driver or one who was not disqualifi ed to drive at the relevant time. (iv) Insurance companies, however, with a view to avoid their liability must not only establish the available defence(s) raised in the said proceedings but must also establish “breach” on the part of the owner of the vehicle; the burden of proof wherefor would be on them. (v) The court cannot lay down any criteria as to how the said burden would be discharged, inasmuch as the same would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.