The court must weigh E one need against another and determine where the ‘balance of convenience’ lies.” The interlocutory remedy is intended to preserve in status quo, the rights of parties which may appear on a prima facie case. The court also, in restraining a defendant from exercising what he considers his legal right but what the plaintiff would like to be F prevented, puts into the scales, as a relevant consideration whether the defendant has yet to commence his enterprise or whether he has already been doing so in which latter case considerations somewhat different from those that apply to a case where the defendant is yet to commence his enterprise, are attracted. G ***** ***** ***** 14. ….. In such appeals, the appellate court will not interfere with the exercise of discretion of the court of first instance and substitute its own discretion except where the discretion has been shown to have been exercised arbitrarily, or capriciously or perversely or H THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1169 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] where the court had ignored the settled principles of law regulating A grant or refusal of interlocutory injunctions. An appeal against exercise of discretion is said to be an appeal on principle. Appellate court will not reassess the material and seek to reach a conclusion different from the one reached by the court below if the one reached by that court was reasonably possible on the material. B The appellate court would normally not be justified in interfering with the exercise of discretion under appeal solely on the ground that if it had considered the matter at the trial stage it would have come to a contrary conclusion. If the discretion has been exercised by the trial court reasonably and in a judicial manner the fact that the appellate court would have taken a different view may not C justify interference with the trial court’s exercise of discretion. After referring to these principles Gajendragadkar, J. in Printers (Mysore) Private Ltd. v. Pothan Joseph (1960) 3 SCR 713: (SCR 721) “... These principles are well established, but as has been D observed by Viscount Simon in Charles Osenton & Co. v. Jhanaton: 1942 AC 130 ‘...the law as to the reversal by a court of appeal of an made by a judge below in the exercise of his discretion is well established, and any difficulty that arises is due only to the application of well settled principles E in an individual case’.” The appellate does not seem to defer to this principle.” 21.3. The case of State of Karnataka (supra) essentially related to a suit involving inter-State water disputes and in the referred passage, it was indicated that even when balance of convenience or inconvenience F is another requirement but no fixed rules or notions ought to be had in the matter of grant of injunction; and the relief would depend on facts and circumstances of each case with justice of the situation being the guiding factor, in the following terms: - “168.