142 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 3P OS.RCT.RS. 142 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A INDRAJIT DAS v. THE STATE OF TRIPURA (Criminal Appeal No.609 of 2015) B FEBRUARY 28, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI AND VIKRAM NATH, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860 : ss. 302/34, 201 – Murder – Circumstantial evidence – Information received from one of the prosecution witness that his nephew was missing since the previous evening – Victim C had gone on his bike but did not return – On further investigation, his mother informed that the victim had gone out with two friends – Both the friends alleged to have confessed their crime before the investigating officer – One of them being juvenile, tried under Juvenile Act – As regards the other the trial court held that the D prosecution had fully established his guilt beyond reasonable doubt, and convicted him – Said upheld by the High Court – On appeal, held : Instant case is of circumstantial evidence as no one saw the commission of crime – Basic links in the chain of circumstances starts with motive, then move on to last seen theory, recovery, medical evidence, expert opinions if any and any other E additional link which may be part of the chain of circumstances – Prosecution did not come forward with any motive whatsoever as to why the appellant and the juvenile would commit the said crime – Dead body not recovered – Only a limb was recovered but no DNA testing was carried out to establish that the limb was that of the F victim – As such the entire case of the prosecution proceeds on presumption that the victim died – Mother of the victim was the main witness of the last seen – In her cross-examination she stated that no such statement was there, though she had told the Investigating Officer that she had seen the appellant and the juvenile at her gate – Recoveries have been from an open place – It was not G a place which could be in the exclusive knowledge of the appellant – Conviction is based upon, apart from the prosecution witnesses, on the extra-judicial confession of the appellant and the juvenile – According to both the confessions, the appellant as also juvenile were waiting at a culvert near the market where victim came on his H bike and from there all three of them left on the bike – No 142 INDRAJIT DAS v. THE STATE OF TRIPURA 143 corroborating evidence found to support the extra-judicial A confession, rather the evidence led by prosecution is inconsistent with the same – Thus, major links of the chain of circumstances not proved by the prosecution evidence and as such it would be unjust to uphold the conviction of the appellant – Appellant entitled to benefit of doubt and is acquitted of all the charges – Evidence. B Evidence: Circumstantial evidence – General principles – Discussed. Circumstantial Evidence – Motive – Importance and role of, in case of direct and circumstantial evidence – Stated.