G 30. It was thereafter contended by Mr. Jethmalani that a bare perusal of the FIR would reveal non-disclosure of the ‘check period’ which is a sine qua non in a case of disproportionate assets. Further, the FIR did not disclose the basic ingredients of establishing an offence under section 13(1)(b) read with section 13(2) of the P.C. Act. The FIR H THE STATE OF CHATTISGARH & ANR. v. AMAN KUMAR 147 SINGH & ORS. ETC. ETC [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] also did not disclose the extent of alleged investment either in figures or A in percentage. 31. Referring to the decision in T.H. Vijayalakshmi (supra), it was Mr. Jethmalani’s endeavor to show that the investigating agency in that case had set out/specified the extent of disproportionality in a tabular form, in rupees and percentage, in the first information report therein. B The High Court, therefore, was not in error when it required the State to produce the case diary as well as figures in tabulated form showing income and expenditure for perusal by the Court by its interim dated 6th September, 2021. 32. Mr. Jethmalani further urged that no material being there to C justify registration of the FIR is borne out from the fact that the State had applied for exemption from complying with the High Court’s dated 6th September, 2021. 33. It was next argued by Mr. Jethmalani that a first information report based on sheer conjectural possibility of finding some more assets D in future is wholly impermissible. Law, according to him, is well settled that a mere mention of the possibility will not entitle the ACB/EOW of the State to lodge a first information report and conduct investigation. Unless the first information report discloses cognizable offence, such report based on possibilities would become a tool of witch hunting and E consequently harassment, which would be a clear violation of Article 21 of the Constitution. It was also argued that there is a casual allegation of a criminal conspiracy between AS and YS without there being a whisper about its basic elements. 34. Mr. Jethmalani further contended that even if it is assumed that 2004 to 2018 is the check period, it is clear that a fishing inquiry is F intended by the State and its officers with a view to scandalize AS and YS. 35. It was also the contention of Mr. Jethmalani that there has been no disproportionality at all, which would warrant an investigation even into the allegations leveled by US in the complaint, or for that matter, G the FIR, and the High Court was right in its interference to prevent abuse of the process of law. 36. The contention of the respondents that the High Court had applied a ‘non-existent legal test’ was refuted by terming it as entirely misleading. Passages from the impugned were referred to, to H 148 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A show how the High Court was right in returning the finding that the FIR did not disclose any offence rendering it liable to interdiction.