(b) In a sale between related persons, the transaction value shall be accepted, whenever the importer demonstrates that the declared value of the goods being valued, closely approximates to one of the following values ascertained at or about the same time- (i) the transaction value of identical goods, or of similar goods, in sales to unrelated buyers in India; (ii) the deductive value for identical goods or similar goods; (iii) the computed value for identical goods or similar goods. Provided that in applying the values used for comparison, due account shall be taken of demonstrated diff erence in commercial levels, quantity levels, adjustments in accordance with the provisions of Rule COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 203 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] 9 of these rules and cost incurred by the seller in sales in which he and the buyer are not related; (c) substitute values shall not be established under the provisions of clause (b) of this sub-rule. 36. To complete the narrative, we may mention that while Rule 5 deals with transaction value of identical goods, Rule 6 deals with transaction value of similar goods. On the other hand, Rule 6A provides for determination of value when transaction value is not available. Rule 7 which comes after Rule 6A provides for determination of deductive value and Rule 7A provides for computed value. 37. Where the value of imported goods cannot be determined under the provisions of any of the aforesaid rules, the value shall be determined using reasonable means as provided in Rule 8 i.e. the residual method. 38. In Rabindra Chandra Paul (supra), this court referred to its earlier decision in Eicher Tractors Limited Vs. Commissioner of Customs, (2001) 1 SCC 315, and held as follows- 6. In Eicher Tractors Ltd. Vs. Commr. Of Customs, this Court held that the principle for valuation of imported goods is found in Section 14(1) of the Customs Act, 1962 which provides for the determination of the assessable value on the basis of the international sale price. Under the said Act, customs duty is chargeable on goods. According to Section 14(1), the assessment of duty is to be made on the value of the goods. The value may be fi xed by the Central Government under Section 14(2). Where the value is not so fi xed it has to be decided under Section 14(1). The value, according to Section 14(1), shall be deemed to be the price at which such or like goods are ordinarily sold or off ered for sale, for delivery at the time and place and importation in the course of international trade. The word “ordinarily” implies the exclusion of special circumstances. This position is clarifi ed by the last sentence in Section 14(1) which describes an “ordinary” sale as one where the seller or the buyer have no interest in the business of each other and the price is the sole consideration for the sale or off er for sale.