38 ibid 1525. 39 ibid 1559. 40 ICC Case No. 4131, 23 September 1982. COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 729 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] the non-signatory Dow companies instituted arbitral proceedings. Isover objected to the arbitral tribunal’s jurisdiction to render an award with respect to Dow Chemical France and Dow Chemical Company (USA), as they were non-signatories. On the other hand, the non-signatory companies argued that they can invoke arbitration due to their involvement in the conclusion and performance of these contracts, and by virtue of them being in the same group of companies. 23. The Arbitral Tribunal applied French law to determine whether the non-signatories are parties “by reference to the common intent of the parties to these proceedings, such as it appears from the circumstances that surround the conclusion and characterize the performance and later the termination of the contracts in which they appear”. It held that Dow Chemical France and Dow Chemical Company (USA) were central to the negotiation and conclusion of both contracts. Further, they were also involved in the performance of the contracts and their subsequent termination since Dow Chemical France eff ected the deliveries and Dow Chemical Company (USA) owned the trademarks for the goods and also exercised absolute control over its subsidiaries. Relying on these facts, the Tribunal concluded that both companies participated in the conclusion, performance, and termination of the contracts. It held: “Considering that irrespective of the distinct juridical identity of each of its members, a group of companies constitutes one and the same economic reality (une réalité économique unique) of which the arbitral tribunal should take account when it rules on its own jurisdiction subject to Article 13 (1955 version) or Article 8 (1975 version) of the ICC Rules. Considering, in particular, that the arbitration clause expressly accepted by certain of the companies of the group should bind the other companies which, by virtue of their role in the conclusion, performance, or termination of the contracts containing said clauses, and in accordance with the mutual intention of all parties to the proceedings, appear to have been veritable parties to these contracts or to have been principally concerned by them and the disputes to which they may give rise.”41 41 ibid. 730 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 24. From the above extracts, it is clear that membership in the same group of companies or “same economic reality” were neither the sole nor the guiding factors to hold that the non-signatory companies were parties. Rather, the Tribunal’s emphasis was on the mutual intent of the parties, gathered from their conduct in the conclusion, performance, and termination of the contracts.42 25. The subsequent exposition and application of the doctrine by French arbitral tribunals and courts also largely refl ects a focus on mutual intent, rather than mere membership in the same group, which has been held to be insuffi cient in and of itself to make the non-signatory a party.43 In Dallah Real Estate and Tourism Holding Co. v. Ministry of Religious Aff airs, Government of Pakistan, the Paris Court of Appeal enforced the arbitral award against the Pakistan government (non-signatory) as its conduct through involvement in the negotiation and performance of the contract refl ected common will to be a party to the arbitration.44 Common will must be ascertained according to the principles of good faith (parties must not be allowed to evade commitments) and eff ectiveness (when parties insert an arbitration clause, it must be presumed that their intent is to be governed by the arbitration).45 26.