Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,— (a) an acknowledgment may be suffi cient though it omits to specify the exact nature of the property or right, or avers that the time for payment, delivery, performance or enjoyment has not yet come or is accompanied by a refusal to pay, deliver, perform or permit to enjoy, or is coupled with a claim to set off , or is addressed to a person other than a person entitled to the property or right, (b) the word “signed” means signed either personally or by an agent duly authorised in this behalf, and (c) an application for the execution of a decree or shall not be deemed to be an application in respect of any property or right.” 12. The question in the present case is primarily whether Respondent No.2 would be entitled to the benefi t of Section 18 of the Limitation Act and whether Section 5 of the Limitation Act thereof would also be applicable. Although Section 14 of the Limitation Act has also been referred to, but in our opinion, Section 14 will have no application inasmuch as the proceedings under the SARFAESI Act before the DRT cannot be said to be before a Court or Tribunal having no jurisdiction. Respondent No.2, being a Secured Creditor, would defi nitely have a right to invoke the power under the SARFAESI Act and the said proceedings cannot be said to be without jurisdiction. Therefore, no benefi t under Section 14 would be admissible to Respondent No.2 in the present case. 13. Coming back to the benefi t available under Section 18 of the Limitation Act, the following sequence of events and the law thereon would be relevant. The State Bank of India declared the Corporate Debtor as an NPA on 28.06.2013. Therefore, the limitation period would be three AXIS BANK LIMITED v. NAREN SHETH & ANR. 595 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] years from the last date of the fi nancial year previous to the declaration of NPA, which would be 31.03.2013, and would run up to 31.03.2016. If there were no further intervening circumstances or developments relating to acknowledgment, the contention raised by the appellant that the petition under Section 7 of IBC having been fi led much beyond 31.03.2016, in 2020 to be specifi c on 22.01.2020, the petition would be clearly barred by limitation. 14. However, there are four major acknowledgments made by the Corporate Debtor after the declaration of the NPA and within the expiry of three years from the said date, details of which have already been mentioned in the previous paragraphs. However, briefl y the same are being referred to again. a) The Corporate Debtor, in its balance sheet for the fi nancial year 2014-15, which came to an end on 31.03.2015, had acknowledged the debt in its balance sheet for the said year. This acknowledgment of debt in the balance sheet has been held to be a valid acknowledgment for the benefi t of Section 18 of the Limitation Act.