This is because, as already stated, the document speaks for itself. G In Chottey Lal vs. The Collector of Moradabad (supra) the Privy Council considered the question as to the presumption of validity of a power of attorney which formed the basis of a registered mortgage deed which was later challenged. The Privy Council noted that since the sub-registrar had accepted the document for registration, it is prima- facie evidence that the conditions have been satisfied and after registration H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 185 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] of the document, the burden of proving any alleged infirmity rests on the A person who challenges the registration. Similarly, in Jugraj Singh and Anr. vs. Jaswant Singh and Ors., 1970 (2) SCC 386, this Court reiterated the legal position as to the presumption of regularity of official acts, and held that it would be presumed that a sub-registrar registering a document would have proceeded with the registration only on satisfying B himself as to the fact that the person who was executing the document was the proper person. 27. Reliance may also be placed on the decision of this Court in Rattan Singh and Ors. vs. Nirmal Gill and Ors., AIR 2021 SC 899. In the said case, the issue pertained to the validity of a general power of C attorney (hereinafter, “GPA”) and consequently of the sale deed executed on the strength of the GPA. The plaintiff therein, being the executor of the GPA contended that the GPA was obtained fraudulently and was therefore invalid. This Court, while holding that no case of fraud was made out, upheld the validity of the GPA and the sale deed executed on the strength of the GPA. The relevant observations of this Court as to D the presumption of validity of documents and burden of proof required to rebut such presumption, are extracted as under: “The presumption in favour of a 30-year old document is a rebuttable presumption. Nothing prevented the Plaintiff to rebut the presumption by leading appropriate evidence in to disprove E the same. Since the Plaintiff failed to do so, the said document would be binding on the Plaintiff. As a matter of fact, the parties had acted upon the terms of the said document without any demur since 1963 and it was, therefore, not open to resile therefrom at this distance of time. Hence, the trial Court was right in holding F the 1963 GPA, to be a genuine document.” 28. In short, it has been authoritatively laid down by this Court that a registered document carries with it, by virtue of it being registered, the presumption as to the authority of the person executing it. In the present case, the Trial Court and the First Appellate Court failed to treat G the endorsement made by the District Sub-Registrar on the body of the sale deed, as evidence in respect of the authority of Plaintiff No. 2 to execute the sale deed.