The matter reached up to this Court. This Court held in paras 10 and 12 respectively as under: 952 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. “10. The appellant being a Manager in a nationalised bank whether can claim that before prosecuting him sanction is required under Section 197. The CMM having come to the opinion that the appellant having not satisfi ed that he was a public servant not removable from his offi ce save by or with the sanction of the Government, Section 197 CrPC was not attracted with regard to the appellant. After coming to the above conclusions, it was not necessary for the CMM to enter into the question as to whether the acts alleged against the appellant were discharged in performance of offi cial duty. ××× ××× ××× 12. The High Court in its impugned has not adverted to the above aspect and has only confi ned to the discussion as to whether the acts alleged of the appellant were in discharge of offi cial duty. The High Court also had relied on the of this Court in Parkash Singh Badal [Parkash Singh Badal v. State of Punjab, (2007) 1 SCC 1 : (2007) 1 SCC (Cri) 193] . We, having come to the conclusion that the appellant being not a public servant removable from his offi ce save by or with the sanction of the Government, sanction under Section 197 CrPC was not applicable. The appellant cannot claim protection under Section 197 CrPC. We are of the view that examination of further question as to whether the appellant was acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his offi cial duty was not required to be gone into, when he did not fulfi l conditions for applicability of Section 197(1) CrPC.” (Emphasis supplied) 49. It is pertinent to note that the banking sector being governed by the Reserve Bank of India and considered as a limb of the State under Article 12 of the Constitution and also by virtue of Section 46A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the appellant herein is deemed to be a “public servant’ for the purpose of provisions under the PC Act, 1988. However, the same cannot be extended to the IPC. Assuming for a moment that the appellant herein should be considered as a “public servant” for the IPC sanction also, the protection available under Section 197 of the CrPC is not available to the appellant herein since, the conditions in built under Section 197 of the CrPC are not fulfi lled. A. SREENIVASA REDDY v. RAKESH SHARMA AND ANR. 953 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 50. Unfortunately, in the case on hand, the High Court also missed or overlooked the aforesaid aspect and confi ned its adjudication as to whether the acts alleged of the appellant were in discharge of the offi cial duty. Question No. 1 is answered accordingly. QUESTION NO. 2 51. It was vociferously argued by the learned counsel appearing for the appellant that as sanction under Section 19 of the PC Act, 1988 has not been granted, the appellant cannot not be prosecuted for the off ences under the IPC alone and he should be discharged from the criminal proceedings.. 52.