[2023] 8 S.C.R. 379 379 RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. A v. STATE OF GOA (Civil Appeal No. 3615 of 2023) MAY 10, 2023 B [DINESH MAHESHWARI AND SANJAY KUMAR, JJ.] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996: ss. 34, 37 – Arbitral award – Scope of interference – Held: Arbitral award is not an ordinary adjudicatory so as to be lightly interfered with by C the Courts u/ss. 34 or 37 as if dealing with an appeal or revision against a decision of any subordinate Court – An award could be said to be suffering from “patent illegality” only if it is an illegality apparent on the face of the award and not to be searched out by way of re-appreciation of evidence – Possibility of interference would arise only if the construction of the arbitrator is such which could D not be made by any fair-minded and reasonable person – Narrow scope of “patent illegality” cannot be breached by mere use of different expressions which nevertheless refer only to “error” and not to “patent illegality” – If an arbitrator construes the term of contract in a reasonable manner, the award cannot be set aside E with reference to the deduction drawn from construction – Restraint is required to be shown while examining the validity of arbitral award by the Courts, else interference with the award after reassessing the factual aspects would be defeating the object of the Act – On facts, the appellants constructed a power plant for the State under a power purchase agreement-PPA, however, the State failed to pay F for the power generated by the plant – Matter referred to the arbitrator, wherein the appellants awarded a sum of Rs. 292.22 crore along with an interest of 15% p.a. from the date of the award till the date of payment, however, the High Court reduced the interest rate awarded to 10% p.a.– High Court misdirected itself on the G major issues concerning the merits of the award – Nothing of a patent illegality apparent on the face of the award pointed out – As the prevailing interest rates at the time were in the range of 13% to 14% p.a., the arbitrator acted within his jurisdiction in awarding the interest rate of 15% p.a. post award and there was no justification to reduce the same to 10% p.a. – There had been no H 379 380 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A such flaw in the and passed by the Commercial Court which called for interference by the High Court on the parameters and within the periphery of ss. 34/37 – Part of the impugned and passed by the High Court, which modifies the award and the of the Commercial Court is set aside and the award is restored in its entirety. B Disposing of the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 Arbitral award is not an ordinary adjudicatory so as to be lightly interfered with by the courts under sections 34 or 37 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 as C if dealing with an appeal or revision against a decision of any subordinate court.