(iv) that in any case what was recovered by the invocation of A the bank guarantee was the loss suffered in the first instance; (v) that it is well settled that previous sanction to prosecute under Section 197(1) of the Code is necessary only when the act complained of is in the discharge of official duties; B (vi) that an offence of cheating cannot by any stretch of imagination be seen as part of official duties; (vii) that the power to grant pardon is available concurrently to the Chief Judicial Magistrate/ Metropolitan Magistrate as well as the Court of Session; C (viii) that therefore there was nothing wrong in the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Madurai granting pardon; and (ix) that therefore the concurrent s of conviction of the appellants do not warrant any interference. 28. We have carefully considered the rival contentions. For the D purpose of easy appreciation, we shall divide the discussion and analysis into three parts, the first dealing with the contention revolving around Section 197 of the Code, the second dealing with the correctness of the procedure adopted while granting pardon under Section 306 of the Code and the third revolving around the merits of the case qua culpability of E each of the appellants before us. Discussion and Analysis Part-I (Revolving around Section 197 of the Code) 29. There is no dispute about the fact that A-1 to A-4, being officers F of a company coming within the description contained in the Twelfth item of Section 21 of the IPC, were ‘public servants’ within the definition of the said expression under Section 21 of the IPC. A-1 to A-4 were also public servants within the meaning of the expression under Section 2(c)(iii) of the PC Act. Therefore, there is a requirement of previous sanction both under Section 197(1) of the Code and under Section 19(1) G of the PC Act, for prosecuting A-1 to A-4 for the offences punishable under the IPC and the PC Act. 30. Until the amendment to the PC Act under the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018 (Act 16 of 2018), with effect from 26.07.2018, the requirement of a previous sanction under Section 19(1)(a) H 36 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A was confined only to a person “who is employed”. On the contrary, Section 197(1) made the requirement of previous sanction necessary, both in respect of “any person who is” and in respect of “any person who was” employed. By the amendment under Act 16 of 2018, Section 19(1)(a) of the PC Act was suitably amended so that previous sanction became necessary even in respect of a person who “was employed at B the time of commission of the offence”. 31. The case on hand arose before the coming into force of the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018 (Act 16 of 2018). Therefore, no previous sanction under Section 19(1) of the PC Act was necessary insofar as A-1 was concerned, as he had retired by the time C a final report was filed.