Learned counsel highlighted that the Corporation was running in losses as a result of which there was no justification for granting the benefits in the terms claimed by the appellants. E 18. It was submitted that the fixation of cut-off date is a policy matter, especially in respect of revision of salaries, allowances, and the other benefits to employees of a State Corporation. These depend on various considerations, including financial constraints and the number of employees involved. It was urged that the paying capacity of an employer is an important and valid consideration of such an exercise. Granting F any benefit to employees normally involves fixing of cut-off date. If these factors are kept in mind, devising a limited retrospective limit for the employees who are on the rolls of the Corporation lessens the impact of the financial burden. Thus, the fixation of cut- off date in the present case was not arbitrary. G 19. It was urged that the claim of those who retired from the MFSC prematurely by opting for VRS was to benefit both the parties, i.e., the Corporation and the retiring employee. The Corporation benefitted by decreasing its liability towards salary dues; on the other hand, the employee concerned was not bound by any scheme but exercised an H MAHARASHTRA STATE FINANCIAL CORP. EX- EMPLOYEES 1181 ASSOC. v. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] independent and voluntary option to seek severance from the A employment. For these reasons, such employees were entitled to benefits over and above what they would have earned if they had continued in service by way of ex-gratia payment, in respect of a package which is generally called a golden handshake. The payment of such amounts along with other terminal dues led to cessation of employment; B consequently, the claim of such employees who have already secured benefits by way of ex-gratia payouts towards pay revision was not justified. It was submitted that the appellant association’s grievance espouses the cause of 835 ex-employees, a large number of whom are those who opted for voluntary retirement. There can be no complaint of discrimination on their part. It was submitted that apart from financial C constraints, the other independent justification for limiting pay benefits to those 115 existing employees is sound, i.e., to motivate them to recover maximum amounts from the Non-Performing Assets (NPA) accounts. This rationale is relevant since the MSFC has incurred losses over the years. D 20. Mr. Patil, learned counsel relied upon some decisions of the Court, A.K. Bindal & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors.5; State of Punjab & Ors. v. Amar Nath Goyal & Ors.6 and State of Rajasthan & Anr. v. Amritlal Gandhi & Ors.7, to urge that the financial implications upon the employer is a relevant factor which the Court must weigh while E adjudging whether implementation of any policy is arbitrary. Analysis and conclusions 21. A close analysis of the facts would show that the question of pay revision of employees of MSFC has been engaging attention for a considerable period of time.