[2023] 12 S.C.R. 959 : 2023 INSC 697 CASE DETAILS HIND OFFSHORE PVT. LTD. v. IFFCO – TOKIO GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. (Civil Appeal No. 7228 of 2015) AUGUST 09, 2023 [A.S. BOPANNA AND M.M. SUNDRESH, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: NCDRC whether justifi ed in passing the impugned holding that the respondent-insurance company was under no contractual or legal obligation to reimburse the appellant for the loss suff ered by it on account of sinking of the vessel as the Class Certifi cate was obtained by the appellant by concealing vital information, with respect to the damage to the vessel, from the Classifi cation Society. Consumer Protection – Marine Hull Insurance Policy – Non- reporting of the damage/defects to the Classifi cation Society before issue of the certifi cate, class Certifi cate if rendered invalid though issued earlier – Whether the owner is to inform this aspect or whether the verifi cation by the insurer is warranted – Warranty class, if violated: Held: In the instant case, prior to the instant policy(covering the period between 09.11.2006 to 08.11.2007), the vessel was covered under a policy for the period 09.11.2005 to 08.11.2006 – During the subsistence of the earlier insurance policy, there was a damage to the engine crank shaft and connecting rods and on the recommendation for replacement, the insurer-respondent had reimbursed the amount for that purpose – Though the immediate voyage with repairs were brought to the knowledge of the insurer, the replacement was to be made in due course – No material brought on record by the appellant to indicate that the damage to the engine crank shaft which was required to be replaced and on account of which payment was obtained, was replaced or if it had not been replaced, whether it was reported to American Bureau of Shipping (ABS) so that the Classifi cation Society 959 960 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. would have thereafter assessed as to whether even in that circumstance where the replacement had not been made, whether the repairs carried out were suffi cient to certify the seaworthiness of the vessel – On being aware, an informed decision was to be taken to issue the Class Certifi cate – Entire onus cannot be on the insurer to check as to whether subsequently the engine had been replaced by utilising the amount received – In such situation when the replacement, in fact was not made, the onus was entirely on the appellant to bring it to the notice of the Classifi cation Society and in that circumstance when the Class Certifi cate was issued, the warranty class had in fact been violated by the appellant and the exclusion as indicated would apply and make it invalid – Appellant failed to establish that the warranty class had not been breached by them and in that context the seaworthiness or otherwise at the point of accident is not of relevance – Impugned passed by NCDRC does not call for interference – Marine Insurance Act, 1963.