This fact also persuaded the Revisional Court to remand the matter back to the trial court vide dated 02.12.2011. 14. In this factual scenario, the defendants cannot be heard to contend that appellant herein had fi led two affi davits (Annexure P-5 and Annexure P-7) whereunder he had admitted Manoj Kumar Jain as the legal representative of deceased Urmila Devi and as such he cannot turn around to assert himself to be the legal representative of Urmila Devi, for the simple 958 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. reason that affi davits fi led by the appellant Yashpal Jain does not even remotely suggest or indicate that he have admitted Manoj Kumar Jain being the legal representative of Urmila Devi. On the other hand, said affi davits which has been perused by us, would clearly indicate that he has only affi rmed and reiterated the fact that he is a signatory to the said Will and nothing more or nothing less. 15. Mr. Rameshwar Prasad Goyal, learned counsel appearing for the respondents herein, have also contended that on account of non-traversing of the writ petition averments the contents thereof are to be presumed true and correct, though seems to be an attractive proposition at fi rst brush, it cannot be accepted for the simple reason that consent does not confer jurisdiction. Even otherwise, the records would clearly indicate that Manoj Kumar Jain himself had fi led an application, accompanied by affi davit before the Revisional Court in Civil Revision No.2 of 2010, stating thereunder that he would not press the application fi led by him for substitution and this was suffi cient for the High Court to have accepted the plea of the appellant or in other words, it should have sustained the of trial court and ed for appellant being brought on record as legal representative of deceased Urmila Devi. 16. At the cost of repetition, it requires to be noticed that respondents herein themselves having fi led an application in WP (M/S) No.342 of 2005 for bringing the present appellant (Yashpal Jain) as her legal representative in the writ petition (M/S) 342/2005 and prosecuted the same, would refl ect that they were in the acquaintance of the fact that present appellant being the legal representative of deceased Urmila Devi but yet are attempting to contend that Manoj Kumar Jain is to be brought on record as legal representative of Urmila Devi. In this background the impugned which has resulted in rejection of the application fi led by the appellant to be brought on record as legal representative of Urmila Devi if sustained would result in the estate of deceased plaintiff not being represented, as a consequence of which suit would abate or would be put to a silent death by the defendants without claim made in the suit being adjudicated on merits. Hence, point No. (i) is answered in favour of the appellant and against respondents and therefore, the impugned is set aside. YASHPAL JAIN v. SUSHILA DEVI & OTHERS 959 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.]