45. A Minster may make statements in two capacities: first, in his H personal capacity; second, in his official capacity and as a delegate of KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 793 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] the Government. It is a no brainer that in respect of the former category A of statements, no vicarious liability may be attributed to the Government itself. The latter category of statements may be traceable to any affair of the State or may be made with a view to protect the Government. If such statements are disparaging or derogatory and represent not only the personal views of the individual Minister making them, but also B embody the views of the Government, then, such statements can be attributed vicariously to the Government itself, especially in view of the principle of Collective Responsibility. In other words, if such views are endorsed not only in the statements made by an individual Minister, but are also reflective of the Government’s stance, such statements may be attributed vicariously to the Government. However, if such statements C are stray opinions of an individual Minister and are not consistent with the views of the Government, then they shall be attributable to the Minister personally and not to the Government. Therefore, Question No. 4 is answered as follows: D “A statement made by a Minister if traceable to any affairs of the State or for protecting the Government, can be attributed vicariously to the Government by invoking the principle of collective responsibility, so long as such statement represents the view of the Government also. If such a statement is not consistent with the view of the Government, then it is E attributable to the Minister personally.” Re: Question No. 5: Whether a statement by a Minister, inconsistent with the rights of a citizen under Part Three of the Constitution, constitutes a violation of such constitutional rights and is actionable as ‘Constitutional Tort’? F 46. While public law and private law are in theory, treated as analytically different, in practice, the divide between the two spheres is often blurred. As a result, ideas, concepts and devices from one sphere, influence the other. Such an intermingling has given rise to the doctrine of horizontal effects as discussed hereinabove, wherein a constitutional G directive or norm (Fundamental Right) is interpreted by Courts to apply between individuals. 47. Another concept which can be traced to the interaction between public law and private law is that of a Constitutional tort, which in essence attributes vicarious liability on the State for acts and omissions H 794 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A of its agents which result in violation of fundamental rights of an individual or group. A constitutional tort is a violation of one’s constitutional rights, particularly fundamental rights, by an agent of the government, acting in his/her official capacity. The alleged constitutional violation creates a cause of action that is distinct from any other available state tort remedy. It however, carries with it, the essential element of tort law, which seeks B to redress a harm or injury by awarding monetary compensation by a competent court of law.