It is apt to quote the following statement of O. Chinnappa Reddy, J. in Hind Stone [(1981) 2 SCC 205] (SCC p. 213, para 6) albeit in the context of minor mineral, “6. … The public interest which induced Parliament to make the declaration contained in Section 2 … has naturally to be the paramount consideration in all matters concerning the regulation of mines and the development of minerals”. He went on to say: (Hind Stone case [(1981) 2 SCC 205] , SCC p. 217, para 10) “10. … The statute with which we are concerned, the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, is aimed … at the conservation and the prudent and discriminating exploitation of minerals. Surely, in the case of a scarce mineral, to permit exploitation by the State or its agency and to prohibit exploitation by private agencies is the most eff ective method of conservation and prudent exploitation. If you want to conserve for the future, you must prohibit in the present.” (emphasis supplied) Legitimate Expectation 19. Legitimate expectation is a weak and sober right as ordained by a statute. When the Government decides to introduce fair play by way of auction facilitating all eligible persons to contest on equal terms, certainly one cannot contend that he is entitled for a lease merely on the basis of a pending application. The right being not legal, apart from being non-existent, it can certainly not be enforceable. The principle of law on these aspects, as settled decades ago in State of T.N. v. Hind Stone 14 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. (1981) 2 SCC 205, is being reiterated from time to time. Monnet Ispat & Energy Ltd. (supra) : - “Principles of legitimate expectation 183. As there are parallels between the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation because both these doctrines are founded on the concept of fairness and arise out of natural justice, it is appropriate that the principles of legitimate expectation are also noticed here only to appreciate the case of the appellants founded on the basis of the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation. xxx xxx xxx 188. It is not necessary to multiply the decisions of this Court. Suffi ce it to observe that the following principles in relation to the doctrine of legitimate expectation are now well established: xxx xxx xxx 188.3. Where the decision of an authority is founded in public interest as per executive policy or law, the court would be reluctant to interfere with such decision by invoking the doctrine of legitimate expectation. The legitimate expectation doctrine cannot be invoked to fetter changes in administrative policy if it is in the public interest to do so. 188.4. The legitimate expectation is diff erent from anticipation and an anticipation cannot amount to an assertable expectation. Such expectation should be justifi able, legitimate and protectable. 188.5. The protection of legitimate expectation does not require the fulfi lment of the expectation where an overriding public interest requires otherwise. In other words, personal benefi t must give way to public interest and the doctrine of legitimate expectation would not be invoked which could block public interest for private benefi t.” (emphasis supplied) THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS.