The learned Principal Sessions Judge passed a cryptic ignoring the clear non-compliance of Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002. 22. The outer limit of 15 days of custody to the police from the date of arrest has worked itself out. Therefore, no Court can extend it under any circumstance. The majority s did not apply the decision in CBI v. Anupam J. Kulkarni (1992) 3 SCC 141 as followed thereafter by this Court, in the correct perspective. Reliance upon CBI v. Vikas Mishra, (2023) 6 SCC 49 is misplaced, with the decisions of the larger Bench and the Co-ordinate Bench acting as binding precedents. A writ of Habeas Corpus is certainly maintainable in the present case in view of procedural non-compliance. Provisions of both the CrPC, 1973 and the PMLA, 2002 ought to be construed and interpreted strictly. There is a total non-application of mind on the part of the learned Principal Sessions Judge in passing the s of remand. 23. The High Court has committed an error in not appreciating the legislative scheme and the timeline in the light of Article 22 of the Constitution of India, 1950. Articles 21, 22 of the Constitution of India, 1950 and Section 167 of the CrPC, 1973 ought to be read harmoniously. It is not for the Courts to legislate to provide extension of the period of 15 days. The decision rendered in Directorate of Enforcement v. Deepak Mahajan, (1994) 3 SCC 440 actually enures to the benefi t of the appellant which the majority s failed to appreciate. Since the arrest was based upon the materials, over which a satisfaction was arrived at creating reasons to believe, the statute does not facilitate any more custodial interrogation. The appellant can very well be questioned and interrogated in prison. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENTS: 24. Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General, while repelling the contentions raised, made further submissions. 25. The writ petition, as fi led invoking Article 226 of the Constitution of India, 1950 is not maintainable. There was a legal arrest following which V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 867 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] the arrested person was forwarded to the learned Principal Sessions Judge. s were passed on merit, both for judicial custody and thereafter in favour of the respondents. The writ petition was fi led only challenging the arrest as illegal. When it was taken up on 15.06.2023 the accused was produced already. Thus, even on that day the prayer was not in subsistence. The respondents did not get the actual custody. The conditions attached are challenged before this Court. Even the appellant has stated in his arguments that he was not to be questioned during his so-called ailment in the hospital but was ready thereafter. The word “custody” cannot be given a restrictive meaning. The PMLA, 2002 is a special Act having its own distinct characteristics. It is a sui generis legislation. It provides for an elaborate mechanism for a thorough investigation through search, seizure and arrest.