H STATE OF GUJARAT AND ANR. v. M/s. SAW PIPES LTD. 487 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 3.13 In so far as the reliance placed on behalf of the assessee A upon the decision of this Court in the case of Dharamendra Textile Processors(supra)is concerned, it is submitted by Ms. Mehta, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State that the said decision also shall not be applicable to the facts of the case at hand, more particularly, considering the statutory provisions, namely, Section 45(6) and Section B 47(4A) of the Act. It is submitted that in the said case, this Court was considering Section 11AC of the Central Excise Act. That the Parliament in its wisdom has specifically incorporated the element of mens rea in Section 11AC by employing the words, “fraud, collusion or any wilful misrepresentation or any wilful misstatement or suppression of facts” and “intent to evade payment of duty”. It is submitted that only when an C intention is built into the provision and when the assessee’s intention is made relevant by the Parliament, can the courts interpret and go into the issue as to whether or not the evasion was bonafide or malafide. No such language is employed in Section 45(6) and Section 47(4A) of the Act, 1969. That a similar decision of this Court relied upon on behalf of D the assessee in the case of Commissioner of Central Excise, Chandigarh Vs. Pepsi Foods Ltd; (2011) 1 SCC 601 is misconceived and shall not be applicable to the facts of the case at hand since it interprets Section 11AC of Central Excise Act and the language of the provision at hand and that in Section 11AC is starkly opposite. E 3.14 Ms. Mehta, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State has further contended that even the reliance placed by the assessee upon the decision of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Jyoti Overseas P. Ltd. Vs. State of Gujarat; 2017 SCC Online Guj 2511:(2017) 6 GSTL 388, is also misconceived and shall not be applicable to the facts of the case at hand. It is submitted that in the said F case, the High Court was dealing with Section 34(7) of Gujarat VAT Act, in which the language used is “If the Commissioner is satisfied that the dealer, in to evade or avoid payment of tax…” That under the VAT Act, not only is the Commissioner vested with discretion but the said penalty provision is applicable specifically when the assessee has G an intention to “evade or avoid payment of tax.” That in the present case, the legislature in its wisdom imposed a liability of penalty and interest without reference to any requirement of mens rea on the part of the assessee. 3.15 Making the above submissions and relying upon the above decisions, it is prayed that the present appeal be allowed and the impugned H 488 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A and deleting the penalty and interest levied under Section 45(6) and Section 47(4A) of the Act, 1969 be quashed and set aside.