of the shareholder/joint shareholders, it is contended that the intent is clear that such nomination would trump any disposition, whether testamentary or otherwise. 15.3 It is further contended that S. 187C & S. 109A(3) of the Companies Act, 1956 have to be read together, to mean that shares shall ‘vest’ with the nominee to the exclusion of all other persons unless nomination is varied or cancelled. It is argued that S. 187C itself provides for the mechanism to vary the nomination by making appropriate declaration and therefore, these provisions are to be understood as complete codes within themselves. When read together, no declaration varying the nomination would imply that the intention was to grant benefi cial ownership of the shares to the appellants through a mechanism of nomination of rights. As Mr. Jayant S. Salgaonkar’s Will had categorically mentioned all other properties of the deceased except the shares for which the appellants were named as nominees, the implication is naturally that the ownership rights of such shares would pass on to the nominees after the death of the testator i.e., the appellants’ grandfather. 15.4 The learned counsel for appellants would then refer to Bye-law 9.11 of the Depositories Act, 1996 which provides for transmission of securities in case of nomination. Within the provision, the presence of a non- obstante clause would reasonably imply that the eff ect of nomination under the said bye-law is that it would vest in the nominee a complete title of the shares notwithstanding anything contained in the testamentary disposition(s) or nomination(s) made under other laws dealing with securities. 15.5 In addition, it is argued that the nomination for shares i.e., Form SH-13 provided under Rule 19(1) of the Companies (Share Capital & Debentures) Rules, 2014 indicates that the shareholder or joint shareholder may nominate one or more persons as nominee in whom all rights of the holder shall vest. Since such nomination can also be in the favour of a third party or a minor (who can never be a trustee or executor), it is argued that the legislature under the Companies Act intended to give complete ownership to the nominee. 15.6 Mr. Bhandari then refers to Regulation 29A of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, by virtue of which an asset management company is required to provide the option to its unit holder to nominate a person in whom all rights of the units shall vest in the event of the death of the unit SHAKTI YEZDANI & ANR. v. JAYANAND JAYANT 707 SALGAONKAR & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] holder. It is contended that when a joint shareholder cannot make any change to the nomination without the consent of the other joint shareholder (since such shares continue in the ownership of the remaining shareholders in the event of the death of one of the shareholders), the same cannot be done by way of a Will or testamentary disposition or law of succession either. 15.7 Therefore, as per Mr. Bhandari, the interpretation accorded by the High Court is not in sync with the developments of law intended by insertion of S. 109A & S. 109B to the Companies Act, 1956.