This, however, was subject to any F law made by Parliament. It may be true that there is equality otherwise, which exists between the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners in various matters dealt with under the Act. However, Article 324 is inoperable without the Chief Election Commissioner. Even on a plain reading of Article G 324(5), this Court is of the view that in regard to the prayer that the Election Commissioner must be accorded the same protection as is given to the Chief Election Commissioner, the argument appears to be untenable. The first proviso to Article 324(5) protects the Chief Election Commissioner alone from removal H 10 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A by providing for protection as is accorded to a Judge of the Supreme Court of India. It is still further more important to notice that the first proviso interdicts varying of the conditions of service of the Chief Election Commissioner to his disadvantage after the appointment. It is, thereafter, that the second proviso appears. The second proviso exclusively deals with any other Election B Commissioner, inter alia. The word ‘any other Election Commissioner’ has been provided to distinguish him from the Chief Election Commissioner. Therefore, for the Election Commissioners other than the Chief Election Commissioner, the protection which is clearly envisaged, as against his removal is C only that it can be effected only with the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner. In the context of the provision, the words ‘provided further’ cannot be perceived as an additional protection to the Election Commissioner. It is intended only to be a standalone provision, specifically meant to deal with the categories of persons mentioned therein. This Court would think D that no more need be said and reject the contention. However, in the light of the fact that Election Commissioners have become part of the Election Commission, perhaps on the basis of the volume of work that justifies such an appointment and also the need to have a multi-Member team otherwise, it is for Parliament E acting in the constituent capacity to consider whether it would be advisable to extend the protection to the Election Commissioners so as to safeguard and ensure the independence of the Election Commissioners as well. This goes also as regards variation of service conditions after appointment. [Para 233][179-C-D, G; 180- A-B, B-E, G-H; 181-A] F 12. There cannot be any doubt that the Election Commission of India is to perform the arduous and unenviable task of remaining aloof from all forms of subjugation by and interference from the Executive. One of the ways, in which, the Executive can bring an otherwise independent Body to its knees, is by starving G it off or cutting off the requisite financial wherewithal and resources required for its efficient and independent functioning. This Court must bear in mind that to elevate it to a constitutional provision and protection thereunder, maybe a matter, which must engage the attention of the Constituent Body. This is again a matter which can also be provided by way of a law by Parliament.