Arbitration clauses are uniformly regarded in almost every jurisdiction as separate from and not “an integral part” of the parties’ underlying contract. It is regarded as a general principle B reflected in International Arbitration Conventions, national arbitration legislations, judicial decisions, institutional arbitration rules and arbitral awards72. The early statutory recognition of the separability doctrine has also been recognized in United States with the separability presumption being a matter of substantive federal arbitration law.73 C Even in English law, the principle of separability stands codified under Section 7 of the English Arbitration Act, 1996. It has been identified as one of the cornerstones of arbitration in multiple jurisdictions. 81.2 The argument advanced by the learned Counsel, Gagan Sanghi for the Appellants that the doctrine of separability is a legal fiction, should D not be accepted in light of the well-established jurisprudence in India as this doctrine has been consistently upheld by this Court74. Moreover, it stands codified in Section 16(1) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which reads as under: “16(1) The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, E including ruling on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement, and for that purpose, – (i) an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract; and F (ii) a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause.” G 71 Union of India v Kishorilal Gupta & Bros (1959) 1 SCR 493 72 Supra at note 70; Page 379-380. 73 Buckeye Check Cashing Inc. v. Cardegna, 2006 SCC OnLine US SC 14 74 National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing federation India Ltd. v Gains Trading Limited (2007) 5 SCC 692; Naihati Jute Mills Ltd. v Khayaliram Jagannath AIR 1968 SC 522; P Manohar Reddy & Bros. v. Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation & Ors (2009) 2 SCC 494 H 480 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 81.3This Court in NN Global(supra) discussed s in US,UK and France, noting the importance of this principle in modern and contemporary arbitral jurisprudence: “4. It is well settled in arbitration jurisprudence that an arbitration agreement is a distinct and separate agreement, which is B independent from the substantive commercial contract in which it is embedded. This is based on the premise that when parties enter into a commercial contract containing an arbitration clause, they are entering into two separate agreements viz. (i) the substantive contract which contains the rights and obligations of the parties arising from the commercial transaction; and, (ii) the arbitration C agreement which contains the binding obligation of the parties to resolve their disputes through the mode of arbitration.” 81.4 My learned Brother, Justice K.M. Joseph in the majority D opinion notes that the entire basis of the reference stands removed since we are proceeding on the basis that even a standalone arbitration agreement is liable to stamp duty.