C 17. This Court in Kartar Singh Vs. State of Punjab, (1994) 3 SCC 569, has, in no uncertain terms, observed that a claim for pre- arrest protection is neither a statutory right nor a right guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 21 resply of the Constitution of India. Although the Constitution Bench of this Court held that there is no bar for the High D Court to entertain an application for pre-arrest protection under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, yet it was held that such power should be exercised sparingly. There is a fundamental distinction between a petition for anticipatory bail and the writ of mandamus directing an officer not to effect arrest. A writ of mandamus would lie only to compel the performance of the statutory or other duties. No writ of mandamus would E lie to prevent an officer from performing his statutory function. When a writ application is filed before the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution, the writ court owes a duty to examine the fact of the case and ascertain whether the case of the writ applicant falls under the category of exceptional cases as indicated in Kartar Singh (supra). F The writ court should also ensure whether by issuing the writ of mandamus, it would be preventing the competent authority or proper officer from performing any of their statutory functions. 18. In the aforesaid context, we may refer to a Division Bench decision of the High Court of Telangana which ultimately came to be G affirmed by this Court in the Special Leave Petition (Crl.) No. 4430 of 2019 dated 27.05.2019. We are referring to a decision in the case of P.V. Ramana Reddy Vs. Union of India Writ Petition Nos. 4764 of 2019 and allied petitions decided on 18th April, 2019. There are few important observations made by the High Court and we are in complete agreement with the said observations. The observations of the High H THE STATE OF GUJARAT ETC. v. CHOODAMANI 1145 PARMESHWARAN IYER & ANR. ETC. Court fell in the context of certain incongruities noticed in Section 69(1) A and Section 132 resply of the CGST Act, 2017. We quote the relevant observations hereunder:- “34. If CGST Act, 2017 is a complete code in itself in respect of (1) the acts that constitute offences, (2) the procedure for prosecution and (3) the punishment upon conviction, then B the power of Commissioner, who is not a Police Officer, to the arrest of a person should also emanate from prescription contained in the Act itself. Section 69(1) of CGST Act, 2017 very clearly delineates the power of the Commissioner to the arrest of a person whom he has C reasons to believe, to have committed an offence which is cognizable and non-bailable. Therefore, we do not know how a person whom the Commissioner believes to have committed an offence specified in clauses (f) to (l) of sub-Section (1) of Section 132 of CGST Act, which are non-cognizable and bailable, could be arrested at all, since Section 69(1) of the D CGST Act, 2017 does not confer power of arrest in such cases.