A Judge of the Supreme Court under Chapter IV of the Supreme Court Judges (Conditions of Service) Act, 1958 (41 of 1958) and the rules made thereunder, shall, so far as may be, apply to the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners.” 65. Under Section 9, the business of the Election Commissioner is B to be transacted in accordance with the 1991 Act. Section 10 provides for disposal of business by Election Commission, it reads as follows: “10. Disposal of business by Election Commission. — (1) The Election Commission may, by unanimous decision, regulate the procedure for transaction of its business as also allocation of its C business amongst the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners. (2) Save as provided in sub-section (1), all business of the Election Commission shall, as far as possible, be transacted unanimously. (3) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), if the Chief Election D Commissioner and other Election Commissioners differ in opinion on any matter, such matter shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority.” 66. In the year 1993, the Government of India constituted, what is known as the ‘Vohra Committee’. It made certain recommendations in E regard to the CBI and the IB. Five years thereafter, in 1998, Government of India appointed a Committee under the Chairmanship of Shri Indrajit Gupta Committee on State funding of elections. The Committee submitted its Report in December, 1998. The conclusion and summary of the recommendations are found in Chapter 9 and they include various recommendations relating to funding of political parties. F 67. In the year 2002, a National Commission for reviewing the work of the Constitution, under the Chairmanship of the Former Chief Justice of India, M.N. Venkatachaliah, made 58 recommendations involving amendments to the Constitution, 86 recommendations relating to legislative measures and the rest involved Executive action. In relation G to electoral processes and political parties, various recommendations were made by the Commission. One of the recommendations, which is of relevance to the cases before us is as follows: “The Chief Election Commissioner and the other Election Commissioners should be appointed on the recommendation of a H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 77 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Body consisting of the Prime Minister, Leader of the Opposition A in the Lok Sabha, the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, the Speaker of the Lok Sabha and the Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha. It was further recommended that similar procedure should be adopted in the case of appointment of the State Election Commissioners.” B 68. In the year 2004, the Election Commission of India, on 02.08.2004 made certain proposal on electoral reforms to the Government of India. The proposals included affidavits to be filed by candidates on criminal antecedents, their assets, etc. The aspect about criminalisation of politics is noted as an issue being raised by the Commission from C 1998 onwards. The Commission was of the opinion that keeping a person accused of a serious criminal charge and where the Court had framed charges, out of the electoral arena, would be a reasonable restriction in greater public interest.