1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh only). Consequently, Notifi cation No. S.O. 1994 dated 01.05.2023 was published by the Lok Sabha Secretariat in the Gazette of India, disqualifying the Appellant from membership in the Lok Sabha, eff ective from the date of his conviction on 29.04.2023. 3.5. The Appellant thereafter preferred Criminal Appeal No. 5295/2023 under Section 374(2) of the CrPC before the High Court, challenging the and of his conviction and sentence dated 29.04.2023 (hereinafter ‘First Criminal Appeal’). He also fi led an application under Section 389(1) of the CrPC, seeking inter alia, (i) suspension of the sentence awarded by the judgement and dated 29.04.2023 and his release on bail, during pendency of the First Criminal Appeal; (ii) stay of the eff ect and operation of the judgement and dated 29.04.2023; and (iii) stay of realisation of fi ne during pendency of the appeal. 3.6. As noticed earlier, the High Court has partially allowed the application fi led by the Appellant. The execution of the sentence has been stayed and bail has been granted but stay on conviction has been declined. The instant appeal is thus confi ned to the Appellant’s prayer for the stay of his conviction, during the pendency of his Criminal Appeal before the High Court. AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 977 [SURYA KANT, J.] CONTENTIONS OF PARTIES 4. We have heard Learned Senior Counsel for the parties at a considerable length and perused the documents brought on record. 5. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned Senior Counsel for the Appellant, argued that the High Court erred in not granting suspension of the conviction, especially in light of the fact that disqualifi cation from membership of the Parliament, leads to irreversible consequences such as: (a) the loss of the next six months as Member of the Parliament in the Lok Sabha; and (b) disqualifi cation from contesting elections for a total period of ten years. He further contended that such a disqualifi cation would not only result in the Appellant losing his right to represent his constituency but would also rob his constituency of its representation before the Parliament. Learned Senior Counsel also highlighted the infi rmities in the impugned of the High Court in denying stay of conviction, along with the material contradictions in the prosecution case against the Appellant. 6. Dr. Singhvi lent support to his contentions by citing decisions of this Court in Naranbhai Khikhabhai Kachchadia v. State of Gujarat1 and Lok Prahari through General Secretary v. Election Commission of India and others,2 among others. 7. Mr. K.M. Nataraj, learned Additional Solicitor General, representing the State of UP, strongly contested the prayer for suspension of conviction on the ground that the Appellant having been convicted under Section 3(1) of the UP Gangster Act, with a sentence of more than two years under the said Act, automatically suff ered disqualifi cation by virtue of Section 8 of RPA. He underscored the contention that the stay or suspension of conviction under S. 389(1) of the CrPC is to be granted as an exception and not as a rule.