He denies the suggestion that he had actually not seen the appellant escaping from the spot as it was a dark night. He then admits that the Sarpanch had accompanied him to the Police Station. Then he explains the delay in reaching the Police F Station as, according to him, he first went to Baya Chowki and then from there, he went to Kasdol Police Station. He denies the suggestion that he actually did not see the appellant and had falsely implicated him. 13. PW-2 is Sukhnantin Bai. She is wife of PW-1 Vijay Kumar. She states that on the fateful day at about 07.30PM when she was at G her home, she heard the voice of her nephew Jagat that Shatrughan has assaulted him. On hearing the said shout, her husband Vijay Kumar went out and thereafter she followed. When she reached the place of occurrence, her nephew was lying in the lane and the appellant was not there. She states in her cross-examination that there was a H 766 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A complaint against Sarpanch. She also admits that there was no dispute between the deceased and the appellant. She also admits that her nephew had helped Shatrughan and Rajendra in that complaint against the Sarpanch as a result the Sarpanch had to give a public apology. B 14. PW-3 is Kirantin Bai, widow of the deceased. She only states that her husband was murdered about 5-6 months ago. Her mother-in- law informed her that the appellant had assaulted her husband with a Tabbal. She also states that the deceased was not in a position to talk when she saw him lying on the lane and thereafter, he was taken away by the relatives. No cross-examination has been done from C this witness. 15. PW-4 is Yashoda Kumari, daughter of PW-1, Vijay Kumar. She stated that she only heard the deceased shouting that Shatrughan had assaulted. Upon hearing the same, first her father went out, then her mother went out and then she came out and saw that there was an D injury on the neck of the deceased. In the cross-examination, she admits that there was no enmity between the deceased and the appellant. She also admits that her house is across the lane about two houses away from the frontage of Chandu’s house. She admits that there was no light at the time when she had come out and it was dark. She also E admits the suggestion that house of Firtu Ram is closest to Chandu Lal’s house and her house is little away. She also states that there was no one else at the time when she came out and she had not seen the appellant. 16. PW-5 is Lakhan Kumar son of Chetan Lal. He is a witness of F the inquest and also of the recovery of the weapon of the assault and the cycle of the appellant. He has proved the recovery memos Ex-P3, Ex- P4, Ex-P5, Ex-P6 and Ex-P7.