That one has to read the entire conspectus of the provisions of Sec 245C to interpret the true meaning of “income not disclosed before the Assessing Offi cer.” That the statute is clear that the said phrase simply means income not disclosed in the return and not something additionally by way of income discovered in scrutiny. ii. The Commission further noted that the appellant had realized while adhering to the RBI guidelines of accounting of lease income that there was an error in not disclosing the full lease rental receipts as per income tax law. Thus, the appellant off ered additional income for tax under various heads, which were not considered by the Assessing Offi cer. Considering the nature and circumstances and the complexities of the investigation involved, the Commission was of the view that the application was to be proceeded with under Section 245D (1) of the Act and that prima- facie, a full and true disclosure of income not disclosed before the Assessing Offi cer had been made by the appellant. 2.10. Being aggrieved by the dated 04.03.2008 passed by the Settlement Commission, the Respondent-Revenue preferred Writ Petition bearing No. 12239 of 2008 (T-IT) before the High Court of Karnataka assailing the said . The learned Single Judge of the High Court vide dated 20.05.2010 upheld the of the Settlement Commission as regards the jurisdiction to entertain the application and also as regards the correctness of the passed by the Settlement Commission in determining the tax liability, but found fault with the Commission in so far KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. COMMISSIONER OF 9 INCOME TAX BANGALORE [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] as granting immunity to the appellant from the levy of penalty and initiation of prosecution was concerned. The Single Judge was of the view that the reasoning of the Settlement Commission was vague, unsound and contrary to established principles and that the burden was on the appellant herein to prove that there was no concealment or wilful neglect on its part and in the absence of such evidence before the Settlement Commission, the granting immunity from penalty and prosecution was an illegal . The learned Single Judge, thus, remanded the matter to the Settlement Commission for the limited purpose of reconsidering the question of immunity from levy of penalty and prosecution and the of the Assessing Offi cer levying penalty, after providing an opportunity to both parties. 2.11. Being aggrieved by the remand passed by the learned Single Judge, the appellant preferred Writ Appeal No. 2458 of 2018 before a Division Bench of the High Court, contending as under: i. That the reasoning given by the learned Single Judge to remand the matter for fresh consideration was erroneous and against the provisions of the Act. That the learned Single Judge failed to appreciate that the s passed by the Settlement Commission are conclusive except as otherwise provided in Chapter XIX-A of the Act. The s passed by the Settlement Commission are fi nal as to the matters stated therein, subject to constitutional remedies.