A responsible for bomb blasts in the country and Babri Masjid demolition.” (emphasis supplied) 89. In 2014, when security clearance was again sought by MBL for uplinking and downlinking TV Channels Media-One Life and Media B One Global, IB submitted a report stating that fresh enquiries corroborated the issues that were flagged earlier. The fresh enquiries were based on a ‘scrutiny of the contents of programmes aired in the recent past by Media One TV’. On a scrutiny of the contents of the programmes that were telecast by Media One, IB opined that Media-One: (i) tends to C propagate the ideology of JEI-H; (ii) portrays security forces and intelligence agencies of India in bad light; (iii) is overcritical of Government policies, especially vis-a-vis its handling of law and issues involving minorities and militancy’. 90. MHA sought fresh comments from IB after receiving the above report. In the subsequent report, IB made three findings. Firstly, D that the major source of funding for MBL is through shares in which JEI/H cadres and sympathizers have reportedly invested. IB submitted a comprehensive list of shareholders who have invested in MBL. We have not extracted the list of the shareholders to protect their privacy and confidentiality. Secondly, that enquiries have confirmed that Media E One airs provocative programmes such as: (i) On 5 August 2015, the channel reportedly made attempts to denigrate the Indian Judiciary for alleged adoption of double standards in dealing with terrorism related cases; (ii) It blames US and Israel for the misery of the Muslims across the world; and (iii) a publication of MBL ‘Prabodhanam Weekly’, propagates fundamental Islamic viewpoint through its editorials. F 91. On 24 July 2014, a CoO recommended that security clearance may be denied with respect to the proposals to uplink and downlink ‘Media-One Life’ and ‘Media One Global’, and security clearance maybe withdrawn to MBL based on the adverse remarks by IB in 2011 and 2014. MHA sought fresh comments and multiple CoO meetings were G held to discuss the same. On 26 August 2015, MIB granted permission to uplink and downlink ‘Media One Life’. 92. However, on 22 January 2015, CoO recommended denial of security clearance to two proposals (A) to Uplink/downlink non-news and current affairs TV channel Media-One Life and Media-One Global; H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 665 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (B) for the appointment of two directors. However, it was noted that the A security clearance granted in 2011 may not be withdrawn. The minutes of the meeting of CoO notes as follows: “The MHA had issued policy guidelines for assessment of proposal for national security on 30.6.2015 which clearly prescribe security relating parameter for assessment of proposals. The CoO felt B that adverse inputs against the company and its Directors are serious in nature (linkage with radical organization) and falls under security rating parameters mentioned in Sl No. 13 of Ministry of Home Affairs Policy guidelines issued vide OM dated 30.6.2015. Further, CoO observed that the policy mandates that the security C clearance granted by the MHA will usually have prospective effect unless otherwise decided by the Ministry concerned in the discharge of its mandate.