5. The terms of this my Instrument of Accession shall not be varied by any amendment of the Act or of the Indian Independence Act, 1947 unless such amendment is accepted by me by an Instrument supplementary to this Instrument. 6. Nothing in this Instrument shall empower the Dominion Legislature to make any law for this state authorizing the compulsory acquisition of land for any purpose, but I hereby undertake that should the Dominion for the purposes of a Dominion law which applies in this State deem it necessary to acquire any land, I will at their request acquire the land at their expense or if the land belongs to me transfer it to them on such terms as may be agreed, or, in default of agreement, determined by an arbitrator to be appointed by the Chief Justice of India. 7. Nothing in this Instrument shall be deemed to commit me in any way to acceptance of any future constitution of India or to fetter my discretion to enter into arrangements with the Government of India under any such future constitution. 8. Nothing in this Instrument aff ects the continuance of my sovereignty in and over this State, or, save as provided by or under this Instrument, the exercise of any powers, authority and rights now enjoyed by me as Ruler of this State or the validity of any law at present in force in this State. 306 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 9. I hereby declare that I execute this Instrument on behalf of this State and that any reference in this Instrument to me or to the Ruler of the State is to be construed as including a reference to my heirs and successors. Given under my hand this 26th day of OCTOBER Nineteen hundred and forty seven. Sd/- Hari Singh Maharajadhiraj of Jammu and Kashmir State. I do hereby accept this Instrument of Accession. Dated this twenty seventh day of October, Nineteen hundred and forty seven. Sd/- Mountabatten of Burma, Governor-General of India. SCHEDULE Tඁൾ ආൺඍඍൾඋඌ ඐංඍඁ උൾඌඉൾർඍ ඍඈ ඐඁංർඁ ඍඁൾ Dඈආංඇංඈඇ Lൾ඀ංඌඅൺඍඎඋൾ ආൺඒ ආൺ඄ൾ අൺඐඌ ൿඈඋ ඍඁංඌ Sඍൺඍൾ A. Defence 1. The naval, military and air forces of the Dominion and any other armed force raised or maintained by the Dominion; any armed forces, including forces raised or maintained by an Acceding State, which are attached to, or operating with, the armed forces of the Dominion. 2. Naval, military and air force works, administration of cantonment areas. 3. Arms; fi rearms; ammunition. 4. Explosives. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 307 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] B. External Aff airs 1. External aff airs; the implementing of treaties and agreements with other countries; extradition, including the surrender of criminals and accused persons to parts of His Majesty’s dominions outside India. 2. Admission into, and emigration and expulsion from, India, including in relation thereto the regulation of the movements in India of persons who are not British subjects domiciled in India or subjects of any acceding State; pilgrimages to places beyond India.