114. On one hand, it is the submission of the DISCOMS that since there is no description of the same in the PPAs, the rate for granting carrying cost should be a reasonable rate. On the contrary, it is the submission of the Generators that there is a specific provision in the D PPAs, which provides that the carrying cost has to be paid at the rate as per the rate specified for late payment surcharge. It is submitted that this is provided in the PPA so as to give effect to the restitutionary principle. 115. For considering the rival submissions, it will be apposite to E refer to the following Articles, which are almost common in most of the PPAs. “11. Billing and payment.— *** F 11.3. Payment of monthly bills.— *** 11.3.4. In the event of delay in payment of a monthly bill by any procurer beyond its due date, a late payment surcharge shall be payable by the procurer to the seller at the rate of two (2) per G cent in excess of the applicable SBAR per annum, on the amount of outstanding payment, calculated on a day to day basis (and compounded with monthly rest), for each day of the delay. *** H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 223 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 11.8. Payment of supplementary bill.— A 11.8.1. Either party may raise a bill on the other party (“supplementary bill”) for payment on account of: (i) Adjustments required by the Regional Energy Account (if applicable); B (ii) Tariff payment for change in parameters, pursuant to provisions in Schedule 5; or (iii) Change in law as provided in Article 13 and such Bill shall be paid by the other party. *** C 11.8.3. In the event of delay in payment of a supplementary bill by either party beyond one month from the date of billing, a late payment surcharge shall be payable at same terms applicable to the monthly bill in Article 11.3.4.” D 116. A perusal of Article 11.3.4 of the PPA would reveal that in the event of delay in payment of a monthly bill by any procurer beyond its due date, a late payment surcharge shall be payable by the procurer to the seller at the rate of 2% in excess of the applicable State Bank Advance Rate (“SBAR” for short) per annum, on the amount of outstanding payment, calculated on a day to day basis (and compounded E with monthly rest), for each day of the delay. Article 11.8 of the PPA deals with Payment of Supplementary Bill. It enables either party to raise a supplementary bill on the other party for payment on account of certain events. Clause (iii) of Article 11.8.1 of the PPA deals with ‘Change in Law’ as provided in Article 13. It requires the bill to be paid by the F other party. Article 11.8.3 of the PPA also provides that in the event of delay in payment of a supplementary bill by either party beyond one month from the date of billing, a late payment surcharge shall be payable at same terms applicable to the monthly bill in Article 11.3.4.