The defence D that the arbitral award is in conflict with the Public Policy of India itself can be a ground to set aside the award in view of section 34(2)(b) of the Act. Therefore, the aforesaid submission has no substance. 11. Now the next question fell for consideration is, whether the present case is such an exceptional case that it is necessary to grant E opportunity to the respondents to file affidavits and adduce evidence and whether any case is made out for the same. From the affidavit, which is sought to be placed in the proceedings under Section 34 of the Act, it is seen that the respondents want to place on record the communication from the appropriate authority by which F the application for amalgamation of the plots is rejected. At this stage, it is required to be noted that the arbitral tribunal has passed the decree for specific performance of the contract/agreement, subject to the amalgamation of the plots. Therefore, it is the case on behalf of the respondents that in view of the refusal of the permission by the G appropriate authority to amalgamate the plots, the case falls under section 34(2)(b), namely, that the dispute is not capable of settlement under the law for the time being in force and that the arbitral award is in conflict with the Public Policy of India, namely, against the relevant land laws. The event of refusal to amalgamate the plots is subsequent to the passing of the award and therefore naturally the same shall not be forming part H 1008 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A of the record of the arbitral tribunal. Even otherwise, it is required to be noted that the award of the arbitral tribunal was an ex- parte award and no evidence was before the arbitral tribunal on behalf of the respondents. We are not opining on whether the arbitral tribunal was justified in proceeding with the further proceedings ex-parte or not. Suffice it to record that before the arbitral tribunal, such evidence was not there and B nothing was on record on the amalgamation of the plots. The affidavit thus discloses specific document and the evidence requires to be produced. In that view of the matter, a strong exceptional case is made out by the respondents to permit them to file affidavits/ adduce additional evidence. However, at the same time, the appellant C also can be permitted to cross-examine and/or produce contrary evidence. 12. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, we are of the opinion that the High Court has not committed any error in permitting the respondents to file affidavits/additional evidence in the proceedings under section 34 of the Arbitration Act. D 13. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the present appeal fails and the same deserves to be dismissed and is accordingly dismissed. However, it is observed that the appellant herein may also be permitted to cross-examine and/or lead contrary evidence including the permission for clubbing khatas where there are nalas as it E is the case of the appellant that thereafter the corporation vide endorsement dated 28.6.2004 has agreed to consider clubbing of khatas.