A 5.5 Now, so far as the offence under Section 420 of the IPC is concerned, “whoever cheats and thereby dishonestly induces the person deceived to deliver any property to any person,……………” shall be said to have committed the offence of cheating and shall be punished. Cheating is defined under Section 415 IPC, which reads as under:- B 415. Cheating.—Whoever, by deceiving any person, fraudulently or dishonestly induces the person so deceived to deliver any property to any person, or to consent that any person shall retain any property, or intentionally induces the person so deceived to do or omit to do anything which he would not do or C omit if he were not so deceived, and which act or omission causes or is likely to cause damage or harm to that person in body, mind, reputation or property, is said to “cheat”. Explanation.—A dishonest concealment of facts is a deception within the meaning of this section.” D 5.6 Looking to the averments and allegations in the complaint, it is not appreciable at all, how the appellants are alleged to have committed the offence of cheating. The ingredients for the offence of cheating are not at all satisfied. There is no question of deceiving any person, fraudulently or dishonestly to deliver any property to E any person……… Therefore, even on bare reading of the averments and allegations in the complaint, no case even remotely for the offence under Section 420 IPC is made out. 5.7 Now, so far as the offence under Section 465 is concerned. As per Section 465, “whoever commits forgery shall be punished F for the offence under Section 465”. Forgery is defined under Section 463, which reads as under:- “463.Forgery.—Whoever makes any false documents or false electronic record or part of a document or electronic record, with intent to cause damage or injury, to the public or G to any person, or to support any claim or title, or to cause any person to part with property, or to enter into any express or implied contract, or with intent to commit fraud or that fraud may be committed, commits forgery.” 5.8 Therefore, as per Section 463, “whoever makes any false H documents, with intent to cause damage or injury, to the public or SHRI SUKHBIR SINGH BADAL v. BALWANT SINGH KHERA 933 AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] to any person, or to support any claim or title, or to cause any A person to part with property, or to enter into any express or implied contract, or with intent to commit fraud or that fraud may be committed”, he is said to have committed the offence of forgery. Making a false document is defined under Section 464 IPC. Therefore, for the offence of forgery, there must be making of a B false document with intent to cause damage or injury to the public or to any person. Therefore, making the false documents is sine qua non. Identical question came to be considered by this Court in the case of Mohammed Ibrahim & Ors.