It has accordingly been held by F this Court in Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras [1950 SCC 436 1950 SCR 594] that under the Constitution this Court is constituted the protector and guarantor of fundamental rights and it cannot, consistently with the responsibility so laid upon it, refuse to entertain applications seeking the protection of G this Court against infringement of such rights, although such applications are made to this Court in the first instance without resort to a High Court having concurrent jurisdiction in the matter. The mere existence of an adequate alternative legal 3 (2017) 10 SCC 1 4 1959 Supp (2) SCR 316 H 834 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A remedy cannot per se be a good and sufficient ground for throwing out a petition under Article 32, if the existence of a fundamental right and a breach, actual or threatened, of such right is alleged and is prima facie established on the petition.” 14.It is also pertinent to note that the relief of statutory bail under B Section 167(2) of the Cr.PC, in our opinion, is a fundamental right directly flowing from Article 21 of the Constitution of India, and the violation of such a right, as mentioned above, directly attracts consideration under Article 32 of the Constitution. In such circumstance, we are not inclined to agree with the preliminary objections raised by the learned counsel for the respondent regarding the maintainability of this petition under C Article 32 of the Constitution and the said objection, therefore, stands rejected. ANALYSIS 15.Before we deal with the issues framed, we find it pertinent to mention that in the present case, this Court is not dealing with the merits D of the case and as such is not inclined to make any observations regarding the same. Every court, when invoked to exercise its powers, must be mindful of the relief sought, and must act as a forum confined to such relief. In the present case at hand, this Court is not a court of appeal, but a court of writ, and therefore is inclined to limit its jurisdiction only to the E personal liberty of the writ petitioner’s husband and the impugned points of law. 16.For the purpose of deciding the issues framed by us, we deem it appropriate to trace the history of the provision of default bail, and the reasons which led the legislature to incorporate the existing provisions in F the new statute. Under Section 167 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, which was the Act that governed criminal procedure before the enactment of CrPC presently in force, an accused, either under judicial or police custody, could be remanded only for a maximum period of 15 days. For a ready reference Section 167 of the 1898 Code is being reproduced herein:- G “Procedure when investigation cannot be completed in twenty- four hours. - (1) Whenever any person is arrested and detained in custody, and it appears that the investigation cannot be completed within the period of twenty-four hours fixed by H RITU CHHABARIA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS.