[Paras 127 and 128][663-F-H; 664-A-B] 4. Taking overall view of the matter, it is clear that permitting redensification in Phase-I, which has heritage value, B on account of being “Corbusian Chandigarh”, without the same being approved by the Heritage Committee, is contrary to the Committee for Chandigarh Master Plan, 2031 (CMP-2031) itself. The CMP-2031 on one hand does not permit apartmentalization, however, on the other hand, it estimates the number of dwelling C units to be triple of the plots available. Though on account of repeal of the 2001 Rules in the year 2007 and on account of Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules, the High Court itself holds that apartmentalization is not permissible; it goes on to hold that though the developers/builders are in effect indulging into D construction of three apartments in a building, the same does not amount to apartmentalization. This would amount to permitting something indirectly which is not permitted directly. The authorities of the Chandigarh Administration are blindly sanctioning building plans, when from the building plans itself it E is apparent that the same are in effect converting one dwelling unit into three apartments. Such a haphazard growth may adversely affect the heritage status of Phase-I of Chandigarh which is sought to be inscribed as a UNESCO’s heritage city. [Para 153][671-B-E] F 5. The Committee for Chandigarh Master Plan, 2031 (CMP- 2031) itself, at more than one place, states that Chandigarh has been planned as a green city with abundance of open space and to ensure that every dwelling has its adequate share of the three G elements of Sun, Space and Verdure. The fragmentation/ apartmentalization of single dwelling units in Phase-I of Chandigarh will injure the ‘Lungs’ of the city as conceptualized by Le Corbusier. This Court is therefore inclined to issue certain directions so as to ensure that the issue regarding H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 605 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH apartmentalization is first examined by the Heritage Committee A so as to preserve the heritage status of Corbusian Chandigarh. This Court is also inclined to direct the Chandigarh Administration to take steps for amending the CMP-2031 and the Chandigarh Building Rules (Urban), 2017 after the issue has been addressed by the Heritage Committee. However, such B important issues cannot be left only to the discretion of the Chandigarh Administration. It is therefore necessary to direct that after the Chandigarh Administration takes decision to amend the provisions, the same shall be placed before the Central Government for its consideration and final decision. For C protecting the heritage status of Corbusian Chandigarh, it is necessary to exercise powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India and issue certain directions. [Paras 160 and 164][673-B-C; 674-E-G] D 6. In view of Rule 14 of the Chandigarh (Sale of Sites and Building) Rules, 1960, Rule 16 of the Chandigarh Estate Rules, 2007 and the repeal of the Chandigarh Apartment Rules, 2001, fragmentation/division/bifurcation/ apartmentalization of a residential unit in Phase-I of Chandigarh is prohibited.