105.05 crore (deposited by the Auction Purchaser/appellant herein) in a “No Lien Interest Bearing Account” and if the borrowers pay the balance amount of Rs. 104 crore to the Respondent Bank by 31.8.2023 (which it has), then the Respondent Bank shall refund the amount of Rs. 105.05 Crores deposited by the Auction Purchaser together with the accrued interest on or before 7.9.2023. e. The High Court correctly interpreted Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act. The right of redemption is nowhere mentioned in the SARFAESI Act and in such circumstances, Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (for short, ‘the Act 1882’) should be looked into. Section 60 of the Act 1882 has been interpreted to reserve the right of mortgagor to redeem the property till the stage of the same being conveyed /transferred to a third party. f. The aforesaid interpretation is discernible from the decision of this Court in the case of Narandas Karsondas v. S.A. Kamtam and Another reported in 1977 (3) SCC 247, wherein it has been held that: “34. The right of redemption which is embodied in Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act is available to the mortgagor unless it has been extinguished by the act of parties. The combined eff ect of Section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act and Section 17 of the Indian Registration Act is that a contract for sale in respect of immovable property of the value of more than one hundred rupees without registration cannot extinguish the equity of redemption. In India it is only on execution of the conveyance and registration of transfer of the mortgagor’s interest by registered instrument that the mortgagor’s right of redemption will be extinguished. The conferment of power to sell without intervention of 70 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the Court in a Mortgage Deed by itself will not deprive the mortgagor of his right to redemption. The extinction of the right of redemption has to be subsequent to the deed conferring such power. The right of redemption is not extinguished at the expiry of the period. The equity of redemption is not extinguished by mere contract for sale. 35.The mortgagor’s right to redeem will survive until there has been completion of sale by the mortgagee by a registered deed. In England a sale of property takes place by agreement but it is not so in our country. The power to sell shall not be exercised unless and until notice in writing requiring payment of the principal money has been served on the mortgagor. Further Section 69(3) of the Transfer of Property Act shows that when a sale has been made in professed exercise of such a power, the title of the purchaser shall not be impeachable on the ground that no case had arisen to authorise the sale. Therefore, until the sale is complete by registration the mortgagor does not lose right of redemption.” (Emphasis supplied) g. The aforesaid position has also been echoed in the case of Mathew Varghese v. M. Amritha Kumar and Ors., (2014) 5 SCC 610, wherein this Court held that upon a combined reading of Sections 60 and 54 respectively of the Act 1882 with Section 17 of the Registration Act, 1908, it can be concluded that the extension of the right of redemption comes much later than the sale notice.