being carried by him.” (Emphasis supplied) The term “person” ought to be construed strictly 81. The decision of the larger Bench in Pawan Kumar (supra) came as a result of a reference by a Division Bench of this Court in State of H.P. v. Pawan Kumar reported in (2004) 7 SCC 735. In the said matter, opium was recovered from the accused’s bag upon a search conducted by a constable. The High Court acquitted the accused as during the search of the bag, Section 50 was not complied with. Justice Y.K. Sabharwal agreeing with the High Court’s held that since the bag was inextricably linked to the accused, Section 50 ought to have been complied with. The fi nding recorded by Justice Sabharwal are reproduced hereunder:- “21. The case of the prosecution itself is that the accused was carrying a bag on his shoulder; opium like smell was coming from the bag; and the Head Constable informed the Deputy Superintendent of Police who 344 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. came to the spot. Before search, the Deputy Superintendent of Police was informed of the suspected possession of the opium. The testimony of PW 7 is that the person of the accused was then searched by the Deputy Superintendent of Police and on search, bag containing opium was found. On this fact situation, it cannot be held that the search was not of a person but was of a bag. Both are inextricably connected. It has to be held that the search was that of the respondent’s person. Clearly, Section 50 of the NDPS Act was applicable but was not complied. Therefore, the conviction of the respondent could not be sustained and the High Court rightly held that Section 50 had been breached.” 82. Justice Arijit Pasayat while relying upon Gurbax Singh (supra) diff ered from Justice Sabharwal and held that the non-compliance with Section 50 would not render the recovery as inadmissible as the recovery was from the bag and not from the person of the accused. Justice Pasayat held as under:- “24. Baldev Singh’s case (supra) made the position clear that the said provision has application in case of search of a person. The crucial question would be whether search of a bag carried on the shoulder or back of a person is covered by Section 50. I am of the view that it would not be so. There can be no basis for making a distinction between search of a bag found near a person and a bag carried by him. In Kanhaiya Lal v. State of M.P., (2000) 10 SCC 380, it was held that when a bag carried by the accused is searched, Section 50 has no application. In Gurbax Singh v. State of Haryana, (2001) 3 SCC 28, it was held that when a bag was being carried on the accused’s shoulder, Section 50 has no application.” 83. Accordingly, the matter was referred to a larger bench and came to be decided in Pawan Kumar (supra) wherein the view taken by Justice Pasayat was affi rmed.