The argument in support was that in terms of its eff ect there is no diff erence between an ordinance [which is merely a product of a diff erent procedure i.e., or executive law making] as compared to enactment of law by the legislature. An ordinance may have a limited life but once confi rmed, or enacted,it acquires permanence. Even during the time it is in force, it is as eff ective and as binding on the subject matter and the State as an enacted law. The eff ect of an ordinance was explained in A.K. Roy (supra), in the following terms: “[..] the Constitution makes no distinction in principle between a law made by the legislature and an ordinance issued by the President. Both, equally, are products of the exercise of legislative power and, therefore, both are equally subject to the limitations which the Constitution has placed upon that power”. THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 197 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 99. In R.K. Garg Etc. Etc v. Union Of India & Ors36 this court held similarly, that ordinance making power is “co-extensive with the power of the Parliament to make laws, it is diffi cult to see how any limitation can be read into this legislative power of the President so as to make it ineff ective to alter or amend tax laws. If Parliament can by enacting legislation alter or amend tax laws, equally can the President do so by issuing an Ordinance under Article 123.” 100. This court is of the view that the submissions of the Telangana State are not substantial. There can be no doubt that an ordinance promulgated by the Government is as much a law as much as is any binding law enacted by State legislature. The diff erence is that contrary to the traditional role of the executive, law making does not fall within its primary domain. Yet the Constitution clothes the executive with the emergency power of promulgating ordinances which can operate for a limited duration to be mandatorily raised before the House of the State legislature for its approval or disapproval. In the event of approval, the ordinance is given the shape that the legislature accrues it in. In India, practice has been largely to enact the provisions or incorporate the provision ordinance in the form of the Bill which is then approved by the House or Houses of the State legislature and then it results in an Act. Although, the State is correct in characterizing that law making in both cases only is shaped or the products of two diff erent procedures, nevertheless, to stop at that would be an oversimplifi cation. 101. This court had on previous occasions, dealt with the eff ect of the power of issuing ordinances and their eff ect. There were few confl icting s on the issue, especially on whether the eff ect of anything done during the time when the ordinance is in force can continue to bind and be eff ective even after it ceases to be or is inoperable, or in other words, has lapsed.