ii. The text of Article 370 refl ects the “level of cooperation” between the Union and the State Government. The endeavour was to accommodate the views of Jammu & Kashmir to facilitate the accession. Thus, the scheme of accession proceeded on the basis of consultation, concurrence and recommendation, the last being the narrowest and most exceptional. iii. A great deal of reliance was placed on the statements of Shri Gopalaswami Ayyangar in the Constituent Assembly debates conducted on 17 October 1949 qua Article 370 emphasising that the very existence and structure of Article 370 was necessitated due to the peculiar conditions prevailing in the State at that time. As to what would be the fate of Article 370 ultimately and whether it could at all be abrogated was left only to the Jammu & Kashmir Constituent Assembly which in turn refl ected the will of the people. This was the common theme of submissions of Mr. Sibal, Mr. Zafar Shah and Mr. Dushyant Dave. iv. Article 370 is animated by a spirit of bilateralism. The Presidential s, particularly C.O. 48 provided for coextensive law-making powers between the Legislative Assembly and the Parliament. Article 246 was curtailed in its application to Jammu & Kashmir while on the other hand Section 5 of the Jammu & Kashmir Constitution extended the Assembly’s power to all matters except those where the Parliament had the power. Thus, Mr. Gopal Subramaniam’s contention was that the Parliament and the State Assembly spoke through the medium of Article 370, which was the fulcrum of the governing relationship. 326 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. v. Mr. Rajiv Dhawan, senior counsel, sought to contend that there were diff erent provisions in the Constitution dealing with the federal structure and the existence of Article 370 in the Indian Constitution was a facet of India’s “multi-symmetrical” federal structure. The Constitution, thus, provides for varying level of autonomy to diff erent federal units in to address the unique historical contingencies. He sought to rely on the observations of this Court in R.C. Poudyal v. Union of India73 to advance the argument that this Court had favourably treated such contingencies as relevant aids to legal interpretation of the constitutional relationship. B. Article 370 had assumed permanence in the Constitution of India: i. The Constituent Assembly of Jammu & Kashmir Constituent at the time debated the relationship for a number of years before deciding not to recommend the pathway to statehood as off ered via Article 370(3) of the Constitution, with the consequence that this special relationship envisaged between the State and the Union acquired a permanent status. Thus, Article 370 was permanently implemented, which could only be subject to changes in its legislative power and application of the constitutional provisions under Article 370(1) of the Constitution. The observations made in Sampat Prakash v. State of J&K74 were referenced by Mr. Sibal for the aforesaid proposition, which was further strengthened by the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State which plead that the Article should be operative with one modifi cation to be incorporated in the explanation clause (1) of the Article, which was notifi ed by C.O.