Moreover, the Court observed that respondent therein made all necessary inquiries and it was the Corporation who failed to give fair description of property offered for sale. The Court, inter alia, observed as under: - G “23. In our opinion, the appellants cannot be given the benefit of Clause 5 of the advertisement. The appellant Corporation cannot be permitted to take advantage of its own wrong. Clause 5 undoubtedly permits the forfeiture of the earnest money deposited. But this can only be if the auction-purchaser fails to comply with the conditions of sale. In our opinion, the respondent has not failed H OFFICIAL LIQUIDATOR v. UJJAIN NAGAR PALIKA NIGAM 1109 & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] to comply with the conditions of sale. Rather, it is the appellant A Corporation which has acted unfairly, and is trying to take advantage of its own wrong.” “24. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the considered opinion that the appellant Corporation cannot be permitted to rely upon Section 55 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. The appellant B Corporation failed to disclose to the respondent the material defect about the non-existence of the independent 3 “karams” passage to the property. Therefore, the appellant Corporation clearly acted in breach of Sections 55(1)(a) and (b) of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. C *** *** *** “27. We are also of the considered opinion that the reliance placed on the of this Court by the counsel for the appellants in United Bank of India v. Official Liquidator [(1994) 1 SCC 575] is wholly misconceived. The aforesaid relates to D sale of the property and assets of a company in liquidation by the Official Liquidator under the s of the court. Therefore it is observed that the Official Liquidator cannot and does not hold any guarantee or warranty in respect of the property sold. That is because the Official Liquidator proceeds on the basis of what the E records of the company in liquidation show. Therefore it is for the intending purchaser to satisfy himself in all respects as to the title and encumbrances and so forth of the immovable property that he proposes to purchase. In those circumstances it is held that the purchaser cannot after having purchased the property on such terms then claim diminution in the price on the ground of defect in F the title or description of the property. 28. The clearly goes on to further hold as follows: (Official Liquidator case [(1994) 1 SCC 575] , SCC p. 584, para 14) “14. … The case of the Official Liquidator selling the G property of a company in liquidation under the s of the court is altogether different from the case of an individual selling immovable property belonging to himself.” The aforesaid observation would be clearly applicable to the Corporation as it is exercising the rights of an owner in selling the H 1110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A property. The appellant Corporation is not selling the property as an Official Liquidator.” 18.1.