A has submitted that the High Court had noted in paragraphs 51 and 52 of the impugned that the prayer seeking appointment of expert was deleted by the State itself. Further, the State never challenged rejection of its counter claim and the amounts were calculated jointly by both the parties. B 9.3. As regards variable charges to the tune of about Rs. 24.66 crore, learned senior counsel for the claimant has submitted that the Arbitral Tribunal came to a categorical finding of fact that the parties had agreed that sale of electricity by using alternate fuel RLNG would not be at fixed price and would be based on the fluctuating price of US dollar and fuel. It has also been submitted that although the State had C argued before the High Court that certain clauses of PPA had not been considered by the Arbitral Tribunal, and the High Court held that the Arbitral Tribunal did not consider the issue raised regarding non- compliance with clauses 12.1.4. to 12.1.7. of the PPA but, the said clauses related only to Fuel Supply Contract8 for Naphtha, and not the alternate D fuel. There was a separate clause i.e., clause 12.1.9. relating to change in fuel in terms of use of alternate fuel and hence, clauses 12.1.4. to 12.1.7 were inapplicable. In fact, the Arbitral Tribunal had observed that the Government of Goa had even agreed to the formula on the basis of which the tariff would be computed for alternate fuel. According to learned senior counsel, the High Court applied an inapplicable clause, E while ignoring the fact that all the relevant documents including the price certificate and dollar rate received from PSUs were forwarded along with invoices. Further, the Government of Goa continued to take power from the claimant without dispute or demur. Even otherwise, no issues were raised contemporaneously by the Government of Goa, and the F supposed non-compliance of clauses 12.1.4. to 12.1.7 was raised for the first time in the sur-rejoinder before the Arbitral Tribunal. 9.4. As regards downrating amount of about Rs. 18.53 crore, learned senior counsel has recapitulated the contention of the Government of Goa before the Arbitral Tribunal that the Rated Capacity was required G to be downrated from September 2000 until 13.08.2014 (date of expiry of PPA), on the basis of a draft notification issued by the Ministry of Power, Government of India. Learned counsel has countered this by relying on the observations of the Arbitral Tribunal that the issue of downrating was irrelevant given the subsequent amendment to the PPA, H 8 ‘FSC’, for short. RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 403 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] restricting the assured supply to 19.8 MW as the New Rated Capacity, A without referring to downrating of such capacity. Hence, the State was not justified in contending that there was an annual downrating of the Rated Capacity. It has been argued that the Arbitral Tribunal had considered the definition of ‘contracted capacity’ and other contractual provisions as well as various provisions of the PPA and supplementary B PPAs by which, there was a reduction to Rated Capacity of 19.8 MW to hold that the parties were bound by the contractual provisions.