However, the said decision shall not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand. The decision of the Commissioner cannot be said to be per se void ab initio. H 1116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A It is to be noted that even otherwise, in the present case, the General Board had the power to pass an of dismissal, which is not even disputed by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent. The decision of the Commissioner was placed before the General Board and the General Board had ratified the said decision. Therefore, thereafter, the dismissal can be said to be an passed by the General Board. At B this stage, the decision of this Court in the case of Pannalal Choudhury (supra) on ratification is required to be referred to. On discussing the entire law on ratification, thereafter in paragraph 33, it is observed and held as under:- “33. Applying the aforementioned law of ratification to the facts C at hand, even if we assume for the sake of argument that the of dismissal dated 16-8-1996 was passed by the Principal and Secretary who had neither any authority to pass such under the Rules nor was there any authorisation given by the BoG in his favour to pass such yet in our considered view D when the BoG in their meeting held on 22-8-1996 approved the previous actions of the Principal and Secretary in passing the respondent’s dismissal dated 16-8-1996, all the irregularities complained of by the respondent in the proceedings including the authority exercised by the Principal and Secretary to dismiss him E stood ratified by the competent authority (Board of Governors) themselves with retrospective effect from 16-8-1996 thereby making an invalid act a lawful one in conformity with the procedure prescribed in the Rules.” 7.2 Applying the law laid down by this Court in the case of Pannalal F Choudhury (supra) to the facts of the case on hand, any irregularity complained of by the respondent on the authority exercised by the Commissioner to dismiss him stood ratified by the competent authority (General Board) thereby making an invalid act a lawful one in conformity with the procedure prescribed under the Act and the Rules. G 7.3 In that viewof the matter, the impugned and passed by the Division Bench of the High Court as well as the learned Single Judge quashing and setting aside the of dismissal are unsustainable and deserve to be quashed and set aside and are accordingly quashed and set aside. However, at the same time, it is directed that any amount paid to the respondent, namely, Rs. 10,000/- per month w.e.f. H MUNICIPAL COMMISSIONER, JAMNAGAR MUNICIPAL 1117 CORPORATION AND ANR. v. R. M. DOSHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] 01.04.2012 pursuant to the passed by this Court be not recovered A from the respondent despite allowing the present appeal and restoring the of dismissal. Present appeal is accordingly allowed. No costs. B Ankit Gyan Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri and Aarsh Choudhary, LCRAs) C D E F G H