3. Naturalisation. C. Communications 1. Posts and telegraphs, including telephones, wireless, broadcasting, and other like forms of communication. 2. Federal railways; the regulation of all railways other than minor railways in respect of safety, maximum and minimum rates and fares, station and service terminal charges, interchange of traffi c and the responsibility of railway administrations as carriers of goods and passengers; the regulation of minor railways in respect of safety and the responsibility of the administrations of such railways as carriers of goods and passengers. 3. Maritime shipping and navigation, including shipping and navigation on tidal waters; Admiralty jurisdiction. 4. Port quarantine. 5. Major ports, that is to say, the declaration and delimitation of such ports, and the constitution and powers of Port Authorities therein. 6. Aircraft and air navigation; the provision of aerodromes; regulation and organization of air traffi c and of aerodromes. 7. Lighthouses, including lightships, beacons and other provisions for the safety of shipping and aircraft. 8. Carriage of passengers and goods by sea or by air. 9. Extension of the powers and jurisdiction of members of the police force belonging to any unit to railway area outside that unit. 308 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. D. Ancillary I. Elections to the Dominion Legislature, subject to the provisions of the Act and of any made there under. 2. Off ences against laws with respect to any of the aforesaid matters. 3. Inquiries and statistics for the purposes of any of the aforesaid matters. 4. Jurisdiction and powers of all courts with respect to any of the aforesaid matters but, except with the consent of the Ruler of the Acceding State, not so as to confer any jurisdiction or powers+ upon any courts other than courts ordinarily exercising jurisdiction in or in relation to that State.” 17. We may refer to communication from Lord Mountbatten to Maharaja Hari Singh on the very next day, i.e., 27.10.1947, which reads as under: “My dear Maharajah Sahib, Your Highness’s letter, dated the 26th October has been delivered to me by Mr. V.P. Menon. In the special circumstances mentioned by Your Highness, my Government have decided to accept the accession of Kashmir State to the Dominion of India. Consistently with their policy that, in the case of any State where the issue of accession has been the subject of dispute, the question of accession should be decided in accordance with the wishes of the people of the State, it is my Government’s wish that, as soon as law and have been restored in Kashmir and her soil cleared of the invader, the question of the State’s accession should be settled by a reference to the people. Meanwhile, in response to your Highness’s appeal for military aid, action has been taken today to send troops of the Indian Army to Kashmir to help your own forces to defend your territory and to protect the lives, property and honour of your people. My Government and I note with satisfaction that your Highness has decided to invite Sheikh Abdullah to form an Interim Government to work with your Prime Minister.