Neither Rule 14 of the Railway Servant Rules nor a similar rule in other service rules can be looked at apart from the second proviso to Article 311 (2). The authority of a particular officer C to act as a disciplinary authority and to impose a penalty upon a government servant is derived from rules made under the proviso to Article 309 or under an Act referable to that article. As pointed out earlier, these rules cannot impinge upon the pleasure of the President or the Governor of a State, as D the case may be, because they are subject to Article 310(1). Equally, they cannot restrict the safeguards provided by clauses (1) and (2) of Article 311 as such a restriction would be in violation of the provisions of those clauses. In the same way, they cannot restrict the exclusionary impact of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) because that would be to impose a E restriction upon the exercise of pleasure under Article 310 (1) which has become free of the restrictions placed upon it by clause (2) of Article 311 by reason of the operation of the second proviso to that clause. The only cases in which a government servant can be dismissed, removed or reduced in F rank by way of punishment without holding an inquiry contemplated by clause (2) of Article 311 are the three cases mentioned in the second proviso to that clause…” “…It is thus obvious that the word ‘consider’ in its ordinary and natural sense is not capable of the meaning assigned to G it in Challappan case. The consideration under Rule 14 of what penalty should be imposed upon a delinquent railway servant must, therefore, be ex parte and where the disciplinary authority comes to the conclusion that the penalty which the facts and circumstances of the case warrant is either of dismissal or removal of reduction in rank, no opportunity of H 786 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A showing cause against such penalty proposed to be imposed upon him can be afforded to the delinquent government servant. Undoubtedly, the disciplinary authority must have regard to all the facts and circumstances of the case as set out in Challappan case. As pointed out earlier, considerations of fair play and justice requiring a hearing to be given to a B government servant with respect to the penalty proposed to be imposed upon him do not enter into the picture when the second proviso to Article 311 (2) comes into play and the same would be the position in the case of a service rule reproducing the second proviso in whole or in part and C whether the language used is identical with that used in the second proviso or not. There are a number of s which are of necessity passed without hearing the party who may be affected by them. For instance, courts of law can and often do pass ex parte ad interim s on the application of a plaintiff, petitioner or appellant without issuing any notice to D the other side or hearing him.