These proceedings which ultimately led to the grant of status of ‘Bhumidhar’ in favour of the predecessor of Respondents for the first time, could have potentially served as the litmus test for the validity of these revenue entries. D 54.Additionally, we must also take note of the finding of the High Court via its impugned judgement dated 07.10.2005 wherein it is held that predecessor of Respondents was rightly accorded the status of ‘Sirdars’ under the Zamindari Notification on the ground that they were lease-holders governed by the Government Grants Act of 1895. However, E this finding again appears unsustainable because there is no proper factual analysis as to when the 1924 Lease Deed stood determined or whether the same subsisted after the initial period of thirty years. 55.Before parting, we must also point out that initially the 1939 Act was not applicable to the Suit Land as the concerned area where it is situated was excluded from the purview of the 1939 Act, as it was F specifically included in the First Schedule. Any future application of the 1939 Act in respect of the Suit Land was supposed to be through a separate notification, but the same has again not been produced in these proceedings or before any forum, which further dissuades us from rendering any final opinion at this stage. G 56. The same aspect has been highlighted by Appellants who contend that the area in which the Suit Land is situated was governed by the Kumaon Tenancy Rules of 1918. On the other hand, Respondents have produced on record a - G.O. No. 5678/ 1-B-1212~B-19 dated the 30.04.1948 titled ‘Tarai and Babbar Government Estates (Kham norms), H STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR 975 (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] Revised norms’ issued by Revenue (B) Department which notes as A follows – “I. Tenants on admission on have hereditary rights as defined in section 29 on the united provinces Tenancy Act expect in the 55 Buxeris village mentioned in the first schedule to the Act.” B This notification indicates the possibility of hereditary rights being accrued on predecessor of Respondents under the 1939 Act but again, we are constrained to give any finding on the same because of the lack of proper documents on record to ascertain the tenancy status of the Respondents. Hence, on this ground also the present appeals are liable C to be remanded back so that the relevant statutory notifications, original records can be placed before the High Court to enable it to determine the applicable tenancy law and their impact on the alleged rights of the Respondents. D. Conclusion D 57. We are conscious of the fact that these appeals have been pending before this Court for more than 15 years. In normal circumstances, we would have ventured to decide the issues ourselves but in light of the abovementioned observations and dearth of appropriate records, we are constrained to hold that ownership rights in respect of E an immovable property cannot be decided casually.