(See Durga Shankar Mehta v. Thakur Raghuraj Singh [(1955) 1 SCR 267 : AIR 1954 SC 520 : 9 ELR 494] ). xxx xxx xxx E 61. To the extent power of withdrawal and transfer of cases to the apex Court is, in the opinion of the Court, necessary for the purpose of effectuating the high purpose of Articles 136 and 142(1), the power under Article 139-A must be held not to exhaust the power of withdrawal and transfer. Article 139-A, it is relevant to F mention here, was introduced as part of the scheme of the Constitution Forty-second Amendment. That amendment proposed to invest the Supreme Court with exclusive jurisdiction to determine the constitutional validity of central laws by inserting Articles 131- A, 139-A and 144-A. But Articles 131-A and 144-A were omitted G by the Forty-third Amendment Act, 1977, leaving Article 139-A intact. That article enables the litigants to approach the apex Court for transfer of proceedings if the conditions envisaged in that article are satisfied. Article 139-A was not intended, nor does it operate, 69 (1991) 4 SCC 584 H 162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A to whittle down the existing wide powers under Articles 136 and 142 of the Constitution.” 201. In Delhi Judicial Service Association, Tis Hazari Court, Delhi v. State of Gujarat and others70, the question arose in the following factual context: B Police Officers assaulted and arrested on flimsy grounds and handcuffed and tied with a rope, a Chief Judicial Magistrate. The scope of the Criminal Contempt Jurisdiction fell for consideration.This Court wished to provide against the recurrence of such instances. The Court directed the State Government to take immediate steps for review and C revision of the Police Regulations. In the light of the Commission appointed, the Court held, inter alia, as follows: “49. Learned counsel, appearing on behalf of the State of Gujarat and the police officers, urged that in the present proceedings this Court has no jurisdiction or power to quash the criminal proceedings pending against N.L. Patel, CJM. Elaborating his contention, D learned counsel submitted that once a criminal case is registered against a person the law requires that the court should allow the case to proceed to its normal conclusion and there should be no interference with the process of trial. He further urged that this Court has no power to quash a trial pending before the criminal E court either under the Code of Criminal Procedure or under the Constitution, therefore, the criminal proceedings pending against Patel should be permitted to continue. Learned Attorney General submitted that since this Court has taken cognizance of the contempt matter arising out of the incident which is the subject matter of trial before the criminal court, this Court has ample F power under Article 142 of the Constitution to pass any necessary to do justice and to prevent abuse of process of the court. The learned Attorney General elaborated that there is no limitation on the power of this Court under Article 142 in quashing a criminal proceeding pending before a subordinate court.