(iii) to cancel the result of an examination of any candidate found by it to be guilty of all or any of the acts mentioned in sub-clauses (a) to (d) of clause (i) or for any bona fi de error of the Board in the declaration of the result: Provided that the result of an examination shall not be cancelled on the ground of a bona fi de error of the Board, after the expiry of 90 days from the date of announcement of the result of the examination; (iv) to prescribe fees for the examinations conducted by it and provide for the manner of their realisation; (v) to refuse affi liation of an institution- (a) which does not fulfi l, or is not in a position to fulfi l or does not come up to the standards for staff , instruction, equipment or buildings laid down by the Board in this behalf, or (b) which does not or is not willing to abide by the conditions of affi liation laid down by the Board in this behalf; (vi) after giving the institution concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard, to withdraw affi liation of an institution not able to adhere to or make a provision for standards of staff , instruction equipment or buildings laid down by the Board, or on its failure to observe the conditions of affi liation to the satisfaction of the Board; (vii) to call for reports from the heads of affi liated institutions in respect of any act done in contravention of the rules or regulations or decisions, instructions or directions of the Board, and take suitable action for the enforcement of the rules or regulations or decisions, instructions or directions of the Board, in such manner as may be prescribed by the regulations; ANKITA THAKUR & ORS. v. THE H.P. STAFF SELECTION 839 COMMISSION & ORS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] (viii) to inspect an affi liated institution for the purpose of ensuring due observance of the prescribed courses of study and to ensure that facilities for instructions are duly provided and availed of; and (ix) to fi x the maximum number of students that may be admitted to courses of study in an affi liated institution. (3) The decision of the Board in all matters mentioned in sub- sections (1) and (2) shall be fi nal.” Section 15 of the 1986 Act confers power on the Board to make regulations in following terms: “15. Power to make regulations:- (1) The Board may, for carrying out the purposes of this Act, make regulations consistent with the provisions of this Act and the rules framed thereunder and submit the same for approval of the State Government. The State Government may approve, modify or vary the regulations. The regulations, as approved by the State Government, shall be published in the Offi cial Gazette and shall take eff ect from the date of publication, and where a date has been specifi ed from that date. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers, the regulations may provide for- (a) the appointment, constitution, powers and duties of the committees and sub-committees constituted under this Act; (b) the manner and conditions of conferment of certifi cate and diplomas; (c) the conditions for affi liations of institution; (d) the courses of study to be prescribed for certifi cate and diploma examinations; (e) the conditions under which candidates shall be admitted to the examination of the Board and shall be eligible for certifi cates and diplomas; 840 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.