B. PARDIWALA, J.] disbelieved while announcing the intended treachery of the Dauphin Lewis explain: “Have I met hideous death within my view, Retaining but a quantity of life, Which bleeds away even as a form of wax, Resolveth from his fi gure ‘gainst the fi re? What is the world should make me now deceive, Since I must lose the use of all deceit? Why should I then be false since it is true That I must die here and live hence by truth?” (See King John, Act V, Scene IV) The principle on which dying declaration is admitted in evidence is indicated in the legal maxim “nemo moriturus praesumitur mentire — a man will not meet his Maker with a lie in his mouth”. 14. … The situation in which a person is on the deathbed is so solemn and serene when he is dying that the grave position in which he is placed, is the reason in law to accept veracity of his statement. It is for this reason that the requirements of oath and cross-examination are dispensed with. Besides, should the dying declaration be excluded it will result in miscarriage of justice because the victim being generally the only eyewitness in a serious crime, the exclusion of the statement would leave the court without a scrap of evidence. 15. Though a dying declaration is entitled to great weight, it is worthwhile to note that the accused has no power of cross- examination. Such a power is essential for eliciting the truth as an obligation of oath could be. This is the reason the court also insists that the dying declaration should be of such a nature as to inspire full confi dence of the court in its correctness. The court has to be on guard that the statement of the deceased was not as a result of either tutoring, or prompting or a product of imagination. The court must be further satisfi ed that the deceased was in a fi t state of mind after a clear opportunity to observe and identify the assailant. Once the court is satisfi ed that the declaration was true and voluntary, undoubtedly, it 816 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. can base its conviction without any further corroboration. It cannot be laid down as an absolute rule of law that the dying declaration cannot form the sole basis of conviction unless it is corroborated. The rule requiring corroboration is merely a rule of prudence. …” (Emphasis supplied) 58. This Court in Nallapati Sivaiah v. Sub-Divisional Offi cer, Guntur, Andhra Pradesh reported in (2007) 15 SCC 465 and Bhajju alias Karan Singh v. State of Madhya Pradesh reported in (2012) 4 SCC 327 had explained the meaning and principles of dying declarations upon which its admissibility is founded, with the following observations: - “20. There is a historical and a literary basis for recognition of dying declaration as an exception to the hearsay rule. Some authorities suggest the rule is of Shakespearian origin.