Mrs. Madhavi Divan is right in stating A that a disqualification under the Tenth Schedule from being an MLA and consequently minister must first be decided by the exclusive authority in this behalf, namely, the Speaker of the Manipur Legislative Assembly. It is also not possible to accede to the argument of Shri Sibal that the disqualification petition be B decided by this Court in these appeals given the inaction of the Speaker. It cannot be said that the facts in the present case are similar to the facts in Rajinder Singh Rana (supra). In the present case, the life of the legislative assembly comes to an end only in March, 2022 unlike in Rajinder Singh Rana (supra) where, but for this Court deciding the disqualification petition in effect, no C relief could have been given to the petitioner in that case as the life of the legislative assembly was about to come to an end. The only relief that can be given in these appeals is that the Speaker of the Manipur Legislative Assembly be directed to decide the disqualification petitions pending before him within a period of D four weeks from the date on which this is intimated to him. In case no decision is forthcoming even after a period of four weeks, it will be open to any party to the proceedings to apply to this Court for further directions/reliefs in the matter.” 85. The incumbent Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative E Assembly has been duly elected by the MLAs in terms of the procedure laid down under the Maharashtra Assembly Rules 1960. The petitioners have referred to the decision of the Speaker to cancel the recognition of Mr. Sunil Prabhu as the Chief Whip of the Shiv Sena on 3 July 2022 to argue that the Speaker is biased and impartial. The decision of the Speaker to cancel the recognition of Mr. Prabhu has also been challenged F in the instant proceedings. Even if this Court sets aside the decision of the Speaker cancelling the recognition of Mr. Prabhu on merits, it would not be a sufficient reason for this Court to decide the disqualification petitions. We are also unable to accept the alternative submission of the petitioners to direct the Deputy Speaker to adjudicate the question of G disqualification for the simple reason that the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly has duly elected the Speaker, who has been entrusted with the authority to decide disqualification petitions under the Constitution. The Deputy Speaker can perform the duties of the Speaker only when the office of the Speaker is vacant.27 As observed in Kihoto Hollohan 27 Article 180 of the Constitution H 916 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (supra) and Shrimanth Balasaheb Patil (supra), the Speaker is expected to act fairly, independently, and impartially while adjudicating the disqualification petitions under the Tenth Schedule. Ultimately, the decision of the Speaker on the question of disqualification is subject to judicial review. Therefore, this Court is of the opinion that the Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly is the appropriate constitutional B authority to decide the question of disqualification under the Tenth Schedule.