(3) When any is made under this section by an offi cer mentioned in sub-section (2), he shall forthwith report the fact to the Government together with the grounds on which the has been made and such other particulars as in his opinion, have a bearing on the matter, and no such shall remain in force for more than twelve days after the making thereof, unless, in the meantime, it has been approved by the Government.” The word used in sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 3 is “satisfi ed” and it clearly imports subjective satisfaction on the part of the detaining authority before an of detention can be made. 984 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 27. We now proceed to examine the Detention passed by the Commissioner on 24th March, 2023 under section 3(2) of the Act and whether such ‘subjective satisfaction’ of the Commissioner stands scrutiny on application of the requisite tests. 28. In the present case, the Detention was based on 5 (fi ve) distinct off ences, of which there is a crime allegedly committed by the Detenu in relation to a minor girl. Crimes have also been registered on allegations of cheating, and obstructing a public offi cial from discharging his duty, as well as a crime has been registered involving dacoity. In Crime Nos. 262/2022, 18/2023 and 35/2023, charge-sheets are yet to be fi led and the Detenu has been released on bail whereas in regard to Crime Nos. 338/2022 and 227/2022, charge-sheets have been fi led without even arresting him. 29. The issues with the Detention which we need to address are these: fi rst, whether the alleged acts of commission for which the Detenu has been kept under detention are prejudicial to ‘public ’ and secondly, whether all relevant circumstances were considered or whether extraneous factors weighed in the mind of the detaining authority leading to the conclusion that the Detenu is a habitual off ender and for prevention of further crimes by him, he ought to be detained. Incidentally, the issue of whether application of mind is manifest in fi rst ing detention and then confi rming itby continuing such for a period of 12 (twelve) months upon rejection of the representation fi led on behalf of the Detenu by the appellant could also be answered. Needless to observe, we need not examine the second and the incidental issues if the appeal succeeds on the fi rst issue. 30. Addressing the fi rst issue fi rst, it has to be understood as a fundamental imperative as to how this Court has distinguished between disturbances relatable to “law and ” and disturbances caused to “public ”. 31. It is trite that breach of law in all cases does not lead to public dis. In a catena of s, this Court has in clear terms noted the diff erence between “law and ” and “public ”. AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 985 & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 32. We may refer to the decision of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Ram Manohar Lohia vs. State of Bihar16, where the diff erence between “law and ” and “public ” was lucidly expressed by Hon’ble M. Hidayatullah, J.