E 18.5. It has further been submitted, relying on the decision of this Court in T.P. Daver v. Lodge Victoria No. 363 S.C. Belgaum and Ors. : (1964) 1 SCR 1,that in the matters pertaining to internal affairs or management of an association, the Court would ordinarily be slow in interfering; and the impugned of the Division Bench of the High F Court, standing in conformity with these principles, calls for no interference. 19. In rejoinder submissions, learned senior counsel for the appellants have submitted that until 23.06.2022, there was not even a whisper of reverting to the system of singleleadership amongst the party G members; the functions of the party were being carried out smoothly; and even during the Panchayat elections, by both the Co-ordinator and the Joint Co-ordinator jointly. Hence, the argument of “functional deadlock” is disingenuous and incorrect. 19.1. It has been further submitted that the General Council is not superior to the Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator of the party as pursuant H 1164 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A to the amendments made to the byelaws on 01.12.2021, the Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator are to be elected directly through vote by an electorate consisting of entire primary membership of the party. Further, Rule 45 of the byelaws authorizes them to relax or make alterations to any of the rules and regulations of the party. Therefore, the logic that a party organ is supreme because its members are ultimately elected by B the primary membership of the party applies even more to the posts of Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator. 19.2. Learned counsel for the appellants would submit that if it be assumed that the posts of Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator lapsed because of non-ratification of the amendments of 01.12.2021 by the C General Council, the elections of other office-bearers held after the amendments of 01.12.2021 would also stand annulled and in any case, even according to Rule 20-A(vii) of the byelaws, the other office-bearers as mentioned therein do not have the power to convene the General Council meeting. D 20. We have given anxious consideration to the rival submissions and have examined the record of the case with reference to the law applicable. 20.1. Before proceeding further, a few comments on the width and limits of the consideration in these appeals appear necessary. Having E regard to the subject-matter of the civil suits leading to the dated 17.08.2022 by the learned Single Judge and the impugned dated 02.09.2022 by the Division Bench of the High Court and the totality of circumstances, it may at once be observed in relation to the submissions made by either of the parties concerning the contents of the resolution taken in the questioned meeting on 11.07.2022, that no challenge thereto F as such has been laid in the suits as filed or by way of any amendment of pleadings; and entering into any aspect relating to the substance, contents and merits of the decisions said to have been taken in the said meeting dated 11.07.2022 would be practically traversing even beyond the scope of the subject civil suits.