If the Seller elects to terminate this Agreement, the Procurers shall, within a period of thirty days, purchase the entire shareholding in the Seller for the following amount. Provided such purchase of G shares shall be undertaken by the Procurers in the ratio of their then existing Allocated Contracted Capacity: a) total amount of purchase price paid by the Successful Bidder to the shareholders of the Seller acquire the equity shares of the Seller as per the RFP; plus H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 49 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] b) total amount of the Declared Price of Land and Geological A Report (GR) to the extent already paid by the Seller after the acquisition of its 100% shareholding by the Selected Bidder; plus c) an additional sum equal to ten percent (10%) of the sum total of the amounts mentioned in sub-clauses (a) and (b). B In addition, the Performance Guarantee of the Seller shall also be released forthwith.” (65) A perusal of the aforesaid articles would reveal that the parties have provided for the consequences of failure on the part of the procurers C to make available land as contemplated in Article 3.1.2A. The long and short of it is that if a certain timelimit is crossed by the procurers in the performance of its obligations in this regard, the seller (the first respondent) has been given the right to repudiate the contract. What is more, it could insist on the procurers purchasing the entire share capital of the company viz., the first respondent as provided therein. It is not the case of the first D respondent that by invoking the aforesaid articles, the first respondent purported to repudiate the contract. On the other hand, it is the common case that the contract continued to be alive and it has survived subject to the claims which have been raised thereunder. This would mean that as the consequences of failure to perform the task having been provided in E the contract in the manner provided, we should not ordinarily tarry further to ask as to whether this would provide the premise for a change in law as contemplated under Article 13.1.1. We necessarily pose the question still, whether this would be change in law. Not that we are unmindful of the fact that the two bodies have concurrently found that there is no change in law and the attempt is to dislodge such a finding by a side F wind in the manner of speaking by an attack lodged by the respondent in the appeal.This is not a case where the first respondent has made use of the land for the purpose of laying the pipeline through the corridor as contemplated and found that drawing water from the water intake system as contemplated would have resulted in water not being available in sufficient quantity through the length of the year. There is no such case. G (66) The case of the first respondent, on the other hand, is that the PPA having been signed on 07.08.2007, in the second week of December of the very same year-2007, in to confirm the availability of water through water intake system as contemplated in the first H 50 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.