(4) For the year from the date of operation of the project, 100% A exemption will be given in the pleasure tax. The above incentives will be admissible to only those theme park/ amusement park projects, whose minimum area is 300 acres and in which the minimum capital investment is Rs. 500.00 crores. B 3. Theme Park/Amusement Park can be established and operated by private sector, PPP or any authority by creating an S.P.V. In such a situation, all the decisions regarding the assessment of the desired land, the selection of the private investor and the implementation of the project after the selection will be taken by the concerned authority/government body/public undertaking under C its own rules. 4. Participation in such a scheme can be done by any public undertaking of the state government/S.P.V. or company. This participation will be limited to a maximum of 20 percent of the cost of the land required for the project of Theme Park/ D Amusement Park, which will continue till the completion of the project. The concerned government body/establishment/ public undertaking will spend its share capital (20 percent) as a partner of SPV, first on land acquisition, so that the investor can be assured of the availability of land. Only after that Capital investment will E be decided. After the completion of the project, the disinvestment will be done as per the pre-determined agreement. 5. Under the proposed theme parkIamusement park, all the development, display, buildings and activities, etc. will be based on a central theme or theme, and depending on the theme, there should be different types of theme parks at different places. Theme F ParkIAmusement Park will have a minimum area of 300 acres and can be established at such sites, where there is a facility of access from major roads (such as national highways, expressways, etc.) and water supply, drainage, ‘solid waste disposal’ for the selected site. And proper arrangement of power supply should be G available. (a) Under the theme parkIamusement park, in addition to the basic works related to the theme park, other activities such as convention center, hotel, shopping complex, restaurant, film studio, multiplex, senior shop, workshop, accommodation H 1068 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A for employees etc. will be included. The permission for theme parkIamusement park will be normally payable in the proposed agricultural land use in the master plans of the notified areas under various planning acts in the state, for which necessary provisionI amendment will be made in the master plan, zoning regulations of urban areas and industrial B areas. Theme ParkIAmusement Park can also be established in the agricultural area outside the Master PlanNotified Area, for which there will be UPSIDC Regulatory Authority. (b) Under Theme ParkIAmusement Park, activities related to C theme parkIentertainment will be allowed in minimum 75 percent area, while mixed use (such as residential, commercial, institutional, community and public facilities, etc.) will be allowed on maximum 25 percent part. The average FAR for the theme park is 0.5 over the entire plan D area.