The Sixth CPC had this to say about the AFHQ Civil Service, AFHQ Stenographer’s Services and other similarly placed posts in diff erent Headquarter organizations: “AFHQ Civil Services and AFHQ Stenographers Service UNION OF INDIA & ORS V. D.G.O.F. EMPLOYEES 863 ASSOCIATION AND ANR. [A.S. BOPANNA, J.] 7.10.22 AFHQ Civil Services and AFHQ Stenographers Service have demanded parity with CSSS and CSS. Since the Commission has recommended parity between posts in headquarters and fi eld offi ces, it is only justifi ed that such parity also exists between similarly placed posts in diff erent headquarter organisations. The Commission, accordingly, recommends that parity should be maintained between the posts at the level of Assistant and Section Offi cer in these services.” 18. It is evident from the above discussion that the denial of parity is based upon the Central Governments interpretation of the 6th CPC recommendations. As observed earlier, there is about that parity had existed as between Assistants working in the OFs falling within the jurisdiction of the OFB and identically situated Assistants working in CSS/CSSS. This parity had also existed as between CSS/ CSSS Assistants on the one hand and similar ranking employees in all other non-Secretariat employees working in different departments in the Central Government. This parity existed for 10 years even after the Fifth CPC recommendations and its implementation. The singular event which brought about a change was not the result of the Sixth CPC recommendations; it was the intervening upgradation of the pay scales that had existed for Assistants in all these organizations pending the acceptance of those recommendations. The upgradation given to all others but denied to employees in OFs was the point of departure, and also the turning point of the discrimination practiced against them. 19. The Central Government’s fi rst explanation for denial is that this is in terms authorized by Para 3.1.14 of the Sixth CPC recommendations. That is plainly incorrect, because that portion of the Sixth CPC merely indicated the replacement scales from the existing Rs.5000-8000/- to be Rs.6500-10,500/-. By the time this recommendation was accepted, Assistants in the CSS/CSSS were already enjoying the higher scale of Rs.6500-10,500/-. Even the CCS (Revised Pay) Rules, 2008 support this inference. Under Rule 3(1) of the said Rules, “existing basic pay” means “pay drawn in the prescribed existing scale of pay, including stagnation increment(s), but does not include any other type of pay like ‘special pay’, etc. Rule 3(2) on the other hand, prescribed “existing scale” in relation to a Government servant as “the present scale applicable to the post held 864 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. by the Government servant…as on the 1st day of January..2006”. Rule 3 (7) defi ned “revised pay structure” as one in relation to any post specifi ed in column 2 of the First Schedule and meaning “the pay band and grade pay specifi ed against that post or the pay scale specifi ed in column 5 & 6 thereof, unless a diff erent revised pay band and grade pay or pay scale is notifi ed separately for that post.” Rule 11 prescribed the mode of fi xation in pay after 01.01.2006.