UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 507 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] III. The punishment imposed is proportionate to the offence committed by the Respondent. a. It is submitted that this Hon’ble Court in a number of cases has held that the High Court while exercising its powers under Article 226 would not interfere with the quantum of punishment unless it shocks the conscience of the court. b. Further, it has been held in catena of cases that scope of judicial review in case of misconduct and imposition of penalty under the service jurisprudence is limited as to whether the charges have been established on the basis of a fair enquiry. The scope is limited to the decision-making process, not the decision per se. This Hon’ble Court in a recent Aureliano Fernandes vs State of Goa 2023 SCC OnLine SC 621 while pondering upon the extent to which a High Court can interfere with respect to the departmental proceedings and fi ndings thereof, observed the following: “62…Disciplinary Authority is the sole judge of facts and once fi ndings of fact, based on appreciation of evidence are recorded, the High Court in its writ jurisdiction should not normally interfere with those factual fi ndings unless it fi nds that the recorded fi ndings were based either on no evidence or that the fi ndings were wholly perverse and/or legally untenable. The Court is under a duty to satisfy itself that an inquiry into the allegations of sexual harassment by a Committee is conducted in terms of the service rules and that the concerned employee gets a reasonable opportunity to vindicate his position and establish his innocence.” c. The Respondent herein was a member of the disciplined force and was holding a signifi cant post at the time of commission of off ence. He harassed the Complainant continuously for a period of more than 2 years despite warning issued by his superior. He did not stop despite the warning and started torturing the Complainant by not giving her work and making her sit idle till late in the night. Having superannuated during the pendency of the proceedings before the disciplinary authority, the Respondent superannuated on 31.03.2013 as DIG. In such circumstances, it is submitted that the punishment 508 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. imposed by the disciplinary authority for withholding 50% of monthly pension is proportionate to the off ence committed by the Respondent.” D. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT 29. Mr. Avijit Roy, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent in his written submissions has stated thus: - “1. The Hon’ble High Court in para 25 of the its (Page -39 of SLP) rightly held that the scope of judicial review in case of misconduct and imposition of penalty under the service jurisprudence is circumscribed as the court is only required to examine as to whether the charges have been established on the basis of a fair enquiry as the Hon’ble High Court was also conscious of the fact that judicial review is not against the decision but the decision making process.