A Madanlal Choudhary was wrongly decided and that therefore we may refer it to a larger Bench. 76. Shri Sidharth Luthra, learned senior counsel appearing for one of the accused contended: - (i) that when ECIR was registered, ED did not have requisite B foundational materials, as admitted by them in their own counter affidavit; (ii) that there has been a long delay both in the registration of FIRs for the predicate offence and the ECIR; (iii) that the period of the commission of offence, according to the de-facto complainants was between December, 2014 and January, 2015 C but the FIRs other than those filed by Devasagayam were of the year 2017 and 2018 and the ECIR was registered in the year 2021; (iv) that there is no explanation on the part of the ED for such a delay; D (v) that to make out an offence of money-laundering even prima facie, three things are essential, namely (i) the commission of a crime, which is a scheduled offence, (ii) generation of proceeds of crime; and (iii) the laundering of those proceeds, and that none of these three foundational facts are present in this case. E 77. The arguments of Shri Sidharth Luthra, learned senior counsel is actually two-fold, namely, (i) that in the absence of a jurisdictional fact, which is a sine qua non or condition precedent for the exercise of power by ED, the summons issued by ED should go; or alternatively (ii) that in view of inherent contradictions contained in the decision in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and in view of this Court having ed notice F in the review petition, the appeals on hand should also be referred to a larger Bench. 78. In support of his contention that the existence of a jurisdictional fact is a condition precedent for the exercise of power by ED, the learned senior counsel relies upon the decisions in Shauqin Singh vs. Desa G Singh16 and Arun Kumar vs. Union of India17. 79. To demonstrate that there are inherent contradictions in the decision in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary, the learned senior counsel relies 16 (1970) 3 SCC 881 17 (2007) 1 SCC 732 H Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1077 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] upon the decision of the Delhi High Court in Enforcement Directorate A vs. Gagandeep Singh18and Parvathi Kollur vs. State through ED19. 80. To show that a petition for review has been entertained by this Court, the learned senior counsel relies upon the record of proceedings of this Court dated 25.08.2022 in Review Petition (Crl.) No.219 of 2022 in Karti P. Chidambaram vs. The Directorate of Enforcement. B 81. Lastly, it is contended that when certain questions of law are referred to a larger Bench, all subsequent matters should be tagged or deferred. In support of this contention, the learned senior counsel relies upon the s passed by this Court in Jairam Ramesh vs. Union of India20, Thomas Franco Rajendra Dev21vs. Union of India, Kantaru C Rajeevaru (Right to Religion, In re-9 J.)