746 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 2E PSO.CR.RT.S 746 [2023] 2 S.C.R. A NARENDRASINH KESHUBHAI ZALA v. STATE OF GUJARAT (Criminal Appeal No. 1179 of 2012) B MARCH 16, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI, VIKRAM NATH AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860 – ss. 302/34 – Arms Act, 1959 – ss. 25(1) A, 27(2) – Acquittal of accused – Appellant was accused of having committed the murder of the victim-deceased by shooting at him C while he was sitting on a Nala with PW-3 – FIR was lodged and the charge-sheet was filed and the appellant was put on trial – Trial Court convicted the appellant on the testimony of the sole eye-witness (PW-3) and such conviction was upheld by the High Court – On appeal, held: In the case of a sole eye witness, the witness has to be D reliable, trustworthy, his testimony worthy of credence and the case proven beyond reasonable doubt and unnatural conduct and unexplained circumstances can be a ground for disbelieving the witness – It is not the quantity but the quality of witnesses and evidence that can either make or break the case of the prosecution – It is the duty of the prosecution to prove that the testimonies of the E witnesses that it seeks to rely upon are of sterling quality, i.e. fully trustworthy and absolutely free from any kind of blemish – Further, it is true that concurrent findings of facts of the Courts below, are usually, not to be interfered with – However, in the instant case, testimony of PW-3 was full of blemishes, absolutely uninspiring in F confidence – In absence of any other evidence linking the accused to the murder of the deceased, testimony of PW-3 discarded – Appellant acquitted. Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1. It is a settled principle of law that doubt cannot G replace proof. Suspicion, howsoever great it may be, is no substitute of proof in criminal jurisprudence. Only such evidence is admissible and acceptable as is permissible in accordance with law. In the case of a sole eye witness, the witness has to be reliable, trustworthy, his testimony worthy of credence and the H case proven beyond reasonable doubt. Unnatural conduct and 746 NARENDRASINH KESHUBHAI ZALA v. STATE OF GUJARAT 747 unexplained circumstances can be a ground for disbelieving the A witness. [Para 8][750-H; 751-A-B] 2. What makes testimony of PW-3 shaky and the witness unbelievable is his admission of the Police Headquarters being in close proximity to the place of occurrence of the incident and despite knowing that police is always posted at the gate he did B not approach the police. The explanation furnished is only that he was “much scared”, which prudently is not acceptable, given that he was a close friend of the Deceased. Further, his credit stands impeached in the cross-examination part of his testimony. The witness is an adult, mature and worldly wise. He is aged 24 C years and runs a grocery shop. He is not illiterate, yet he chose to not take any action, even to save the life of his friend.