These Committees in their reports observed that one out of every fi ve borrower was a defaulter, and that due to the long and tedious process of existing frame work of law and the overburdening of existing forums including the specialised tribunals under the 1993 Act, any attempt of recovery with the assistance of court/tribunal often rendered the secured asset nearly worthless due to the long delays. In this background the Committees thus, proposed new laws for securitisation in to permit banks and fi nancial institutions to hold securities and sell them in a timely manner without the involvement of the courts. 30. On the recommendations of the Narasimham Committee and Andyarujina Committee, the SARFAESI Act was enacted to empower the banks and fi nancial institutions to take possession of the securities and to sell them without intervention of the court. 31. The statement of objects and reasons for which the Act has been enacted reads as under: - “STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS The fi nancial sector has been one of the key drivers in India’s eff orts to achieve success in rapidly developing its economy. While the banking industry in India is progressively complying with the international prudential norms and accounting practices there are certain areas in which the banking and fi nancial sector do not have a level playing fi eld as compared to other participants in the fi nancial markets in the world. There is no legal provision for facilitating securitisation of fi nancial assets of banks and fi nancial institutions. Further, unlike international banks, the banks and fi nancial institutions in India do not have power to take possession of securities and sell them. Our existing legal framework relating to commercial transactions has not kept pace with 78 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the changing commercial practices and fi nancial sector reforms. This has resulted in slow pace of recovery of defaulting loans and mounting levels of non-performing assets of banks and fi nancial institutions. Narasimham Committee I and II and Andhyarujina Committee constituted by the Central Government for the purpose of examining banking sector reforms have considered the need for changes in the legal system in respect of these areas. These Committees, inter alia, have suggested enactment of a new legislation for securitisation and empowering banks and fi nancial institutions to take possession of the securities and to sell them without the intervention of the court. Acting on these suggestions, the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Ordinance, 2002 was promulgated on the 21st June, 2002 to regulate securitisation and reconstruction of fi nancial assets and enforcement of security interest and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. The provisions of the Ordinance would enable banks and fi nancial institutions to realise long-term assets, manage problem of liquidity, asset liability mismatches and improve recovery by exercising powers to take possession of securities, sell them and reduce nonperforming assets by adopting measures for recovery or reconstruction.” 32. This Court in Mardia Chemicals Ltd. & Ors.