classes I to VIII. The aim of elementary education is to fulfi ll the basic learning needs of all children in an inclusive school environment bridging social and gender gaps with the active participation of the community. 1.2 The elementary teacher education programme carries diff erent nomenclatures such as BTC, J.B.T, D.Ed. and (Diploma in Education). Henceforth, the nomenclature of the programme shall be the same across all states and it shall be referred to as the ‘Diploma in Elementary Education’(D.El.Ed).” The same Regulation in its appendix 4 describes B.Ed as follows: “1. Preamble The Bachelor of Education programme, generally known as B.Ed., is a professional course that prepares teachers for upper primary or middle level (classes VI-VIII), secondary level (classes IX-X) and senior secondary level (classes XI-XII). The programme shall be off ered in composite institutions as defi ned in clause (b) of Regulations 2.” It is therefore clear that a B.Ed. course is not designed for teaching at primary level. Moreover, the inclusion of B.Ed. candidates for primary classes is in the teeth of several decisions of this Court, as this Court has consistently held that Diploma in elementary education (D.El.Ed.) and not B.Ed., is the proper qualifi cation in Primary Schools. 26. In Dilip Kumar Ghosh and Others versus Chairman and Others12, this Court had to decide on the question whether B.Ed degree 12 (2005) 7 SCC 567 DEVESH SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. 181 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] candidate can be equated with a candidate who holds training in Primary School teaching or in other words who is trained specifi cally for Primary Schools. The Contention of the appellants (in the aforesaid case) who were B.Ed. candidates was that, their course (B.Ed. ), equips them to teach Primary Classes. Their contention was rejected by this Court. In Para 9, it stated as under: “In B.Ed. curriculum such subjects like child psychology are not found. On the other hand, the curriculum is of a generic nature and deals with subjects like the principle of educational-curriculum studies, educational psychology, development of education in modern India, social organization and instructional methods, etc.” Then again in Para 10 it was stated as under: “…………For teaching in the primary school, therefore, one must know the child psychology and development of a child at a tender age. As already noticed, the candidates like the appellants who are trained in B.Ed. degree are not necessarily to be equipped to teach the students of primary class. They are not trained and equipped to understand the psychology of a child of tender age.” In P.M. Latha and Another versus State of Kerala and Others13 the argument that B.Ed. qualifi cation is a higher qualifi cation than Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed.) was rejected. Again, it was a case before the Apex Court where B.Ed candidates, were claiming appointment as Primary School teachers on the basis of the claim that their educational qualifi cation (i.e. B.Ed.) was even higher than the Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed.)