The licence would be valid only so long as the annual payment of variable licence fee was made. v. That the provisions of Section 35ABB of the Act were introduced in the year 1996. At that time, the concept of variable licence fee did not exist. Application of the said provision to variable licence fee would give rise to absurd results, not intended by the Legislature. vi. That payment of variable licence fee from 01 August, 1999 is not for “acquiring any right to operate telecommunication services”, which right vested in and was being exploited by the assessees pursuant to obtaining the licence in 1994 and setting up the requisite infrastructure. vii. Further, variable licence fee paid from 01 August, 1999 could not be regarded as payment made “to obtain a licence”, so as to fall within the ambit of Section 35ABB of the Act. 396 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. That Section 35ABB of the Act would not be attracted in the present case to require amortisation of the variable licence fee, because: a) payment of variable licence fee is not in the nature of capital expenditure; b) such payment is not incurred for “acquiring any right to operate telecommunication services”; c) such payment has not been made “to obtain a licence”. With the aforesaid submissions, it was prayed that the High Courts’ decision as to the inapplicability of Section 35ABB of the Act, to the facts of the present case, be upheld, and these appeals be dismissed as being devoid of merit. 7.3. Learned senior counsel, Sri Arvind P. Datar, appearing on behalf of some of the respondent-assessees in Civil Appeal Nos. 11131 of 2016 and 153 of 2021 adopted the submissions of Sri Ajay Vohra and further submitted as under: i. That it would be incorrect to suggest that the annual licence fee which is paid as a percentage of the revenue earnings is paid to acquire the right and obtain the licence. That it is absurd to state that every year, each telecom licencee acquires the right and obtains a licence. Acquisition of the right and obtaining the licence is a one-time event and the expenditure for acquisition of the licence is always capital expenditure. Section 35ABB of the Act covers this aspect of the transaction. ii. That the annual licence fee, even though termed as a licence fee is in essence, expenditure incurred to operate the telecommunication services from year to year. Such expenditure is incurred annually to earn revenue and consequently is an annual revenue expenditure. In various sectors, such as mining, oil exploration, etc., the licences are acquired on payment of a lump-sum amount. This expenditure is to acquire a right and obtain licence to engage in mining, oil exploration, and so on. Thereafter, annual amounts are paid, depending on the quantities of minerals or petroleum that is extracted. It was submitted that by analogy, the one-time entry fee C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 397 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] paid by existing telecom operators and the entry fee that was paid by all the new entrants, was capital expenditure which resulted in acquisition of rights and obtaining licence.