That section 260A of the Income Tax Act is analogous to Section 100 CPC which mandates framing of question of law before exercising its jurisdiction on the said issue. It is submitted that H 468 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A as such no issue of levy of interest was framed by the High Court. That therefore the High Court has committed a jurisdictional error in recording a finding that ITAT’s conclusion that interest under section 234 A & B of the Act could not be charged since a specific notice in that behalf was not issued by the Assessing Officer, is unsustainable in law. B 3.17 In addition, it is submitted on the aspect on territorial jurisdiction of the authorities at Delhi that the assessee companies were having their registered offices in Sikkim. Therefore, the issuance of notices under Section 148 of the Act is beyond jurisdiction. That on the issue of territorial jurisdiction, the ITAT found that since the business premises of the assessees were in Sikkim, the territorial jurisdiction to assess vested with C the ACIT, Gangtok. Therefore, the ITAT rightly held that the ACIT Delhi who issued notices under section 148 of the Act had no territorial jurisdiction. That the proper course for the Department was to have the matter entrusted to ACIT, Gangtok after complying with the mandate of section 127 of the Act for transferring jurisdiction of ACIT, Gangtok to D New Delhi. It is submitted that though the Revenue in its appearance before the High Court raised a question of law on the finding recorded by the ITAT on territorial jurisdiction of the authorities at Delhi, while framing question(s) of law, the High Court did not frame an issue with regard to territorial jurisdiction. Thus, the finding with regard to lack of territorial jurisdiction by ITAT had attained finality. E 3.18 Insofar as the levy of interest is concerned, it is submitted that the ITAT specifically observed that no direction was made by the AO for levy of interest. Therefore relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of CIT v. Ranchi Club Limited, (2001) 247 ITR 209 taking the view that levy of interest was under Section 234A, B & C of the Act, F without a direction by the AO in the assessment is not legally sustainable. It is further submitted that the High Court, while upsetting the finding recorded by the ITAT on levy of interest, has erred in relying upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of Commissioner of Income Tax, Mumbai v. Anjum M.H. Ghaswala, (2002) 1 SCC 633 and G Commissioner of Income Tax, Delhi v. Bhagat Construction Company Private Limited, (2016) 15 SCC 738. 3.19 Shri Datar, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the assessee companies contended that as such there was no notice served upon the proper person and the notice served upon Rattan Gupta cannot be said to be a valid service of notice. That under section 2(35)(b) of the H MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT.