The State by virtue of Entry 5 of List III of the Seventh Schedule has the power to regulate the institution of marriage. In exercise of this power, the legislature has prescribed various conditions which must be fulfi lled before legal recognition can be given to a union. These conditions inter alia include the minimum age to be able to consent to a marriage, the prohibition of bigamy, and the bar against marrying within the degrees of prohibited relationship; e. The State is not under an obligation to grant legal recognition to every type of relationship. The State only recognizes relationships when there exists a legitimate state interest. The State has a 127 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. legitimate State interest in legally recognizing heterosexual relationships for the sustenance of society; f. After the decriminalization of homosexuality in Navtej (supra), members of the LGBTQIA+ community have the freedom and autonomy to choose their partners without restraints on gender and sexuality. However, the decriminalization of the sexual off ence does not cast an obligation on the State to grant legal recognition to such relationships or unions. Marriage is a legal privilege. It is conditional upon statutory or societal conditions. The right to choose a partner does not necessarily imply that there is a right to marry a partner of choice; g. The Courts do not have the power to decide if legal recognition can be granted to a union of non-heterosexual individuals. This is an issue which must necessarily be decided by the legislature, being the elected representatives of the citizens; h. It would become impossible to deny legal recognition to practices such as incest or polygamy if non-heterosexual couples are granted the right to marry; i. Marriage is a public institution. It falls in the outer-most zone of privacy and is thus, susceptible to the highest degree of State regulation. This Court in Navtej (supra) only granted protection to the intimate and intermediate zone of privacy of non-heterosexual couples; j. Both the father and the mother have a signifi cant and unique role in the upbringing of children. In non-heterosexual unions, the child born out of surrogacy or artifi cial reproductive technology or adopted by the couple would feel the absence of either a father or a mother. The State does not grant legal recognition to homosexual unions in the form of marriage to protect the interest of the children. This is a legitimate State interest. The petitioners have not submitted suffi cient data to back their claim that the interest of a child brought up by a non-heterosexual couple is protected; SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1271 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] k. Granting legal recognition to non-heterosexual unions would dilute heterosexual marriages. For example, in Netherlands, more heterosexual couples have opted for domestic partnerships and cohabitation after legal recognition was granted to non- heterosexual unions. Non-heterosexual unions are not granted legal recognition to protect the institution of marriage; l. The impugned provisions of the SMA are constitutional because: i.