This would be akin to permitting a customer who visits a restaurant to carry their own food to that restaurant and eat it within the premises of that restaurant. [Paras 23, 24][584-G-H; 585-A-E] G 1.3 Whether or not to purchase food or beverages after gaining admission to the cinema hall is entirely within the choice of the movie goer. Viewers visit cinema halls for the purpose of entertainment. The transaction of purchasing a ticket permits them to view the movie they have opted to watch. If the food and H K C CINEMA (CORRECT NAME K C THEATRE) v. STATE OF JAMMU 575 AND KASHMIR beverages on sale at the movie hall are not to their taste, they A are free to refrain from purchasing them. In this way, they are not being prevented from exercising their right to choice of food. Whether or not to watch a movie is entirely within the choice of viewers. If viewers seek to enter a cinema hall, they must abide by the terms and conditions subject to which entry is granted. B Having reserved the right of admission, it is open to theatre owners to determine whether food from outside the precincts of the cinema hall should be permitted to be carried inside. The High Court transgressed its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution by directing the cinema hall owners not to prohibit movie goers from carrying eatables and beverages from outside C within the precincts of a cinema hall and by directing the state to enforce this direction to the cinema hall owners. Absent a statutory regulation which regulates the right to conduct the business of operating a cinema hall, the imposition of such a restraint would affect the legitimate rights of a theatre owner. D The condition of entry is imposed as a direct result of the exercise of the right of cinema owners to carry on a business or trade under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. The commercial logic of prohibiting movie goers from carrying their own food to the cinema hall is to stimulate and boost a vital aspect of the business – the sale of food and beverages. If business owners are not E permitted to determine the various facets of their business (in accordance with law), economic activity would come to a grinding halt. [Paras 26–28, 31][586-B-F; 587-G-H] 1.4 For movie goers with chronic diseases who may have received dietary instructions from their doctors or who may F otherwise be under dietary restrictions due to their medical condition, cinema hall owners are requested to consider requests from such movie goers on a case-by-case basis. [Para 34][588-G] 1.5 The impugned and of the High Court in G regard to direction (i) is set aside. [Para 35][588-H] Parker v. The South Eastern Railway Co (1877) 2 CDP 416; Olley v. Marlborough Court Ltd (1949) 1 KB 523; McCutcheon v. David Macbrayne Ltd (1964) 1 WLR H 576 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 125; Thornton v. Shoe Lane Parking Ltd (1970) EWCA Civ 2 – distinguished.