The obligation on the part of the Authority to ask the delinquent whether he pleaded guilty or had any defence to make is only in the circumstances, if the delinquent had not admitted any of the articles of 552 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. charge in his written statement of defence or had not submitted any written statement of defence. Indisputably, in the case on hand, the respondent had fi led his written statement of defence dealing with all allegations on the ten points framed for determination that were enquired into by the Committee and also cross-examined all the witnesses on the same. 62. In our opinion, mere violation of Rule 14(9) of the 1965 CCS Rules would not vitiate the entire inquiry. Rule 14(9) is only procedural. 63. A similar view has been recently taken in Aureliano Fernandes (supra) wherein this Court rejected the delinquent’s contention of prejudice, on the ground that all materials proposed to be used against him were duly furnished and that he had submitted his reply to the same as-well. The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “64.… but it is not in dispute that all the complaints received from time to time and the depositions of the complainants were disclosed to the appellant. He was, therefore, well aware of the nature of allegations levelled against him. Not only was the material proposed to be used against him during the inquiry furnished to him, he was also called upon to explain the said material by submitting his reply and furnishing a list of witnesses, which he did. Furthermore, on perusing the Report submitted by the Committee, it transpires that depositions of some of the complainants were recorded audio-visually by the Committee, wherever consent was given and the appellant was duly aff orded an opportunity to cross-examine the said witnesses including the complainants. The charges levelled by all the complainants were of sexual harassment by the appellant with a narration of specifi c instances. Therefore, in the given facts and circumstances, non-framing of the Articles of Charge by the Committee cannot be treated as fatal. Nor can the appellant be heard to state that he was completely in the dark as to the nature of the allegations levelled against him and was not in a position to respond appropriately.” (Emphasis supplied) 64. A four-Judge bench of this Court in Managing Director, ECIL, Hyderabad and Others v. B. Karunakar and Others reported in (1993) 4 SCC 727 held that in to determine if prejudice had been caused by a UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 553 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] violation of a procedural rule or facet of natural justice, it must be shown that violation had some bearing either upon the outcome or the punishment imposed. The relevant observations are as under: “30. [v] The next question to be answered is what is the eff ect on the of punishment when the report of the enquiry offi cer is not furnished to the employee and what relief should be granted to him in such cases.