A reservations, more particularly for the category of “Other Backward Classes” and “Economically Weaker Sections”, with which I am concerned. The most landmark decision on the issue of reservations for the “Other Backward Class” category is the Nine-Judge Bench decision in case of Indra Sawhney & Ors. Vs. Union of India & Ors.6, in which it was noticed that amongst the backward class, there is a section B of the backward class which belong to the affluent section of society and they do not deserve any sort of reservation for further progress in life. In the majority opined by B.P. Jeevan Reddy, J., it was observed while discussing the issue under the head “Means test” and “creamy layer”, that “Means test’ signifies imposition of an income limit, C for the purpose of excluding persons from the backward class whose income is above the said limit, (also referred as the persons belonging to creamy layer). It was further opined that the exclusion of “creamy layer” must be on the basis of social advancement and not on the basis of mere economic criteria. At the same time, income to the extent of property held by person can be taken as a measure of social advancement and on D that basis “creamy layer” of all given caste/community/occupational group can be excluded to arrive at a true backward class. It was further opined that it is not impermissible for the State to categorize backward classes into backward and more backward on the basis of their relative social backwardness. It was finally concluded while answering various questions E dealt with by the majority inter alia that (i) ‘creamy layer’ can be, and must be excluded; (ii) it is not necessary for class to be designated as a backward class that it is situated similarly to the Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes; (iii) a backward class of citizens cannot be identified only and exclusively with reference to economic criteria. It is of course permissible for the Government or other authority to identify backward F class of citizen on the basis of occupation-cum-income, without reference to caste, if it is so advised; (iv) there is no Constitutional bar to classify backward classes of citizens into backward or more backward categories; (v) the Government of India and the State Governments have the power to, and ought to, create a permanent mechanism in the nature of G commission etc. 16. In another significant decision in case of M. Nagaraj & Ors. Vs. Union of India & Ors.7, the Constitution Bench while propounding 6 1992 Supp (3) 217 H 7 (2006) 8 SCC 212 SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 627 OTHERS [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] the concepts of “formal equality” and “proportional equality”, as the A basis of distribution of benefits and burdens, referred the concept of “creamy layer” evolved in case of Indra Sawhney (supra), and opined as under: “120. At this stage, one aspect needs to be mentioned. Social justice is concerned with the distribution of benefits and burdens.