144. Paragraph 66 of the First Report of the Law Commission E contained the principles on which appropriate legislation should proceed. It will be useful to extract paragraph 66 of the First Report of the Law Commission, to understand the sweep of constitutional tort, as it was conceived within a few years of the adoption of the Constitution. In fact, it has laid down the road map very clearly with lot of foresight. Paragraph 66 reads thus: F “66. The following shall be the principles on which legislation should proceed:— I. Under the general law: Under the general law of torts i.e., the English Common G Law as imported into India on the principle of justice, equity and good conscience, with statutory modifications of that law now in force in India (vide the Principles of General Law, Appendix VI)— (i) The State as employer should be liable for the torts committed by its employees and agents while acting within the H scope of their office or, employment. KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 707 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] (ii) The State as employer should be liable in respect of A breach of those duties which a person owes to his employees or agents under the general law by reason of being their employer. (iii) The State should be liable for torts committed by an independent contractor only in cases referred to in Appendix VI. B (iv) The State also should be liable for torts where a corporation owned or controlled by the State would be liable. (v) The State should be liable in respect of breach of duties attached under the general law to the ownership, occupation, possession or control of immoveable properly from the moment C the State occupies or takes possession or assumes control of the property. (vi) The State should be subject to the general law liability for injury caused by dangerous things (chattels). In respect of (i) to (vi) the State should be entitled to raise the D same defences, which a citizen would be entitled to raise under general law. II. In respect of duties of care imposed by statute: (i) If a statute authorises the doing of an act which is in itself injurious, the State should not be liable. E (ii) The State should be liable, without proof of negligence, for breach of a statutory duty imposed on it or its employees which causes damage. (iii) The State should be liable if in the discharge of statutory F duties imposed upon it or its employees, the employees act negligently or maliciously, whether or not discretion is involved in the exercise of such duty. (iv) The State should be liable if in the exercise of the powers conferred upon it or its employees the power is so exercised as to G cause nuisance or trespass or the power is exercised negligently or maliciously causing damage. N.B.—Appendix V shows some of the Acts which contain protection clauses. But under the General Clauses Act a thing is deemed to be done in good faith even if it is done negligently.