By the impugned s the High Court has held that Section 4-B(3) is ultra F vires the rule- making powers conferred on the State Government under the Act. 2. According to the High Court the imposition, though described as a tax, is, in substance, a fine for an alleged offence of plying the vehicle without a valid permit or in contravention of the G conditions of permit and such a penalty cannot be treated as a part of regulatory or compensatory tax. On that view, The High Court has declared that Section 4-B(3) of the Act is ultra vires the powers conferred on the State Legislature under Entry 56 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India. The question that falls for consideration in these appeals H THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. GOEL BUS SERVICE 889 KULLU ETC. ETC. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] is whether the imposition under Section 4-B(3) is not a A tax but a penalty and is ultra vires the legislative powers of the State Legislature under Entry 56 and Entry 57 of List II. 3. Having regard to the importance of the question, we consider it appropriate that these matters are considered by a Bench of B three Judges. The matter may, therefore, be placed before the Hon’ble Chief Justice for necessary directions.” A careful perusal of the above s confines the question for consideration to be whether the imposition of additional special road tax levied on transport vehicle used without a valid permit is not C a tax but a penalty and is ultra vires the legislative powers of the State Legislature under Entries 56 and 57 of List II (the State List) of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. 3. Civil Appeal No.10457 of 1995 was dismissed vide dated 15.04.1998 for the reason that similar provisions enacted in D the State of Rajasthan were repealed by the Rajasthan Finance Act, 1977 and, as such, the question raised was held to be no longer a live issue. The said appeals along with connected appeals were accordingly dismissed, however, the question was left open. The said dated 15.04.1998 is reproduced hereunder: - E “These appeals involve the question regarding the validity of Section 4 (B) (3) of the Rajasthan Motor Vehicles Act, 1951 and Rule 4 CC of the Rajasthan Motor Vehicles Taxation Rules. While the matters were pending in this Court the State legislature has enacted Rajasthan Finance Act, 1977 whereby Section 4 (B) (3) has been repealed and since Rule 4 CC was F made to give effect to the provisions contained in Section 4 (B) (3) the said rule also has ceased to apply. In view of the aforesaid amendment that has been made by the Rajasthan Finance Act, 1977 the question raised by the appellant in these appeals is no longer a live issue and, therefore, it is not G necessary to go into the same. The appeals are accordingly dismissed and the question is left open. No as to costs.” FACTS: 4.