Thus, it was contended that such fi nding and reliance on the testimony of PW10 is erroneous. It was submitted that even the alleged recovery is not proved and most importantly there was no forensic examination conducted to prove that the blood belonged to the deceased. The theory of the appellant buying petrol from PW10, who has turned hostile, is also, according to learned counsel for the appellant, enough to entitle the appellant to benefi t of doubt. 10. It was further submitted that even the deceased’s wife stated in her evidence that there was cordial relationship between the appellant and family of the deceased and thus, the theory of strong animosity also stands negated. to one-fourth part of the longest term of the im-prisonment provided for the off ence, or with fi ne, or with both. Illustration A, knowing that B has murdered Z, assists B to hide the body with the intention of screening B from punishment. A is liable to imprisonment of either description for seven years, and also to fi ne. 60 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 11. Learned counsel submitted that had there been such strong enmity between the two sides, there was no occasion for the deceased to have accompanied the appellant to his house and that too late in the night. It was urged that a strong pointer to the falsity of the allegation(s) is the fact that the deceased’s wife admitted during deposition that even when the deceased did not return for two-three days, she had not made any complaint and a very vague reason for such conduct is given say-ing that even in the past he (the deceased) used to go away for two-three days. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT-STATE: 12. Learned counsel for the State, on the other hand, in support of the Judgement impugned submitted that there was a strong motive for the appellant to kill the deceased. Learned counsel for the State relied upon the decision of this Court in State of Rajasthan v Kashi Ram, (2006) 12 SCC 254, the relevant being at Paragraphs 19-23, for the proposition that once the accused is found to be the person with whom the deceased was last seen, the onus is on the accused to explain as to where the victim had gone or how the incident occurred: ‘19. Before adverting to the decisions relied upon by the counsel for the State, we may observe that whether an inference ought to be drawn under Section 106 Evidence Act is a question which must be determined by reference to proved3. It is ultimately a matter of appreciation of evidence and, therefore, each case must rest on its own facts. 20. In Joseph v. State of Kerala [(2000) 5 SCC 197 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 926] the facts were that the deceased was an employee of a school. The appellant representing himself to be the husband of one of the sisters of Gracy, the deceased, went to St. Mary’s Convent where she was employed and on a false pretext that her mother was ill and had been admitted to a hospital took her away with the permission of the sister in charge of the Convent, PW 5.