v. M/S 1101 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. of the vendee and to hold and enjoy the same as absolute owner. A In the Schedule, no doubt, what is mentioned is 46 acres and a little over 71 cents. We have already referred to the conduct of the first and second respondents, which commended itself to the learned Single Judge as conveying the impression that they wanted to repair and maintain the plant and machinery. Furthermore, they B have also sought the benefit of the exemption provided under GoMS 103 dated 07.02.2001, which Government purported to provide for certain concessions in the form of exemption from stamp duty and registration fee in favour of industrial units. We are in agreement with the view taken by the learned Single Judge that the unit was purported to be operated as a going concern C and apparently the first respondent did not intend to dispose of the plant and machinery as scrap. Bearing in mind this context, we proceed to examine the exigibility of the plant and machinery to stamp duty under the Act. [Para 34][1133-C-H; 1134-A-C] 1.2 It is, no doubt, true that what is purported to be D conveyed, going by the Recital Clause, is, at first blush, the land as comprised in the Schedule, viz., 46 and odd acres. What is conveyed is immovable property. Immovable property has been defined in the General Clauses Act, 1897 as ‘including land, benefits to arrive out of land and things attached to the earth or E permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth’. When it comes to the definition of ‘immovable property’ in the Transfer of Property Act, it has been defined as ‘not including standing timber, growing crops or grass’. In the Registration Act, 1908, immovable property includes, apart from land and buildings, things attached to the earth or permanently fastened to anything which F is attached to the earth but not including standing timber, growing crops or grass. Most importantly, we cannot also be oblivious that Section 8 of the Transfer of Property Act declares that in the absence of an express or implied indication, a transfer of property passes to the transferee all the interests, which the transferor G was capable of passing in the property and in the legal incidents thereof. Such incidents includes, inter alia, where the property is land, all things attached to the earth. When the property is machinery attached to the earth, the movable parts thereof also H 1102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A are comprehended in the transfer. In the Recital Clause, a proper reading of the same would tend to indicate that what is conveyed is rights over the scheduled property, which, no doubt, is the land, as described in the Schedule but it includes all the rights, easements, interests, etc., i.e., the rights which ordinarily passed on such sale over the land. It is from a reading the said recital in B conjunction with Section 8 of the Transfer of Property Act that the intention of the parties become self-evident that the vendor intended to convey, all things, which inter alia stood attached to the earth.