[2023] 1 S.C.R. 241 241 PRASAD PRADHAN & ANR. A v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH (Criminal Appeal No. 2025 of 2022) JANUARY 24, 2023 B [KRISHNA MURARI AND S. RAVINDRA BHAT, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860 – s.302 r/w s.34 – Murder – Prosecution case that appellant/accused and the victim were cousins – On the afternoon of 28.02.2012, when the victim was getting his land C levelled through a JCB machine, the appellants (A-1 and A-2) reached the place and attacked him – It was alleged that A-1 was armed with an axe and he attacked the victim on the head – Against A-2, the allegation was that he was armed with an axe and had assaulted the victim on the legs – Regarding A-3, the grandson of A-1 and son of A-2, the allegation was that he went to the spot and D caught hold of the victim – Victim sustained several injuries including head injuries – He was taken to the hospital and was examined by a doctor (PW11) – As serious head injuries were involved, the victim was operated by another doctor (PW15) – However, the victim could not survive and died on 22.03.2012 – PW14, doctor conducted the E post-mortem and, in his report, (Ex. P-28), stated that death was caused by injuries sustained by the victim on the head – Trial Court convicted all the accused and sentenced them to life imprisonment, for the offence of murder, and six months rigorous imprisonment for the offence u/s.323 IPC – High Court acquitted A-3 on both counts, but affirmed the conviction and sentence of the appellants F (A1 and A2) – Held: The nature of the attack by the appellants and the quality of eyewitness testimony of prosecution witnesses, especially PW1 to PW5, cannot be doubted – The circumstance that most of the witnesses were related to the deceased does not per se exclude their testimony – Appellants were armed, a fact which shows G pre-meditation on their part – Appellants attacked victim on the head, which is a vital part of the body, thus taking undue advantage of their situation – Lapse of time i.e. victim dying after 20 days, would not per se constitute a determinative factor as to diminish the offender’s liability from the offence of murder to that of culpable H 241 242 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A homicide, not amounting to murder – Conviction and sentence imposed on the appellants, upheld. Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD:1. The circumstance that most of the witnesses were related to the deceased does not per se exclude their testimony. B Although PW1 is the deceased’s daughter, that is insufficient to doubt the veracity of what she recounted during the trial, which is that she saw the appellants attack her father with axes. She tried to intervene and save the deceased, upon which she was also given axe blows on her leg. There is no explanation on the C part of the appellants as to why the witness should depose falsely; nor is there any explanation as to how she could have received her injuries.