counsels for the accused persons) 15. HC Kanwarpal He was the PCR van Incharge and has deposed that: (PW14) 1. In the intervening night of 15/16.8.2008 at about 3:50 am they received the information that two persons have been stabbed at gate no.2 Azadpur Mandi. 2. Thereafter he along with staff reached gate no.2 Azadpur Mandi from where he came to know that the incident had taken place at D-Block Corner near STD booth and thereafter, they reached there and found two persons namely Sushil Kumar and Pappu in injured conditions. 3. They took the injured to BJRM Hospital and got them admitted there for treatment. 16. Sh. Rajesh Kumar This witness has proved having conducted the Test, Ld. Goel, ACMM Identifi cation Parade proceedings of accused Ld. ACMM persons namely Sharwan Kumar, Vijay @ Kalia and Pawan Kumar and Mukesh. He has proved the following documents: Ex.PW8/A Test Identifi cation Parade of accused Mukesh Ex.PW8/B Test Identifi cation Parade of accused Vijay @ Kalia MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 901 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Ex.PW8/C Test Identifi cation Parade of accused Pawan Ex.PW16/A Application of the investigating offi cer for obtaining copies of the proceedings Ex.PW8/E Test Identifi cation parade of accused Sharwan Ex.PW16/B Application of the investigating offi cer for obtaining the copies of the proceedings Ex.PW16/C Envelopes containing the Test & Identifi cation Parade proceedings Ex.PW16/D Ex.PW16/E Application moved by the investigating & PW16/F offi cer for conducting Test Identifi cation Parade 9. Upon conclusion of the recording of evidence, the further statement of the appellant convict under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (CrPC) was recorded in which the appellant convict stated that he had refused for the TIP as he was already shown to the witnesses by the police. He further stated that he was innocent and had been falsely implicated in the case. He was picked up from the house of his in-laws and was detained in the police station for three days. He stated that he had no idea about the case. 10. Upon appreciation of the oral as well as documentary evidence on record, the Trial Court came to the conclusion that the appellant convict herein and the co-accused, namely, Vijay alias Kalia were guilty of the off ences punishable under Sections 302, 392, 394 and 397 resply read with Section 34 of the IPC, whereas the other two co-accused, namely, Pawan Kumar and Sharwan Kumar were held guilty of the off ence punishable under Section 392 read with Section 34 of the IPC. 11. The of sentence as awarded to the appellant convict herein by the Trial Court is reproduced as under:- “The convict Mukesh Singh is sentenced to Rigorous Imprisonment for life and fi ne for a sum of Rs.25,000/- for the off ence under Section 397 read with 302 Indian Penal Code. In default of payment of fi ne the convict shall further undergo Simple Imprisonment for a period of 902 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.