Following propositions were submitted and seems to be admitted that neither the accused person has attempted to tamper any evidence nor he is likely to flee from justice. The only aspect H 328 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A on which the present prayer under adjudication seems to be banked upon is that the accused person willfully halted the progress of the investigation by not cooperating the investigating agency during his attendances before them. For that I am here to decipher how genuine the allegation is and as to whether such alleged non- cooperation on the part of this accused person is a sufficient ground B to curb his bailed freedom and commit him back to custody invoking section 437(5) Cr. P.C. I have carefully gone through the transcribed conversations on different dates between the 10 and this accused person while on bail and the 10. The answers given to questions put to him are by no means in the direction of C corroborating the contents of the documentary evidence collected by the 10 during the investigation. The statements of the witnesses recorded u/s 161 and 164 Cr. P.C. and the documentary evidence like account statements etc. collected disclose direct involvement of this accused person in transmitting huge sums, to yet unknown or unidentifiable entities. This money trail also bears a direct D linkage to the other FIR named accused persons, whether or not public servants, as it transpires from the CD. Any man of common prudence would understand that unless these details are elicited the investigation would be badly hampered and the total truth will never be unearthed. In such circumstances I feel that judicial E detention and custodial interrogation of the accused person have to be resorted to. I also am convinced to say that this non- cooperation is consciously active and pre-designed and this is sufficient to presume willful misuse of liberty of bail on the part of the accused person which he obtained exclusively on medical ground. In my appreciation allowing furtherance of this liberty F would certainly defeat the cause of public justice. The nature and seriousness of the offence, the character of evidence collected before and after the interim bail was granted as against this accused person, the present circumstances and shown gesture of designed reluctance of the accused person in assisting the investigation to G progress, and the larger interest of the public and the nation - all at a time, impel me to jump to the judicial inference that the accused person should no more be allowed to enjoy the liberty of the interim bail granted to him on 21.04.2021 and which has been extended from time to time till date. The precedents relied upon by the Ld. Advocates for the accused person are all dissimilar to the factual H CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. VIKAS MISHRA 329 @ VIKASH MISHRA [M. R. SHAH, J.] matrix of the present case and hence require no separate A mentioning. So far as the present health condition of the accused person is concerned from the documents supplied on behalf of the accused person, it is definitely evident that his health is in condition than what he was in at the time of obtaining the Interim Bail, of course with advice by the doctors to keep away from B physical and mental stress.