All that he stated in his examination-in-chief was that he saw Raj Kumar standing at the gate of the gallery with a katta in his hand. He identified the appellant in the Court. 10. Hence, the only circumstance brought on record against the F present appellant is in the evidence of PW-5, who stated that the appellant was standing outside near the gate of the gallery with a katta in his hand. No overt act was attributed to him. There is a long statement of the appellant under Section 313 of CrPC in which as many as 42 questions were put to the appellant. Question no.13 is about what PW-5 deposed. G Admittedly, it was not put to the appellant that it is brought on record that he was standing outside near the gate of the gallery with a katta in his hand. It is true that the answer given by him to every question is “I don’t know”. If all the circumstances put to the appellant in his statement under Section 313 CrPC are carefully perused, any person of ordinary intelligence will get the impression that none of the prosecution witnesses H RAJ KUMAR @ SUMAN v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 761 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] has stated anything against him. That is why one cannot find fault with A the appellant when he gave standard answers to every question as nothing adverse against him was put to him. We may note here that in paragraph 13 of the written submissions by the appellant before the High Court, a specific contention was raised that the only circumstance appearing against the appellant was not put to him in the statement under Section B 313 of CrPC. It is not in dispute that this part of the argument is not considered by the High Court. We may also note that the Trial Court has not reproduced the submissions made by the learned counsel appearing for the accused. 11. Thus, we will have to proceed on the footing that the only C alleged incriminating circumstance appearing against the appellant in the evidence produced by the prosecution has not been put to him in his statement under Section 313 of CrPC and, therefore, he had no opportunity to explain the said circumstance. Moreover, his conviction is based only on this circumstance. D 12. Therefore, we will have to consider the effect of the aforesaid omission on the part of the Trial Court. The law on this aspect is no longer res integra. Apart from the decisions relied upon by the learned counsel representing the parties, there are other important decisions on this aspect. The first relevant is of a Bench of four Hon’ble Judges of this Court in the case of Tara Singh v. State6. The Court E considered the provision of Section 342 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (for short, ‘CrPC of 1898’). Section 313 of CrPC and Section 342 of CrPC of 1898 are in pari materia. In paragraph 18, this Court held thus : “18.