In short, what the Founding Fathers clearly contemplated and intended was, that Parliament would step-in and provide norms, which would govern the appointment to such a uniquely important post as the post of Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners. When the Founding Fathers, therefore, inserted the words ‘subject to the H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 5 provisions of any law to be made by Parliament’, it was intended A that Parliament would make a law. While this Court would not go, so far as to hold that Parliament was under a compellable duty, which this Court can enforce by a Mandamus, to make a law, all that this Court is finding is that the Constituent Assembly clearly intended that Parliament must make a law within the meaning of B Article 324(2) of the Constitution. [Paras 32 and 33][55-A, D, E- F; G-H] 3. It is clear that the founding fathers intended that the elections in the country must be under the superintendence, direction and control of an independent Body. The Body is the C Election Commission of India. Under Article 324, the Chief Election Commissioner is an unalterable feature or figure. A Commission can consist of only the Chief Election Commissioner. A multi-Member Commission was also contemplated by the founding fathers. However, the post of Election Commissioner was to be need based. For nearly four decades, there was no D Election Commissioner. As noticed, it is on 16.10.1989 that the first two Election Commissioners were appointed. In regard to the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners, the Constitution does not provide for any criteria. It does not fix any qualifications. It does not prescribe E any disqualifications in the matter of appointment as either Chief Election Commissioner or Election Commissioner. [Para 60][72- G-H; 73-A-B] 4. It cannot be disputed that there is no strict demarcation or separation of powers in India unlike the position obtaining in the United States of America and Australia. The doctrine of F separation of powers, no doubt, has been eloquently expounded by Montesquieu in his work “The Spirit of Laws” and the basis on which it rests is the imperative need to avoid concentration of power in one or two organs. Undoubtedly, an observance of doctrine of separation of powers has been traced to the principle G of equality. Separation of powers as understood as prevailing in India constitutes a part of the basic structure of the Constitution of India. The theory of separation of powers in an ultimate analysis is meant to prevent tyranny of power flowing from the assumption of excess power in one source. Its value lies in a delicate but skilful and at the same time legitimate balance being struck by H 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the organs of the State in the exercise of their respective powers. This means that the essential powers which are well understood in law cannot be deliberately encroached upon by any organ of the State.