The Government further declared that “the industrial areas operated by the Department of Industry shall be handed over to Rajasthan State Industrial and Mining Development Corporation Limited, Jaipur w.e.f. 1.10.1979”. In purported compliance of the above-mentioned D Government dated 18.09.1979, the Joint Director, District Industrial Centre, Kota issued an on 28.09.1979 (also reproduced in para 9) thereby transferring certain industrial areas to the Corporation including “Large Scale Industrial Area, Kota”. 43. There is an unending debate between the parties with respect E to the scope and import of Government dated 18.09.1979 and whether it was given effect to qua the land allotted to JKSL in LIA, Kota. It should be remembered that Respondent No. 1 had not appeared on the scene at the time when the Government in question was passed. F 44. Firstly, we propose to analyse the purpose and effect of Government dated 18.09.1979. As we have been able to understand, all the industrial areas of Rajasthan were to be transferred to RSIMDC for the purpose of “development” of those areas. The industrial areas were to be handed over only for this specific purpose. In G other words, RSIMDC was entrusted with the task of a Local Authority to carry out development activities in the industrial areas like “(a) construction of roads; (b) supply of electricity; (c) supply of water; (d) sewerage system; (e) all related amenities for the workers employed in industrial areas” etc. etc. H 284 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 45. It is equally relevant here to appreciate that a lessee is liable to pay Development Charges for the allotted industrial land under Rule 3 of 1959 Rules. After subjecting the allottees with the levy of Development Charges, the State Government as a lessor was obligated to provide all amenities in the industrial area on the principle of quid pro quo. Whether such services and amenities are developed by the State Government at B its own expense or through an agency hired for that purpose, is completely inconsequential, insofar as the subsistence of the relationship of lessor – lessee is concerned. 46. We say so also for the plain reason that the expression ‘handed over’ contained in the Government dated 18.09.1979 does not C and cannot be construed as the transfer of ownership of the industrial land from State Government to RSIMDC or RIICO. The word “transfer” used by the Joint Director in his of 28.09.1979 has to be read in conjunction with the Government dated 18.09.1979 which unequivocally says that handing over of the industrial areas was only for D development purposes. 47. It appears to us that ownership or title of an immovable property cannot be transferred save and except by way of an act of legislation or a validly executed instrument of transferring such ownership rights. The omnibus administrative issued for a purpose specified therein cannot E be stretched to construe an implied transfer of ownership. There is no hidden treasure lying underneath Government dated 18.09.1979 to infer a non-existent consequence like vesting of lessor’s rights in RIICO in respect of LIA, Kota.