v. MULTIPLEX ASSN. OF 125 GUJARAT THROUGH ITS PRESIDENT [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] account. The only feasible method therefore was to notionally determine A (only for the purpose of grant of exemption) by considering whether the 100% exemption limit was achieved by a particular multiplex, the amount which could have been collected during the relevant period having regard to the aggregate actual collection during the entire period. Analysis and conclusions B 14. It is evident from the terms of the Scheme and the exemption notification which gave effect to it, fixed to limits i.e. (1) a time limit and (2) quantification of the exemption. The latter could be subject to the first i.e., in the event, the amount reached the exemption limit were achieved, before the expiry of the period in question (5-10 years), no C further exemption could be claimed. The state, however, omitted to provide any mechanism to determine how the exemption limits could be worked out for the purpose of notional calculation of the quantified limit. This meant that a reasonable workable method of calculation had to be applied. 15. The state’s contention is founded on the assumption that the D amount collected during the exemption period by the multiplex owners, also included in element of tax. This assumption, in the opinion of this court is flawed because there could have been no collection which amounted to tax. Furthermore, multiplex/theatre-owners were under an obligation to file monthly returns in terms of the enactment. This would E have taken care of any allegation of abuse. The state’s additional argument was that since the element of tax was notionally included in the collections – by multiplexes, -during the exempted period, a further amount equivalent to the tax collectable had to be added. 16. As the High Court concluded- and in the opinion of this Court F correctly so, this contention was bereft of any logic and was plainly unreasonable. There is concededly, a gap in the manner how tax exemption limits can be discerned. Undoubtedly, the law is now settled that exemption notifications have to be interpreted strictly, and against assesses in case of ambiguity. This rule was stated in Commissioner of Central Excise, New Delhi v. Hari Chand Shri Gopal3. The G Constitution Bench, in that case, held that: “The law is well settled that a person who claims exemption or concession has to establish that he is entitled to that 3 2011 (1) SCC 236 H 126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A exemption or concession. A provision providing for an exemption, concession or exception, as the case may be, has to be construed strictly with certain exceptions depending upon the settings on which the provision has been placed in the statute and the object and purpose to be achieved. If exemption is available on complying with certain conditions, B the conditions have to be complied with. The mandatory requirements of those conditions must be obeyed or fulfilled exactly, thought at times, some latitude can be shown, if there is failure to comply with some requirements which are directory in nature, the non-compliance of which would not affect the C essence or substance of the notification granting exemption.” 17.