The second purchaser having 30% share in the house would be F entitled to the entire first floor excluding the staircase. The third purchaser having 20% share of the house would be entitled to the entire second floor including the roof of the second floor but excluding the staircase. It is clear that, the parties who entered into such an MoU, were conscious of the fact that as per the G Rules of the Estate Office, it could not be mentioned in the sale deed that the possession of particular floor is given to the purchaser. It is also clear that the MoU clearly states that all the parties, after entering into such a document, would peacefully hold, use and enjoy their respective portions as their own property H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 603 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH without any hindrance, interruption, claim or demand whatsoever A from each other. In any case, what is to be found is the real intention behind the transaction. When the transaction clearly shows that it is being entered into for the purpose of constructing three different apartments on each floor and also mentions that the same is not permissible under the existing rules, the intention B of the parties is to construct three different units which are disintegrated. This is nothing else but fragmentation. It is an attempt to by-pass the statutory prohibition. [Paras 109, 111, 113 and 116][656-H; 657-A-C, E-F; 658-B-D; 659-C] C 2. In the teeth of the undertaking which the owner is required to furnish in an application for obtaining the occupation certificate; and the specific stand of Chandigarh Administration that it does not permit construction of apartments, it is difficult to appreciate as to how building plans have been sanctioned which D ex-facie show that they are nothing else but apartments. It is clear that the modus operandi of the developers is, in effect, resulting into apartmentalization of the buildings. What is not permissible in law after the repeal of the Chandigarh Apartment Rules, 2001 on 1st October 2007, and enactment of Rule 16 of E the the Chandigarh Estate Rules, 2007, is indirectly being permitted under the guise of sale of shares and subsequent MoUs. [Paras 118 and 119][659-F-G] 3. Allowing a modus operandi to continue, which, in effect, nullifies the effect of repeal of the 2001 Rules, enactment of the F 2007 Rules, and recalling an attempt to reintroduce apartmentalization in the draft Committee for Chandigarh Master Plan, 2031 (CMP-2031), would be permitting to do something indirectly which is not permissible in law. In to maintain the “Corbusian Chandigarh” status of Phase-I of Chandigarh, no G redensification is to be done without the permission of the Heritage Committee. Undisputedly, permitting three apartments to be constructed in one dwelling unit would result in increasing the density in population in the Le Corbusier zone. This cannot H 604 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A be done without the same being approved by the Heritage Committee and the Central Government.