A fight is a combat between two and more persons whether with or without weapons. It is not possible to enunciate any general rule as to what shall be C deemed to be a sudden quarrel. It is a question of fact and whether a quarrel is sudden or not must necessarily depend upon the proved facts of each case. For the application of Exception 4, it is not sufficient to show that there was a sudden quarrel and there was no premeditation. It must further be shown that the offender has not taken undue advantage or D acted in a cruel or unusual manner. The expression “undue advantage” as used in the provision means “unfair advantage”.” o(Emphasis supplied) 57. Thus, the sine qua non for the application of an Exception to Section 300 always is that it is a case of murder but the accused claims E the benefit of the Exception to bring it out of that Section and to make it a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. We must, therefore, assume that this would be a case of murder and it is for the accused to show the applicability of the Exception. Exception 4 reads as under:- “Exception 4.—Culpable homicide is not murder if it is F committed without premeditation in a sudden fight in the heat of passion upon a sudden quarrel and without the offender having taken undue advantage or acted in a cruel or unusual manner.” 58. A perusal of the provision would reveal that four conditions G must be satisfied to bring the matter within Exception 4: (i) it was a sudden fight; (ii) there was no premeditation; (iii) the act was done in the heat of passion; and; that (iv) the H assailant had not taken any undue advantage or acted in a cruel manner. BALU SUDAM KHALDE & ANR. v. THE STATE OF 891 MAHARASHTRA [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 59. On a plain reading of Exception 4, it appears that the help of A Exception 4 can be invoked if death is caused (a) without premeditation, (b) in a sudden fight, (c) without the offenders having taken undue advantage or acted in a cruel or unusual manner; and (d) the fight must have been with the person killed. To bring a case within Exception 4 all the ingredients mentioned in it must be found. B 60. We have already noticed the extent of injuries suffered by the deceased, as it appears from the deposition of the PW 7 Dr. Shrikant who carried out the post mortem. Having regard to the nature of the injuries caused by dangerous weapons like sickle and sword which, were applied on the vital part of the body, there is no escape from the conclusion C that it is a case of Section 302 of the IPC. 61. It is very difficult for us to accept the submission of the learned counsel appearing for the appellant that the case would fall within the Exception 4 to Section 300 of the IPC and such benefit be extended to the accused.