[2023] 2 S.C.R. 119 119 PREMCHAND A v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA (Criminal Appeal No. 211 of 2023) MARCH 03, 2023 B [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] Penal Code,1860 – ss. 300,302 307 and 304 – The trial Court convicted the appellant for the offence of murder of the victim- deceased and attempt to murder three others – The of the C trial Court was challenged by the appellant by preferring appeal before the High Court – The High Court upheld the of trial Court – On appeal, held: The trial court and the High Court did not consider written Statement (Ext. 96) of the appellant u/s 313(5) Cr.P.C. in its entirety, non-consideration of the same has made the conviction vulnerable to interference – Trial Court failed D to appreciate the defence version as spelt out in the Ext.96, which appears plausible – There is a missing link in the prosecution case as to the motive of the appellant to inflict the blow on the victim – Reading of the contents of Ext.96 does evince an act of retaliation spurred by sudden provocation resulting in a quarrel as well as a E scuffle which resulted into death of the victim and others injured – The circumstances clearly negate any suggestion of premeditation in mind – The trial court lacked in objectivity by not examining the facts and circumstances as to whether the situation was such as is likely to reasonably cause an apprehension in the mind of the appellant that there was imminent danger to his body, of either death F or grievous hurt being caused to him, if he did not act in private defence – To impute intention to cause death or the intention to cause that particular injury, which proved fatal, in circumstances of the case considered as unreasonable – Thus, appellant is entitled to the benefit of Exception 4 to s. 300, IPC – Conviction for murder G and sentence of life imprisonment set aside – Appellant convicted u/s. 304, Part II, IPC. Code of Criminal Procedure,1973 – s.313 – Object and scope discussed. H 119 120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD:1. This is a case where it does not appear from the records that the written statement (Ext. 96) engaged the attention of both the trial court as well as the High Court. Applying the principles of law, there can be no quarrel that non-consideration B of Ext. 96, to a limited extent, in relation to recording of conviction and consequently imposition of sentence, has rendered it vulnerable to interference. [Para 18][129-C-D] 2.By not looking into Ext. 96 with the other evidence on record, what the trial court omitted to consider is, whether the C prosecution was justified in claiming that the offensive act amounted to culpable homicide amounting to murder or whether the appellant being guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, deserved punishment under section 304, Part II, IPC. True it is, the trial court considered the arguments advanced on behalf of the appellant that (i) he had “exercised his right of private D defence”, and though (ii) “he exceeded such right”, (iii) the present case at the most would fall under section 304, Part II, IPC; but, it proceeded to overrule such arguments by relying on the oral testimony of P.W.s 2 to 4.