Finding that despite the Act, they were excluded from “whites only” facilities in hotels, theaters etc., the victims of discrimination (African-Americans) filed cases. All those five cases were E tagged together and the U.S. Supreme Court held in (year 1883) what came to be known as “Civil Rights Cases”56 that the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments did not empower Congress to outlaw racial discrimination by private individuals. But after nearly 85 years, this decision was overturned in Jones vs. Alfred H. Mayer Co57 wherein it F was held that Congress could regulate sale of private property to prevent racial discrimination. This was done in terms of 42 U.S. Code § 1982 which entitled all citizens of the United States to have the same right, in every State and Territory, as is enjoyed by white citizens thereof to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold, and convey real and personal property. G 52. But a good 20 years before the decision in Jones (supra) was delivered, the U.S. Supreme Court had an occasion to consider a clash between contractual rights and Constitutional rights. It was in Shelly (supra) where an African-American family (Shellys) who purchased a 56 109 US 3 (1883) 57 392 US 409 (1968) H 654 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A property in a neighbourhood in St. Louis, Missouri was sought to be restrained from taking possession, because of a racially restrictive covenant contained in an Agreement of the year 1911 to which a majority of property owners in the neighbourhood were parties. The covenant restricted the sale of any property or part thereof for a term of 50 years to African-Americans and Asian-Americans. The Missouri Supreme B Court upheld the racially restricted covenant. But the U.S. Supreme Court reversed it holding that the enforcement of such covenants violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. In other words the contractual rights were trumped by the Constitutional obligations. C 53. Then came the decision in New York Times vs. Sullivan58. It was a case where the City Commissioner in Montgomery, Alabama filed an action for libel against the New York Times for publishing an allegedly defamatory statement in a paid advertisement. The jury awarded damages and the was affirmed by the Supreme Court of D Alabama. However, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed the decision and held that the First Amendment which prohibited a public official from recovering damages for a defamatory falsehood relating to the public official’s official conduct except in the case of actual malice, bound the plaintiff from exercising his private right. E 54. The above decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court were seen by scholars as indicating a shift from a ‘purely vertical approach’ to a ‘horizontal approach’. 55. While the U.S. Constitution represented (to begin with) a purely vertical approach, the Irish Constitution was found to be on the opposite side of the spectrum, with the rights provided therein having horizontal F effect. Article 40 of the Irish Constitution deals with Personal Rights under the Chapter “Fundamental Rights”.