21 as a right of an individual to be free from restrictions or encroachments on E his person, whether those restrictions or encroachments are directly imposed or indirectly brought about by calculated measures. It so understood, all the acts of surveillance under Regulation 236 infringe the fundamental right of the petitioner under Art. 21 of the Constitution.” F As pointed out by Rohinton Nariman, J., in Mohd. Arif alias Ashfaq vs. Registrar, Supreme Court of India & Ors.90 "The minority of Subba Rao and Shah, JJ. eventually became law in Rustom Cavasjee Cooper vs. Union of India91(Bank Nationalisation case), where the 11-Judge Bench finally discarded the view expressed in A.K. Gopalan and held that various fundamental rights contained G in different articles are not mutually exclusive …”. 87. If U.P. Police Regulations were challenged in Kharak Singh, identical Regulations issued by the State of Madhya Pradesh were 90 (2014) 9 SCC 737 H 91 (1970) 1 SCC 248 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 683 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] challenged in Gobind vs. State of Madhya Pradesh92. Though this Court A upheld the impugned Regulations, K.K. Mathew, J. pointed out: “25. Rights and freedoms of citizens are set forth in the Constitution in to guarantee that the individual, his personality, and those things stamped with his personality shall be free from official interference except where a reasonable basis for intrusion B exists. “Liberty against Government” a phrase coined by Professor Corwin expresses this idea forcefully. In this sense, many of the fundamental rights of citizens can be described as contributing to the right to privacy. *** *** *** C 27. There are two possible theories for protecting privacy of home. The first is that activities in the home harm others only to the extent that they cause offence resulting from the mere thought that individuals might be engaging in such activities and that such ‘harm’ is not constitutionally protectible by the State.The second D is that individuals need a place of sanctuary where they can be free from societal control. The importance of such a sanctuary is that individuals can drop the mask, desist for a while from projecting on the world the image they want to be accepted as themselves, an image that may reflect the values E of their peers rather than the realities of their natures. [See 26 Stanford Law Rev. 1161, 1187]” 88. Thus, the understanding of this Court in A.K. Gopalan, that deprivation of personal liberty required a physical restraint, underwent a change in Kharak Singh and Gobind (supra). From there, the law marched to the next stage in Satwant Singh Sawhney vs. D. F Ramarathnam, Assistant Passport Officer, New Delhi93 where a Constitution Bench of this Court held by a majority, that the right to personal liberty included the right of locomotion and right to travel abroad. It was held in the said decision that “liberty” in our Constitution bears the same comprehensive meaning as is given to the expression G “liberty” by the 5th and 14th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution and the expression “personal liberty” in Article 21 only excludes the ingredients of “liberty” enshrined in Article 19 of the Constitution.