11.Coming to the issue as to the stage of production of the certifi cate under Section 65-B of the Act is concerned, this Court in Arjun Panditrao Khotkar’s case (supra) held that the certifi cate under 65-B of the Act can be produced at any stage if the trial is not over. Relevant paragraphs are extracted below: “56. Therefore, in terms of general procedure, the prosecution is obligated to supply all documents upon which reliance may be placed to an accused before commencement of the trial. Thus, the exercise of power by the courts in criminal trials in permitting evidence to be fi led at a later stage should not result in serious or irreversible prejudice to the accused. A balancing exercise in respect of the rights of parties has to be carried out by the court, in examining any application by the prosecution under Sections 91 or 311 CrPC or Section 165 of the Evidence Act. Depending on the facts of each case, and the court exercising discretion after seeing that the accused is not prejudiced by want of a fair trial, the court may in appropriate cases allow the prosecution to produce such certifi cate at a later point in time. If it is the accused who desires to produce the requisite certifi cate as part of his defence, this again will depend upon the justice of the case — discretion to be exercised by the court in accordance with law. 59. Subject to the caveat laid down in paras 52 and 56 above, the law laid down by these two High Courts has our concurrence. So long as the hearing in a trial is not yet over, the requisite certifi cate can be directed to be produced by the learned Judge at any stage, so that information contained in electronic record form can then be admitted and relied upon in evidence.” (Emphasis added) 12. The courts below had gone on a wrong premise to opine that there was delay of six years in producing the certifi cate whereas there was none. The matter was still pending when the application to resummon M. Krishna (PW-189) and produce the certifi cate under Section 65-B of the Act was fi led under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. 13. It was only vide dated 07.04.2017 that the report prepared on the basis of electronic devices was refused to be taken on record by the 238 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Trial Court. The original electronic devices had already been produced in evidence and marked as MOs. It was during the examination in chief of M. Krishna (PW-189) that the report of CFSL dated 29.11.2010 was sought to be exhibited. However, the Trial Court vide dated 07.04.2017 declined to take the same on record in the absence of a certifi cate under Section 65B of the Act. When the aforesaid witness was further examined in chief on 27.04.2017, the report under Section 65B was produced to which objection was raised by the counsel of the defence and vide dated 20.06.2017 the Trial Court declined to take the certifi cate, issued under Section 65B of the Act, on record.