This Court referred to the in the case of Bangalore Club and observed that the doctrine of mutuality as applied to clubs envisages a complete identity between contributors and participators. Referring to Halsbury’s Laws of England, 4th Edn., Reissue, Vol.23, Paras 224 it was observed that members’ clubs are an example of mutual undertaking; but, where a club extends facilities to non-members, to that extent, the element of mutuality is wanting. That a members’ club is assessable in respect of profi ts derived from aff ording its facilities to non-members. That where SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1025 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] non-members are off ered facilities on the payment of fees, then, the club was carrying on a business which could be isolated and the profi t from which was assessable to income tax. But there is no liability in respect of profi ts made from members who avail themselves of the facilities provided for members. In short, there has to be a complete identity between the class of participators and the class of contributors of funds; the particular label or form by which the mutual association is formed is of no consequence. It was further observed that if persons carry on a certain activity in such a way that there is a commonality between contributors of funds and participators in the activity, a complete identity between the two is then established. Since the members perform the activities of the club for themselves, the fact that they incorporate a legal entity to do it for them makes no diff erence. Reference was also made to Section 2(24)(vii) of the Act which defi nes taxable income. The doctrine of mutuality, based on common law principles, is premised on the theory that a person cannot make a profi t for himself. Therefore, amount received from oneself cannot be regarded as income and be held to be taxable. It was observed that income of a cooperative society from business is taxable under Section 2(24)(vii) and will stand excluded from the principle of mutuality. It was concluded that the doctrine of mutuality continues to be applicable to incorporated and unincorporated members’ clubs even after the 46th Amendment introducing Article 366(29-A) into the Constitution of India and that sub-clause (f) of the said Article has no application to member’s clubs in the context of the Finance Act, 1994 which, inter alia, deals with tax on services. After discussing elaborately on the defi nition of club or association; taxable service in the context of payment of service tax; and in the context of the defi nition of ‘service’ under the Finance Act, 1994, it was observed that from 2005 onwards, the Finance Act, 1994 does not purport to levy service tax on members’ clubs in the incorporated form. That the in Young Men’s Indian Assn. made no distinction between a club in the corporate form and a club by way of a registered society or incorporated by a deed of trust. (b) In Yum!