5, though has opposed the withdrawal of G the present SLPs, but has submitted that even respondent No. 5 has challenged the termination of the development agreement in its favour by way of IA and has also initiated the perjury proceedings. It is prayed that if this Court is not inclined to permit respondent No. 5 to challenge the termination of respondent No. 5 in the present proceedings and is H 386 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A not entertaining the perjury application(s), the liberty may be reserved in favour of respondent No. 5 to challenge the termination and subsequent development agreement in favour of another developer before appropriate court/forum and the grounds stated in the perjury application(s) may be directed to be considered in accordance with law and on its own merits. B 4. Having heard learned senior counsel/counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties and taking into consideration the subsequent development so stated and pointed out in IA No. 128881/2019, without prejudice to the rights and contentions of the respective parties in the proceedings to be initiated as observed hereinbelow, considering the C prayer made by Dr. A.M. Singhvi, learned Senior Advocate, we permit the petitioners in SLP (C) No. 4428/2016 to withdraw the SLP unconditionally. So far as petitioner No. 4 is concerned none has appeared. In view of the subsequent development and even otherwise none has remained present, the present SLP stands dismissed qua petitioner No. D 4 in SLP (C) No. 4428/2016. SLP (C)…..CC No. 4922/2016 Delay condoned. Substitution application(s) are allowed and the name(s) of legal heirs of concerned petitioners are taken on record and the memo of parties be amended accordingly. E 5. SLP (C) No…. CC No. 4922/2016 is disposed of as under: - (i) This Court has taken note of the termination of the development agreement which was in favour of respondent No. 5 and executing/entering into the fresh development agreement. The copy of the fresh development agreement F needs be furnished to the respective tenants by the present management. If any of the tenants is aggrieved by the terms and conditions of the fresh development agreement, it will be open for them to challenge the same before appropriate court/forum, which may be considered in accordance with G law and on its own merits; (ii) It will also be open for respondent No. 5 whose development agreement has been terminated by the present management/MHADA to challenge the termination of the development agreement and executing the fresh H S. M. PASHA v. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 387 [M. R. SHAH, J.] development agreement before appropriate court/forum and A the grounds set out in the perjury application(s) may be considered in accordance with law and on its own merits. 6. Present Special Leave Petition (C) No. 4428 of 2016 stands dismissed as withdrawn in terms of the above and with the above observations and Special Leave Petition (C) No… CC No. 4922/2016 B also stands disposed of in terms of the above and with the above observations.