A “assignees” or “transferees”, it cannot be held that the right of repurchase was not assignable. In our considered opinion, therefore, the courts below were in error in construing the document in question in a manner to infer an implied prohibition against assignment and transfer.” B (emphasis supplied) 18.It may be noticed that the earlier two s of this Court in T.M. Balakrishna (supra) and Habiba Khatoon (supra) were cited with approval. Right of repurchase was held to be assignable or transferable and cannot be treated as personal to the contracting parties. C 19.To be fair to the appellant, we refer to the s cited by learned counsel for the appellant, which do not support his case. In Bhoju Mandal and Ors’s case (supra), the issue under consideration was as to whether the document in question there was a mortgage or a sale with condition of repurchase. The same was decided on construction of the clauses in the document. It was in that reference this Court observed D that there is a distinction between the said two concepts. The issue can be resolved only by ascertaining the intention of the parties on a consideration of the contents of the documents. The specific issue under consideration therein was not as to whether the right to repurchase was personal to the vendor or the same could be assigned or not. The E of the High Court opining that the document therein was not a mortgage but a sale with a condition of repurchase was upheld. 20.In Kapilaben and Ors.’s case (supra) this Court had considered that assignment of a contract might result in transfer of either rights or obligations thereunder. The transfer of obligations is not possible without F the consent of the other party. The transfer of right is permissible except in cases where the contract is of personal nature. Relevant paras thereof are extracted below:- “24.It is well-settled that the term “representative-in-interest” includes the assignee of a contractual interest. Though the G provisions of the Contract Act do not particularly deal with the assignability of contracts, this Court has opined time and again that a party to a contract cannot assign their obligations/liabilities without the consent of the other party. A Constitution Bench of 9 AIR 1962 SC 1810 H INDIRA DEVI v. VEENA GUPTA & ORS. 385 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] this Court in Khardah Co. Ltd. v. Raymon & Co. (India) (P) A Ltd.9, has laid out this principle as follows : “19. … An assignment of a contract might result by transfer either of the rights or of the obligations thereunder. But there is a well-recognised distinction between these two classes of assignments. As a rule obligations under a contract cannot B be assigned except with the consent of the promisee, and when such consent is given, it is really a novation resulting in substitution of liabilities. On the other hand, rights under a contract are assignable unless the contract is personal in its nature or the rights are incapable of assignment either C under the law or under an agreement between the parties.” x x x x 27.