4 which entails a punishment of rigorous imprisonment for three months or less, whereas the appellant has wrongly been imposed such a harsh punishment of dismissal from service. It was thus argued that the punishment of dismissal from service imposed on the appellant D was disproportionate to the offence committed. 6. Per contra, Mr. R. Balasubramanian, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the respondents refuted the arguments advanced by the other side and submitted that the appellant remained a habitual defaulter which is apparent from the number of punishments imposed on him, as E set out in para 4 of the impugned . It was argued that contrary to the assertion of the appellant that he had reported to his Unit on 18th February, 1999 but was not allowed entry, as per the records, he did not report for duty on expiry of the extended leave; nor did he provide any documents to support his claim that his wife was so unwell and he was getting her treated. The allegation of the appellant that the procedure F followed during the conduct of the Court of Enquiry or the SCM was contrary to the Rules, was strongly refuted by the learned senior counsel who stated that the Court of Enquiry was conducted under the s of the respondent No. 4 and there was no procedure prescribed for the respondent No. 4 to have reported the matter directly to the respondent G No. 3, as contended. Learned senior counsel concluded by submitting that the appellant having pleaded guilty of the charge during the course of the SCM, he cannot be permitted to renege subsequently and question the entire process. 9 For short “DSR” H 1204 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 7. We have heard the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the parties and perused the records. The contention of the appellant that he was granted leave for the period between 8th November, 1998 and 15th January, 1999 and his request for extension of leave was unreasonably rejected by the respondents whereupon he had returned to the Unit on 8th February, 1999, thus, having overstayed leave only by B 34 days, is not borne out from the records. The appellant was granted leave for 39 days from 8th November, 1998 to 16th December, 1998, and his request for extension was acceded to upto 15th January, 1999. When his request for further extension of leave was turned down by the respondents, the appellant ought to have reported for duty immediately C on expiry of the extended leave but he failed to do so. No document was produced by the appellant to demonstrate that he had reported to the Unit on 18th February, 1999. In fact, even in his statement made during the Summary of Evidence, the appellant failed to mention that he had reported to the Unit on 18th February, 1999. Quite apparently, this was an after-thought. In fact, in his statement, the appellant had clearly D admitted that he left his home and came to Bangalore where he surrendered on 3rd May, 1999, after remaining unauthorizedly absent for 108 days.