The manufacturer made payment to the dealer / assessee as the price for B the parts which were supplied by the dealer/assessee to the purchaser or customer. Credit notes were issued by the manufacturer to the dealer / assessee in respect of the price of the parts supplied to the purchaser of the automobile. 23. The above distinct factual basis in Mohd. Ekram Khan is C equated to a case where a manufacturer purchases spare parts from the open market for the purpose of replacement of defective parts and the tax is paid by the manufacturer himself. The in Mohd. Ekram Khan proceeds on the footing that the two situations are identical. Thus, a situation where the assessee supplies the part from his own D stock and receives a credit note by way of recompense for the said replacement from the manufacturer is construed to be identical to a situation where a manufacturer buys a spare part from the open market and replaces the defective part through the dealer (assessee) and the dealer returns the defective part to the manufacturer. In the latter situation there would be no recompense paid to the dealer as the dealer has acted E merely as an intermediary and/or an agent of the manufacturer in replacing the defective part with a part received from the manufacturer and returning the defective part received from the customer to the manufacturer. In contradiction, if the dealer replaces a defective part from his own stock and returns the defective part to the manufacturer, F pursuant to a warranty clause appended to a sale of an automobile and, in turn, receives a recompense for the same, can it be termed a sale is the question to be considered. 24. In both of the above situations, firstly, a dealer is acting pursuant to a warranty which he is bound to honour along with the manufacturer G vis-à-vis a customer or purchaser of an automobile. Secondly, the dealer is also acting as an intermediary and/or an agent of the manufacturer as the warranty emanates from the manufacturer to the ultimate customer through the dealer. The warranty clause runs along with the sale of the automobile, firstly, from the manufacturer to the dealer on a principal to principal basis and secondly, from the dealer to the customer. Therefore, H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1323 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] as an intermediary between the manufacturer and the customer, the A dealer has to act on behalf of the manufacturer i.e. between the manufacturer on the one hand and the customer on the other hand in to fulfil the obligation cast on the manufacturer under the warranty clause vis-à-vis the customer. 25. While so acting as an intermediary, the dealer may replace B the defective part in the car either by receiving a spare part from the manufacturer directly. In such a case, (i) the manufacturer could either dispatch the spare part from its own factory or production unit to the dealer to replace the defective part in the automobile and seek return of the defective part or (ii) the manufacturer can procure the spare part C from the producer of the same or from the open market.