9. Faced with the above argument, the counsel for the respondent/ A landlord sought to place reliance on pleadings in para 18(a)(ii) where it was, inter alia, mentioned that “as stated above…the front portion of the property bearing No.C-586/587, Gali No.12, Majlis Park, Delhi-110003 comprises of only ground floor and is having two bed rooms, one drawing room, two B kitchen, two latrine/bathroom, two small store rooms, one pooja room and one court yard and petitioner is presently having the aforesaid accommodation in her possession.” 10. It is correct on the part of the petitioner/tenant to argue that the pleadings in above nature are misleading. There is no reference C to property No.C-587 in any of the earlier or even in the later part of the eviction petition. Therefore, the pleadings beginning with the expression “as stated above” were factually incorrect. There was no reference made to the right, title or interest of Geeta Sharma (wife of brother-in-law) in the property in question or the same having been built over two adjoining plots of land as a D common super-structure. The respondent/landlady cannot be allowed to make out a new case beyond her own pleadings. 11. For the foregoing reasons, it must be held that the respondent landlady has failed to prove her case of bona fide need. Consequently, the impugned dated 21.11.2014 is set aside. E Her eviction petition is dismissed.” 8. Both the revision petitions were allowed by the High Court on the considerations aforesaid and the respective petitions seeking eviction were accordingly dismissed. 9. Assailing the s so passed by the High Court, learned counsel F for the appellant has strenuously argued that the s impugned remain unsustainable in law, where the High Court has overstepped its jurisdiction under Section 25-B(8) of the Act of 1958. Learned counsel has referred to and relied upon the decision in the case of Abid-ul-Islam v. Inder Sain Dua: (2022) 6 SCC 30 to submit that the High Court could not G have reversed the findings of the fact recorded by the Rent Controller as regards the bona fide requirement on the ground of the so-called misdescription of the property and without considering the clarification before the Rent Controller and then the findings of the Rent Controller. Learned counsel would submit that the expressions “family” and H 506 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A “dependent”, for the purpose of the Act of 1958, and particularly the bona fide requirement, deserve to be construed broadly and liberally so as to include the relatives of the landlord and not strictly to include wholly dependent persons only. The learned counsel has referred to and relied upon the aforesaid decision in the case of Dwarkaprasad. B 10. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent-tenant would submit that on a bare perusal of the petition for eviction, it is clear that the appellant has not correctly described the location of the suit premises and then, had attempted to show that the premises were not situated at No.