Section D 140(5) is not a provision to punish or penalize an auditor. By treating Section 140(5) instead of Section 447 as a provision to punish for fraud, Ministry and NCLT failed to follow the well settled rule of interpretation that something may be done only in the manner prescribed by the law and in no other manner. Reliance is placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of Dharani Sugars E and Chemicals Ltd. v. Union of India, (2019) 5 SCC 480 (para 55). xv) It is further submitted that expanding the scope and purpose of Section 140(5) to include punishment for fraud, would tantamount to prejudicing the defence that an auditor, in a given F case, could take in any other proceedings. The summary nature in which Section 140(5) aims to determine fraud may lead to a complete redundancy of all other processes and procedures provided for under the Companies Act and materially impact an auditor’s right to fair trial. As an example, the determination of guilt under Section 140(5) by way of a summary procedure could G render the process of defences and appeals provided as a part of the NFRA process nugatory and a mere formality qua the auditors. xvi) It is submitted that It is only when the language of provisions in a statute are not clear and categorical, the purpose of the same H 994 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A can be examined by a court to interpret the provision. It is submitted that the following principles of law are well settled with regard to the primacy of plain language interpretation over purposive interpretation: i. The courts should now be very reluctant to hold that B Parliament has achieved nothing by the language it used, when it is tolerably plain what Parliament wished to achieve. [See Dr. Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil v. Chief Minister and Others, (2021) 8 SCC 1 (para 150). ii. The courts will therefore reject that construction which C will defeat the plain intention of the legislature even though there may be some in exactitude in the language used. [See Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil (supra) (para 151). iii. Purposive interpretation can be given only when there is some ambiguity in the language of the statutory D provisions or it leads to absurd results. [See State of Maharashtra v. Shri Vile Parle Kelvani Mandal & Ors. (2022) 2 SCC 725 (para 16). xvii) It is submitted that in addition, this Court has time and again upheld the principle of doubtful penalisation which requires that E “if two views and reasonable constructions can be put on a provision, the court must lean in favour of construction which exempts the subject from penalty rather than one which imposes penalty”. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the cases of SEBI v. Sunil Krishna Khaitan, (2023) 2 SCC 643 F (Para 55) and Tolaram Relumal v. State of Bombay. (1955) 1 SCR 158 (Para 8). xviii) It is submitted that NCLT’s jurisdiction under Section 140(5) of the Act is to direct the removal of a company’s existing auditor and to allow his substitution by the Central Government.