Sub-section 8(f) to Section 5 which reads as follows: 115 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “(f) any amount raised under any other transaction, including any forward sale or purchase agreement, having the commercial eff ect of a borrowing;” [Explanation - For the purposes of this sub-clause,- (I) any amount raised from an allottee under a real estate project shall be deemed to be an amount having the commercial eff ect of a borrowing; and (ii) the expressions, “allottee” and “real estate project” shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in clauses (d) and (zn) of section 2 of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 (16 of 2016);] 6. It is thus evident that with the introduction of the explanation home buyers and allottees of real estate projects were included in the class of “fi nancial creditors” - because fi nancial debt is owed to them. On a plain reading of Section 5 (8)(f) no distinction is per se made out between diff erent classes of fi nancial creditors for the purposes of drawing a resolution plan. Consequently, the reasoning of the Mumbai Bench of NCLT “Mr. Natwar Agrawal(HUF)” is correct in the opinion of this Court. 7. So far as the argument of the resolution professional is concerned, Section 18 of the RERA, Act reads as follows: “18. Return of amount and compensation – (1) If the promoter fails to complete or is unable to give possession of an apartment, plot or building, - (a) In accordance with the terms of the agreement for sale or, as the case may be, duly completed by the date specifi ed therein; or (b) due to discontinuance of his business as a developer on account of suspension or revocation of the registration under this Act or for any other reason, he shall be liable on demand to the allottees, in case the allottee wishes to withdraw from the project, without prejudice to any other remedy available, to return the amount received by him in respect of that apartment, plot, building, as the case may be, with interest at such VISHAL CHELANI & ORS. v. DEBASHIS NANDA 1155 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] rate as may be prescribed in this behalf including compensation in the manner as provided under this Act: Provided that where an allottee does not intend to withdraw from the project, he shall be paid, by the promoter, intererst for every month of delay, till the handing over of the possession, at such rate as may be prescribed. (2) The promoter shall compensate the allottees in case of any loss cause to him due to defective title of the land, on which the project is being developed or has been developed, in the manner as provided under this Act, and the claim for compensation under this sub-section shall be not barred by limitation provided under any law for the time being in force. (3) If the promoter fails to discharge any other obligations imposed on him under this Act or the rules or regulations made thereunder or in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement for sale, he shall be liable to pay such compensation to the allottees, in the manner as provided under this Act.” 8.