[Paras 13, 14 and 20] Arbitration – Claim for loss of profi t arising from a delayed contract or missed opportunities from other available contracts – Claimant to substantiate the presence of a viable opportunity through compelling evidence demonstrating that had the contract been executed promptly, the contractor could have secured supplementary profi ts utilizing its existing resources elsewhere – Nature and quality of such evidence: Held: Will be contingent upon the facts and circumstances of each case – However, it may generally include independent contemporaneous evidence such as other potential projects that the contractor had in the pipeline that could have been undertaken if not for the delays, the total number of tendering opportunities that the contractor received and declined owing to the prolongation of the contract, fi nancial statements, or any clauses in the contract related to delays, extensions of time, and compensation for loss of profi t – This list is not exhaustive and may include any other piece of evidence that the court may fi nd relevant – In adjudging a claim towards loss of profi ts, the court may not make a guess in the dark; the credibility of the M/S UNIBROS v. ALL INDIA RADIO 685 evidence, therefore, is the evidence of the credibility of such claim – Thus, for claims related to loss of profi t, profi tability or opportunities to succeed, one would be required to establish that there was a delay in the completion of the contract; that such delay is not attributable to the claimant; that the claimant’s status as an established contractor, handling substantial projects; and credible evidence to substantiate the claim of loss of profi tability – In the present case, the fourth condition, namely, the evidence to substantiate the claim of loss of profi tability remains unfulfi lled. [Paras 17, 19] Arbitration – Contractor's claims for loss of profi t – Hudson’s formula: Held: Hudson’s formula though has attained acceptability and is well understood in trade, however, it does not apply in a vacuum – Hudson’s formula, as well as other methods used to calculate claims for loss of off - site overheads and profi t, do not directly measure the contractor's exact costs – Instead, they provide an estimate of the losses the contractor may have suff ered – While these formulae are helpful when needed, they alone cannot prove the contractor's loss of profi t – They are useful in assessing losses, but only if the contractor has shown with evidence the loss of profi ts and opportunities it suff ered owing to the prolongation. [Para 18] LIST OF CITATIONS AND OTHER REFERENCES Associated Builders vs. Delhi Development Authority (2015) 3 SCC 49: 2014 [13] SCR 895; Bharat Cooking Coal Limited vs. L.K. Ahuja (2004) 5 SCC 109: 2004 [3] SCR 1105; The Project Director, NHAI vs. M. Hakeem and Another (2021) 9 SCC 1: M/s AT Brij Paul Singh & Ors. vs. State of Gujarat (1984) 4 SCC 59: McDermott International Inc. vs. Burn Standard Co. Ltd. and Ors (2006) 11 SCC 181: 2006 [2] Suppl.