The party need not have returned candidates to the assembly to be registered as a political party. Under the Symbols , a political party receives recognition as a State Party or a National Party based on the total number of candidates returned to G the assembly by the political party, and/or the total percentage of votes secured in the election. The purpose of the requirement under the Symbols is to identify whether the political party has a substantial presence in the electoral fray to freeze an electoral symbol for that party. The Symbols does not refer to an association of H 928 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A legislators de hors the political party like the Tenth Schedule. It recognises a ‘legislator’ and a ‘political party.’ Thus, the reference to provisions of the Symbols to argue that the concepts of political party and legislature party are intertwined does not hold merit because the concept of legislature party is not recognized by the Symbols . B II. Literal and purposive interpretation of the provisions of the Tenth Schedule, the 1986 Rules, and the Act of 1956 106. Rule 2(f) of the 1986 Rules defines ‘leader’ in relation to a legislature party as a member of the party chosen by it as its leader and C includes any other member of the party authorised by the party to act in the absence of the leader. Rule 3(1) states that the leader of a legislature party must furnish the following within thirty days of forming the legislature party: a. A statement in writing containing the names of members of the legislature party with the particulars of the members as D specified in Form I, and the names and designations of the members who have been authorised by it for communicating with the Speaker for the purposes of these rules; b. A copy of the rules and regulations of the political party; and E c. A copy of the rules and regulations of the legislature party, if it has separate rules. Rule 3(1) is extracted below: “3. Information to be furnished by leader of a legislature F party.— (1) The leader of each legislature party (other than a legislature party consisting of only one member) shall within thirty days from the date of commencement of these rules or, where such legislature party is formed after such date within thirty days G from the date of its formation, or, in either case, within such further period as the Speaker may for sufficient cause allow, furnish the following to the Speaker, namely :— (a) a statement (in writing) containing the names of members of such legislature party together with other particulars H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 929 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] regarding such members as in Form- I, and the names and A designations of the members of such party who have been authorised by it for communicating with the Speaker for purposes of these rules ; (b) a copy of the rules and regulations (whether known as such or as Constitution or by any other name) of the political B party concerned ; and (c) where such legislature party has any separate set of rules and regulations (whether known as such or as Constitution or by any other name), also a copy of such rules and regulations.