That apart, on the other aspects also since the trial is under progress, the appellant No.1 would be entitled to put forth his case when the statement under Section 313 of CrPC is recorded and also he would be entitled to tender evidence if necessary. The case of the appellant is clear as to the reason why he contends that the appellant E No.1 cannot be held to have committed the offence as registered in FIR No.232/2020 based on which his name has also been included in an earlier FIR No.255/2020. These are matters which could be established through evidence in the trial before the Competent Court in the judicial proceedings wherein all these matters would be appreciated and a conclusion would be reached. In that regard, the appellants in any event F would have the further remedy of the legal course which is available to them if they are dissatisfied. Further, insofar as the complaint said to have been lodged by the appellant No.2, from the affidavit as filed by the respondent No.6, the nature of investigation carried out by them has been stated. In that regard also the appellant No.2 would have the legal G remedy in accordance with law. 22. In addition, in the said process of the judicial proceedings if the appellants bring out the fact that the appellant No.1 who was not involved, had been framed up and a case was foisted, the appellants would still have the legal remedy to take action for malicious prosecution, H 164 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A loss of reputation, action against involved persons, compensation and for such other relief in that regard. Therefore, when the issue raised is only a matter of evidence to be considered in the judicial proceedings to arrive at a conclusion, we are not convinced that in a case of the present nature, a direction to the CBI to hold an investigation would be justified nor is it required at this juncture when the trial in the judicial proceedings B has progressed unhindered. Hence to that extent, all contentions of the appellants are kept open. For the very reason, at this stage either quashing or discharge would also not arise. All contentions are left open to be urged before the trial court. 23. For all the aforestated reasons we see no reason to interfere C with s impugned in these appeals. The appeals are accordingly dismissed with no as to costs. 24. Pending applications if any, shall stand disposed of. D Divya Pandey Appeals dismissed. (Assisted by : Shaaivi Shukla and Shevali Monga, LCRAs) E F G H