Whether the State Government took advantage of its own H wrong by ceasing to fill the vacancies in the OAT; ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 761 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] j. Whether the failure of the Union Government to conduct a A judicial impact assessment before abolishing the OAT vitiates its decision to abolish the OAT; and k. Whether the Union Government became functus officio after establishing the OAT. B D. Analysis i. An overview of the proceedings arising from the abolition of the Madhya Pradesh Administrative Tribunal11 and the Tamil Nadu Administrative Tribunal12 20. The parties to this appeal have advanced some arguments in C relation to decisions arising from the abolition of certain other SATs. It is therefore necessary to understand the decisions of this Court in relation to the abolition of those SATs. To this end, the abolition of the MPAT and the TNAT as well as the legal proceedings arising from those decisions are briefly discussed. The effect of these proceedings on the decision in this case is also examined. D a. The abolition of the MPAT 21. The State of Madhya Pradesh was reorganized into the State of Madhya Pradesh and the State of Chhattisgarh with the enactment of the Madhya Pradesh Reorganization Act 2000. Section 74(1)(ii) of this E legislation vested the State Governments of these two states with the power to abolish “every 1. Commission, Authority, Tribunal, University, Board or any other body constituted under a Central Act, State Act or Provincial Act and having jurisdiction over the existing State of Madhya Pradesh.” F 22. The State of Madhya Pradesh issued a notification abolishing the MPAT pursuant to a decision taken by it along with the State of Chhattisgarh. This notification was challenged before the Madhya Pradesh High Court. The petitioners in that case also challenged the constitutionality of Section 74 of the Madhya Pradesh Reorganization Act 2000. G 23. The High Court upheld the constitutional validity of sub-clause (1) of Section 74. It held that sub-clauses (2) and (3) of Section 71 (concerning the termination of employees and the compensation for the 11 “MPAT” 12 “TNAT” H 762 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A unexpired period of their tenure respectively) were ultra vires the Constitution. The High Court also held that the State Government could not have abolished the MPAT by issuing a notification. Rather, it was required to request the Union Government to issue a notification abolishing the MPAT because the MPAT was established by the Union Government. It held that the Union Government would have no choice but to accept B such a request and issue a notification to this effect. The High Court accordingly quashed the notification issued by the State of Madhya Pradesh by which the MPAT was abolished. 24. On appeal, this Court upheld the interpretation accorded to the Madhya Pradesh Reorganization Act 2000 by the Madhya Pradesh C High Court. The decision of this Court was reported as M.P. High Court Bar Assn.