9. This was followed by issuance of G.O. dated 7th April, 201210 whereunder, based on similar considerations, the respondent No.1 – State Government enhanced the retirement age in respect of the staff teaching in Ayurveda Colleges from 56 years to 60 years. Next, came 9 G.O. (MS) No.105/2012/H&FWD 10 G.O. (MS) No.107/2012/H&FWD DR. PRAKASAN M.P. AND OTHERS v. STATE OF KERALA 299 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] G.O. dated 9th April, 201211 whereby, the retirement age of the teaching staff in Homeopathic Medical Colleges was also enhanced from 56 years to 60 years, bringing them at par with the teaching staff of Ayurvedic Medical Education. It is noteworthy that all the three G.Os. issued by the State subsequent to issuance of the G.O. dated 14th January, 2010, were prospective in nature. 10. In view of the above successive decisions taken by the respondent No.1 – State Government, during the pendency of the present appeal, the grounds originally taken by the appellants to assail the impugned judgement and their argument that G.O. dated 14th January, 2010 was discriminatory as it treated Doctors in Medical Colleges on a better footing vis-à-vis Homeopathic and Ayurvedic Doctors though they formed a homogenous group, were no longer available. As a result, without fi ling an application for amending the appeal, the appellants fi led an additional affi davit on 1st October, 2012, where a grievance was raised that though several representations had been made by them to the State when they were still in service, the G.O. dated 9th April, 2012 issued later on, was not given retrospective eff ect thereby depriving them of the benefi ts of enhancement of age to which they would have been legitimately entitled and in the meantime, they had retired. Inherent in this argument is the plea of legitimate expectation taken by the appellants. THE ANALYSIS : 11. It is well-settled that the age of retirement is purely a policy matter that lies within the domain of the State Government. It is not for the courts to prescribe a diff erent age of retirement from the one applicable to Government employees under the relevant service Rules and Regulations. Nor can the Court insist that once the State had taken a decision to issue a similar Government that would extend the age of retirement of the staff teaching in the Homeopathic Colleges as was issued in respect of diff erent categories of teaching staff belonging to the Dental stream and the Ayurvedic stream, the said G.O. ought to have been made retrospective, as was done when G.O. dated 14th January, 2010 was issued by the State 11 G.O. (MS) No.108/2012/H&FWD 300 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. and given retrospective eff ect from 1st May, 2009. These are all matters of policy that engage the State Government. It may even elect to give the benefi t of extension of age to a particular class of Government employees while denying the said benefi t to others for valid considerations that may include fi nancial implications, administrative considerations, exigencies of service, etc.