The maker of the notification has not even contemplated the activities in question in a ‘port area’. We must here elucidate and observe that if the contention is to be upheld that a storage tank can be permitted outside the port limits, it will introduce C chaos. The question would arise as to up to what distance from the port area it would be considered as the ‘in the port area’.The 2011 Notification cannot receive an interpretation which would leave matters of moment to be afflicted with the vice of uncertainty. This is apart from the importance of avoiding an interpretation which seemingly allows free play in the joints to the Administrator but, at the same time, vest an D arbitrary power in him. 60. As far as the pipeline is concerned, no doubt, it is permitted in CRZ I and arguments were addressed before us that even if the storage facility is to be demolished, making use of the edible oil brought through the pipelines, which are, no doubt, located underground, the oil could be E collected at the spot from where it is currently located viz., where the pipeline ends and transported therefrom to the factory. There is no dispute that the pipeline is located in a zone where it is permitted activity. There can be no dispute that ex post facto permission can be given for permitted activity as found by the NGT itself. No doubt, the pipeline, may have F meaning only as so far as it is connected to the storage tank. As to whether the pipeline can continue to be used if the storage tanks are demolished is a matter which must engage the attention of the authorities. We would think that in regard to the pipelines, it would be the District Coastal Zonal Management Authority,which could take a decision. G 61. The upshot of the above discussion is as follows: As regards the pipelines which have been drawn, the appellants may approach the relevant DistrictCoastal Zonal Management Authority within a period of one month from today.The District Coastal Zonal Management Authority will consider any application made in regard to H 284 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the continued use of the pipeline and take a decision in accordance with law within a further period of six weeks from the date of the receipt of the application. 62. In view of the request made by the appellants that they may be permitted to continue to use the pipeline along with the storage facility B for a period of one year, we would think that theinterest of justice do require grant of some time.The appellants are accordingly given a period of six months from today to comply with the impugned of the NGT. This is in regard to the direction to demolish the storage tanks. The appellant in the first appeal is given a month’s time to pay the compensation ed, if not already paid. C 63. As far as the direction to demolish the pipeline, the matter will await the decision to be taken by the District Coastal Zonal Management Authority.