separation of powers. The constituent power is sovereign. It is the power which creates the organs and distributes the powers. 49. The constituent power is sui generis. It is diff erent from legislative power. The position of unlimited law-making power is the criterion of legal sovereignty. The constituent power is sovereign because the Constitution fl ows from the constituent power.” 387. In framing a Constitution, which is basic law, Constituent Assemblies deliberate upon and determine the mode and mechanism of governance, the rights of the people, the restrictions on state power, the scope of functioning of various institutions, the yardstick for the legality of state action, and other matters, all of which go to the heart of its vision and mission for the nation or the constituent unit (that is, the State) in question. A Constituent Assembly lays the foundation upon which the government will be built for ages to come. In contrast, the Legislative Assembly is concerned with statutes, rules, and regulations by which it responds to developments in society in real time. It is concerned with the day-to-day functioning of the state, which are short-term concerns relative to the concerns accounted for by a Constituent Assembly. The mode of appointment of the members of these bodies, too, is not similar. 388. Article 366 of the Constitution lays down the defi nition of the phrases used in the Constitution. These defi nitions shall apply unless the context requires otherwise. Article 367(1) of the Constitution states that unless the context otherwise requires, the General Clauses Act 1897 shall subject to any adaptations and modifi cations made under Article 372 apply for the interpretation of the Constitution as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of the Legislature of the Dominion of India. Article 372(2) grants the President the power to issue an to make adaptations and modifi cations to any law which was in force immediately before the commencement of the Constitution to bring such law in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution. Clause 2 of Article 367 states that a reference to an Act of the Legislature of the State or Parliament shall be “construed” as including a reference to an Ordinance made by the Governor in exercise of power under Article 223 and the President in exercise of power under Article 123. Clause 2 of Article 367 merely reiterates the position of law in Articles 123 and 213 that an Ordinance shall have the same force and eff ect as an Act IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 229 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] passed by a Legislature. Clause 3 to Article 367 states that for the purpose of the Constitution, “foreign State” means any State other than India. It must be noted that both Articles 366 and 367 begin with the phrase “unless the context otherwise requires”. The purpose of including this phrase is that the general defi nitions which are provided in Article 366 and the General Clauses Act must not render the constitutional provision otiose or alter the purpose of the provision itself.