The first respondent stated that it is eligible to supply Ayurvedic medicines under NAM and C that as an MSME registered unit, it is eligible under the policy framework for preferential purchase.A similar representation was made on 21 December 2018 to the Mission Director. 6. The first respondent instituted a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution apprehending thata purchase for 2019-20 was going to be issued to IMPCL. The first respondent challenged the purchase D in favour of IMPCL and sought a direction for the procurement of Ayurvedic medicines under the National AYUSH Mission Programme by a tender process. 7. The High Court held that the ‘practice adopted by the respondents, to purchase Ayurvedic drugs, only from IMPCL’ is illegal. E The High Court held that under paragraph 4 of the Operational Guidelines, the appellant must invite tenders from prescribed establishments to purchase Ayurvedic medicines. The appellant was allowed to purchase drugs from IMPCL to the extent of the payment already made since for the year 2019-20,the purchase for medicines to the extent of 50 F percent had already been given to IMPCL and a full payment of Rupees 11 crores was made. The appellant was directed to invite tenders for competitive rates and quality of drugs for the remaining supplies. The High Court held that: (i) Paragraph 4 of the Operational Guidelines provides the ‘sources’ for the procurement of Ayurvedic drugs and G medicines; (ii) Paragraph 4(vi)(b) provides that 50 percent of the grant- in-aid shall be used to purchase Ayurvedic medicines from 4"GMP” H 482 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A IMPCL or other PSUs and pharmacies under the State Governments and cooperative societies; (iii) Invitation from pharmacies and PSUs under the State Governments or cooperative societies will foster competition on rates and quality of medicines; B (iv) The Memorandum issued by the Government of India on 8 May 2008 stipulates that in the absence of “fully developed Pharmaceutical standards for Ayurvedic and Unani medicines in the country, the Central Government Health Scheme Research Councils is/are not fully equipped to C ensure that the purchased medicines are of right quality.” Paragraph 4(vi)(b) emphasises the quality of medicines. There is nothing on the record to show that IMPCL is the only entity producing quality drugs; (v) No comparison on the quality ofmedicines can be made unless tenders are invited from IMPCL and other PSU D Pharmacies under the State Governments and co-operative societies;and (vi) Atleast 50 percent of the grant-in-aid forthe procurement of Ayurvedic medicines must be used only after tendersare invited amongst the establishments referred to in paragraph E 4(vi)(b) of the OperationalGuidelines. The remaining grant- in-aid, if any, shall be used to procure drugs in the manner specified in paragraph 4(vi)(c). 2.0 Submissions F 8. Mr Naresh Kaushik, counsel appearing for IMPCL urged the following submissions: (i) The Government of India holds 98.11 percent of the shares of IMPCL and 1.89 percent of the shares are held by the Governmentof Uttarakhand through Kumaon Mandal Vikas G Nigam Limited.