Thus, the warranty claims ought to be taxable as elucidated in Mohd. Ekram Khan. On the issue of warranty obligation emanating from the original sale, learned G senior counsel submitted that the performance of warranty obligations is determined through actual damage to the defective part at the relevant time a claim is made. Therefore, it cannot be said to have been totally accounted for and debited in manufacturer’s Taxable Turnover of Sales and Purchase under VAT/Trade Tax. H 1306 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (ii) Accordingly, he prayed that the case of the revenue ought to succeed in both SLPs, therefore, SLP(C) No. 12119/ 2017 should be allowed, and SLP(C) No. 11509/2017, filed by a dealer, M/s Maskat Pvt Ltd, ought to be dismissed. Submissions of Dr. Manish Singhvi, senior counsel for the B State of Rajasthan in Civil Appeal No. 3856/2013: (i) Dr. Singhvi, learned senior counsel, instructed by Sri Milind Kumar, submitted that the exact nature of the transaction has to be seen to determine whether sales tax was leviable or not. It was stressed that the crucial issue pertains to the C misuse or misdeclaration of C-Forms which are issued at concessional rate under Section 8(4) of Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 read with Rule 12 of Central Sales Tax Rules, 1957. Any internal adjustment qua accounts or even contracts is alien for the charging section to operate. Thus, in the case at hand, all spare parts were sold against C- D Forms, and have been sold again, in violation of conditions pertaining to resale. That, spare parts were fitted during the warranty period for a consideration given by way of credit notes by the manufacturer. Therefore, the penalty is bound to be imposed on Dealer/Manufacturer company. E Submissions of Sri Nikhil Goel, Counsel for the State of Karnataka in Civil Appeal Nos. 1822/2007, 1821/2007 and SLP (C) Nos. 5449-5451/2014, 5447/2014: (i) Sri Goel, learned counsel submitted that the Karnataka Value Added Tax Act, 2003 specifically excludes those F transactions which are not sales. Since the transaction under dispute is not specifically excluded, the assessees have sought to canvass that it does not satisfy the definition of sale under Section 2(t) of the Karnataka Value Added Tax Act, 2003. It was further submitted that the four elements of the sale are completed in the transaction under dispute. G The State seeks to tax sales and it does not matter if there is an element of profit involved. The cost of the car does not include the cost of the warranty. Therefore, he submitted that the argument made by assessee is incorrect, when seen in light of the decision of this court in Premier Automobiles. H That the Supreme Court of England in Digital Satellite M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1307 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Warranty Cover Limited vs. Financial Services A Authority, (2013) UKSC 7 held that warranty is in the nature of insurance. Even without such warranty, the Act binds the manufacturer to provide working goods, failure of which would invite an action in damages.