E 6. According to the petitioners, the history regarding ordinarily resident ‘British Indian Subjects’ and the ‘Indian Nationals’ engaged in trade, commerce and Government employment in the former Kingdom of Sikkim is pluralistic. They comprised of diverse ethnic, religious and socio-cultural backgrounds from across the territories of Undivided British F India and later Independent India. The residents of Sikkim are the inhabitants of Sikkim who were permanent residents prior to the year 1975. 7. In the year 1975, the former Kingdom of Sikkim became a part of India and became known as the State of Sikkim. Till then i.e., 26th G April, 1975 (which is the ‘appointed day’ of its merger and incorporation with India), the Kingdom of Sikkim was ruled through a lineage of hereditary rulers of Namgyal Dynasty known as the ‘Chogyal’. 8. The history of the period prior to the merger of Sikkim with India as averred in the writ petitions could be encapsulated as under: H ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 319 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (a) During the period from 1890 till 1950, the Government of A the erstwhile Kingdom of Sikkim and its posts and services were subjected to various situations and conditions which have been described by the petitioners and is referred to hereunder: “(i) During the period from 1890 to 1918, the Imperial B British Government exercised direct and exclusive control over the external affairs as well as the internal affairs of the Kingdom of Sikkim. At that time the British Indian Subjects were allowed to hold Office and Employment to the posts and services of the C Government Establishment of the erstwhile Kingdom of Sikkim. (ii) In 1918, the then King of Sikkim Chogyal Tashi Namgyal was given back his authority over the internal affairs of Kingdom of Sikkim; where-after D he got empowered with absolute powers over all legislative, judicial and executive functions of his Kingdom; while the external affairs continued to remain under the Government of Imperial British India. From 1918 onwards, the Kingdom of Sikkim had continued to allow the British Indian Subjects to E hold Office and Employment in the posts and services of the Government Establishment of the Kingdom of Sikkim i.e. ‘Sikkim Darbar’. Such government employees were referred to as ‘Darbar’ Employees of British Indian origin. F (iii) At the time immediately before India’s Independence from British Paramountcy, there was a popular demand from the people of Kingdom of Sikkim for a democratic setup and its accession to the Indian Union. During that time, a popular vote for Sikkim to G join India had failed; hence the Kingdom of Sikkim did not accede to the Indian Union then. (iv) When India became independent in 1947, on the cessation of British Paramountcy from India, the Dominion of India inherited the rights and liabilities H 320 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A of the British Crown vis-à-vis the Indian States as on that date. The Kingdom of Sikkim not being exactly like other Indian States did not accede to the Union of India but had signed a standstill agreement for continuation of its previous relationship pending a fresh agreement with India.