(2) If the concurrence of the Government of the State referred to in sub-clause (b) (ii) or in the second proviso to sub-clause (d) of clause (1) was given before the Constituent Assembly for the purpose of framing the Constitution of the State is convened, it shall be placed before such Assembly for such decision as it may take thereon. (3) Notwithstanding anything in the preceding clauses of this article, the President may, by public notifi cation declare that this article shall cease to be operative or shall be operative only with such exceptions and modifi cations and from such date as he may specify: IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 311 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] Provided that the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State shall be necessary before the President issues such a notifi cation.” 19. The legislative authority of the Parliament over the State of Jammu & Kashmir, referred to in the second portion of that Article (Article 306- A), was stated to be governed primarily by the IoA. It was further stated that since Jammu & Kashmir was one of the States mentioned in Part III of the First Schedule (detailing the States and territories of India at that point), Article 1 was to automatically apply. Shri Ayyangar stated that other provisions in the Constitution would apply to Jammu & Kashmir with such exception and modifi cations as may be decided when the President issues an to that eff ect. With respect to matters mentioned in the IoA, the issuance of such an would require consultation with the Government of the State. For other matters, concurrence of the Government would be required. Shri Ayyangar then also turned to Clause (2) to canvass that it relates particularly to those matters which are not mentioned in the IoA and any addition with respect to such matters would be made with the consent of the Constituent Assembly which may be called for the purposes of framing the Constitution of the State of Jammu & Kashmir. Article 211A (Article 238 of the Constitution of India, repealed on 1.11.1956) was not to apply to the State of Jammu & Kashmir, but that was said to not be a permanent feature of the Constitution of the State. So, when the Constituent Assembly of the State would meet and take a decision on its Constitution the range of its federal jurisdiction, the President, may, on the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly, issue an stating that Article 306-A shall cease to be operative, or shall be operative only subject to such exceptions and modifi cations as may be specifi ed by him. There were undoubtedly dissenting views on the introduction of Article 306-A (including by Dr. Ambedkar on its very inclusion). But, the fact remains that, ultimately, it was proposed as a part of the Constitution as Article 370, and the Constitution was adopted by the people of this country with that provision. Constituent Assembly of the State of J&K and Article 370 20.