It is therein stated that no criminal act was found against G any officer other than those who were chargesheeted earlier. The first respondent thereupon, filed protest petition dated 13.05.2009. As already noticed, rejecting the closure report but accepting the complaint in the protest petition the Magistrate issued summons against the appellant. Cognizance has been taken for offences under Section 304A, 337, 338 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and the provisions under Section 14 of H 672 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the Cinematograph Act, 1952 read with the Rules. It is the issuing summons that was the subject matter of the proceeding under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. and which has finally culminated in the impugned . (2) We have heard Shri R. Basant, learned senior counsel appearing B for the appellant. We have also heard Shri K.M. Nataraj, learned Additional Solicitor General, who appears on behalf of the additional Respondent namely Delhi Police. Besides, we have also heard Smt. Aparajita, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the CBI. We further heard Shri K.T.S. Tulsi, learned senior counsel who appears on behalf of the first respondent. C (3) Shri Basant, learned senior counsel for the appellant would essentially address three contentions before us. First and foremost, he would contend that the impugned upholding the of the Magistrate taking cognizance and issuing summons is afflicted with an incurable illegality. The illegality consists in both the Courts overlooking D the mandatory command in Section 197 of the Cr.P.C. In other words, cognizance has been taken against the appellant for the offences comprehended within the ambit of Section 197 Cr.P.C. without seeking and obtaining sanction as is contemplated under Section 197. The Magistrate has proceeded to take cognizance in the teeth of the E unambiguous bar against such cognizance. He would submit that on this short point the impugned must perish. (4) He would elaborate and submit on the facts, as to what transpired as follows. Somewhere in the year 1976, a decision was taken by the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi to reduce the price of cinema tickets. Bearing in mind that this decision would cause a financial loss to the F theater owners, it was decided to permit the theaters to be fitted with more seats so that from the revenue earned thereunder, the loss caused by the reduction in the price of the cinema tickets could be offset. On the strength of the said decision which was taken in 1976, theaters in Delhi came to be equipped with more seats. The appellant took over as G Deputy Commissioner of Police on 02.02.1979. In his capacity as the DCP, he also came to be entrusted with the duties of a licensing officer under the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and the Rules. He continued in this official position till 26.05.1980. There was a change of policy brought about by the Lieutenant Governor. The earlier decision which was taken in the year 1976 to increase seats came to be revoked.