They do supply evidence of assets which by themselves are valuable but they C being mere documents of title, they can neither be negotiated nor be transferred for a valuable consideration. Under the circumstances, we are of the opinion that documents of title, which have no greater value than an evidentiary one, and which do not carry any saleable interest, are not the “valuable things or articles” D contemplated either by subsection (5) of section 132 of the Act or by rule 112A of the Rules. There is nothing in the record to show that the fixed deposit receipts, which are seized in this case, carry any inherent market value with them. They are merely the documents evidencing the debt due to the assessee. Similarly, the documents of title relating to an immovable property also contain E no more value than an evidentiary one. Thus, since none of those documents has got any intrinsic value in terms of money, we are of the opinion that they are not covered by sub-section (5) of section 132 of the Act or rule 112A of the Rules.” (Emphasis supplied) F 66. Unlike a document of title or a fixed deposit receipt, which cannot, by itself, be disposed of or alienated, bitumen would be goods, which can be transferred. It would have a value in the market depending upon its quality. In Commissioner of Income Tax v. M.K. Gabrial Babu and others19, the High Court of Kerala was dealing with the question, G as to whether immovable property would be covered within the expression ‘other value article or thing’ within the meaning of Section 132(1) of the Act. The Court held: 19 (1991) 188 ITR 464 Kerala H 584 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “4. … A word in a statue is quite often judged by the company its keeps. The preceding words of Section 132(1), cannot be ignored or overlooked. Money, bullion, jewellery, which precede “other valuable article or thing” forge a genus and, consequently, the words “other valuable article or thing” assume a constricted meaning and interpretation in that context. The general principles B of interpretation of a restricted meaning being given to certain words, whether it be by applying the principles of ejusdem generis or otherwise restricting it, had been followed by judicial decisions covering much area and many topics. They are not necessarily confined to Income Tax legislation. Those connected with the C terms under the Income Tax enactment have been referred to by the learned judge in support of his conclusion. We concur with that view. It is unnecessary, therefore, to supplement it by adventitious decisions available from other jurisdictions as well. We affirm the of the learned Single Judge (M.K. Gabriel Babu v. Asst. Director of I.T. (Investigation) [(1990) 186 ITR D 435 (Ker.). ]” 67. In contrast to the view taken in the impugned before us, in Dhanush General Stores v. Commissioner of Income Tax20, the Court, inter alia, on facts, held as follows: E “13.