In the circumstances, C the question to be addressed is as to whether compound interest could have been allowed in this case under the Act of 1986 and if so, until which date and for what period. Therefore, a little further exploration is requisite. 20. The submissions on behalf of the appellants that wherever the D legislature considered it permissible to award compound interest it has provided so in the enactment, has its own limitations. The illustrations placed before this Court by the learned counsel for the appellants concerning different enactments, though make it clear that in certain eventualities, the legislature has indeed specified the award of compound interest. Mostly, it has been provided so in relation to any monetary E involvement having the trappings of public interests in it. The Act of 1986, on the other hand, being a beneficial legislation, inter alia, empowers the Consumer Fora to direct payment of such amount as may be awarded as compensation to the consumer for any loss or injury suffered due to the negligence of the opposite party. The proviso added to Clause (d) of F Section 14(1) of the Act of 1986 empowers the Forum to grant punitive damages in such circumstances as it deems fit. That being the position, it cannot be laid down in absolute terms that for no such stipulation regarding compound interest being available in the Act of 1986, the same can never be granted by the Consumer Fora. Equally, when the matter is being considered for award of compensation and/or punitive damages, G want of stipulation in the contract as regards award of compound or simple interest, cannot be decisive of the matter. 20.1. In the case of Clariant International Ltd. (supra), the Court was considering the power of Securities & Exchange Board of India to direct payment of compensation and interest to the shareholders of the H 1144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A target company because of delay in or failure to make public offer after takeover. This Court, inter alia, held that in the absence of any agreement or statutory provision or mercantile usage, interest payable could only be at the market rate; and the interest could be payable upon establishing totality of circumstances justifying exercise of such equitable jurisdiction. This Court, inter alia, observed and held as under: - B “30. Interest can be awarded in terms of an agreement or statutory provisions. It can also be awarded by reason of usage or trade having the force of law or on equitable considerations. Interest cannot be awarded by way of damages except in cases where money due is wrongfully withheld and there are equitable grounds C therefor, for which a written demand is mandatory. 31. In absence of any agreement or statutory provision or a mercantile usage, interest payable can be only at the market rate. Such interest is payable upon establishment of totality of circumstances justifying exercise of such equitable jurisdiction. D (See Municipal Corpn. of Delhi v. Sushila Devi [(1999) 4 SCC 317] , SCC para 16.)