7. Learned counsel submitted that the date on which the appellants can be deemed to be appointed is the date on which the appointment letters were issued and taking that into consideration in the present case, when the appointment letters were actually issued in May, 2019, prior thereto, the appellant no.1 stood released on 31.07.2016, the appellant no.2 stood released on 30.11.2016 and the appellant no.3 also stood released on 29.02.2016, from the Armed Forces. As far as non-possession of the C.C.C. Certifi cate is concerned, the stand taken was that the appellants having higher qualifi cation than what was required as also already having an equivalent qualifi cation, their case(s) were recommended by the Commission for appointment. 1 Department of Electronics and Accreditation of Computer Courses. 2 National Institute of Electronics & Information Technology. SUDHIR SINGH AND OTHERS v. STATE OF U.P. 139 AND OTHERS [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] SUBMISSIONS BY THE STATE & ITS FUNCTIONARIES: 8. Per contra, learned counsel for the State has taken the stand of the appellants being ineligible for appointment as they did not possess the requisite qualifi cation, the reason being that they were not Ex-Servicemen as on the relevant date, when the post was advertised. 9. Further, it was contended that none of the appellants had the C.C.C. Certifi cate on the date of the advertisement, which they had concealed, and which was an essential qualifi cation for being appointed to the post advertised. 10. Learned counsel submitted that not having disclosed the factual position at the time of fi lling up the form amounted to grave misconduct. Moreover, it was contended that even when the appellants were directed to produce the educational testimonials and documents on 26.12.2018 to demonstrate that they possessed equivalent qualifi cation to the C.C.C. Certifi cate, they could not produce the same as admittedly, the certifi cates produced by them were not equivalent to C.C.C. Certifi cate. 11. It was further urged that the stance of the appellants for consideration as Ex-Servicemen on the date of appointment is clearly in teeth of the settled principle of law where the advertisement itself was very clear that only Ex-Servicemen were eligible to even apply. 12. Learned counsel indicated that even in the NOC issued to the appellant no.1, it was mentioned that he was eligible to civil appointment after the particular date specifi ed which was beyond the last date for submission of application forms, and further that the NOC also mentioned that the Office/Employer had no objection to the registration of the appellant’s name with the Employment Exchange, which, in no way, could confer on him a right to be considered under the category of Ex-Servicemen. Thus, learned counsel contended that the appellants, in any view of the matter, could not have taken any civil employment unless they were actually relieved, superannuated or retired, which ultimately would be a decision to be taken by the employer and mere indication in the certifi cate ipso facto would not mean that on the date indicated they would automatically come within the category of Ex-Servicemen.