B. Submissions 8. Challenging the above of the High Court, Mr. Aruneshwar Gupta, Learned Senior Counsel on behalf of the appellant argued that pursuant to the notifi cation dated 22.8.1974, public notice and personal notices were duly issued to the original Khatedars whose names were in the revenue records. The amount of compensation was also duly paid. Service of notice to the original khatedars in the record of rights was suffi cient notice as State Government is not liable to make a roving or fi shing inquiry about the ownership of land. Secondly, the purchaser of acquired land is ‘any other person interested’ and could have raised objections under Section 52(3) of the 1959 Act. There is no right to challenge the acquisition of land after expiry of 23 years as the suit for permanent injunction was fi led on 21.4.1997. (Ahuja Industries Ltd. v State of Karnataka1; Bhola Shanker v The Disst. Land Acquisition Offi cer2). Thirdly, it was argued that the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 is a complete code in itself and thus, by necessary implication Civil Court has no jurisdiction to pass injunction for a land which is already acquired. Finally, it was argued that the nature of land acquired under the 1959 Act was ‘agricultural land’ as the same was not converted for ‘non-agricultural use’ u/s 90-A of Land Revenue Act,1956. Owing to Section 207 of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 (hereinafter “Tenancy Act,1955”)read with 1 2003 5 SCC 365 2 (1973) 2 SCC 59 URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 529 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] entry 8A and entry 23C of third Schedule, matter relating to temporary and permanent injunction in respect of agricultural land could be heard and determined only by a revenue Court. No civil suit is maintainable for permanent injunction w.r.t agricultural land. 9. Projecting the contrary view, Mr. Manoj Swarup, learned Senior Counsel for the Respondents argued that revenue authorities i.e. Patwari, Tehsildar and Collector had knowledge of the rights and interests of the plaintiff s. As per the requirements under Section 52(2) of the 1959 Act, notice should be given not only to the owner of the land but also any other person who in the opinion of State Government would be interested therein. The Learned Counsel has placed on record letters from Tehsildar, Bikaner acknowledging the sale deeds, thereby indicating that they had knowledge of plaintiff s being in possession of the land. Reliance was also placed on the decision of this Court in Ahuja Industries Limited v State of Karnataka3. On the aspect of maintainability, it was canvassed that the civil suit was not barred in law to adjudicate on the dispute. To substantiate the same, Mr. Swarup cites the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Dhulabai and others v State of Madhya Pradesh4(hereinafter referred to as “Dhulabai”) and Firm Seth Radha Kishan v The Administrator5. C. Issues 10. Having summarised the contentions of the respective parties, the following questions fall for our consideration: a) Whether land acquisition proceedings can be declared null and void for failure to give notice to the owners who had purchased the land two years earlier through registered sale deeds, before the initiation of the land acquisition proceedings, even though the name of original khatedaar was refl ected in the Revenue records?