In the FIR, Kuleswar and Pulen Phukan have not been D assigned any role of assault. The role assigned is to Mozen Phukan, Dulen Phukan and Haren Saikia. PW-1 has taken the name of Kuleswar assaulting on the leg with an iron rod and Pulen Phukan assaulting on the neck. In the cross-examination, she has stated that Dulen Phukan assaulted on the neck. PW-2 has stated that Kuleswar hit the deceased with a dao then he says that he did not see who assaulted Pradip Phukan E and later on says that it was Pulen Phukan who dealt a blow on the neck. PW-3 has stated that Kuleswar assaulted with an iron rod and Dulen Phukan assaulted on the neck with an axe. PW-4 has stated that Kuleswar dealt a blow on the leg with an iron rod and then Dulen Phukan dealt a blow on the neck of the deceased with an axe. There is no F recovery at the instance of any accused under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. The axe, according to the evidence, was left on the dead-body of the deceased. From the above what is evident is that Kuleswar’s name was not included in the FIR but his name has been consistently taken by the eye-witnesses of first assaulting the deceased with an iron rod. Insofar as Pulen Phukan is concerned, his name has been taken by PW-1 and G PW-2 for assaulting on the neck and whereas PW-3 and PW-4 have taken the name of Dulen Phukan striking on the neck. Thus, there is material inconsistency in the statement of the eye-witnesses. 28. Another important aspect to be noted from the evidence of PW-1, PW-2, PW-3 and PW-4 is that after being hit by Kuleswar with H PULEN PHUKAN & ORS. v. THE STATE OF ASSAM 633 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] an iron rod, Pradip Phukan, the deceased struggled to enter the room A and there he was assaulted on the neck. When according to the prosecution story itself Pradip Phukan, the deceased had entered the neighbour’s house it would be very difficult for the eye-witnesses to also have entered the house of PW-4 and PW-5 and to witness the assault. PW-1 and PW-3 have not stated that they also entered the room B where the assault took place. PW-2 has clearly stated that when he tried to follow Pradip Phukan he was stopped by the accused and the police personnel who were standing outside. 29. The above evidence creates a very serious doubt on the entire prosecution story. It is quite possible that the police personnel of the C concerned Police Station were there to arrest the deceased and his brother and in that process some resistance may have resulted into the incident causing the death of Pradip Phukan. The injuries of PW-2 have not been proved as admittedly there was no injury report. Even the scribe of the FIR has not been produced nor the signatures have been proved. It is quite possible that it was a complete set-up by the police.