In the present case, the Arbitral Tribunal interpreted the contractual clauses and rejected the Respondent’s claims pertaining to Disputes I, III and IV. The fi ndings were affi rmed by the Single Judge of the High Court in a challenge under Section 34 of the Act, who concluded that the interpretation of the Arbitral Tribunal was clearly a possible view, that was reasonable and fair-minded in approach. 17. It is important to extract the relevant portion of the Award, where the Tribunal considered and interpreted the contractual clauses pertaining to Disputes III and IV: “40. A careful reading of the relevant provisions of the contract shows that claimant will not be entitled to reimbursement of Entry Tax paid by it. Clause 5.1.2 of Special Conditions provides that sales tax or turnover tax on works contract or other tax on the amount billed to respondent, levied or increased during the execution of the work; shall be borne by the respondent. For example, if the price of goods sold is Rs. 2000/- and at the time of contract, the goods were not subject to Sales Tax, but subsequently during the execution of the work, the State subjected such sale of goods to Sales Tax, at the rate of 5%, the 226 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. contractor will be entitled to receive under clause 5.1.2, the Sales Tax at 5% on the price of Rs. 2000/-. Similarly, if Works Contract Tax is increased from the rate of 4.2% prevailing at the time of making the contract, the contractor will be entitled to the higher rate, by claiming the difference. Therefore, what clause 5.1.2 deals with is taxes “chargeable” by the contractor on the bills raised on the respondent. It does not deal with or provide for reimbursement of increase in taxes which may indirectly be a component of the price or rate quoted and which is be governed only by the price variation clause. This is obviously because when a contractor quotes a rate for an item of work, such rate will have various components like material cost, labour cost, fuel cost, overheads and profits. The contractor does not indicate the break-up of the various components that make up the quoted price. Obviously the rates so quoted, if it involves use of a material, will include the cost of the material plus any tax paid thereon; and if it involves use of some machinery/equipment, it will include the hire charges in respect of the machinery/equipment and any taxes thereon. It is clear from the contract that in regard to such components of a rate, claimant is not entitled to seek reimbursement of any increase in price or taxes and all that it will be entitled to, will be an increase that is permitted in accordance with the formula in the price variation clause. The price variation clause only provides for price variation in a general manner in accordance with a standardized price variation formula, and not reimbursement of the actual increases.