If the investigation is unfair and tainted then it is the duty of the trial court to get the clarifications on all the aspects which may surface or may be reflected by the evidence so that it may arrive at a just and fair conclusion. If the trial court fails to exercise this power and discretion vested in it then the D of the trial court may be said to be vitiated. [Para 13][628-F-H] 1.2 In the instant case, the informant- PW-1, the injured eye-witness PW-2, eye-witness PW-3 and PW-4 have categorically stated that police personnel had accompanied the accused and E they were there throughout the incident. This fact is noticed by the trial court in its but it fails to get this clarification from the prosecution as to what occasioned the presence of the police personnel accompanying the accused and standing outside the house of the deceased to watch the accused assault PW-2 F and commit the murder of his brother. The trial court had simply brushed aside the argument of the defence on this count without giving a serious thought. [Para 14][629-A-B] 1.3 If the police personnel were present at the time of commission of the offence, they should have immediately acted upon to set the criminal machinery in motion by first apprehending G the accused from the spot itself rather than allowing them to get way by accompanying the police to the Police Station while continuing to assault the injured PW-2 on the way. The entire version of the prosecution witnesses that the police personnel accompanied the accused and were standing outside the house H 618 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A of the deceased creates a serious doubt on the very genesis of the prosecution story. [Para 15][629-C-D] 1.4 According to Section 149 IPC every member of the unlawful assembly must know the common object of their assembly and also the offence likely to be committed in B prosecution of the common object. [Para 24][631-D] 1.5 None of the eye-witnesses have taken names of all the accused persons who are said to be 13 in number. Only names of 3-4 accused persons are taken who are said to have assaulted the deceased and the injured PW-2. None of the eye-witnesses C have stated that all the accused persons had come with a common object of committing murder and assaulting the injured PW-2. It is also not stated by any of the eye-witnesses that there were any utterances by one or many or all the accused that they must eliminate the deceased and cause injuries to the injured PW-2. There is no evidence to the effect that any of the accused exhorted D the others saying that they have to eliminate the deceased and assault the injured (PW-2). Further, it is clearly stated by the eye-witnesses PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3 that at least five police personnel were accompanying the accused and that they were standing outside and did not interfere in the commission of the E alleged crime.