The only requirement is that the option has to be exercised before fi ling of the return. This Court held that if the option is exercised when the return is fi led, that would be treated as in conformity with the requirement of Section 11 of the Act. 45. Applying the aforesaid principle to the facts of the present case, we are in agreement with the view expressed by the Tribunal and the High Court that there is no requirement under the second proviso to sub-rule (1A) of Rule 5 of the Rules that any particular mode of computing the claim of depreciation has to be opted for before the due date of fi ling of the return. All that is required is that the assessee has to opt before fi ling of the return or at the time of fi ling the return that it seeks to avail the depreciation provided in Section 32 (1) under sub-rule (1) of Rule 5 read with Appendix-I instead of the depreciation specifi ed in Appendix-1A in terms of sub-rule (1A) of COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 521 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] Rule 5 which the assessee has done. If that be the position, we fi nd no merit in the question proposed by the revenue. The same is therefore answered in favour of the assessee and against the revenue. DELETION OF ADDITION MADE BY THE ASSESSING OFFICER ON ACCOUNT OF PAYMENT MADE BY THE ASSESSEE TO SHRI S.K. GUPTA AND HIS GROUP OF COMPANIES. 46. This brings us to the second of the additional issues which is the deletion of the addition of Rs. 3,39,95,000.00 made by the assessing offi cer on account of payment made by the assessee to Shri SK Gupta and his group of companies. This issue has been raised by the revenue in Civil Appeal No. 7425/2019 (CIT Vs. M/s Reliance Industries Ltd.). 47. Respondent assessee in this case is M/s Reliance Industries Ltd. and the assessment year under consideration is 2006-2007. Assessee claimed allowance of expenditure of about Rs. 3.39 crores on account of payments made to one Shri SK Gupta and his group of companies. The assessing offi cer vide the assessment dated 19.03.2008 passed under Section 143 (3) of the Act, referred to the statement of Shri S.K. Gupta recorded during the search operations and held that the said person had not rendered any service to the assessee so as to receive such payments. Therefore, the assessing offi cer disallowed such claim of expenditure of the assessee and added the same to the income of the assessee. 48. On an appeal by the assessee, CIT(A) vide the dated 27.01.2009 confi rmed the disallowance of professional fee paid by the assessee to Shri S.K. Gupta and his group of companies. 49. On further appeal by the revenue, Tribunal vide the dated 29.05.2015set aside the view taken by CIT (A). Tribunal on perusal of the materials on record, noted that Shri S.K.