[2023] 10 S.C.R. 1049 : 2023 INSC 619 1049 STATE OF ORISSA & ANR. A v. LAXMI NARAYAN DAS (DEAD) THR. LRS & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 8072 of 2010) JULY 12, 2023 B [ABHAY S. OKA AND RAJESH BINDAL, JJ.] Orissa Survey and Settlement Act, 1958 : ss. 12, 15(b) – Final publication of record of rights – Revision of record of rights – Respondent claimed to have right over certain land – Record of C rights finalised in the year 1962 – Appeal by the respondents before the Settlement Officer in the year 1990 – Though appeal was not maintainable, however, the Settlement officer decided the same and directed the respondent to raise their claim before the General Administrative Department-GAD – Till then, said land already allotted to Reserve Bank of India-RBI by the GAD – Respondents D alleged non-consideration of their objections during the course of settlement – After thirteen years, the respondent filed suit claiming ownership on the basis of adverse possession – However, suit dismissed as withdrawn without granting liberty to file fresh suit – Writ petition by the respondents challenging the allotment of land E to RBI, claiming allotment of land equivalent to the land given to RBI – Disposal of the writ petition without granting any relief – However, the Division Bench set aside the record of right finalised in 1962 and directed to allot a suitable plot in exchange of stitiban land of the respondent – On appeal held: There was huge delay on the part of the respondents to avail the appropriate remedy – Writ F petition, which is the subject matter of dispute, was filed after 46 years of the finalisation of record of rights, which was highly belated – Thus, respondents not entitled to any relief. Writ petition: Maintainability of, when the civil suit filed for same relief was withdrawn without liberty to file fresh one and G concealment of material facts from the Court – Held: On the application of principle of constructive res judicata, the writ petition filed by the respondents after withdrawal of the civil suit was not maintainable as no liberty was granted – In case still filing of writ petition was to be justified, at least complete facts need to be H 1049 1050 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A disclosed for the purpose, which were missing – In the writ petition there was no mention regarding filing of civil suit earlier for the same relief and withdrawal thereof – A litigant can be non-suited in case he is found guilty of concealing material facts from the court or mis-stating the same – Thus, the respondents not entitled to any relief. B Delay and laches: Final publication of record of rights – Delay in availing the remedies thereagainst – Writ petition to claim relief filed after 46 years of finalisation of record of rights – Entitlement to relief – Held: Not entitled – There was huge delay on the part of the respondents to avail of the appropriate remedy against the final C publication of record of rights.