There is an intrinsic assumption that financial creditors are fully informed about the viability of the corporate debtor and F feasibility of the proposed resolution plan. They act on the basis of thorough examination of the proposed resolution plan and assessment made by their team of experts. The opinion on the subject-matter expressed by them after due deliberations in CoC meetings through voting, as per voting shares, is a collective business G decision. The legislature, consciously, has not provided any ground to challenge the “commercial wisdom” of the individual financial creditors or their collective decision before the adjudicating authority. That is made non-justiciable. H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 893 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 53. In the report of the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee A of November 2015, primacy has been given to CoC to evaluate the various possibilities and make a decision. It has been observed thus: “The key economic question in the bankruptcy process When a firm (referred to as the corporate debtor in the draft B law) defaults, the question arises about what is to be done. Many possibilities can be envisioned. One possibility is to take the firm into liquidation. Another possibility is to negotiate a debt restructuring, where the creditors accept a reduction of debt on an NPV basis, and hope that the C negotiated value exceeds the liquidation value. Another possibility is to sell the firm as a going concern and use the proceeds to pay creditors. Many hybrid structures of these broad categories can be envisioned. The Committee believes that there is only one correct forum D for evaluating such possibilities, and making a decision : a creditors committee, where all financial creditors have votes in proportion to the magnitude of debt that they hold. In the past, laws in India have brought arms of the Government (legislature, executive or judiciary) into this question. This has been strictly avoided by the Committee. E The appropriate disposition of a defaulting firm is a business decision, and only the creditors should make it. (emphasis in bold supplied; emphasis in italics is in original) 97.3. In Essar Steel, a three-Judge Bench of this Court surveyed almost all the relevant provisions concerning corporate insolvency F resolution process; and, as noticed above, explained the assignments of different role players in this process. In that context, this Court again explained the primacy endowed on the commercial wisdom of the Committee of Creditors and reasons therefor, with a further detailed reference to the aforesaid report G of the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee of November 2015. Apart from the passage from the said report that was noticed in K. Sashidhar (reproduced hereinabove), the Court noticed various other passages from this report in Essar Steel; and one part thereof, which further underscores the rationale for only H 894 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A financial creditors handling the process of resolution, could be usefully reproduced as under (part of para 56 at pp. 578-79 of SCC): “56.