The Secretary of State, in deciding the appeal, took into consideration the contents of a document and accepted them as correct, notwithstanding the fact that the Inspector had regarded the document as of no evidential value. The argument before Willis J. was that the Secretary of State should have ignored the document, or any reference to its contents, as the Inspector did, since it was not produced by any witness, its provenance was unexplained and it could not be tested by cross-examination. The learned Judge made the following observations while considering the submission: “It hardly needs to be said that legal rules of evidence are not applied at local inquiries, and both oral and documentary evidence is freely admitted in circumstances where even the more relaxed rules of evidence at the present time would not allow of its admission in a court UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 563 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] of law. Nonetheless some limit must surely be imposed in fairness to an appellant on the scope of so-called evidence which by no stretch of the imagination can be said to have the slightest evidential value. This must, I should have thought, particularly be so when if such ‘evidence’ is considered, it is used to support a conclusion unfavourable to the appellant. I think the Inspector was light to ignore this document and the Secretary of State was wrong in the particular circumstances to attach any weight to it or its contents.” 86. The aforesaid decisions would indicate that the English Courts have not construed the words “no evidence” narrowly. The rule of “no evidence” is there attracted not only in cases where there is complete lack of evidence, that is to say, where there is not a shred of evidence, but also in cases where the evidence, if any, is not capable of having any probative value, or on the basis of which no Tribunal could reasonably and logically come to the conclusion about the existence or non-existence of facts relevant to the determination. According to the English decisions, although a domestic tribunal may act on evidence not admissible according to the legal rules in a court of law, yet unless such evidence has some probative value in the sense mentioned above, it would be a breach of natural justice and/or an error of law to base any adverse decision thereon. 87. In State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. S. Sree Rama Rao reported in AIR 1963 SC 1723, it was held at page 1726 that in considering whether a public offi cer is guilty of the misconduct charged against him the rule followed in criminal trials with regard to the establishment of charge by evidence beyond reasonable doubt was not applicable. In a proceeding under Art. 226, the High Court, not being a court of appeal over the decision of the domestic tribunal, was concerned to determine whether the inquiry was held by an authority competent in that behalf and according to the procedure prescribed in that behalf, and whether the rules of natural justice were not violated.