In to determine whether there is completeness of identity or breach of mutuality, the court is well within its powers to go beyond the periphery of the concern and undertake an examination, akin to the lifting of the veil, in to discern the real nature thereof. It was also observed that mutuality and non-profi teering character of a concern are to be determined in light of its actual working structure and the factum of corporation or incorporation or the form in which it is clothed is immaterial. In the said case, the questions were answered against the assessee company and in favour of the revenue. 30. We have considered the arguments advanced at the Bar on behalf of the respective parties;and considered the nuances of the principle of mutuality in the context of the applicability of the said principle with regard to the interest income earned on fi xed deposits made in banks/fi nancial institutions by the appellant Clubs, in the backdrop of the dictum of this Court in the case of Bangalore Club. 31. While considering the triple test for applying the principle of mutuality, we fi nd that in the case of Bangalore Club, the aforesaid triple test was applied. It was reiterated that the principle of mutuality envisages: (i) Complete identity between the contributors and participators; (ii) Action of the participators and contributors must be in furtherance of the mandate of the associations or the Clubs. The mandate of the Club is a question of fact which has to be determined from the Memorandum or 1028 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Articles of Associations, Rules of Membership, Rules of the Organisation, etc., which must be construed broadly. (iii) There must be no scope for profi teering by the contributors from a fund made by them which could only be expended or returned to themselves. 32. Applying the aforesaid principles to the facts of the case, it was observed in Bangalore Club, that in relation to transactions, namely, deposit of surplus funds earned by the clubs, in banks which are members of the club, the principle of mutuality applies till the stage of deposit of funds and would lose its application, once the funds are deposited as fi xed deposit in the banks. This is because the funds would be exposed to commercial banking operations which means that the deposits could be used for lending to third parties and earning a higher interest thereon and by paying a lower rate of interest on the fi xed deposits to the clubs. That the bank’s utilizing the funds of the clubs deposited in fi xed deposit receipts, for their banking business would completely rupture the “privity of mutuality” and as a result,the element of complete identity between the contributors and participators would be lost. Consequently, the fi rst condition for the claim of mutuality is not satisfi ed. 33. That, it is not a normal activity of the appellants-clubs to deposit funds in a bank. It is only when a surplus is generated.