K. Sriram continued with the suit and had enjoyed benefi t of temporary injunction granted in his favour. The suit was un-conditionally dismissed as withdrawn on 23.12.1992, the day K. Sriram had transferred/assigned his rights under the agreement to sell (Exhibit A-1) in favour of K.P. Murali and S.P. Duraisamy (Exhibit A-2). K. Sriram, K.P. Murali and S.P. Duraisamy were aware of the refusal and thus the cause of action had arisen forcing them to approach the court with a prayer for injunction against A. Valliammai. 23. It was submitted before us, that in A. Valliammai’s deposition as PW-2, in front of the trial court, she had accepted that no notice was served on K. Sriram to pay the balance sale consideration on the date prescribed under the agreement to sell (Exhibit A-1) and that she had remained quiet with the hope that K. Sriram would show and therefore the limitation period under the second part of Article 54 had not commenced. We do not agree. The question to be examined and answered is whether K. Sriram had notice of A. Valliammai’s refusal or unwillingness to perform her part of the agreement. The relevant portion of deposition of A. Valliammai as PW-2 does not refer to her refusal or acceptance, but merely refers to the factual position that she had not issued any notice or at one point of time she had hope. This deposition cannot be read as acceptance and willingness of A. Valliammai. At the risk of repetition, we state that in the reply dated 09.08.1991(Exhibit A-7) and the rejoinder dated 16.09.1991 (Exhibit S-14), A. Valliammai had contested the assertions or allegations made against her by K. Sriram, and her denial and refusal to abide and comply by the agreement to sell (Exhibit A-1) was affi rmed. 24. Once we accept A. Valliammai’s refusal and K. Sriram’s notice of her refusal, the submission on behalf K.P. Murali and S.P. Duraisamy relying on Section 63 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, that a promise may 194 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. extend time for performance of a contract and the submission relying on S. Brahmanand and Ors. v. K.R. Mutugopal13 , that extension of time need not be in writing and can be proved by oral evidence, including conduct and forbearance on the part of the other party, have to be rejected. Refusal and forbearance are opposites. 25. The High Court in the impugned had rejected the contention that the allotment of the Trust property eastwards had any bearing on fi ling of the suit for specifi c performance. We agree with the said fi nding. In fact, vide rejoinder dated 31.08.1991 (Exhibit S-13), K. Sriram stated that the survey demarcation was already corrected in the survey map such that the Trust property was situated on the east and the A. Valliammai’s property on the west. 26. The submission stating that the agreement to sell (Exhibit A-1) was to be specifi cally performed only after disposal of the partition suit in O.S.