-Criminal Appeal No.1318/2022, dated 24.08.2022 F and Udho Thakur and Anr. ETC. v. The State of Jharkhand & Anr. - Criminal Appeal Nos.1703-1704 of 2022 dated 29.09.2022. 4. In Sahab Alam case (supra) we had dealt with the s passed by the learned Judge in various matters granting bail on condition of depositing substantive sums of money without consideration of the G requirements of bail dependent on the nature of offences and thus, it was observed that bail cannot per se be granted if a person can afford to deposit the money or has the capacity to pay. 5. All the impugned s were set aside and the matter was remitted back. H TALAT SANVI v. STATE OF JHARKHAND & ANR. 291 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] 6. In Udho Thakur (supra) the aspect of use of expression “victim A compensation” was found to be inappropriate as pre-arrest bail proceedings are not money recovery proceedings. 7. The matter in this case is one step further as it is not a payment of money/deposit of money as a condition of grant of anticipatory bail but the direction is to pay interim victim compensation in the proceedings B for anticipatory bail. 8. Looking back on the aspect of victim compensation we may note that in 1960s the ‘victimology’ movement made way for monetary compensations offered an incentive to governments by linking such compensation to victims’ cooperation in the pursuit of criminal C prosecutions. Canada and several states within the United States began providing victim compensation and thereby encouraged participation in criminal prosecutions. The early 80s witnessed the pioneers of victimology and victim justice taking predominant initiatives of reforming the criminal justice system on behalf of the victims of crime. The UN Declaration on D Basic Principles of Justice for Victims and Abuse of Power was unanimously adopted by the General Assembly in 1985 (Groenhuijsen, 2014). The Declaration made way for specific rights and entitlements of victims of crime, including the right to compensation. 9. Section 357 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for E to pay compensation when a court imposes a sentence of fine or a sentence (including a sentence of death) of which fine forms a part in the circumstances enumerated therein. Sub-section (2) imposes a limitation that when fine is imposed in a case which is subject to appeal no such payment shall be made before the period allowed for presenting the appeal has elapsed, or if an appeal is presented, before the decision F of the appeal. Under sub-section (3) it is by way of compensation for the person who has suffered any loss or injury by reason of the act for which the accused person has been so sentenced. Sub-section (4) also provides for the appellate court or the High Court or Court of Sessions to direct payment of compensation when exercising its power of revisions. G 10. We have set forth this to appreciate that victim compensation is simultaneous with the final view taken in respect of the alleged offence, i.e., whether it was so committed or not and, thus, there is no question of any imposition pre-finality of the matter pre-trial.