Section 32. Appeal. -Any appeal from an approving the resolution plan shall be in the manner and on the grounds laid D down in sub-section (3) of section 61. Section 61. Appeals and Appellate Authority.-(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained under the Companies Act 2013 (18 of 2013), any person aggrieved by the of the Adjudicating Authority under this part may prefer an E appeal to the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal. (2) Every appeal under sub-section (1) shall be filed within thirty days before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal: Provided that the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal may F allow an appeal to be filed after the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing the appeal but such period shall not exceed fifteen days. (3) An appeal against an approving a resolution plan under section 31 may be filed on the following grounds, namely: G (i) the approved resolution plan is in contravention of the provisions of any law for the time being in force; H 60 Ins. by Act 26 of 2018, sec. 24(b) (w.r.e.f. 6-6-2018). M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 873 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] (ii) there has been material irregularity in exercise of the powers A by the resolution professional during the corporate insolvency resolution period; (iii) the debts owed to operational creditors of the corporate debtor have not been provided for in the resolution plan in the manner specified by the Board; B (iv) the insolvency resolution process costs have not been provided for repayment in priority to all other debts; or (v) the resolution plan does not comply with any other criteria specified by the Board. C [61(4) An appeal against a liquidation passed under section 33, or sub-section (4) of section 54L, or sub-section (4) of section 54N, may be filed on grounds of material irregularity or fraud committed in relation to such a liquidation . (5) An appeal against an for initiation of corporate insolvency D resolution process passed under sub-section (2) of section 54-O, may be filed on grounds of material irregularity or fraud committed in relation to such an .] Section 238. Provisions of this Code to override other laws.- The provisions of this Code shall have effect, notwithstanding E anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or any instrument having effect by virtue of any such law.” 38.2. We may also take note of regulations in the CIRP Regulations as are relevant to the facts of the present case as follows: - F 62[27. Appointment of Professionals.- (1) The resolution professional shall, within seven days of his appointment but not later than forty-seventh day from the insolvency commencement 61 Subs. by Act 26 of 2021, sec. 9, for sub-section (4) (w.r.e.f. 4-4-2021). Sub-section G (4) before substitution, stood as under: “(4) An appeal against a liquidation passed under section 33 may be filed on grounds of material irregularity or fraud committed in relation to such a liquidation .” 62 Substituted by Notification No.