However, all the original Complainants in the respective H ALPHA G184 OWNERS ASSOCIATION v. MAGNUM INTERNATIONAL 873 TRADING COMPANY PVT. LTD. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] Complaint Cases can be permitted to file the Joint A Complaints. Accordingly, the present Consumer Complaint Cases are ed to be treated as Joint Complaints filed only on behalf of the Complainants, who have originally filed the respective Complaints. 29. Now, the question arises, whether each of the Complainants B have to pay the consideration of more than 2 Crore or not, so that this Commission can entertain their Complaints. 30. As held by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Brigade Enterprises (supra) (in para 35, 36 & 37), that there is C nothing in the Act, which prohibits the few Complainants from joining together and filing Joint Complaint. The word complaint includes plural i.e., complaints also. Thus, a Joint Complaint is maintainable and it will be treated as one- complaint.” D (emphasis supplied) 21. In holding so, the National Commission took note of its earlier decision in Ambrish Kumar Shukla v. Ferrous Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. in Consumer Complaint No. 97 of 2016 dated 07.10.2016, which is reproduced hereunder, E “31. xxx xxx xxx (ii) Whether a complaint under Section 12(1)(c) of the Consumer Protection Act is maintainable, before this Commission, where the value of the goods or services F and compensation, if any, claimed in respect of none of the allottees / purchasers exceeds Rupees one crore. (iii) Whether a complaint under Section 12(1)(c) of the Consumer Protection Act is maintainable before this Commission, where the value of the goods or services G and the compensation claimed in respect of an individual allottee exceeds Rupees one crore in the case of one or more allottees but does not exceed Rupees one crore in respect of other allottees; H 874 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A (iv) Whether a complaint under Section 12(1)(c) of the Consumer Protection Act is maintainable, in a case of allotment of several flats in a project / building, where the allotments / bookings / purchases are made on different dates and or the agreed cost of the flat and / or the area of the flat is not identical in all the bookings / B allotments / purchases.” 32. In Para 12 of the , the larger Bench had held as under:- “12. Issue No. (ii) and (iii) C Section 21 of the Consumer Protection Act, to the extent it is relevant provides that this Commission shall have jurisdiction to entertain complaints where the value of the goods or services and compensation, if any, claimed exceeds 1.00 crore. Therefore, what has to be seen, for the purpose of determining the pecuniary jurisdiction, is the value of the goods or services and the amount D of the compensation claimed in the complaint. If the aggregate of (i) the value of the goods or services and (ii) the compensation claimed in the complaint exceeds 1.00 crore, this Commission would have pecuniary jurisdiction to entertain the complaint.