C 158. The courts could adopt the course of action of redacting the confidential portions of the document and providing a summary of the contents of the document instead of opting for the sealed cover procedure to fairly exclude the document from the proceedings on a successful public interest immunity claim. Both the parties can then only be permitted D to refer to the redacted version of the document or the summary in the proceeding. In view of the above discussion, we are of the opinion that public interest immunity proceeding is a less restrictive means to deal with non-disclosure on the grounds of public interest and confidentiality. This leaves the final issue to be answered: if public interest immunity is a less restrictive means, then whether the procedure of sealed cover E can be used at all, and if so, in what circumstances would it be permissible for the court to exercise its power to secure evidence in a sealed cover. While it would be beyond the scope of this to lay down the possible situations when the sealed cover procedure can be used, it is sufficient to state that if the purpose could be realised effectively by F public interest immunity proceedings or any other less restrictive means, then the sealed cover procedure should not be adopted. The court should undertake an analysis of the possible procedural modalities that could be used to realise the purpose, and the means that are less restrictive of the procedural guarantees must be adopted. G 159. In view of the observations above, we are of the opinion that the respondents by not providing a reasoned denying the renewal of license, not disclosing the relevant material, and by disclosing the material only to the court in a sealed cover have violated the appellant’s right to a fair hearing protected under Article 21 of the Constitution. The respondents were unable to prove that the restrictions on the appellants’ H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 705 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] right to a fair hearing were reasonable. Therefore, the of MIB A dated 31 January 2022 denying permission for renewal of the license and the of the Division Bench of the High Court dated 2 March 2022 must be set aside on the ground of the infringement of procedural guarantees. K Substantive Challenge: the validity of the action of the MIB in denying to renew the permission B 160. In the course of his arguments, Mr Huzefa A Ahmadi, in addition to arguments on the violation of procedural guarantees, requested the court to peruse the material that was disclosed solely to the court in a sealed cover to decide if there was sufficient material to justify the non-renewal of permission. Thus, notwithstanding the conclusion that C we have reached above setting aside the of the MIB dated 31 January 2022 and the of the High Court dated 2 March 2022 on procedural grounds, we will proceed to decide the substantive challenge to the denying renewal of permission on the ground of denial of security clearance by the MHA.