is not an on merits but an on default of the prosecuting agency. It is submitted that the deeming fiction under the proviso to Section 167(2) cannot be interpreted to go to the length of converting an E of bail not on merit as if passed on merit. It is submitted that therefore, such an could be nullified for special reasons after the defect/default has been cured, i.e., after filing of the chargesheet. It is submitted that therefore, since the bail was granted due to default of the investigating agency and without the Court adverting to the merits of the case, the merits brought about in the chargesheet and attending F circumstance would be relevant. 5.3 It is further submitted that in the present case the bail was granted to the respondent herein under proviso to Section 167(2) on the default of the State Police in completing the investigation within the prescribed limit and the lackadaisical approach of the State Police was G also the reason for transfer of the investigation to the appellant – C.B.I. 5.4 Shri K.M. Nataraj, learned ASG appearing on behalf of the appellant – C.B.I. has vehemently relied upon the Three Judge Bench decision of this Court in the case of Aslam Babalal Desai Vs. State of Maharashtra, (1992) 4 SCC 272 in support of his submission that as H 748 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A observed and held by this Court on the special grounds being made out that the accused has committed very serious offences; committed non- bailable crimes and he deserves to be in custody, even in a case where the accused is released on default bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C., his bail can be cancelled. Heavy reliance is placed on the observations made by Justice A.M. Ahmadi (as he then was) in paragraph 14. He has also B taken us to the observations made by Justice M.M. Punchhi (as he then was) in paragraphs 23 and 28 (though dissenting view but concurring with the observations with respect to Section 167(2) Cr.P.C.). He has also taken us to the observations made by the then Justice K. Ramaswamy (concurring view made in paragraphs 39 and 40). Relying upon the above C observations made in the aforesaid paragraphs by the respective Hon’ble Judges, it is submitted that as observed and held by this Court, grant of default bail under the proviso to sub-section (2) of Section 167 Cr.P.C. is deemed to be released in terms of Chapter XXXIII of the Cr.P.C. and, therefore, the default bail, once granted, can be cancelled by the Court for the reasons germane to the cancellation of bail under Section 437(5) D or Section 439(2) of the Cr.P.C. 5.5 Relying upon the above decision and the observations made therein, it is submitted that since the bail was granted due to default of the investigating agency and without the Court adverting to the merits of the case, the merits brought about in the chargesheet and attending E circumstance would be relevant.