Referring to the Report, she stated that it shows that the Committee had taken note of the detailed reply submitted by the appellant on 25th April, 2009 and had dealt with the same at considerable length. Reliance has also been placed on the decisions of this Court in Hira Nath Mishra and Others v. Principal, Rajendra Medical College, H 32 2014 SCC Online Del 1856 AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 793 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] Ranchi and Another33 and P.D. Agrawal v. State Bank of India and A Others34 to argue that principles of natural justice is not an inflexible doctrine and the facts and circumstances of each case have to be examined to see whether the requirements of natural justice stand satisfied. In the present case, having regard to the sensitivity of the matter where no less than seventeen students of the respondent no. 2 – B University had submitted complaints of sexual harassment against the appellant, the Committee exercised its discretion by keeping a balance and conducted the proceedings without violating the principles of natural justice, which is amply borne out from a perusal of the Report itself. 26. Learned counsel also refuted the submission made by the C other side that failure on the part of the Committee to frame Articles of Charge before conducting the inquiry had caused serious prejudice to the appellant. She submitted that the sum and substance of the complaints were well known to the appellant from the very beginning and all the relevant depositions of the complainants and other witnesses were duly furnished to him. He was afforded ample opportunity to respond to the D said complaints, cross-examine the witnesses and produce his own witnesses in defence. Explaining the decision of the respondent no.2 – University to terminate the subsequently constituted inquiry proceedings against the appellant by virtue of the Memorandum dated 8th September, 2009, learned counsel alluded to the dated 26th April, 2004, passed E by this Court in Medha Kotwal’s case (supra), which had clarified that the Complaints Committee as contemplated in Vishaka and Others v. State of Rajasthan and Others35, will be the Inquiry Authority for the purposes of the CCS (CCA) Rules and the report of the said Committee will be deemed to be an Inquiry Report on which the Disciplinary Authority shall act in accordance with the Rules. It was submitted that the EC had F made a bona fide error by appointing an Inquiry Authority to inquire into the charges framed against the appellant and the said decision to recall the dated 15th October, 2009 was duly communicated to the appellant on 15th December, 2009. Only thereafter, did the EC issue a fresh Memorandum36 to the appellant calling upon him to submit his G representation on the decision to accept the Report submitted by the Committee and impose on him, a major penalty of dismissal from service. 33 (1973) 1 SCC 805 34 (2006) 8 SCC 776 35 (1997) 6 SCC 241 36 dated 17th February, 2010 H 794 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.