32. Ms. Arundhati Katju, learned counsel, made the following submissions: a. Article 21 protects the right to found a family and the right to a meaningful family life for all persons including LGBTQ persons. The law defi nes “family” and “household” broadly and is not limited to a “biological” man and woman and their children. Surrogacy and adoption are available only to married couples, thus, denying LGBTQ couples the right to found a family; 49 “Adoption Regulations” 50 “JJ Act” SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1265 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] b. A child’s right to a meaningful family life under Article 21, and its best interest, is protected by recognizing its parents’ relationship through marriage; c. Denying LGBTQ couples the right to marry violates Article 14 qua them and their children; d. The SMA should be read expansively to save it from the vice of unconstitutionality and in the alternative, it should be struck down; e. Any interpretative diffi culties which arise because of the exercise of reading-in must be decided on a case-by-case basis by the courts before which such issues arise; and f. A declaration of the rights of queer people by this Court will not preclude any debates or discussions about queerness either in Parliament or in society. 33. Ms. Amritananda Chakravorty, learned counsel, made the following submissions: a. The Offi ce Memorandum issued by CARA on 16 June 202251 is unconstitutional because they prevent same-sex couples and gender non-conforming couples from availing of joint adoption; and b. The requirements prescribed in the CARA Circular travel beyond the remit of the JJ Act. Section 2(49) of the JJ Act defi nes the term “prospective adoptive parents” to mean “a person or persons eligible to adopt a child as per the provisions of section 57.” Section 2(49) does not require the prospective adoptive parents to be heterosexual. Further, Section 57 does not specify marital status as a relevant factor to be considered while determining the eligibility of prospective adoptive parents. 34. Mr. Raghav Awasthi, learned counsel, sought to make submissions regarding the Hindu Marriage Act. This Court declined to hear arguments on this issue in the present proceedings. 51 CARAICA013/1/2022Administration; “CARA Circular” 126 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 35. Mr. Shivam Singh, learned counsel, made the following submissions: a. It is unconstitutional for the state to discriminate against persons because of their innate characteristics; b. Upholding the heterosexual notion of marriage as the only constitutionally and legally sanctioned notion of marriage will serve to perpetuate gender-based stereotypes proscribed by the Constitution and is therefore violative of Article 15; and c. Resorting to the provisions of the General Clauses Act 1897, Section 4(c) of the SMA (which otherwise appears to be unconstitutional) can be read down such that the singular “male” and “female” includes the plural as well. 36. Manu Srinath, learned counsel, made the following submissions: a. Persons whose fundamental rights are violated are entitled to seek judicial review of the violating act; b.