But these facts have to be evaluated keeping in view the economic and social status of the parties, including DR. NIRMAL SINGH PANESAR v. MRS. PARAMJIT KAUR PANESAR @ 843 AJINDER KAUR PANESAR [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] their educational qualifi cations, whether the parties have any children, their age, educational qualifi cation, and whether the other spouse and children are dependent, in which event how and in what manner the party seeking divorce intends to take care and provide for the spouse or the children. Question of custody and welfare of minor children, provision for fair and adequate alimony for the wife, and economic rights of the children and other pending matters, if any, are relevant considerations. We would not like to codify the factors so as to curtail exercise of jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, which is situation specifi c. Some of the factors mentioned can be taken as illustrative, and worthy of consideration. 42-49. ……… 50. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we decide this reference by answering the questions framed in the following manner: (i) The scope and ambit of power and jurisdiction of this Court under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India. This question as to the power and jurisdiction of this Court under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India is answered in terms of paragraphs 8 to 13, inter alia, holding that this Court can depart from the procedure as well as the substantive laws, as long as the decision is exercised based on considerations of fundamental general and specifi c public policy. While deciding whether to exercise discretion, this Court must consider the substantive provisions as enacted and not ignore the same, albeit this Court acts as a problem solver by balancing out equities between the confl icting claims. This power is to be exercised in a ‘cause or matter’. (ii) In view of, and depending upon the fi ndings of this bench on the first question, whether this Court, while hearing a transfer petition, or in any other proceedings, can exercise power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution, in view of the settlement between the parties, and grant a decree of divorce by mutual consent dispensing with the period and the procedure prescribed under Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act, and 844 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. also quash and dispose of other/connected proceedings under the Domestic Violence Act, Section 125 of the Cr. P.C., or criminal prosecution primarily under Section 498- A and other provisions of the I.P.C. If the answer to this question is in the affirmative, in which cases and under what circumstances should this Court exercise jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India is an ancillary issue to be decided. In view of our findings on the first question, this question has to be answered in the affirmative, inter alia, holding that this Court, in view of settlement between the parties, has the discretion to dissolve the marriage by passing a decree of divorce by mutual consent, without being bound by the procedural requirement to move the second motion.