F 52. This court, in Kothari Products Ltd. (supra) reversed the Full Bench decision stating that: “3. The contention on behalf of the appellants is that it is not open to the State of Andhra Pradesh to tax gutka. Section 8 of the State Sales Tax Act provides that a dealer who deals in G the goods specified in the Fourth Schedule thereto shall be exempt from tax thereunder in respect of such goods. Entry 7 of the Fourth Schedule of the State Sales Tax Act refers to tobacco and the explanation in this behalf is that the goods mentioned in Entry 7 H 1074 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “shall be goods included in the relevant heads and sub- heads of the First Schedule to the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, 1957, but does not include goods where no additional duties of excise are levied under that Schedule.” B The said Additional Duties of Excise Act, in Entry 2404, refers to “Gudaku” under the sub-Heading “Other manufactured tobacco”. Gudaku which bears a brand name is taxable under Entry 2404.11 at the rate of 5% and Gudaku not bearing a brand name is subject to tax at nil rate under Entry 2404.12. The Schedule to the Central Excise Act also makes the same C distinction between Gudaku bearing a brand name and Gudaku not bearing a brand name under the sub-Heading, “Other manufactured tobacco and manufactured tobacco substitutes; homogenised or ‘reconstituted’ tobacco; tobacco extracts and essences”. D 4. Clearly, therefore, gutka is a tobacco that is covered by an entry in the First Schedule to the said Additional Duties of Excise Act and the branded gutka that the appellants manufacture is liable to tax thereunder. Gutka, therefore, is ‘goods’ covered by the Explanation to the Fourth Schedule E to the State Sales Tax Act and, therefore, covered by the exemption contained in Section 8 thereof. The Schedule to the State Act could, therefore, not have been amended by including gutka as a kind of pan masala in entry 194 of its First Schedule. It must, therefore, be held that the inclusion of gutka in the said entry 194 in the manner in which it is F done is bad in law and is struck down. The appellants will be entitled to all consequential benefits.” 53. As far as the first point argued by the appellants are concerned, which is, whether in a state law which contains two provisions: one which taxes entries, and another which exempts articles from levy (the G latter being listed separately, in a notification, or a schedule to the enactment itself), the inclusion, or insertion into the list or schedule of articles that can be taxed (like Section 4 of the DST Act) without amending the subsisting notification that excludes levy (as under Section 7 DST) would the levy fail? H M/S TRIMURTHI FRAGRANCES (P) LTD. THR. ITS DIRECTOR SHRI 1075 PRADEEP KUMAR AGRAWAL v. GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI THR.