Restaurants (Marketing) Pvt. Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, Delhi, (2021) 7 SCC 678, this Court speaking through Khanwilkar, J. in paragraph 17 observed as under: 1026 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. “17. In to undertake the examination of mutuality, we gainfully advert to English & Scottish Joint Coop. Wholesale Society Ltd. v. CAT, which has been quoted with approval by this Court in CIT v. Royal Western India Turf Club Ltd. and Bangalore Club. The aforestated stream of judicial pronouncements expound three conditions/tests to prove the existence of mutuality: (i) Identity of the contributors to the fund and the recipients from the fund; (ii) Treatment of the company, though incorporated as a mere entity for the convenience of the members and policy- holders, in other words, as an instrument obedient to their mandate, and; (iii) Impossibility that contributors should derive profi ts from contributions made by themselves to a fund which could only be expended or returned to themselves. Whereas the legal position on what amounts to a mutual concern stands fairly settled, the factual determination of the same on a case- to-case basis poses a complex issue that requires deeper examination. Such examination ought to be conducted in the light of the tests enunciated above.” While discussing the element which involves the test of commonality of identity between the members or participators in the mutual concern and the benefi ciaries thereof, and applying the three-pronged test extracted hereinabove, it was observed that common identity signifi es that the class of members should stay intact as the transaction progresses from the stage of contributions to that of returns/surplus. Therefore, there must be uniformity in the class of participants in the transaction. It was further observed that “the moment such a transaction opens itself to non-members, either in the contribution or the surplus, the uniformity of identity is impaired and the transaction assumes the tint of a commercial transaction. The emphasis on the words member and non-member is of import because the doctrine of mutuality does not prohibit the inclusion or exclusion of new members. It was observed, what is prohibited is the infusion of a participant in the transaction who does not become a “member” of the common fund, at par with other SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1027 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] members, and yet participates either in the contribution or surplus without subjecting himself/herself to mutual rights and obligations. The principle of common identity prohibits any one-dimensional alteration in the nature of participation in the mutual fund as the transaction fructifi es. Any such alteration would lead to the non-uniform participation of an external element or entity in the transaction, thereby opening the scope for a manifest or latent profi t-based dealing in the transaction, with parties outside the closed circuit of members. Such profi t-oriented activity would be amenable to income tax as per Section 2(24) of the Act. Moving further, this Court observed that coterminous with the requirement of common identity, is the requirement of completeness of identity between the contributors and participators which is contemplated under the doctrine.