The result of the All India Bar Examination would be subject F to the person passing all the components required under the course of study of the University/College. This would be subject to the All India Bar Examination results being valid for a specified period of time. 39. More often than not, there would be a hiatus period between the date of passing the examination from a law University/College and G the date of enrolment. The eligibility of a law graduate to perform certain tasks may thus arise. The suggestion made is that during the period between the date of passing the examination and the date of enrolment, any graduate with the degree who is yet to appear for the Bar examination or get enrolled under the said Act should be able to do all the tasks allied H 366 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A to the legal profession other than the function of acting or pleading before the courts. We give our imprimatur to this suggestion. 40. Another issue which arises is that of seniority at the Bar. This is relevant for many purposes including chamber allotment, at the time of elevation, etc. The determination of seniority in case of a post- B enrolment examination based on the date of birth of an advocate is stated to have statutory recognition under Section 21 of the said Act currently and, thus, it has been suggested that a similar criteria would suit in any pre or post enrolment examination. We must also note here that the Bar Council of India has the powers to make rules determining the seniority among advocates under Section 49(1)(ae) of the said Act. C 41. The Amicus has suggested that unlimited attempts to pass the All India Bar Examination would not be in line of scheme proposed before this Court and it should be limited to any number of attempts which this Court deems fit to do so. We would, of our own, hesitate to prescribe the number of opportunities available to a law graduate to take D the All India Bar Examination, especially when it is only on passing the All India Bar Examination that he would be entitled to be enrolled in a pre-enrolment examination. In case of a post-enrolment examination, the period of two years between enrolment and passing the All India Bar Examination is already specified. E 42. Learned Amicus also sought to flag the issue of persons, who may take up other jobs and may want to enrol themselves as advocates later at some stage. There may also be persons who despite being enrolled at the Bar, decide to take another job and come back into the profession after a considerable period of time, at times even post retirement. It is in F that context that the learned Amicus has suggested that the rule making power under Section 49(1)(ah) of the said Act could be invoked requiring an examination for the advocates who come back into the practice after a substantial break from practice.