[Para 7.2][824-F-G] 1.5 The amendment introduced by Act No. 26 of 2019 ensures that the operational creditors under the resolution plan should be paid the amount equivalent to the amount which they F would have been entitled to, in the event of liquidation of the Corporate Debtor under Section 53 of the Code. In other words, the amount payable under the resolution plan to the operational creditors should not be less than the amount payable to them under Section 53 of the Code, in the event of liquidation of the G Corporate Debtor. The amended provision also provides that the financial creditors who have not voted in favour of the resolution plan shall be paid not less than the amount which would be paid to them in accordance with sub- section (1) to Section 53 of the Code, in the event of liquidation of the corporate debtor. Explanation to clause (b) of the 30(2) of the Code, for the removal H M/S VISTRA ITCL (INDIA) LTD v. MR. DINKAR 809 VENKATASUBRAMANIAN of doubts, states and clarifies that the distribution in accordance A with this clause shall be fair and equitable to such creditors. [Para 8.1][826-F-H] 1.6 It is also the mandate of Section 31 of the Code that the adjudicating authority should be satisfied that the resolution plan, as approved by the CoC under sub-section (4) of Section 30 meets B with the requirement as referred to in sub-section (2) of Section 30. Only then, the adjudicating authority shall approve the resolution plan, which shall then be binding on the Corporate Debtor and its employees, members, creditors, guarantors and other stakeholders involved in the resolution plan. Section C 30(2)(e) also requires the resolution professional to examine each resolution plan received by him/her and confirm that it does not contravene any provisions of law for the time being in force. Thus, the amended Section 30(2) read with Section 31 of the Code, enunciates the manner in which the interests of the creditors who are not included in the CoC i.e., the operational creditors D and the financial creditors who have not voted in favour of the resolution plan, must be protected in the resolution plan by the resolution professional and the adjudicating authority. [Para 8.2- 8.3][827-A-D] 1.7 It is in this context that the appellant No. 1 submits E that the resolution plan in question does not meet the requirements of the Code, as it extinguishes and vaporises the pledge created in favour of the appellant no. 1 and thereby, appellant no. 1, a secured creditor, viz, the pledged shares, is left remediless and worse off than the dissenting financial creditors, F or even the operational creditors. [Para 8.4][827-D-E] 1.8 The difficulty which arises in the instant case is that, in terms of the decision of this Court in Anuj Jain’s case and Phoenix ARC’s case, appellant no. 1 is to be treated as a secured creditor, but would not fall under the category of financial creditors or G operational creditors.