This integration is problematic because the considerations of the court at the discovery stage and objection stage are distinct. The party F seeking discovery of documents must prima facie prove the relevance of the document to the proceedings. Once the party discharges this burden, and the court s disclosure, the state may object to disclosure on the ground that it would injure public interest. At this stage, the burden is wholly on the state to prove injury to public interest. After G the objection is raised, the relevancy of the disclosure must only be weighed at the balancing stage. Identifying the relevancy of the document even before the state is required to discharge the burden of proving public interest introduces a fundamental misconception in the application of public H 692 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A interest immunity which is an exception to the production of documents. Furthermore, at an elementary level, it would be impossible to prove the relevancy of the document to the proceedings without the party having viewed it; and (vii) Once the injury due to disclosure is proved, the Courts in B the UK and Canada follow the structured proportionality test to balance the conflicting claims of public interest. 134. According to the Code of Civil Procedure 1908, a party to a proceeding may file an application for discovery to secure knowledge of information that the other party holds. A party may file an application,107 C without filing any affidavit, seeking a direction for disclosure of documents relating to any matter in question in the possession or power of the other party. The Court may either refuse or adjourn the application if it is satisfied on the hearing of the application that such discovery is not necessary at the stage of the suit. Additionally, the Court shall issue an limiting the discovery to ‘certain classes of documents’. The D application shall be dismissed if the discovery of documents is not necessary for the fair disposal of the suit or for saving costs. It must be noted that the provision uses the phrase ‘fair disposal of the suit’. The use of the said expression includes the spirit of the requirements of procedural and substantive fairness. If the Court allows the application E considering that the discovery is necessary, the other party should file an affidavit listing the documents that are in their possession relating to the matter is question. The affidavit must be produced in the form specified in Form No. 5 in Appendix C, ‘with such variations as circumstances may require.’108 The form in which the affidavit is required to be made is extracted below: F No. 5 AFFIDAVIT AS TO DOCUMENTS (O. 11, r. 13.) (Title as in No. 1, supra) I, the above-named defendant C. D., make oath and say as G follows:— 107 XI Rule 12 of CPC 1908 H 108 XI Rule 13 of CPC 1908 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 693 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 1.