Therefore, she submits that the complaint against the appellant deserves to be quashed. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT 10. Shri S.V. Raju, the learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the ED, submitted that even assuming that the appellant had monetary capacity to acquire the second property, one cannot conclude that the funds siphoned by the accused no.1, which constitute proceeds of crime, were not used by the appellant for acquiring the second property. He submits that this issue can be gone into only at the time of trial. Regarding the second submission, the learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that a person can be held guilty of the commission of a money laundering off ence under Section 3 of the PMLA, even if he is not shown as an accused in the predicate off ence. He submitted that it is apparent from the provision of Section 3 of the PMLA that in a given case, a person who is not an accused in the predicate off ence can commit the off ence of money laundering. Regarding the third submission, the learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that wherever the legislature intended, it has made a particular off ence read with another off ence as a scheduled off ence. He invited our attention to Paragraphs 4 and 6 of Part A of the Schedule to the PMLA. Referring to Paragraph 11 of the Schedule to the PMLA, he urged that the fi rst four off ences in Paragraph 4 and all the off ences in Paragraph 6 clearly show the legislature’s intention. He submitted that the schedule must be read as it is, and nothing can be added or subtracted from the Schedule considering the objects of the PMLA. He submitted that the validity of the Schedule has been upheld in the case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary1. He would, therefore, submit that no interference is called for with the impugned . PAVANA DIBBUR v. THE DIRECTORATE OF 1057 ENFORCEMENT [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS THE EFFECT OF THE APPELLANT NOT BEING SHOWN AS AN ACCUSED IN PREDICATE OFFENCE 11. Section 3 of the PMLA reads thus: “3. Off ence of money-laundering.—Whosoever directly or indirectly attempts to indulge or knowingly assists or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime including its concealment, possession, acquisition or use and projecting or claiming it as untainted property shall be guilty of off ence of money-laundering. Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarifi ed that,— (i) a person shall be guilty of off ence of money-laundering if such person is found to have directly or indirectly attempted to indulge or knowingly assisted or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in one or more of the following processes or activities connected with proceeds of crime, namely:— (a) concealment; or (b) possession; or (c) acquisition; or (d) use; or (e) projecting as untainted property; or (f) claiming as untainted property, in any manner whatsoever; (ii) the process or activity connected with proceeds of crime is a continuing activity and continues till such time a person is directly or indirectly enjoying the proceeds of crime by its concealment or possession or acquisition or use or projecting it as untainted property or claiming it as untainted property in any manner whatsoever.” On a plain reading of Section 3, unless proceeds of crime exist, there cannot be any money laundering off ence.