Fraud on power voids the if it is not exercised bona fi de for the end designed. Fraud in this context is not equal to moral turpitude and embraces all cases in which the action impugned is to eff ect some object which is beyond the purpose and intent of the power, whether this be malice-laden or even benign. If the purpose is corrupt the resultant act is bad. If considerations, foreign to the scope of the power or extraneous to the statute, enter the verdict or impel the action, mala fi des or fraud on power vitiates the acquisition or other offi cial act.’ 4 (1980) 2 SCC 471 732 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. A few years later, in Collector (District Magistrate), Allahabad and another vs. Raja Ram Jaiswal5, this Court held as under: ‘Where power is conferred to achieve a purpose, it has been repeatedly reiterated that the power must be exercised reasonably and in good faith to eff ectuate the purpose. And in this context “in good faith” means “for legitimate reasons”. Where power is exercised for extraneous or irrelevant considerations or reasons, it is unquestionably a colourable exercise of power or fraud on power and the exercise of power is vitiated.’ Again, in Ravi Yashwant Bhoir vs. Collector6, it was held thus: ‘Malafi de exercise of power does not imply any moral turpitude. It means exercise of statutory power for “purposes foreign to those for which it is in law intended”. It means conscious violation of the law to the prejudice of another, a depraved inclination on the part of the au-thority to disregard the rights of others, where intent is manifested by its injurious acts. Passing an for unauthorized purpose consti- tutes malice in law.’ 22. The way in which the ED recorded the second ECIR immediately after the appellants secured anticipatory bail in relation to the fi rst ECIR, though the foundational FIR dated back to 17.04.2023, and then went about summoning them on one pretext and arresting them on another, within a short span of 24 hours or so, manifests complete and utter lack of bonafi des. Signifi cantly, when the appellants were before the Delhi High Court seeking anticipatory bail in connection with the fi rst ECIR, the ED did not even bring it to the notice of the High Court that there was another FIR in relation to which there was an ongoing investigation, wherein the appellants stood implicated. The second ECIR was recorded 4 days after the grant of bail and it is not possible that the ED would have been unaware of the existence of FIR No. 0006 dated 17.04.2023 at that time. 23. Surprisingly, in its ‘Written Submissions’, the ED stated that it started its inquiries in respect of this FIR in May, 2023, itself, but strangely, 5 (1985) 3 SCC 1 6 (2012) 4 SCC 407 PANKAJ BANSAL v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 733 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] the replies fi led by the ED do not state so!