22A. When Section 2(6A) of the Act and Section 2 (12) of the Code are read together, the economic holding of a person would be computed by taking account of the lands possessed (whether actual or not) by such person, whether as owner or tenant. In the facts of this case, the landlord has claimed that, as an owner, he held 13 acres of jirayat land. 23. The tenant has not led any evidence to show that the landlord holds any land as a tenant. Further, no evidence has been led to contradict the fact that the landlord holds land as an owner, in excess of 13 acres of jirayat land. Therefore, we ought to proceed on the premise that the holding of the landlord is 13 acres of jirayat land. The revisional authority KESHAV BHAURAO YEOLE (D) BY LRS. v. MURALIDHAR 953 (D) & ORS. [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] has misinterpreted the word ‘holding’. In determining the holding of the landlord, it has taken into account the land leased to the tenant and has, on that basis, concluded that the holding of the landlord is in excess of one unit of economic holding. As we have explained above, only such land which a person holds (is in possession) as an owner or tenant, must be taken into account. The land leased to the tenants cannot be said to be held by the landlord either as an owner, or as a tenant. 24. Section 6 of the Act provides that one unit of economic holding in the context of jirayat land is equivalent to a holding of 16 acres. It is thus clear that the holding of the landlord cannot be said to be in excess of one unit of economic holding. The original authority has recorded a fi nding that the landlord’s principal source of income is from agriculture. This fi nding has not been disturbed or challenged by the appellate authority or the revisional authority. Since the twin conditions provided in the proviso as found in the amended notifi cation stand satisfi ed, the outcome of the dispute will have to be decided in accordance with Section 33(B)(5)(b) and not according to Section 31A and 31B. 25. According to Section 33(B)(5)(b), the landlord’s entitlement to terminate tenancy and recover possession of land leased is only to the extent ‘of so much thereof as would result in both the landlord and the tenant holding thereafter in the total an equal area for personal cultivation’. The original authority and appellate authority have disagreed on the extent of land to be resumed to the landlord. In deciding the extent of land to be restored, the original authority has applied the provision contained in Section 33(B)(5)(b), whereas the appellate authority has applied the provision contained in Section 31B. According to us, the original authority was correct in applying the provision contained in Section 33B(5)(b) but has fallen into error in its interpretation and application of the said provision. The appellate authority could not have applied Section 31B since the application of 31B stands excluded by Section 43A and the amended notifi cation, as we have discussed above.