Since, through the said notifi cation the benefi t was available to the writ petitioners, the writ petitions insofar as the challenge to the notifi cations dated 10.10.2008 and 23.12.2008 not being necessary to be considered on merits had been disposed of and the amount which had been deposited was directed to be refunded. 13. Therefore, in the present facts as on the date when the writ petition was fi led and the petitioner had voluntarily off ered to deposit the amount, the amount was to be paid and recoverable under the notifi cation dated 10.10.2008 and 23.12.2008 if the benefi t of additional FAR was to be availed. The petitioners being desirous of availing the same and to proceed with the construction on obtaining the Sanctioned Plan had proceeded at ‘breakneck’ speed and had incurred the expenditure by off ering to deposit the amount and avail the benefi t instead of awaiting adjudication and thereafter availing. In that view, when as on the date the deposit was made, the notifi cation remained valid and even subsequently there is no declaration that the notifi cation and the demand made is illegal, but through the subsequent notifi cation an exemption has been granted by the respondents themselves to a certain category of institutional plots to avail additional FAR without levying such charges, it is not the case where any of the principles as enunciated in the above-noted decisions would apply herein. 14. As noted, the circumstances in which the deposit was made is not in a situation where the appellant has suff ered any loss due to the ‘Act of Court’ in the sense it ought to be construed. Further, insofar as the respondent is concerned, the notifi cation providing for additional FAR charges was in force on the date when the deposit was made. Even though in the interim dated 07.05.2010 passed by the High Court there is an indication that the question of refund of amount with interest would be examined at the stage of conclusion of the writ petitions, in the circumstances as has unfolded and noted above, when there was no adjudication and determination with regard LAL BAHADUR SHASTRI EDUCATIONAL SOCIETY 843 v. DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY [A.S. BOPANNA, J.] to the right of the appellant and a declaration that the amount was illegally demanded and retained by the respondent, either the direction to pay interest or to compensate in any other manner for the pendente lite period would not arise. However, insofar as the non-refund of the amount for a longer period even after the expiry of the period permitted by the Court, admittedly the appellant in the fi rst of the above cases has initiated separate proceedings. In that regard, all contentions are kept open and none of the observations made in deciding the issue herein would prejudice the parties in seeking adjudication of their contentions therein. 15. Apart from the fact that the appellant in the second of the appeals has failed in the proceedings before this Court in an earlier SLP insofar as the pendentelite interest, in view of the conclusion above, the same would apply to their case as well and for the subsequent period they may avail their remedy.