Submissions: 5. We have heard learned Senior Counsel, Sri Huzefa Ahmadi for the appellant-wife, and learned Senior Counsel, Sri Kapil Sibal for the B respondent-husband and perused the material on record. 6. At the outset, Sri Huzefa Ahmadi submitted that the High Court had erred in upholding the direction of the Family Court, Pune, to conduct the DNA test of the younger son of the parties. That the respondent had failed to satisfy the test of “eminent need” as laid down by this Court in C Goutam Kundu vs. State of West Bengal, (1993) 3 SCC 418 wherein it was observed that the Indian law leans towards legitimacy and that a direction for DNA test should be passed only after balancing the interests of the parties, including the rights of the child, and if such a test is eminently needed. That in the present case, the respondent had failed to demonstrate that the direction for conducting DNA test could not have D been avoided, and therefore, the direction to conduct the same was erroneous. 6.1. Learned Senior Counsel for the appellant further contended that the High Court erred in observing that the interest of the child would not be jeopardized by simply relying on the statement of the respondent E that he would not disown his son. That even if such a statement is taken at its face value, it will not be enough to protect the child from societal repercussions associated with the illegitimacy of his birth (if any) and that any direction to conduct DNA test would be contrary to the interests of the child and the same is being sought by the respondent to secure his F interests alone, without any consideration of the interest of the child. It was next contended that the rationale behind the Indian Law leaning towards legitimacy is that the DNA test would impinge on the right to privacy of a child and any issue as to legitimacy will have major societal repercussions on the innocent child. Further, balancing the interests of the child and the respondent does not justify passing a direction for G conducting the DNA test of the child. 6.2. Sri Huzefa Ahmadi, learned senior counsel next submitted that the respondent had failed to establish any case demonstrating non- access at the relevant time, so as to dislodge the presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act and thus, no direction could have been H 700 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A passed to conduct a DNA test of the child. That the language of Section 112 of the Evidence Act and the decisions of this Court in Goutam Kundu, Bhabani Prasad Jena vs. Convenor Secretary, Orissa State Commission for Women, (2010) 8 SCC 633 and Ashok Kumar vs. Raj Gupta, (2022) 1 SCC 20, would establish that a party seeking a direction to conduct DNA test is required to bring on record strong prima- B facie evidence of non-access vis-a-vis the presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act.