23. We shall now look into the evidence of PW 14 ASI Lal Singh of Kullu Police Station. The PW 14 in his examination in chief has deposed as under:- “Stated that I am posted in P.S. Kullu since 1997. On 23.8.98, I along with HC Mohan Lal, Constables Sant Ram and Baldev Dass moved out of police station Kullu at 5.30 p.m. for patrolling. The departure report was entered in the GD. When we were present at Dhalpur at 6.30 p.m., I got information from informer that one person wearing white T Shirt and green pajama and having French cut beard and is healthy is having one big bag with him and he with charas is ready to go to Delhi by bus from Sarbari Bus Stand. Thereupon I prepared information report and sent it to SP, Kullu through Constable Baldev Dass. Exh.PB is copy of it. After that I, with HC Mohan Lal, Constable Sant Ram went to Sarbari Bus Stand on foot and we reached Sarbari bus stand at 6.45 p.m. Surender Kumar, Bus Stand Incharge and Karam Singh were asked to join the investigation who joined the investigation. The person with same features as told by informer was found standing at that bus stand who had a bag on his shoulder. Before witnesses I 304 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. asked name of that person whereupon that person told his name as Ranjan Kumar Chadha S/o Ved Prakash Chadha, Sarva Priya Vihar, New Delhi. Before the witnesses, I asked that person that police has apprehension that he is in possession of charas and whether he wants that his personal search is to be conducted by police or by any G.0. or Magistrate. The accused present in the court is the same person who had given his consent in writing and verbally that he is ready to give his search to me. Consent Memo Exh.PJ was prepared in this regard and accused has given his consent thereon by writing the same in his handwriting. After that I gave my personal search through Exh.PM in the presence of witnesses. Then the bag which accused was holding was searched before the witnesses. Bag was black blue colour on which MITRE was found written. On search of bag, besides other belongings of accused such as D.L., Diary, etc., three polythene packets were recovered in which Charas in the form of Battis and tablets were recovered. On weighing, charas 1 kg. 250 gms. was found out of recovered charas, 2 samples of 25 grns. each were taken out and charas and samples were sealed with seal H. After fi lling up NCB Form and sample seal, seal was handed over to witness Surender Kumar. Charas was seized through seizure memo Exh.PJ on which accused affi xed his signature and witnesses affi xed their signatures. Accused was informed through Exh.PN regarding grounds of arrest, etc. Rukka Exh.PH was prepared and sent to Police Station through Constable Sant Ram and after registration of FIR he brought the fi le from police station.