This was a considered choice made by the said class of persons. Having waived their privileges on account of non- registration as Sikkim Subjects, migrants/settlers of Indian origin cannot B at this juncture claim to be treated at par with Sikkim Subjects. 39. Insofar as the validity of the proviso to Section 10(26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961 is concerned, it was submitted that the same is not discriminatory against women or violative of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution. That the disqualification placed on Sikkimese women C marrying non-Sikkimese men after 1st April, 2008, was based on the customary laws of Sikkim which provide that descent shall be through a woman’s father and any privileges vested by virtue of such descent would continue until such woman is married. That the peculiar customary laws of a society could not be ignored while framing laws to bind such D society. 40. With the aforesaid averments, it was prayed that the instant writ petitions be dismissed as being devoid of merit. 41. On behalf of the State of Sikkim, learned counsel, Sri Vivek Kohli has fairly submitted that the State Government does not have any E objection to the prayer of the writ petitioners herein to extend the income tax exemption to married women of Sikkimese origin, who, after 1st April, 2008 married a non-Sikkimese man. It was also submitted that the benefit of the tax exemption may be extended to all Indian citizens domiciled in Sikkim irrespective of the fact as to whether their names are registered as ‘Sikkim Subjects’ in the ‘Sikkim Subjects Register’ F maintained under the 1961 Regulation. 42. There is a two-pronged challenge to clause (26AAA) of Section 10 of the I.T. Act, 1961. Firstly, the proviso restricting a Sikkimese woman who marries after the 1st April, 2008, a non-Sikkimese, is excluded from the benefit under that provision. Secondly, the definition of G ‘Sikkimese’ is also assailed in these writ petitions. The same shall be discussed in seriatim. Challenge to the Proviso to Section 10 (26AAA) of I.T. Act, 1961: H ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 337 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 43. The proviso to Section 10(26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961 has A been assailed. The proviso reads as under: “Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to a Sikkimese woman who, on or after 1st day of April, 2008, marries an individual who is not a Sikkimese” 44. The proviso is challenged on the ground that it excludes B Sikkimese women on the basis that they have married an individual who is not a Sikkimese after 1st April, 2008. In this context, the following aspects can be discerned: i) Firstly, it is the contention of the petitioners that Sikkimese women have been subjected to discrimination which is not valid in law, C particularly, having regard to Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution of India. The contention is that there is a discrimination against Sikkimese women while there is no such discrimination as far as Sikkimese men are concerned, in the sense that if a Sikkimese woman marries an individual who is not a Sikkimese, she is excluded from the benefit of the D clause but if a Sikkimese man marries an individual who is not a Sikkimese, such an exclusion does not apply.