22. Soni Hinduji Kushalji & Co. v. CIT,(1971) SCC Online AP 223 22.1 The Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court considered the law laid down on deduction of loss incurred by way of a E confiscation and penalty. It took into consideration the decision of this Court in S.C. Kothari (Supra).It was accordingly held that a loss must be one arising directly from the business or trade,being incidental to it, as laid down by this Court in Badridas Daga (supra).The Court while noting the decision of this Court in Maqbool Hussain v. State of Bombay F etc.,(1953) SCR 730 and Haji Aziz (supra), held that a confiscation of a contraband being an action in rem is not available for deduction, as the same, by no process of reasoning can be said to be trading or commercial loss connected with or incidental to the assessee’s business. 22.2 Relevant paragraphs: G “4. Mr. Swamy appearing for the assessee-firm strongly contended that when the profits earned from an illegal business are not exempt from tax, the loss sustained in such business should be allowed to be deducted from the profits or gains for purposes of computing the tax payable by the assessee. H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 119 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] 5. What are chargeable to tax in respect of a business carried on A by the assessee are the profits or gains of a particular assessment year. While assessing the profits, necessarily loss incurred in the business during the year should be taken into account, as otherwise it is not possible to arrive at the true profits earned by the assessee. It is well-settled that the taint of illegality associated with profits B or income is immaterial for the purpose of taxation. As observed by Lord Haldane in Minister of Finance v. Smith [[1927] A.C. 193, 198.] , Income-tax Acts are not necessarily restricted in their application to lawful business only. One who contravenes a statute and trades in business prohibited by law while being liable for prosecution for the offence committed by him will, at the same C time, be liable to pay tax out of the income or profits earned from the illegal trade or business. We are now concerned with the loss representing the value of gold on account of the confiscation of the gold for contravention of the provisions of the Customs Act. Can that loss be regarded as a commercial loss pertaining to the D business or incidental to the business the assessee was carrying on, is the real question. 6. Mr. Swamy sought to place strong reliance upon a decision of the Gujarat High Court in Commissioner of Income-tax v. S.C. Kothari [[1968] 69 I.T.R. 1 (Guj.).] to contend that the assessee E is entitled to claim deduction of the value of the contraband gold confiscated by the customs authorities, as it represented the loss sustained by the firm in the illegal business carried on by it.