Having noted the aforesaid two s and particularly the fact that the earlier in Abbai Maligai Partnership Firm is duly taken cognizance of and explained in the latter , we are of the view that there is no confl ict insofar as ratio of the two cases is concerned. Moreover, Abbai Maligai Partnership Firm was decided on its peculiar facts, with no discussion on any principle of law, whereas Kunhayammed is an elaborate discourse based on well-accepted propositions of law which are applicable for such an issue. We are, therefore, of the view that detailed in Kunhayammed lays down the correct law and there is no need to refer the cases to larger Bench, as was contended by the counsel for the appellant. 25. While taking this view, we may also point out that even in K. Rajamouli this Court took note of both these s and explained the principle of res judicata in the following manner: (SCC p. 41, para 4) 13 (1998) 7 SCC 386. 1138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. “4. Following the decision in Kunhayammed we are of the view that the dismissal of the special leave petition against the main of the High Court would not constitute res judicata when a special leave petition is fi led against the passed in the review petition provided the review petition was fi led prior to fi ling of special leave petition against the main of the High Court. The position would be diff erent where after dismissal of the special leave petition against the main a party fi les a review petition after a long delay on the ground that the party was prosecuting remedy by way of special leave petition. In such a situation the fi ling of review would be an abuse of the process of the law. We are in agreement with the view taken in Abbai Maligai Partnership Firm that if the High Court allows the review petition fi led after the special leave petition was dismissed after condoning the delay, it would be treated as an aff ront to the of the Supreme Court. But this is not the case here. In the present case, the review petition was fi led well within time and since the review petition was not being decided by the High Court, the appellant fi led the special leave petition against the main of the High Court. We, therefore, overrule the preliminary objection of the counsel for the respondent and hold that this appeal arising out of the special leave petition is maintainable.”” 30. Reiterating the conclusions in Kunhayammed (supra), Khoday Distilleries Ltd.(supra), states: “26. From a cumulative reading of the various s, we sum up the legal position as under: 26.1. The conclusions rendered by the three-Judge Bench of this Court in Kunhayammed and summed up in para 44 are affi rmed and reiterated. 26.2. We reiterate the conclusions relevant for these cases as under : (Kunhayammed case, SCC p. 384) “(iv) An refusing special leave to appeal may be a non-speaking or a speaking one.