Additionally, we shall examine as to how the High Court dealt with the evidence on those circumstances with a view to find out whether there is any perversity in its view/ reasoning warranting an interference. In the instant case, the prosecution relied on the following circumstances: G (a) Motive; (b) Disclosure Statement and Recovery; (c) Extra Judicial Confession; and (d) Accused taking the deceased with him and soon thereafter the deceased was found in an injured state. We shall examine each of these circumstances, separately, herein below— 3 (2020) 11 SCC 174 H STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH v. PHOOLCHAND RATHORE 619 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] (i) Motive: A According to the prosecution, the appellant and the deceased used to quarrel because the deceased had kept her jewellery with her sister. However, the above reason for the quarrel was not found proved because the prosecution evidence led revealed that the jewellery had already been B returned back much before the date of the incident. Therefore, to prove motive, during trial, prosecution developed another story, which is, that the appellant desired his wife to claim a share in her ancestral property which resulted in quarrels. This motive neither appealed to the C High Court nor to us because, firstly, it was an improvement in the prosecution story; secondly, not much evidence was laid to substantiate the same; and, thirdly, if the wife is killed how could her husband derive interest in the property. Thus, in our view, the prosecution failed to prove the motive set out by it. No doubt absence of motive by itself may not be D sufficient to dislodge the prosecution case if the other proven circumstances could form a chain so complete as to indicate that in all human probability it is the accused and no one else who committed the crime but, in a case based on circumstantial evidence, motive plays an important part. E Because, not only it makes the story believable but also helps the court in fortifying an inference which may be drawn against the accused from other attending circumstances. (ii) Disclosure Statement and Recovery The prosecution placed heavy reliance on recovery of F blood-stained clothes and stones from the hut of the accused on the basis of disclosure made by him. The disclosure as well as recovery has been refuted by the accused as also by PW-6 who is a witness to it. The High Court has noticed that there is material contradiction in the statement of G prosecution witnesses with regard to the time when the accused was arrested. The public witnesses examined by the prosecution indicated that the accused was arrested in the night of 01.02.2010 itself, whereas the police witnesses/ documents disclosed his arrest on 02.02.2010 at 1240 hours H 620 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A at Seoni Trisection. What may be interesting is the time sequence of arrest, recording of disclosure statement and preparing of recovery memos. According to police witnesses and papers, the arrest was effected on 02.02.2010 at 1240 hours; the disclosure statement was recorded on 02.02.2010 at 1300 hours and B recovery was effected on 02.02.2010 at 1400 hours.