(Emphasis supplied) 13. In para 28, the High Court observed thus: “28. As to what would be the evidentiary value of the statement made by the learned Senior Advocate pressed into service at earlier point of time in this proceedings has also received the attention of this Court. It came to be observed by this Court on 29.01.2019 to the following eff ect: "In the present proceedings, affi davits have been fi led by the private respondents wherein unconditional apology is tendered and a categorical statement is made that there is no scope for justifi cation of the action of execution of Sale Deeds after such consent was recorded; namely to maintain status-quo on the subject land. In another affi davit, it is revealed that the respondents have instructed the counsel to make statement on BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1077 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] their behalf. Thus, there is no escapement from the action which reveals willful, deliberate breach of undertaking and statement made before the Court in the writ proceedings. "” (Emphasis supplied) 14. In para 31, the High Court proceeded to observe thus: “31. In the instant case it can be noticed that at the behest of 4th respondent, learned Senior Counsel representing the respondent Nos.3.1 to 3.4 and 4th respondent had made a statement in Special Civil Application No.16266 of 2013 while the learned Single Judge was adjudicating Civil Application (for direction) No.11412 of 2015 fi led therein and an undertaking came to be given that the property qua the subject matter of entry which was undisputedly relating to Survey Nos.63 and 65 would not be sold and yet the same has been sold by respondent Nos. 3.1 to 3.4 through their power of attorney holder 4th respondent. Had this undertaking not been given obviously respondents in Special Civil Application No.16266 of 2013 who were the appellants in Letters Patent Appeal (Stamp) No.1196 of 2015 would not have withdrawn the appeal as not pressed. It is this undertaking given to this Court on 14.10.2015 which prevented the applicants herein to withdraw the said appeal and it is this solemn assurance given to the Court which per-forced them to withdraw the appeal by recording the statement made by the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of respondent Nos.3.1 to 3.4 and 4th respondent.” (Emphasis supplied) 15. In para 33, the High Court took notice of the fact that the contemnors Nos. 3.1 to 3.4 had not disputed the execution of the power of attorney in favour of the 4th contemnor; they had not denied the execution of the sale deeds; they had not even denied having received the benefi t under the sale deeds; and they had also not denied that the power of attorney was not cancelled. The High Court also took notice of the fact that the explanation off ered by the contemnors that the sale deeds had to be executed as the sale transactions had already been completed, was an afterthought and lacking bona fi de.