42. The benefi t of Article 243-ZF is available only in regard to laws relating to “municipalities”. The term “municipality” has a specifi c meaning assigned to it under Part IX-A. Article 243-P(e) defi nes the word as meaning an institution of self-government constituted under Article 243-Q. Article 243-Q refers specifi cally to three types of municipalities, that is, a Nagar Panchayat for a transitional area, a Municipal Council for a smaller urban area and a Municipal Corporation for a larger urban area. Thus, neither any city improvement trust nor any Development Authority is a municipality, referred to in Article 243-ZF. Thus Article 243-ZF has no relevance to test the validity of the BDA Act or any provision thereof. If the BDA Act or any provision thereof is found to be inconsistent with the provisions of Part IX-A, such inconsistent provision will be invalid even from 1-6- 1993, and the benefi t of continuance for a period of one year permitted under Article 243-ZF will not be available to such a provision of law, as the BDA Act is not a law relating to municipalities. 45. Part IX-A seeks to strengthen the democratic political governance at grass root level in urban areas by providing constitutional status to municipalities, and by laying down minimum uniform norms and by ensuring regular and fair conduct of elections. When Part IX-A came into force, the provisions of the existing laws relating to municipalities which were inconsistent with or contrary to the provisions of Part IX-A would have ceased to apply. To provide continuity for some time and an opportunity to the State Governments concerned to bring the respective enactments relating to municipalities in consonance with the provisions of Part IX-A in the meanwhile, Article 243-ZF was inserted. The object was not to invalidate any law relating to city improvement trusts or Development Authorities which operate with reference to specifi c and specialised fi eld of planned development of cities by forming layouts and making available plots/houses/apartments to the members of the public.” 89. The eff ect of the 97th amendment to the Constitution which came into force on 12.01.2012 was to introduce provisions, to strengthen the THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 191 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] functioning of the cooperative societies in a democratic, autonomous and economically sound manner. Various new provisions granted constitutional status to cooperative societies and inserted Part IX-B in the Constitution which specifi ed several conditions for state laws relating to cooperative societies. Article 243 ZT which is worded similarly to Section 19 of the present case sought to continue in force existing laws, for a limited duration until amended or repealed or until the expiration of one year from the commencement of the amendment act. This court held in Vipulbhai (supra) on an interpretation of 243 ZT that the competent legislature could suitably amend the existing provisions in their laws in tune with the constitutional mandate. 90. Once it is conceded that Section 19 was enacted as part of the constituent power and has the same force as the rest of the constitutional amendment and is not a mere Parliamentary enactment, one has to consider the consequence of this sequitur to such a fi nding.