20. Now, we come to the validity of the clauses under which ‘loss of transportation charges’ were levied. In our view, it would be extremely F unfair and unjust, apart from being an arbitrary action in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India that IPCL is charged for loss of transportation charges when it is mandated to lay down its own pipelines and not to transport the gas through the HBJ pipeline. This action also violates the principle of non-discrimination enshrined in Article 14. IPCL, G which is using its own pipelines, is being treated at par with other commercial entities who are carrying gas through the HBJ pipeline laid down by GAIL. This is more so when the pricing s by the concerned authority, i.e. MoPNG stipulate a fixed price for natural gas. 9 (supra). H 10 (supra). M/S. GAIL (INDIA) LTD. v. M/S. INDIAN PETROCHEMICALS 337 CORP. LTD. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] 21. On a basic principle, it cannot be doubted that once GAIL has A laid down the pipeline, it is entitled to structure in its cost in the contract. However, the issue is not simply that. We are faced with a scenario where two public sector enterprises entered into a contract in pursuance of the allocation made by the MoPNG. There was also a time constraint for IPCL. After incurring a heavy expenditure in the construction of the B Gandhar Plant, IPCL had very little choice but to enter into the contract. What is of most significance is that IPCL was bound to follow the allocation terms provided by the principal authority, i.e., MoPNG. Thus, as pleaded by IPCL, they were faced with a “Hobson’s choice”, where they had to either give up the contract or accept the clauses levying transportation charges. On a conspectus of the above factors, it can be C said that GAIL exercised an unequal bargaining power at the time of signing the contract. 22. In fact, the contractual exercise of providing such a clause runs contrary to every commercial and common sense and is manifestly arbitrary, as IPCL is not being charged under any general terms but for D a specific purpose. This purpose cannot exist in the contract in view of the master authority, i.e., the Union of India, providing to the contrary. 23. GAIL may have made a huge investment in constructing the HBJ pipeline, but at the same time IPCL had also made a huge investment E in constructing its own pipelines. This was not an option but a mandate of the allocation letter issued by the MoPNG. Thus, it is difficult for us to accept that on the one hand IPCL must lay down its own pipelines, and simultaneously pay for loss of transportation through the HBJ pipeline even without using it. We do not accept GAIL’s contention that the charges could be levied merely because GAIL had laid the HBJ pipeline F for users generally. 24. Further, we may note that the direction for refund vide dated 11.04.2007 arose as a consequence of quashing of the clauses.