23. Let us say that even if the wife had not claimed and the Appellant insurance company were of the view, that the case was covered by the policy, then it was the bounden duty of Respondent No. 1 to have lodged that claim. It cannot countenance the submission that G while on one hand the claim made by the wife was initially rejected, subsequently, it is re- examined, almost as if making it a pre-condition to fasten the liability on the Appellant insurance company. The conditions of the MoU required the claim to be made immediately on the occurrence. The relevant clause is as under: H 322 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A “INVOICE OF CLAIM The claim will be intimated to the National Insurance Co. Ltd. immediately on its occurrence at its Regional office, Sone Bhawan, Birchand Patel Marg, Patna (Phone: 220979, 223103 Fax: 0612- 220973). On receipt of the intimation, the local office at the place B of occurrence shall be liasioning with the govt. Agencies in getting the desired papers completed in all respect.” 24. It appears to us that in their own wisdom Respondent No.1 never thought that it was a case for which claim should be lodged with the Appellant insurance company. Thus, whether the claim was admissible C under the insurance policy or not, the conduct of Respondent No.1 would not entitle them to fasten the liability on the Appellant and would have to be borne by them if they are of the view that such an amount ought to have been made. It would be negligence of Respondent No.1 in lodging the claim. If it was not admissible then there is no reason to forward the claim to the Appellant. Respondent No.1 has been actually playing ducks D and drakes with this issue for reasons best know to them. 25. The aforesaid could actually end the discussion before us but since the issue of the liability of Respondent No.1 has in turn raised the question about the incident being covered by the insurance policy, we consider it appropriate to even answer that question. E 26. We would first like to elucidate the principles on which a claim under any insurance policy is examined. It is trite to say that the terms of the insurance policy are to be strictly construed. 27. The insurance contracts are in the nature of special class of contracts having distinctive features such as utmost good faith, insurable F interest, indemnity subrogation, contribution and proximate cause which are common to all types of insurances. Each class of insurance also has individual features of its own. The law governing insurance contracts is thus to be studied in three parts, namely, (1) general characteristics of insurance contracts, as contracts; (2) special characteristics of insurance G contracts, as contracts of insurance, and (3) individual characteristics of each class of insurance8. 28. Now turning to some of the judicial pronouncements, wherein it has been opined that the words used in a contract of insurance must 8Justice K Kannan, Principles of Insurance Law Chapter 3 (Volume 1, 10th ed.