As observed above, COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 707 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the existence of the group of companies doctrine is intrinsically found on the principle of the mutual intent of parties to a commercial bargain. 148. Chief Justice N. V. Ramana also sought our consideration on the question of whether the “group of companies doctrine” as expounded by Chloro Controls (supra) and subsequent s is valid in law. The group of companies doctrine has important utility in determining the mutual intention of the parties in the context of complex transactions involving multiple parties and multiple agreements. Moreover, the doctrine has been substantively entrenched in the Indian arbitration jurisprudence. We are aware of the fact that the group of companies doctrine has not found favor in some other jurisdictions, including in English law. However, we deem it appropriate to retain the doctrine which has held the fi eld in Indian jurisprudence though by fi rmly establishing it within the realm of the mutual consent or the mutual intent of the parties to a commercial bargain. This will ensure on the one hand that Indian arbitration law retains a sense of dynamism so as to respond to contemporary challenges. At the same time, structuring the doctrine in the manner suggested so as to ground it in settled principles governing the elucidation of mutual intent is necessary. This will ensure that the doctrine has a jurisprudential foundation in party autonomy and consent to arbitrate. 149. Although the issue before us largely concerns the application of the group of companies doctrine in the Indian context, this Court cannot be oblivious to the changing currents in the international arbitration jurisprudence. In deciding the contours of the group of companies doctrine, we have reiterated the general legal proposition that non-signatory persons or entities can also be bound by an arbitration agreement. The basis for such joinder stems from the harmonious reading of Section 2(1)(h) along with Section 7 of the Arbitration Act. Since the scope of this was limited to the group of companies doctrine, any authoritative determination given by this Court in the course of this should not be interpreted to exclude the application of other doctrines and principles for binding non- signatories to arbitration agreements. However, we also need to be mindful of the fact that the Indian courts and tribunals should not adopt an overzealous approach to extending the jurisdiction of arbitral tribunals to non-signatory parties merely on the ground that they are part of a corporate group. 708 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 150. In Cheran Properties (supra), this Court found the non-signatory to be “claiming through or under” the signatory party to the arbitration agreement and not as a “party” to the arbitration agreement. In that case, this Court was dealing with an issue pertaining to enforcement of an arbitral award. On the available facts and circumstances, the Court held that the non-signatory was a nominee of the signatory party under the underlying commercial contract, and therefore was acting in a derivative capacity.