The surviving partner of the appellant alleged that the first respondent was guilty of falsification of accounts and that he had siphoned off huge sums of money. The parties had initiated a dialogue with the idea of settling the dispute amicably. However, there was no resolution. As a result, the respondent approached F the High Court under Section 11 of the Act which culminated in the reference. 3. The arbitral tribunal comprising of a sole arbitrator examined the pleadings and evidence and concluded that the first respondent was guilty as alleged. The appellant, interestingly, did not prefer a claim, and G instead made a counter claim in the course of the arbitration proceedings, initiated at the behest of the first respondent. The arbitral tribunal, on the basis of its findings held that a total sum of ` 76,34,423.86/- had to be duly accounted after deducting the first respondent’s share. The amount was ` 53,87,664.40/-. H 646 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 4. The arbitrator also directed payment of interest @ 18% p.a. from 31.01.1994 till date of commencement of arbitration and future interest at the same rate. The first respondent‘s application under Section 34 was rejected by the single judge. He, therefore, approached the Division Bench, which by the impugned , held that the award could not be sustained as it was contrary to public policy. To so conclude, the B Division Bench was of the opinion that the method adopted by the arbitrator in proceeding backwards as it were, and taking accounts for a period of 21 years, was unsustainable. 5. This Court has heard counsel for the parties. Mr. R. Anand Padmanabhan, counsel on behalf of the appellant submitted that both C parties had agreed to the appointment of a neutral auditor. The parties were also assisted by their own auditor and on the basis of unanimity the method adopted towards accounting was arrived at. This material was considered objectively by the tribunal, which arrived at the finding that the first respondent was guilty of firstly, over-invoicing and secondly, D trading surreptitiously, which resulted in loss to the partnership firm. On the basis of this finding and and the agreed neutral auditor’s calculations, the figures were accepted by the tribunal. It was argued that in these circumstances, the first respondent could not have contended that the award was contrary to public policy. E 6. Learned counsel also relied on Section 17 of the Limitation Act, 1963 to urge that fraud unravels all, and that in this case since fraud was alleged in the counter claim and found by the arbitrator, fault could not have been found with the award. Therefore, there was no error of law which amounted to its being contrary to public policy. 7. Mr. Jose, learned counsel appearing for the first respondent, F pointed out that the appellant, in fact, did not seek a reference; rather it was the first respondent who made that claim. More importantly, it was urged that in the facts of this case, the appellant had knowledge of the alleged over-invoicing and other malpractices, which resulted in the ouster of the first respondent from the partnership firm in the year 1993.