A 27. It was thus submitted that no prejudice was caused to the appellant and the Committee had observed the principles of natural justice “as far as was practical”, in the given facts and circumstances of the case. Adequate opportunity was afforded to the appellant not just by the Committee, but also by the Disciplinary Authority and the Appellate Authority before taking any action against him. Therefore, this was not B a case of “no opportunity” or “no hearing” but a case of “adequate opportunity” and “fair hearing” afforded to the appellant before imposing a major penalty of dismissal from service on him, as specified in Section 11 (9) of the CCS (CCA) Rules. F. THE TRIAD : ARTICLES 309, 310 AND 311 OF THE C CONSTITUTION OF INDIA 28. Services under the Union and the States are governed under Part XIV of the Constitution. Article 309 of the Constitution that provides for recruitment and conditions of service of persons serving the Union or a State, Article 310 that refers to the tenure of office of persons D serving the Union or a State and Article 311 that deals with dismissal, removal or reduction in rank of persons employed in civil capacities under the Union or a State are inter-linked and “form an integrated whole, there being an organic and thematic unity running through them”37. E (a) ARTICLE 309: CONDITIONS OF SERVICE 29. Article 309 does not by itself provide for recruitment or conditions of service of Government servants, but confers this power on the appropriate legislature to make the laws and on the President and the Government of a State to make rules relating to these matters. The F expression “conditions of service” in Article 309 takes in its sweep all those conditions that regulate holding of a post by a person which begins from the time he enters the service till his retirement and even post- retirement, in relation to matters like pension, pending disciplinary proceedings, etc. This expression also includes the right to dismiss such a person from service38. A Statute can be enacted by the appropriate G Legislature or Rules can be made by the appropriate Executive under Article 309 for prescribing the procedure and the authority who can initiate disciplinary action against a Government servant39. It has further 37 Union of India and Another v. Tulsi Ram Patel, (1985) 3 SCC 398 38 State of Madhya Pradesh and Others v. Shardul Singh, (1970) 1 SCC 108 H 39 Bk. Sardari Lal v. Union of India and Others, (1971) 1 SCC 411 AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 795 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] been held that any Act or Rule that violates the rights guaranteed to a A government servant under Article 311, would be void40. Similarly, such an Act or Rule would be treated as void if it violates any of the fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution. (b) ARTICLE 310: DOCTRINE OF PLEASURE B 30. Article 310 embodies the “Doctrine of Pleasure” and in the context of Government servants, relates to their tenure of service.