15. Supporting the impugned s, it is contended on behalf of the Resolution Professional and also on behalf of the Committee of D Creditors, (i)that the impugned s have not hampered the rights of Victory under the Leave and License Agreement in any manner; (ii) that under the Development Agreement as well as the two MoUs which followed, the possession of the entire extent of land has been handed over to the Corporate Debtor; (iii)that what is sought to be included in the Information Memorandum are the development rights that the E Corporate Debtor has over the property in question; (iv) that those development rights constitute intangible assets of the Corporate Debtor; (v)that it is settled by the decision of this Court in Sushil Kumar Agarwal vs. Meenakshi Sadhu & Others12 that the right of development of a property is an intangible asset of the developer and it is especially so F when this development project was shown in the balance sheets of the Corporate Debtor year after year; and (vi)that, therefore, the impugned s do not warrant any interference. Discussion and Analysis 16. From the rival contentions, it appears that two issues arise for G our consideration. They are, (i)what is the nature of the right or interest that the Corporate Debtor has over the property in question, for the purpose of deciding the inclusion of the same in the Information Memorandum prepared by the Resolution Professional under Regulation 36 of the Regulations? ; and (ii) whether NCLT and NCLAT have H 12 (2019) 2 SCC 241 VICTORY IRON WORKS LTD. v. JITENDRA LOHIA & ANR. 1033 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] exercised a jurisdiction not vested in them in law by seeking to recover/ A protect the possession of the Corporate Debtor? Issue No.1 17. The IBC is divided into five parts, with Part-I containing the preliminaries, Part-II containing provisions dealing with Insolvency B Resolution and Liquidation for Corporate Persons, Part-III dealing with Insolvency Resolution and Bankruptcy for Individuals and Partnership Firms, Part-IV dealing with Regulation of Insolvency Professionals, Agencies and Information Utilities and Part-V containing miscellaneous provisions. C 18. Interestingly, the Code contains provisions for the definition of words, at three different places, namely Sections 3, 5 and 79. Section 3 which is in Part-I contains the definitions of words and phrases, and these definitions are applicable throughout the Code, unless the context otherwise requires. Section 5 contains definitions, applicable to words and phrases used in Part-II alone. Similarly, Section 79 contains definitions D of words and phrases, appearing in Part-III. In other words, the definitions in Sections 5 and 79 have limited application to the respective Parts in which they appear, but the definitions in Section 3 apply to the Code in entirety. 19. Section 3(27) of the IBC defines the word “property” as E follows: “3. Definitions.—In this Code, unless the context otherwise requires,— xxx xxx xxx F (27) “property” includes money, goods, actionable claims, land and every description of property situated in India or outside India and every description of interest including present or future or vested or contingent interest arising out of, or incidental to, property.” G But the word “asset” is not defined either in Section 3 or in Section 5 or in Section 79 of the Code, though Section 79(14) defines the expression “excluded assets”.