The exception in Para 2 (ii) then would achieve its objective and read, “except transfer of hazardous substances from ships to ports, ships to terminals and ships to refineries and vice versa, in or through the port areas”. This construction will be harmonious with Para 3 (2) (ii) which permits the activity of laying pipelines in the CRZ area.” D 39. On the one hand, thelearned counsel for the appellants would place considerable reliance on the view taken by this Court. Per contra, Smt. Anitha Shenoy, learned Senior Counsel, would submit that the aforesaid decision turned on the facts obtaining therein and, in particular, the expression ‘in the port areas’, whereas the language used in E paragraph-8 (II) (vi) and also the context should persuade this Court to place an interpretation advancing the object of a notification such as the 2011 Notification. 40. A perusal of paragraph-36 of the would show that the contention of the appellant therein was that the transfer of the raw F material in the CRZ area was completely prohibited and it could not be carried through the zone except ‘in the port area’. This Court understood the terms of the notification to be that it permitted transfer of the hazardous substances from the ships to the ports, ships to terminals and finally, ships to the refineries. The vice versa was also found to be G within the contemplation of the notification as permitted activities. The Court posed the question whether the transfer was to be confined to refineries and terminals which were located in the port area. In other words, if the argument of the appellant therein was accepted, it could have resulted in confining the transfer of the raw material from the ship by pipeline to the port area but it could not be taken to a refinery located H 274 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A outside the port area.But the provision did contemplate transporting of the material from the ship to the refineries as also to terminals and vice versa. It was in this context that the Court proceeded to hold that a purposive construction was needed to avoid a situation of absurdity. Much turned on the presence of the words ‘in the port area’. Therefore, keeping in mind the clear object of the Notification, which was self-evident, the B Court added the words ‘or through’ to the words‘in the port area’. This facilitated the transfer of the raw material from the ships to a refinery or a terminal which neednot have to be located in the port area. We must understand the decision of this Court in M. Nizamudeen (supra) in the aforesaid context. The rationale and principle appear inapposite to the C cases before us. 41. Paragraph-8 (I) (f) relating to CRZ-I, may be recaptured: “(8). Norms for regulation of activities permissible under this notification,- D CRZ-I (ii) Areas between LTL and IITL which are not ecologically sensitive, necessary safety measures will be incorporated while permitting the following, namely:- (f) storage of non-hazardous cargo such as edible oil, E fertilizers and food grain within notified ports;” 42.