126 F of 2013 and this writ petition was dismissed in limine. But this dismissal would not operate as res judicata so far as the present application is concerned. Relief under Article 32 of the Constitution is discretionary in nature and the of this Court dismissing that petition is not supported by reason. A petition G under Section 9 (2) of the 2015 Act contemplates statutory remedy, plea for which can be raised at any stage. In this Courts’ opinion, on juvenility plea, if a writ petition is dismissed in limine, such would not foreclose the option of an accused (or a convict) to make plea for juvenility under sub-section (2) of Section 9 of the 2015 Act. [Paras 20, 21][1089-D-F; 1090-D] H 1058 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 3. Next comes the question as to whether the course adopted by the Inquiring Judge was in terms of the provisions of the 2015 Act or not. It is apparent that the Inquiring Judge has conducted the inquiry typically as a fact-finding inquiry is conducted and has not followed the procedure of summons trial. The documents on which he relied on were not formally proved B as is the normal procedure in a trial and there was no examination or cross-examination on oath. But as it would be evident from sub-section (1) of Section 103 of the 2015 Act, the prescription for following the procedure in summons cases is for the Juvenile Justice Board (“Board”) or the Child Welfare Committee C (“Committee”) while holding any inquiry under the 2015 Act. Under Section 9(2) of the 2015 Act the Court also has been empowered to make an inquiry if the Court itself is of opinion that the person was the child on the date of the commission of offence. The mandate of following summons procedure has not been prescribed so far as inquiry which ought to be conducted by D the Court. The manner in which evidence could be taken has not been mandated. The manner in which the Court shall conduct such inquiry has also not been specifically prescribed. The procedure which has been followed by this Court in the present case has been to direct a Principal District and Sessions Judge, a E Senior Judicial Officer at the State Level, to conduct inquiry within a given timeframe. As this Court find from the Inquiry Report, the Inquiring Judge had directed a police officer to make authentication of the documents relied upon by the applicant and after the police officer gave his views on the authenticity of the documents, finding discrepancy in some of them. Thereafter, F hearing was conducted before the Inquiring Judge, in which prosecution was represented by an officer holding the rank of Director General of Police (“DGP”). Both the prosecution and police had filed report and statement before the Inquiring Judge. The Inquiring Judge himself applied his mind considering the G submissions of the prosecution as also the learned advocate of the applicant and the applicant himself was produced before the Inquiring Judge.