It was further observed that co-operative banks are further divided into apex banks and other banks. The Kerala State Co-operative Bank is an apex bank and the district co-operative banks are other banks. The primary object or business of the state co-operative bank, the district co-operative banks and the urban banks in the co-operative sector is the transaction of banking business. Further, it was observed that the provisions of the SARFAESI Act and particularly Section 13 thereof are also applicable to the institutions, namely, the Kerala State Co-operative Bank Ltd., the district co-operative banks and the urban co-operative banks. e) In Citizen Co-operative Society Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, (2017) 9 SCC 364 (“Citizen Co-operative Society Ltd.”), appellant therein was a co-operative society which was denied benefi t of Section 80P on the ground that it is a co-operative society of the nature covered by sub-section (4) of Section 80P of the Act and, therefore, disentitled to get the benefi t. The question, therefore, was whether the appellant therein was barred from getting deduction in view of sub-section (4) of Section 80P of the Act. The assessee therein was established in the year 1997, initially, as a mutually aided co-operative credit society registered under Section 5 of the Andhra Pradesh Mutually Aided Co-operative Societies Act, 1995. As operations of the assessee over the years increased manifold and as the KSCARDB v. THE ASSESSING OFFICER, TRIVANDRUM 353 AND ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] society spread its activities over the States of the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka, the assessee was registered under the Multi- State Co-operative Societies Act, 2002. Assessing offi cer held that the deduction in respect of income of co-operative societies under Section 80P of the Act was not admissible to the appellant therein as the said appellant was carrying on banking business for the public at large and for all practical purposes, it was acting like a co-operative bank governed by the BR Act, 1949 and its operation was not only confi ned to its members but outsiders as well. The appellant therein being aggrieved by the dismissal of its appeal by the High Court which had affi rmed the of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, had approached this Court. On considering the rival submissions, this Court observed that sub- clause (1) of clause (a) of sub-section (2) of Section 80P recognises two kinds of co-operative societies, namely, (i) those carrying on the business of banking and; (ii) those providing credit facilities to its members. In this regard, reliance was placed on Kerala State Coop. Mktg. Federation Ltd. vs. CIT, (1998) 5 SCC 48. Also, reference was made to CIT vs. Punjab State Coop. Bank Ltd., (2008) 300 ITR 24 which is a of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and it was observed that Section 80P of the Act is a benevolent provision which is enacted by Parliament in to encourage and promote growth of co-operative sector in the economic life of the country. Therefore, such a provision has to be read liberally, reasonably and in favour of the assessee with a view to eff ectuate the object of the Legislature and not to defeat it.