It must be at once noticed that what D is involved is the need to execute a gift.By its very nature, in the case of a gift, there cannot be any valuable consideration. If compensation is to be paid then it would cease to be a gift. Having regard to the discussion we have made regarding the validity of the rule/regulation otherwise, we do not think that execution of the gift which we have found transformed the donee not as the absolute owner but as trustee would E require having regard to the salutary purpose, the need to pay compensation.It may not be a case where the respondent discharges any liability as such. It is another matter that the project proponent stands to make a considerable profit as a result of the permission granted. 159. In case there is no requirement to execute a gift of OSR F area in terms of Pandit Chetram Vashishta (supra), the project proponent/owner would remain in the position of a trustee. As a trustee in law is the legal owner, and therefore this being the position in law, he may not be disabled from transferring the property in any manner. However, as he is under obligation as a trustee to maintain the property G as OSR, he cannot defeat the obligation by transferring the same and it can lead to abuse. No doubt, he would be prohibited from raising any construction over the OSR area. One of the bundle of rights of an owner, however, which would survive after the owner steps into the shoes of a trustee, could be said to be the power to exclude ‘others’ from the OSR area. The attribute of ownership of property consisting of the power to H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1153 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] exclude others may continue with the project proponent in the absence A of a gift. Now, interestingly, this again would depend upon the interpretation of the words ‘communal and recreational purpose’. This is for the reason that if the OSR area can be accessed by members of the general public as contended by the respondents, then, the project proponent cannot possibly have the right of an owner to exclude them. B Equally, even with the requirement to maintain the OSR area in the absence of the demand for a gift, it could be said that the sole project of proponent could have the right to remain in possession. Another dimension may be noticed. What would happen if the OSR area is acquired in the exercise of the power of eminent domain for the public purpose? Who would be entitled to the compensation, if a gift is made in terms of the C impugned Rule/Regulation? We would think that since the interpretation we are placing is that the gift under the Rule/Regulation is intended only to ensure due compliance with the requirement of the OSR area being effected and to prevent misuse by the owner, as between the original owner and the local authority,it would be the original owner, who may be D entitled to the compensation.