Here the circumstances found proved do not constitute a chain so far complete as to indicate that in all human probability it were the F accused persons and no one else who committed the crime. In such a situation, there was no option for the trial court but to extend the benefit of doubt to the accused. It has not been pointed out that the trial court ignored or misread any relevant evidence. [Para 32, 33][477-C-E] G 1.7 It is not a fit case to interfere with the passed by the High Court and remit the matter only for the High Court to rewrite the as the same, would be an exercise in futility. [Para 34][477-F] H 468 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No.413 of 2013. From the and dated 26.07.2012 of the High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital in GA No.4 of 2012. Vikramjit Banerjee, ASG, Sanjay Kumar Tyagi, Rajan Kumar B Chourasia, Shubhendu Anand, Tathagat Sharma, Nring Chamwibo Zeliang, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Advs. for the Appellant. Anil K. Sharma, Sanjeev Kumar, Praveen Chaturvedi, Advs. for the Respondents. The of the Court was delivered by C MANOJ MISRA, J. 1. This appeal assails the and of the High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital (in short, “the High Court”), dated 26.07.2012, in Government Appeal No.4 of 2022. By the said , though the delay D in preferring the appeal against the and of acquittal dated 13.12.2011 passed by the third Additional District & Sessions Judge/ Special Judge (Prevention of Corruption Act), C.B.I., Dehradun (for short “the trial court”) in C. No. RC-5/87-SIU.II was condoned, the application seeking leave to appeal under section 378 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (in short, “the Code”) was rejected and in E consequence the Government Appeal was dismissed. Introductory Facts 2. In the night/late evening of 24.06.1987, one Raj Kumar Baliyan (in short, “the deceased”) was killed. A first information report (FIR) F was lodged by Pramod Kumar Tyagi (PW-6) alleging, inter-alia, that while he and Sudeep (PW-3), on one Scooter, and Raj Kumar Balyan (the deceased) on another Scooter, were travelling from Muzaffarnagar to Meerapur to attend a marriage, near Bhatoda turn, at about 9.30 pm, in the light of the Scooter, they saw three policemen standing on the road. One of them had a Danda (stick) whereas the other two were G carrying rifles. The person who had the Danda flashed a torch light on them. As a result, they lost control of their respective scooters, which skidded and fell. One of the policemen exhorted to shoot to kill. In consequence, shots were fired hitting the deceased, who collapsed at the spot. PW-3 and PW-6, however, managed to escape to the village. H On information, villagers arrived at the scene of crime and so did the CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SHYAM BIHARI 469 & OTHERS [MANOJ MISRA, J.] police. In the presence of police the deceased was rushed to the hospital A but he succumbed to his injuries on the way.