15. At this stage, it would be material to note that among the statutory provisions, the following have a broad bearing on the issues which are raised in the course of the proceedings: • Section 228-A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 • Section 327 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 • Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 (earlier Section 21 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2000) • Sections 8(1)(g) & (h) and 8(2) of the Right to Information Act, 2005 16. The Amicus Curiae has prepared the following suggestions on the basis of which appropriate guidelines can be formulated for conducting media briefi ngs: “1. Each district or town ought to have a Media Briefi ng Cell (MBC) for interactions with the media. Such interaction / Press Releases must be in writing and with the authorization of a senior police offi cer. Press Briefs must be prepared on each case, which will be the basis of any media briefi ngs. 2. The briefi ng of the press can be done at any stage after an FIR has been registered, an arrest eff ected or a raid conducted. However, at the earliest stages, very little information must be parted with, as facts would need full and complete confi rmation. 3. Notwithstanding anything else, the primary concern of the police ought to be the fair administration of justice without compromising on individual rights of privacy or of presumption of innocence. 378 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 4. Information ought not to be released which would portray the police as insensitive or vindictive or which would suggest the pre-judging of an issue. 5. The location of the offence, especially in the context of harassment, domestic violence, stalking etc., ought to be avoided as it would compromise the victim. 6. In no circumstances may the identity of victims of sexual off ences and juvenile cases be divulged by the police. The same may apply to the victims of continuing off ences, i.e. abductions and kidnapping. The police would also be careful to share details of ongoing operations or investigative strategy that would alert the off enders or compromise witnesses confi dential informants. 7. The Press Briefs will be maintained as permanent records of the media interactions of the police, with one copy at the Police Station in question, one at the MBC and one at the District Headquarters. All such briefs will be provided online as well. 8. Any breach of the above Guidelines must be strictly dealt with departmentally, so that any such misadventure may be deterred.” 17. The guidelines of the Union Ministry of Home Aff airs were prepared over a decade ago on 1 April 2010. Since then, with the upsurge in the reporting of crime not only in the print media, but in the electronic and social media, it becomes extremely important that there should be a Standard Operating Procedure which balances out the considerations which we have noted above. There can be no denying the fact that the disclosure of an offi cial version of the investigation would ensure against speculative crime reporting, which may be of a dis-service both to the public interest involved and the interest of the accused, prospective witnesses as well as the victims and survivors of crime.