It is also clear that readiness to perform must be established throughout the relevant points of time. F “Readiness and willingness” to perform the part of the contract has to be determined/ascertained from the conduct of the parties.” 25. As per the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights, dated 07th August, 2005, the plaintiff was obligated to carry out the following terms: G (a) The plaintiff was obligated to measure the property at his own expense; (b) Prepare the deeds with respect to the plaint schedule property in favour of himself or in favour of his nominees; H C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 275 KURUP [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (c) The balance consideration was to be paid by the plaintiff to A the defendants within six months from the date of agreement. The agreement also stipulated that the defendants were to: (a) Handover the abovementioned deeds as also the anterior documents, possession certification, tax receipt and encumbrance B certificate for the last thirteen years, purchase certificate, either in their originals or certified copies to the plaintiff; (b) On receipt of the balance sale consideration execute the sale deed in favour of the plaintiff within six months. The relevant terms of the agreement are reproduced hereinunder: C “The 1st Parties have decided to assign the above property belonged and possessed by them to 2ndParty by fixing an amount of Rs.8750/- (Eight Thousand Seven Hundred and Fifty Only) for their rights of Kanam and Kuzhikkoor rights over the property and the 2ndParty has agreed for the same and accordingly the 1st D Parties have received an amount of Rs. 10,000/- (Ten Thousand Only) from the 2nd Party towards advance for the consideration amount. It has been decided that the 2nd Party shall measure the property on his expense, arrange the balance consideration amount and prepare the deeds pertaining to the above property in favour of 2nd party or in favour of the nominees of 2nd Party within 6 E (six) months from today and the 1st Parties shall sign the deed prepared by the 2nd Party and register the same after obtaining the balance consideration amount from 2nd Party and hand over actual possession of the property to 2ndparty. It is further decided that the 1stparty shall hand over the above mentioned deeds and F anterior documents, possession certificate, tax receipt, encumbrance certificate for the last 13 years, purchase certificate, either in original or certified copies, within the above said period to 2nd Party.” 26. Nothing was brought on record by the plaintiff to demonstrate G that positive steps were taken by him in pursuance of the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights. It is trite that the relief of specific performance cannot be granted in favour of a party who has not performed his obligations under the contract. The only exception to such rule is that a party is not required to perform those obligations, as are prevented or waived by the other party to the contract.