4.3 It is submitted by Shri Shyam Diwan, learned Senior Counsel F that not extending the benefit of Section 10 of the General Clauses Act to the appellant in such circumstances leads to an anomalous situation wherein the benefit of statutorily prescribed condonable period is cut short for some persons due to intervention of a holiday or a court vacation, while being fully available to other persons due to the fortuitous G circumstance of no court vacation intervening. It is submitted that this creates uncertainty and unpredictability in the application of provision in question. 4.4 It is submitted that the present case reflects an anomalous situation where Section 4 of the Limitation Act, which only deals with H the period of limitation prescribed under the Limitation Act, leaves a BHIMASHANKAR SAHAKARI SAKKARE KARKHANE NIYAMITA v. 367 WALCHANDNAGAR INDUSTRIES LTD. (WIL) [M. R. SHAH, J.] vacuum as far as statutory condonable period is concerned. It is submitted A that the in the case of Assam Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board vs. Subash Projects and Marketing Limited reported in (2012) 2 SCC 624 failed to take into account that in the case of such statutory condonable periods, Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, which is much wider in its import and applicability, B and embodies the same legal principle, must necessarily step in to fill the vacuum. 4.5 It is submitted that while passing the impugned and , the High Court has heavily relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Assam Urban (Supra) while holding that the term “prescribed C period” referred to in Section 4 of the Limitation Act, 1963 only includes the limitation period and not the 30-day condonable / grace period. It is submitted that however the case of Assam Urban (Supra) does not notice or deal with Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897. It only notices and deals with Section 4 of the Limitation Act, 1963 and holds that the term “prescribed period” mentioned in Section 4 means the D period of limitation. It is submitted that the in the case of Assam Urban (Supra) fails to notice that Section 4 of the Limitation Act, 1963 which deals with the period of limitation prescribed under the Limitation Act, 1963, leaves a vacuum as far as the statutory condonable period is concerned. E 4.6 It is submitted that in failing to notice Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, the in the case of Assam Urban (Supra) disregards the principle embodied in the General Clauses Act which is much wider in its import and applicability and must necessarily step in to fill the vacuum left by Section 4 of the Limitation Act. F 4.7 It is further submitted by Shri Diwan, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant that although the same general principle of “elementary justice” is embodied in both Sections of the two Acts, there is a crucial distinction between the Limitation Act, 1963 and the General Clauses Act, 1897.