Kazi vs. Muslim Education Society and others5. In our considered view, the submission is wholly bereft of merit for the G reason that the action of the appellant initiated pursuant to dated 11th December, 2020 for conducting a preliminary inquiry in exercise of powers conferred under Section 20(1) of the Act, 2014 was a subject 4 2010 (12) SCC 599 5 2016 (9) SCC 263 H 580 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A matter of challenge before the High Court at the instance of respondent no.1 and if that is being interfered with and the action of the appellant is being set aside under the impugned dated 3rd February, 2021, the appellant, indeed, was a person aggrieved and has a locus standi to question the action interfered with by the Division Bench of the High Court and the only remedy available with the appellant is to question the B of the Division Bench of the High Court by filing an special leave petition in this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution. 40. The in National Commission for Women (supra) on which the respondents have placed reliance was a case where in criminal trial, in the first instance held by the trial Court, the accused C was convicted and on appeal being preferred by him, was later acquitted by the competent Court of jurisdiction and obviously appeal could be preferred against the of acquittal either by the prosecution i.e. the State Government or the victim, under Section 378 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, but either of the party has not preferred any appeal D and it was the National Commission for Women who approached this Court by filing a special leave petition under Article 136 of the Constitution and this Court still has ventured to examine the appeal preferred by the Commission on merits, but observed that the special leave to appeal at the instance of the appellant – National Commission for Women, is not maintainable and obviously at least the National Commission for Women E was not a person aggrieved and it has no locus to object the passed by the competent court of jurisdiction. 41. At the same time, the of this Court in M.S. Kazi (supra) was a case where the teacher was terminated by a minority institution after conducting a disciplinary inquiry. As the matter travelled F to the High Court under Article 226/227 of the Constitution and at this stage the Division Bench of the High Court observed that since the Tribunal is not a party respondent who was the Administrator before whom the dispute inter se between the parties i.e. the teacher and the minority institution was examined, the objection was sustainable, still G that objection was turned down by this Court as referred in para 9 and held that it is the person aggrieved who has to pursue his or her remedy available under the law and in the case on hand the person aggrieved invoked the jurisdiction of the Tribunal, but the Tribunal was not a necessary party to the proceedings for the reason that the lis was between teacher and the minority institution and accordingly, this Court held that H OFFICE OF THE ODISHA LOKAYUKTA v. DR. PRADEEP 581 KUMAR PANIGRAHI [AJAY RASTOGI, J.]