Balance between the rights of an accused and the interests and rights of an individual victim and the society, without compromising the right of the accused to a fair trial, has been highlighted by this Court in Girish Kumar Suneja v. Central Bureau of Investigation16, P. Ponnusamy v. State of Tamil Nadu17 and State B of West Bengal v. Amiya Kumar Biswas18. Every criminal case, it is stated, is a voyage of discovery in which the truth is the quest.19 The process of ascertaining the truth requires compliance of procedures and rules of evidence. In a well-designed system, judicial findings of formal legal truth should coincide with substantive truth. This happens when C the facts contested are skillfully explored in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law. Further, in a criminal trial, burden of proof to establish the fact, which has to be proven beyond reasonable doubt, is on the prosecution. The power to take additional evidence in an appeal is to be exercised to prevent injustice and failure of justice, and thus, must be exercised for good and valid reasons necessitating the D acceptance of the prayer. 18. When we apply the aforesaid dicta to the factual matrix and background of the present case as held in paragraph 11 above, we do not think that the test to allow additional evidence is satisfied. On the other hand, the criminal appeal, which is ripe for hearing before the High E Court, has not been taken up and has been delayed by moving the application under Section 391 of the Cr.P.C. for recording of additional evidence, which was filed nearly eight years after the date of occurrence. If we carefully look at the reasons given, which have found favour in the impugned , we can easily visualize that there could be further F applications for recording of additional evidence of the main witnesses, the victim (PW-5) and/or the Investigating Officer – Chanchal Mishra (PW-43), who have already been subjected to lengthy examinations over a prolonged period on eleven occasions in the case of the victim (PW-5) as well as the Investigating Officer – Chanchal Mishra (PW-43). The attempt is to re-open the entire case and seek re-examination of these G witnesses at the appellate stage. 16 (2017) 14 SCC 809. 17 2022 SCC Online SC 1543. 18 (2004) 13 SCC 671. 19 See Ritesh Tewari and Another v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others, (2010) 10 SCC H 677. STATE OF RAJASTHAN v. ASHARAM @ ASHUMAL 17 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 19. The respondent – Asharam @ Ashumal had filed an A application20 for suspension of sentence on the ground of, inter alia, having suffered incarceration for nearly 9 years and 7 months. This application was rejected by the High Court vide dated 07.07.2022 noting that the defence has sought for multiple adjournments in the past, two previous applications for suspension of sentence have been dismissed B and the respondent – Asharam@ Asharam @ Ashumal continues to be in custody in another trial in Gujarat.One of the grounds taken by the appellant in the special leave petition bearing Diary No.