Notwithstanding this clarifi cation by the Mandal Revenue Offi cer, some of the Assignees cancelled the GPA executed in favor of M.A. Baksh in October 1992, probably fearing that the state authorities would cancel the allotment of the Subject Land. They also issued a public notice wherein they declared that any sale entered into by M.A. Baksh on their behalf was not binding. 12. Fast forward a year and somewhere in November 1993, the Police Department sent a requisition for land in Manchirevula village to set up operational headquarters and training centres for its special forces, now known as ‘Greyhounds Commando Force’. It was only when the revenue authorities analysed their records that their attention was drawn towards the Subject Land and the legal infi rmities associated with it, starting the saga of present legal tussle between the parties. 13. After that the offi ce of the Collector, Ranga Reddy District issued a show cause notice dated 28.03.1994 [Hereinafter, ‘First SCN’] proposing to cancel the assignment of Subject Land. The relevant extracts of the First SCN containing the grounds of cancellation are to the following eff ect:– “The issue was examined in details with reference in rule position and other aspect and found that the alleged assignment is irregular, illegal and liable to be cancelled on the basis of following grounds: (i) The Form-G Certifi cate issued are for temporary occupation and thereby implementation in Falsalpatti 1961-62 is illegal. (ii) The alleged assignment ought to have been processed under Assignment Rule, 1958 instead of Laoni Rules, 1950. YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 613 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] (iii) The alleged assignment is in contravention of the ban of assignment issued in G.O. Ms. No. 1222, dated 29.06.1961. (iv) After issue of Form-G Certifi cate for temporary occupation there is no Sub-Division took place and supplementary Sethwar issued, therefore the alleged assignment is not fi nal and temporary occupation certifi cates cannot be treated assignment pattas. (v) That the land is unfi t for cultivation and thereby the alleged assignment is irregular and indicate malafi de intention. (vi) The alleged assignees have not put the land for cultivation and kept in fallow and thereby they have violated the condition laid down in Rule 19 of Laoni Rules, 1950. (vii) The alleged assignees while violating the condition of assignment have executed a G.P.A. in favour of Sri M.A. Baksh authorizing him to sell the land.” (Emphasis Applied) 14. The Assignees fearing consequential dispossession, approached the High Court which vide its dated 03.05.1994, held that the writ petition was premature and directed them to fi le an explanation within one week, but protected them from dispossession in light of the pending show cause proceedings. The Assignees in turn fi led their explanation before the Collector wherein they submitted that assignment was valid as per the applicable law and that there was no bar on sale of the Subject Land. 15. Strangely, instead of the District Collector, proceedings were entrusted to the District Revenue Offi cer who vide his dated 15.09.1994 held that the First SCN was unsustainable.