6.6 In this context, it was further sought to be contended that when the triple test for the applicability of the principle of mutuality is satisfi ed, the notion of rupture of mutuality or one to one identity could not have been the basis for denying the exemption from payment of income tax on the interest income generated by the clubs. In this context, our attention was drawn to another two-judge bench of this Court in State of West Bengal vs. Calcutta Club Ltd., (2019) 19 SCC 107 wherein this Court observed that the principle of mutuality would apply to transactions covered within the scope of Article 366 (29-A) (e) of the Constitution (that is on sale of food and beverages and services rendered to the members of the club). 6.7 While placing heavy reliance on the passed by this Court in the case of Cawnpore Club which has not been noticed in the subsequent in Bangalore Club, it was contended by Sri Datar that the in Cawnpore Club attracts the doctrine of merger inasmuch as the of the Allahabad High Court had merged with the of this Court and consequently, the of this Court became a binding precedent under Article 141 of the Constitution. Therefore, for not referring to the said precedent, the in Bangalore Club is liable to be reconsidered. In this context, reliance was placed on decision of this Court in the case of Kunhayammed vs. State of Kerala, (2000) 6 SCC 359 (“Kunhayammed”) to contend that when a special leave petition is converted into a Civil Appeal, and a is rendered in the Civil Appeal, the same is a binding precedent to be followed subsequently by all courts unless this Court fi nds that the said decision requires reconsideration, in which event, the matter 1000 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. will have to be referred to a larger Bench. The same not having been done, there are now two decisions which have taken diametrically opposite views, namely, in the case of Cawnpore Club and in the case of Bangalore Club and hence, this batch of cases may be referred to a larger Bench for laying down the correct law on the point. 6.8 It was also submitted that the ITAT, Hyderabad Bench, in Fateh Maidan Club vs. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax in ITA Nos.937, 939, 947and 952/Hyd/1995 and 716 to 720/Hyd/2000, Asst. yrs. 1983-84 to 1997-98 dated 13.08.2023, has categorically noticed that this Court had affi rmed the of the High Court in Cawnpore Club and had held in favour of assessee on all issues including the issue as to whether interest income earned by the clubs from fi xed deposits made in the banks, post offi ces etc. would be exempt from tax on the basis of the principle of mutuality. Therefore, there was a consistency in the understanding of the passed by this Court in Cawnpore Club and the same has now been diluted by the subsequent of this Court in Bangalore Club.