ii) Secondly, it is only Sikkimese women who have married on or after 1st April, 2008 who are excluded from the benefit of the said provision but if any Sikkimese woman was married to a non-Sikkimese prior to 1st E April, 2008, there is no such exclusion from the benefit granted under the provision. iii) Thirdly, it is contended that marriage cannot be a basis for a classification between a man and a woman so as to make it discriminatory against a woman. A Sikkimese woman cannot be discriminated against vis-à-vis a Sikkimese man who marries a non-Sikkimese. F iv) Fourthly, it is the case of the petitioners that an arbitrary cut- off date of 1st April, 2008 has been inserted in the provision thereby, resulting in discrimination between those Sikkimese women who married a non-Sikkimese prior to the said date and those Sikkimese women who are married after the said date. That those Sikkimese women who married G a non-Sikkimese prior to the said date are included in the beneficial clause of Section 10 (26AAA), but those who married subsequent to that date are denied the benefit. v) Another contention is that the definition of the expression “Sikkimese” itself is assailed and therefore, any Sikkimese woman who H 338 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A marries a person who does not fall within the scope of the definition of “Sikkimese”, does not have the benefit of the said provision. 45. Primarily, it was contended that there cannot be any discrimination on the basis of marriage against Sikkimese women with reference to an arbitrary date i.e., 1st April, 2008. According to the B petitioners, the proviso creates an artificial classification and a discrimination between married women and unmarried women and that marriage cannot be a basis of classification between Sikkimese women themselves. Further, the said classification has no nexus to the object sought to be achieved inasmuch as when all persons who are coming within the scope and ambit of the expression “Sikkimese” as given in the C Explanation to the said provision, are given the benefit of exemption from payment of income tax under the I.T. Act, 1961, there cannot be an exclusion of only Sikkimese women, who are married subsequent to 1st April, 2008, to a non-Sikkimese. 46. The thrust of the submissions of the learned Senior Counsel D for the petitioners is that there is a discrimination against Sikkimese women who have got married to a non-Sikkimese, that too, only those women who have married on or after 1st April, 2008. It is contended that proviso is arbitrary for two reasons: firstly, because it is discriminatory against Sikkimese women who have married non-Sikkimese men and secondly, E only those Sikkimese women who were married on or after 1st April, 2008, do not have the benefit of the provision. 47. On analysing the impugned proviso, it is noted that the benefit of the provision does not apply (i) to a Sikkimese woman, (ii) who is married to an individual who is not a Sikkimese, and (iii) the marriage having taken place on or after 1st April, 2008.