It has been further held that levy of excise duty on the basis of an approved COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 639 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] notifi cation is not a short levy. It was also held that diff erential duty cannot be recovered on the basis that it is a short levy and revised assessment could be made eff ective prospectively from the date of the show cause notice and not with reference to earlier removals made under an approved classifi cation list. In this background, it came to be held that as long as classifi cation list subsists, the diff erential duty cannot be claimed on the same product. 108. It has to be noticed that in Cotspun (supra) the assessee was manufacturing NES Yarn and the classification list was filed by the manufacturer as required under Rule 173-B of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 and same had been approved by the Competent Authority and it was accordingly classifi ed under old Tariff Item No.19-I(2)(a) and (2)(e). Notice to reopen the assessment for the period February 1977 to May 1977 was issued on the ground that the NES Yarn ought to have been classifi ed under old Tariff Item No.19-I(2)(f) and the diff erential duty was demanded. This was followed by a second show cause notice and subsequently amended by corrigendum. The adjudicating authority upheld the contention of the assessee by arriving at a conclusion that duty liability had been ascertained based on an approved classifi cation list, and the question of short levy did not arise. However, the appellate authority allowed the appeal and confi rmed the demand. On appeal, the tribunal held the revised assessment could be made eff ective only prospectively, namely, from the date of show cause notice, not earlier. This Court took note of the fact that the assessee was required to fi le before the appropriate Excise Offi cer, for approval, a list of the goods that he proposes to clear and the said list indicated that details to be found in such approval list fi led before the Appropriate Authority which not only include the description of the goods produced or manufactured by the declarant but also provided the tariff entry under which the goods that the declarant intends to remove would fall and the rate of duty leviable thereon, apart from other particulars, as prescribed under sub-rule (2) of Rule 173-B. It is these details which had been furnished by the assessee in Cotspun’s case (supra) which had been accepted and while justifying its demand of reclassifi cation, would operate retrospectively by relying upon Rule 10 of the Central Excise Rule, 1944, which is similar to the contention raised in the present case. However, this contention did not fi nd favour by this Court on the ground that Rule 173-B dealt with the classifi cation list and Proper Offi cer ought to have made inquiry and approve the list with such 640 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.