Explanation.—For the purposes of clause (e), if any approval of shareholders is required under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or any other law for the time being in force for the implementation of actions under the resolution plan, such approval shall be deemed to have been given and it shall not be a contravention of that Act or law. **** 1231. Approval of resolution plan.—(1) If the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that F the resolution plan as approved by the committee of creditors under sub-section (4) of Section 30 meets the requirements as referred to in sub-section (2) of Section 30, it shall by approve the resolution plan which shall be binding on the corporate debtor and its employees, members, creditors, including the Central Government, any State Government or any local authority to whom a debt in respect of the payment of dues arising under any law for the time being in force, such as authorities to whom statutory dues are owed, guarantors and other stakeholders involved in the resolution plan: G Provided that the Adjudicating Authority shall, before passing an for approval of resolution plan under this sub-section, satisfy that the resolution plan has provisions for its effective implementation. (2) Where the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that the resolution plan does not confirm to the requirements referred to in sub-section (1), it may, by an , reject the resolution plan. H **** MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 131 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] adjudicating authority is to satisfy that the resolution plan as approved by A the Committee of Creditors under sub-section (4) of Section 30 of the Code, meets the requirements as referred to in sub-section (2) to Section 30 of the Code. Further, the resolution plan has provisions for its effective implementation. Sub-section (2) to Section 31 of the Code states that where the adjudicating authority is satisfied that the resolution plan does B not confirm to the requirements referred to in sub-section (1) to Section 31 of the Code, it may by an reject the resolution plan. We need not refer to other sub-sections of Section 31 of the Code. 15. We now turn our attention to Section 53 of the Code which begins with a non-obstante clause and states that notwithstanding C anything to the contrary contained in any law enacted by the Parliament or any State Legislature for the time being in force, the proceeds from the sale of liquidation assets shall be distributed in the of priority, which is stipulated, and within such period and such manner as may be specified. The consequence of sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code is that it will override the rights of parties, including the secured creditor, D when the said provision applies. Section 53 of the Code is the complete and comprehensive code which ensures collection of assets and then provides the manner in which the creditors are to be paid. Even the rights of the secured creditor falling under Section 53 of the Code to enforce, realise, settle, compromise or deal with the secured assets as E applicable to the security interest are diluted and compromised.