However, in the meanwhile, the parties F would be directed to have the substantive contract stamped in accordance with the provisions of the relevant Stamp Act, so that the rights and obligations emanating from the substantive contract can be adjudicated upon.” D. SUBMISSION OF THE PARTIES G 9. Shri Gagan Sanghi, learned Counsel, appeared on behalf of the appellant (M/s N.N. Global Mercantile Private Limited). Initially, since there was no appearance for the first respondent, we appointed Shri Gourab Banerji, learned Senior Counsel as Amicus Curiae. We also heard Ms. Malavika Trivedi, learned Senior Counsel, appearing H 310 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A by way of intervention. Shri K Ramakanth Reddy, learned Senior Counsel appeared thereafter for the first respondent and made his submissions. 10. Shri Gagan Sanghi would take us through the provisions of the Stamp Act and the Act and contended that Section 35 of the Stamp B Act barred admission of a not duly stamped instrument in evidence for any purpose in Court. Furthermore, a Court could not act upon such an instrument. Not even for a collateral purpose, ran the argument. There is an absolute bar. An Arbitration Agreement, even if contained in a Clause, in a Work or in other commercial contract, cannot have a separate existence as found in N.N. Global (supra). The Doctrine of C the Arbitration Agreement being distinct and having a separate existence, has been erroneously understood in the context of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. The in SMS Tea Estates (supra) ought not to have been overruled. The Principle of Stare Decisis could not have been overlooked. The learned Counsel drew our attention to the fact D that several foreign countries have laws, which contain provisions similar to Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. In fact, he would contend that there was no occasion to make the reference as the main case stood disposed of. He would submit that even in an Application under Section 11 of the Act, the Court was bound to observe the mandate of the law contained in Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. The law has been E correctly laid down in SMS Tea Estates (supra) and Garware (supra) and it was also correctly upheld in Vidya Drolia (supra). The amendment to Section 11 by the insertion of sub-Section (6A), could not authorise a Court to overlook the dictate of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. 11. Smt. Malvika Trivedi, learned Senior Counsel, projected the F same complaint against the view taken in N.N. Global (supra). She, in fact, drew our attention to the impact of the view taken in N.N. Global (supra) to the proceedings under Section 9 of the Act. It is her case that the requirement to comply with Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, would not stand displaced, even in an Application under Section 9 of the G Act. 12. Shri Gourab Banerji, learned Amicus, contended that actually, there were parts of Garware (supra), Vidya Drolia (supra) and N.N.