Sections 3 and 11(1)(a) and (m)) would not be attracted anymore. Thus, the argument that the Amendment Acts are void because they seek to override the of A. Nagaraja E cannot be sustained as the basis of that having regard to the nature and manner in which the offending activities were carried on has been altered. [Para 35][470-G-H; 471-A-B] 8. In the light of what had already discussed, this Court answered the five questions referred to them in the following F terms:- (i) The Tamil Nadu Amendment Act is not a piece of colourable legislation. It relates, in pith and substance, to Entry 17 of List III of Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India. It minimises cruelty to animals in the concerned sports and once G the Amendment Act, along with their Rules and Notification are implemented, the aforesaid sports would not come within the mischief sought to be remedied by Sections 3, 11(1) (a) and (m) of the 1960 Act. H THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. 433 UNION OF INDIA & ANR. (ii) Jallikattu is a type of bovine sports and this Court is A satisfied on the basis of materials disclosed before, that it is going on in the State of Tamil Nadu for at least last few centuries. This event essentially involves a bull which is set free in an arena and human participants are meant to grab the hump to score in the “game”. But whether this has become integral part of Tamil B culture or not requires religious, cultural and social analysis in greater detail, which is an exercise that cannot be undertaken by the Judiciary. The question as to whether the Tamil Nadu Amendment Act is to preserve the cultural heritage of a particular State is a debateable issue which has to be concluded in the House C of the People. This ought not be a part of judicial inquiry and particularly having regard to the activity in question and the materials in the form of texts cited by both the petitioners and the respondents, this question cannot be conclusively determined in the writ proceedings. Since legislative exercise has already been undertaken and Jallikattu has been found to be part of D cultural heritage of Tamil Nadu, this Court would not disrupt this view of the legislature. This Court does not accept the view reflected in the case of A. Nagaraja that performance of Jallikattu is not a part of the cultural heritage of the people of the State of Tamil Nadu. This Court does not think there was sufficient E material before the Court for coming to this conclusion. In the Preamble to the Amendment Act, Jallikattu has been described to be part of culture and tradition of Tamil Nadu. In the case of A. Nagaraja, the Division Bench found the cultural approach unsubstantiated and referring to the manner in which the bulls F are inflicted pain and suffering, the Division Bench concluded that such activities offended Sections 3 and 11(1)(a) and (m) of the 1960 Act.