Similarly, there is a change in our social and economic condition as well. In any case, the conditions as it exists today is not the same, as was there 40 years earlier, when a decision in Pradeep Jain was taken. 12. In the case at hand, we are not dealing with medical education, D but with the validity of reservation based on residence requirement in a professional education course i.e. B.Ed. In our considered opinion, the ratio as laid down by this Court in Pradeep Jain would be applicable in this case as well but only to an extent, not fully. The reasons as we have already indicated are two: firstly Pradeep Jain and all the cases which E follow Pradeep Jain deal only with medical education, and secondly the ratio as laid down in Pradeep Jain has also to be seen in the context of the time when it was delivered. In short, therefore, though we have to follow the principles as laid down in Pradeep Jain but at the same time we also have to keep in mind the ground realities of the present day. We also have to keep in mind that we are presently not dealing with medical F education but admission in a professional education course called B.Ed. 13. This Court while upholding such reservations in medical education had considered factors such as huge investments the State had made in creating the infrastructure, the backwardness of the area, the presumption that the local residents after gaining the education will G serve the people of that State, etc. All these factors may or may not be equally relevant while we are considering admission to other courses such as B.Ed in the present case. 14. What is equally important is that it was in Pradeep Jain again that this Court had cautioned against largescale reservation under this H VEENA VADINI TEACHERS TRAINING INSTITUTE v. STATE 115 OF MADHYA PRADESH [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] head i.e. residents of the State. It cautioned against such largescale A reservation calling it as “wholesale” reservations. Para 20 of this would be relevant: “20. …We agree wholly with these observations made by the learned Judge and we unreservedly condemn wholesale reservation made by some of the State Governments on the basis B of “domicile” or residence requirement within the State or on the basis of institutional preference for students who have passed the qualifying examination held by the university or the State excluding all students not satisfying this requirement, regardless of merit. We declare such wholesale reservation to be unconstitutional and C void as being in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution.” 15. At this juncture, before we advert to the merits of the extent of reservation in the present case, it would be prudent to examine some observations made by this Court. In the case of Pradeep Jain (supra. ), this Court had expressed its opinion on the permissible extent of D reservations based on residence. It was held that residence based reservation should not exceed 70 percent.