Now provided that there is no direct restriction, or those in the nature of having a chilling eff ect, the State’s role in enabling or facilitating this freedom enjoyed by the poet, is limited. This court cannot direct that the State must create a platform for this purpose; this would be a stretch, in the absence of any overt or inert threat. 56. In the draft circulated by the Chief Justice, the reasoning that there is no fundamental right to marry and thereafter, nevertheless, to proceed to delineate the facets or features which unions other than marriage, are deprived of; merits a closer look. The summation of various rights which such a couple is said to be deprived of, is used to delineate the contours of the right to enter into a union, and justify a positive obligation. There cannot be any doubt that the individuals have the choice of their life partners and the right to live the lives they wish to, undisturbed. This is the essence of what the jurisprudence of this Court has been so far, i.e., an explanation of the right to life and the other rights enumerated or discovered by interpretive process – privacy, choice, dignity etc. 57. Repeatedly, decisions of this court have emphasized on the non- discriminatory and positive content of certain fundamental rights (Articles 14, 15, 16, 17, 23 and 24). In fact, the court has underlined the obligations of the state to create conditions conducive to the exercise of the right to equality (i.e., substantive equality), and to realize fraternity [Refer: decisions in N.M. Thomas51 and Indra Sawhney52 which expanded the understanding of substantive equality, though without making enabling provisions enforceable 51 State of Kerela v. N.M Thomas, (1976) 2 SCC 310 52 Indra Sawhney v. Union of India, (1992) Supp (3) SCC 217 146 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. by court]. This court has also in some decisions, accepted the argument that given the nature of fundamental rights, and its evolving content, in many circumstances, it might be necessary for the state to intervene and protect the fundamental right concerned thus creating an atmosphere conducive for the enjoyment of such right. Lata Singh (supra) dealt with honour killings of couples involved in inter-caste, inter-religious marriages; in Arumugam Servai v. State of Tamil Nadu53, where the issue was virulent caste slurs and violence, which were crimes, the court required administrative and police offi cials “to take strong measures to prevent such atrocious acts”. In Shakti Vahini (supra), which dealt with threats by khap panchayats, this court held that the state “is duty-bound to protect the fundamental rights of its citizens; and an inherent aspect of Article 21 of the Constitution would be the freedom of choice in marriage”. The court issued directions requiring the state to take punitive and remedial measures, and that the state has a positive obligation to protect the life and liberty of persons. 58. In several decisions it has been recognised that the reason for entrenching Part III Rights - as for instance, in M. Nagaraj (supra) was to “withdraw certain subjects from the area of political controversy to place them beyond the reach of majorities and offi cials and to establish them as legal principles to be applied by the courts…..