It was urged by the appellant that to avoid conflict of opinions, the writ petitioners could either independently F challenge the notification before the High Court of Bombay at Goa or apply for intervention in W.P. (C) No. 759/2017. 3. The High Court, by a common and dated 6th June, 2018, has dismissed the three applications. These three appeals, by special leave, are directed against such and . G 4. Since a common and is under challenge, we propose to decide these appeals by this common and . 5. Various notifications issued under the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (hereafter ‘CGST Act’, for short) and the H 250 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (hereafter ‘IGST Act’, for short) are under challenge in all the three writ petitions together with rate-notifications issued by the States of Goa, Maharashtra, Punjab and Sikkim. Inter alia, the challenge is to a notification stated to bear “No.01/ 2017” dated 30th June, 2017 issued by the Government of Goa in exercise of power conferred by sub-section (1) of section 11 of the Goa Goods B and Services Tax Act, 2017 (hereafter ‘GGST Act’, for short) levying tax @ 14% on “(L)ottery authorized by State Governments”. The writ petitioners have invoked the high prerogative writ jurisdiction of the High Court to seek a declaration that the impugned notification is unconstitutional and illegal. C 6. The short question that arises for a decision on these appeals is, whether the High Court was justified in returning the finding that “at least a part of the cause of action has arisen within the jurisdiction of this Court” and premised on such a finding, to dismiss the applications. 7. Notice was issued by this Court on 12th November, 2018, after D condonation of delay in presentation of the petitions for special leave to appeal. 8. None has appeared for the writ petitioners despite service of notice. We have heard counsel for the appellant and the Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India as well as counsel for E the other appearing parties. 9. For the purpose of a decision on these appeals, the petition averments in W.P. (C) No. 38 of 2017 may be noticed. A private limited company, “engaged in the business of purchase and sale of lottery tickets run, conducted and organized by the Government of Sikkim F both within the State of Sikkim as well as outside the State”, is the writ petitioner. The petitioning company sells lottery tickets in the States of Sikkim, Punjab, Goa and Maharashtra. It is the pleaded case that the lottery tickets, which are supplied by the petitioning company, are “lotteries which is being run by the State Government of Sikkim, it is not a lottery authorized by the State Government requiring to G discharge GST under a higher rate of taxation of 28%”. The case sought to be set up is that if the distinction between “(L)ottery run by State Governments” and “(L)ottery authorized by State Governments” were made, as has been done by the impugned notification, the same would be ex facie illegal and result in wiping out competition.