Resultantly, the inclusion of criminal activity which has been regarded as non-cognizable, compoundable or minor off ence under the concerned legislation, should have no bearing to answer the matter in issue. In that, the off ence of money-laundering is an independent off ence and the persons involved in the commission of such off ence are grouped together as off enders under this Act. There is no reason to make distinction between them insofar as the off ence of money- laundering is concerned. In our opinion, therefore, there is no merit in the argument under consideration.” In this case, we are not called upon to decide the validity of the Schedule or any part thereof. The question is whether the off ence under Section 120-B of IPC, included in Paragraph 1 of the Schedule, can be treated as a scheduled off ence even if the criminal conspiracy alleged is to commit an off ence which is not a part of the Schedule. This issue did not arise for consideration in the case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary1. 19. Section 120-A of IPC defi nes “criminal conspiracy”, which reads thus: “120A. Defi nition of criminal conspiracy.—When two or more persons agree to do, or cause to be done,— (1) an illegal act, or PAVANA DIBBUR v. THE DIRECTORATE OF 1065 ENFORCEMENT [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] (2) an act which is not illegal by illegal means, such an agreement is designated a criminal conspiracy: Provided that no agreement except an agreement to commit an off ence shall amount to a criminal conspiracy unless some act besides the agreement is done by one or more parties to such agreement in pursuance thereof. Explanation.—It is immaterial whether the illegal act is the ultimate object of such agreement, or is merely incidental to that object.” Section 120-B of IPC provides for punishment for a criminal conspiracy which reads thus: “120B. Punishment of criminal conspiracy.— (1) Whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an off ence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards, shall, where no express provision is made in this Code for the punishment of such a conspiracy, be punished in the same manner as if he had abetted such off ence. (2) Whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy other than a criminal conspiracy to commit an off ence punishable as aforesaid shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding six months, or with fi ne or with both.” 20. Now, we turn to the Schedule to the PMLA. We fi nd that many off ences, which may generate proceeds of crime, have not been included in the Schedule. We are referring to only a few of such off ences only by way of illustration:- a. Section 263A of IPC, which deals with the off ence of making or possessing fi ctitious stamps is not a part of the Schedule; b. Though off ences punishable under Sections 392 to 402 regarding robbery and dacoity have been included in part A of the Schedule, the off ence punishable under Section 379 of committing theft and the off ence punishable under Section 380 of theft in a dwelling house are not made a part of parts A and B of the Schedule.