Similarly, by the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Act, 2021, in sub-section (1) of Section 4B of the DSPE Act, the following provisos have been inserted: G “Provided that the period for which the Director holds the office on his initial appointment may, in public interest, on the recommendation of the Committee under sub-section (1) of section 4A and for the reasons to be recorded in writing, be extended up to one year at a time: H 560 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Provided further that no such extension shall be granted after the completion of a period of five years in total including the period mentioned in the initial appointment.” 62. Similarly, in clause (d) of rule 56 of the Fundamental Rules, 1922, the fifth proviso has also been substituted, which is as under: B “Provided also that the Central Government may, if it considers necessary in public interest so to do, give extension in service to the Defence Secretary, Home Secretary, Director of Intelligence Bureau, Secretary of Research and Analysis Wing and Director of Central Bureau of Investigation appointed under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1946) C and Director of Enforcement in the Directorate of Enforcement appointed under the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 (45 of 2003) in the Central Government for such period or periods as it may deem proper on a case-to-case basis for reasons to be recorded in writing, subject to the condition that the total term of D such Secretaries or Directors, as the case may be, who are given such extension in service under this rule, does not exceed two years or the period provided in the respective Act or rules made thereunder, under which their appointments are made.” 63. These two amendments to the CVC Act and the DSPE Act E along with the amendment to the Fundamental Rules, 1922 are under challenge in the present proceedings. 64. What has been provided by the Amendments to the CVC Act and the DSPE Act is that the period for which such Director of Enforcement or the Director of CBI holds office on his initial appointment may, in public interest, on the recommendation of the Committee, which F under the statutory scheme was required to recommend the appointment of such Director, for the reasons to be recorded in writing, be extended up to one year at a time. The second proviso provides that no such extension shall be granted after the completion of a period of five years in total including the period mentioned in the initial appointment. G 65. It is the contention of the petitioners that various s of this Court have emphasized the necessity for the purpose of ensuring complete insulation of the office of the Director of CBI/Director of Enforcement from all kinds of extraneous influences, as may be, as well as for upholding the integrity and independence of the institution of CBI/ H DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 561 [B. R. GAVAI, J.]