This Court appointed an inspection team on 29.06.2009, which visited the respondent college and gave a comprehensive report pointing out shortcomings in the infrastructure and functioning of the college. On 24.08.2009, the Court laid down certain conditions to be followed by the respondent college which the college claimed to have fulfilled later. H 350 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 6.During the course of this matter, a larger question of diminishing standards of legal education provided at various law colleges in India came to be noticed vide the dated 29.06.2009, which resulted in a Committee being appointed comprising Mr. Gopal Subramanium, then Solicitor General of India as its Chairman; Mr. M.N. Krishnamani, then President of the Supreme Court Bar Association; and Mr. S.N.P. Sinha, B then Chairman of the Bar Council of India. The said Committee was requested to examine issues relating to affiliation and recognition of law colleges, to identify areas requiring redressal and to address factors impeding the implementation of existing norms. A report was submitted to this Court on 06.10.2009 (“hereinafter referred to as the Report”). C 7. The Report recognised two significant aspects as imperative for improving standards of legal profession, i.e., firstly, introduction of a bar examination and, secondly, compulsory requirement of apprenticeship under a senior lawyer prior to admission to the Bar. It made the following observations: D a. Bar Examination in India: A bar-examination is a pre- condition for admission to the Bar in most Commonwealth countries. b. Pre-enrolment training: The requirement of training with a senior member of the Bar was present even before the enactment E of the said Act, wherein a prospective lawyer was required to ‘train’ in the chambers for a period of one year, and then appear in an examination comprising the subjects of civil and criminal procedure. Thereafter, Section 24(1)(d) of the said Act continued the requirement of apprenticeship for graduate law students. However, this provision was omitted by the amending Act 60 of F 1973 (hereinafter referred to as “1973 Amendment”), thereby discontinuing the practice. The Report also recorded that the 1973 Amendment omitted Section 28(2)(b) of the said Act, which enabled State Bar Councils to frame rules regarding training and bar examination. In 1994, a High-Powered G Committee on Legal Education recommended the reintroduction of the requirement for apprenticeship and bar examination and thus, Bar Council of India (Training) Rules, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as “1995 Rules”) were framed by the Bar Council of India in furtherance of the mandate of the High-Powered Committee. However, the 1995 Rules were struck down by this Court in the of V. Sudeer v. Bar Council of H BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA v. BONNIE FOI LAW COLLEGE 351 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] India1, opining that once express provisions on Sections 24(1)(d) and A 28(2)(b) had been omitted by the statutory amendment, the requirement could not be reintroduced. The Report also suggested that Bar Council of India’s role as the primary body for regulating standards of professional legal education should be reaffirmed.