Therefore, in an exceptional case being made out and if it is brought to D the court on the matters not containing the record of the arbitrator that certain things are relevant to the determination of the issues arising under section 34(2)(a), then the party who has assailed the award on the grounds set out in section 34(2)(a) can be permitted to file affidavit in the form of evidence. However, the same shall be allowed unless E absolutely necessary. 9. Now so far as the submission on behalf of the appellant that the requirement of “furnishing proof” as per pre-amendment of section 34(2)(a) of the Arbitration Act shall not be applicable to the application for setting aside the award on the grounds set out in section 34(2)(b) and F the submission that in the execution proceedings the subsequent development of refusing to grant permission for amalgamation of the plots can be considered and it will be open for the applicants to point out in the execution proceedings that the award is not capable of being executed is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that even for establishing that the arbitral award is in conflict with Public Policy of G India, in a given case, the evidence may have to be led and by leading evidence, the person who is challenging the award on that ground can establish and prove that the arbitral award is in conflict with Public Policy of India and/or the subject matter of dispute is not capable of settlement by arbitration under the law for the time being in force. However, at the H same time, from the record before the arbitrator, if the same can be M/S ALPINE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 1007 PVT. LTD. v. ASHOK S. DHARIWAL [M. R. SHAH, J.] established and proved that the subject matter of the dispute is not capable A of settlement by arbitration under the law for the time being in force or the arbitral award is in conflict with the Public Policy of India, in that case, the person may not be permitted to file the affidavit by way of evidence/additional evidence. 10. Now so far as the submission on behalf of the appellant that B the subsequent development of refusing to grant permission by the appropriate authority to amalgamate the plots can be considered in the execution proceedings , a person against whom the award is passed and who alleges on the grounds set out in section 34(2)(b) before the executing court, the executing court may hold that the award is not capable of C being executed is concerned, it is required to be noted that so far as one of the grounds set out in section 34(2)(b), namely, that the arbitral award is in conflict with the Public Policy of India, the said ground could be available only after passing of the award. Therefore, the same can be permitted to be agitated in an application under section 34 of the Act and the person shall not have to wait till the execution is filed.