Sale by a carrier does not H 534 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A pass title except when it is immunised by the conduct of the owner of the good which would in turn estop the owner from impugning the title of the buyer. [Paras 42 & 43][558-F-G; 559-D] 4. A person may own, contraband or prohibited articles and still be within the embrace of Section 69A. In other words, the B illegality of the ownership may not ill square with the requirement of Section 69A that the assessing officer must find the assessee to be the owner of the article. However, that is not to say that without finding ownership or when it is obvious that someone else is the owner, a person found in possession, which is illegal, can be found to be the owner under Section 69A. The question C would arise pointedly, as to, when a common carrier refuses to deliver the consignment and continues to possess it contrary to contract and law and converts it into his use and presumably sells the same, as to whether he could be found to be the owner of the goods. Would he be any different from a person who commits D theft and sells it claiming to be the owner. Can a thief become the owner? It would be straining the law beyond justification if the Court were to recognise a thief as the owner of the property within the meaning of Section 69A. Recognising a thief as the owner of the property would also mean that the owner of the property would cease to be recognised as the owner, which would E indeed be the most startling result. While possession of a person may in appropriate cases, when there is no explanation forthcoming about the source and quality of his possession, justify an assessing officer finding him to be the owner, when the facts are known that the carrier is not the owner and somebody else is F the owner, then to describe him as the owner may produce results which are most illegal apart from being unjust. [Para 47][560-G; 561-A-D] 5. The full rights of an owner as set out in Additional Commissioner of Income Tax, Bihar v. M/s. Sahay Properties and G Investment Co.(P) Ltd. may again be reiterated as: (1) The power of enjoyment which includes the power to destroy. (2) The right to possession which includes the right to exclude others. (3) The power to alienate inter vivos or to charge as security. (4) The power to bequeath the property. A carrier has none of these rights or powers. It may be true that in to be an owner, all the H M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 535 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER rights and powers of an owner need not be present at the same A point of time in the same person. It may be true that ownership may be associated with a better right to be in possession and actual possession in a given case may be harmonised with ownership.