v. State of Karnataka & Ors., Appeal No. 117/2016. 10 The court followed Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board v. M.V. Nayudu [(2001) 2 SCC 62]and Bajaj Hindustan Ltd. v. Sir Shadi Lal Enterprises Ltd. [(2011) 1 SCC 640]the latter having held that judicial review was limited in matters of policy. TAMIL NADU AND PUDUCHERRY PAPER CUP MANUFACTURES 1139 ASSOCIATION v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] court held that since they were non-biodegradable, their reusability carried the risk of pathogenic transmission, and the bags have tendency to cause reduction in rainfall infi ltration and ground water discharge, there was no basis to conclude they were eco-friendly carry bag alternatives; the State had pursuant to a CIPET study, banned them. Given that the court is not scientifi c experts to determine the rival contentions of the parties, deference had to be paid to the decision of experts more familiar with the material11 and this could not be gone into in the writ petitions fi led under Article 226 of the Constitution. With regards to cups, it was noted that they are indiscriminately used and thrown after single use, accumulating in huge quantities, and causing an eye sore; since they squarely fall within ‘one time use and throw’ plastics, the ban was justifi ed. 11. The appellants seek this court’s intervention on the ground that the common was passed without considering the specifi c contentions made by them, and the product(s) in question. Appellants’ contentions 12. Counsel appearing for the appellant-association urged that reinforced paper cups (referred to as “plastic coated teacups” in the impugned notifi cation) were an eco-friendly alternative to plastic cups owing to their composition of 94% food grade paper and only 6% coating of LDPE which is necessary to reinforce the cup and make it water resistant. Once the paper and plastic are separated, the paper is both recyclable and biodegradable while the LDPE is recyclable and reusable for diff erent purposes. It was pointed out that the manufacturers in the MSME sector purchase the paper with the LDPE coating from paper mills like TNPL, ITC, etc. and use them to make the cups. 13. The appellant’s submissions were primarily on two planks – fi rstly that there was no scientifi c basis for the ban, which created an arbitrary classifi cation; and secondly, that there was non-compliance with the 1986 Rules, which mandate publishing of draft rules and inviting objections, before passing an such as the impugned notifi cation. Counsel contended that 11 Court relied on Secretary and Curator, Victoria Memorial Hall v. Howra Ganatantrik Nagrik Samity and others, (2010) 3 SCC 732; Basavaiah (Dr) v. Dr. H.L. Ramesh and Ors., (2010) 8 SCC 372. 114 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. the classifi cation – of including paper cups with LDPE coating with other products that are largely composed of plastic – was arbitrary, and unjust. It was further highlighted that the products exempted under the notifi cation are in fact, far more harmful to the environment which the High Court too, took note of.