D 4.12 It is contended that the power to take a decision under section 5A is the power of the “appropriate government”, which in view of section 3(ee) would mean the State Government in the facts of the present case. That in the present case, the powers of the “appropriate government” under section 5A have not been delegated to any authority by the dated 22.03.1985. E 4.13 It is next submitted that powers under section 6 have to be exercised “under the signature of a Secretary to such government or of some officer duly authorized to certify its s”. That the said powers have been conferred by the Government dated 22.03.1985 upon the “Divisional Commissioner.” The declarations under section 6 have F been issued by and under the signatures of the Collector as Deputy Secretary. Therefore, the High Court is fully justified in its conclusion that the Collector, who had exercised powers of the State Government under section 5A, did not have the said powers. 4.14 It is further submitted that even otherwise, as rightly observed G and held by the High Court, there was a hostile discrimination on the part of the State Government and the IDA. That in the present case, out of 531.428 hectares of land identified and included for schemes at the time of final notification of the scheme under section 50(7), 261.796 hectares of land has already been released by the IDA/State of Madhya H 104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Pradesh. That once the large portions of the land have been released, the schemes as originally envisaged cannot be implemented. Since the scheme and the acquisition notification have been quashed, the respondents did not avail of the remedy of increase in compensation by filing a reference under section 18 of the Act. That in case, this Court upholds the scheme and the acquisition, the respondents may be given B liberty to file reference, if so advised, for increase in compensation determined by the LAO. 4.15 It is further submitted that even otherwise the appeals filed by the IDA have since been rendered in fructuous in view of the amendment in Section 50 of the Adhiniyam by 2019 Amendment Act. C That as per amended section 50(1)(b) of the Act, where a town development scheme has been notified under the repealed provisions of the Act, but development has either not started or not been taken up for any reason, the same shall lapse. It is submitted that in the present case, insofar as others schemes are concerned, the same have been declared D to have lapsed in view of amended section 50(i)(b). It is submitted that since the scheme in question was quashed by the High Court in year 1988 which was confirmed by the Division Bench in the year 2014, the scheme could not be acted upon. That in the present case, neither the possession of the lands has been taken by the authority (as there was stay s by the High Court) nor compensation for the E schemes has been deposited.