The whole purpose is to breathe reasonableness into the procedural regime. But, the test of reasonableness cannot be abstract. C It has to be pragmatic and grounded in the realities of the facts and circumstances of a case. When conducting an inquiry, it is the duty of the Inquiring Authority to proceed in a manner that is visibly free from the taint of arbitrariness, unreasonableness or unfairness. An inquiry that can culminate into imposition of a major penalty like termination of service of an employee, must doubly conform to a just, fair and reasonable D procedure. Any displacement of the principles of natural justice can only be in exceptional circumstances, as contemplated in the proviso to Article 311(2) of the Constitution of India and not otherwise. Wherever the rules are silent, principles of natural justice must be read into them and a hearing be afforded to the person who is proposed to be punished with a E major penalty69. 54. The four predominant purposes sought to be achieved by reading the principles of natural justice into law and into the conduct of judicial and administrative proceedings to achieve the underlying object of securing fairness have been concisely expressed by this Court as an assurance of a fair outcome by following the procedural Rules, an F assurance of equality in the proceedings, legitimacy of the decision and decision- making authority thereby preserving the integrity of the system and finally, with the idea of preserving the dignity of individuals where citizens are treated with respect and the dignity they deserve in a society governed by the Rule of Law70. G L. ANALYSIS AND DISCUSSION : 55. In the present case, the incidents in question relate to the 69 State Bank of India and Others v. Ranjit Kumar Chakraborty and Another, (2018) 12 SCC 807 70 Madhyamam Broadcasting Limited v. Union of India decided on 5th April 2023 H AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 815 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] period when the Vishaka Guidelines were in place and it had been A clarified in Medha Kotwal Lele (supra) that the Complaints Committee will be deemed to be an inquiry authority for the purposes of the CCS Rules. Keeping this in mind, we may now proceed to ascertain as to whether the procedure adopted by the respondents No. 2 and 3 herein violated the principles of natural justice and thereby caused prejudice to B the appellant, as has been alleged, for this Court to interfere in the impugned . (a) SCOPE OF INTERFERENCE BY THE HIGH COURT IN JUDICIAL REVIEW : 56. It may be clarified at the outset that to satisfy itself that no C injustice has been meted out to the appellant, the High Court was required to examine the decision-making process and not just the final outcome. In other words, in exercise of powers of judicial review, the High Court does not sit as an Appellate Authority over the factual findings recorded in the departmental proceedings as long as those findings are reasonably supported by evidence and have been arrived at through proceedings D that cannot be faulted on account of procedural illegalities or irregularities that may have vitiated the process by which the decision was arrived at.