It is an appreciation of all guiding factors, premised in common business sense, which must provide the ultimate answer, rather than mere analogy or comparison. It is with such an approach that we shall proceed to consider the facts of the case at hand in light of certain precedents referred to or/and relied upon by the High Court of Delhi as well as those cited at the Bar. 23.2. We also wish to refer to the dictum of the King’s Bench Division in Commissioners of Inland Revenue vs. Ramsay, 20 T.C. 79. The facts of the said case were that the assessee therein agreed to purchase a dental practice for a primary consideration of £15,000 subject to increase or diminution as therein provided. The primary price was to be satisfi ed by payment of £5000 on the exchange of the agreement, and as to the balance, by payment each year for ten years of a sum equal to 25% of the net profi ts of the practice for each year. If the amounts so paid over the ten years, were in the aggregate, more or less than the balance of the primary purchase price, that price was to be treated as correspondingly increased or diminished. The Court while considering an issue as to the classifi cation of the payments made each year held that the annual sums paid under the agreement, were instalments of capital and were not admissible as revenue deductions. 23.3. Similarly, as discussed hereinabove, this Court in Jalan Trading Co. had the occasion to consider the issue pertaining to classifi cation of an annual payment based on profi t sharing towards the right to carry on business. This Court concluded that since the annual payment of 75% profi t share was paid by the assessee in consideration of the right to carry on the business of the assignors, the payment would be capital in nature. In doing so, this Court examined the contention of the assessee therein that, since what was 464 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. paid as consideration was not a pre-determined lump-sum amount but an annual payment out of profi ts, such a payment should be held to be revenue in nature. The three-Judge Bench of this Court rejected the said contention suggesting that when an expenditure is in its core capital in nature, neither the fact that the same was paid in instalments, nor the fact that the quantum of expenditure was dependent on the revenue or profi t of the assessee, would warrant a change in the classifi cation of the transaction. This will apply on all fours in deciding the case at hand, since the annual payment of variable licence fee is only towards licence fees and merely because it is paid in annual instalments based on the AGR, the payment cannot be construed as revenue. The annual payments of licence fee as also the entry fee relate to a singular purpose, i.e., the acquisition of the right to carry on the business of rendering telecommunication services.