In the above circumstances, it cannot be said that the respondent had withheld material information from the appellants while participating in the selection process for the subject post or at the time of fi lling up the affi davit/verifi cation form. The point on which there is a diversion of opinion between the Division Bench and the learned Single Judge is that while the latter had relied on a decision of this Court in Avatar Singh10 (supra) and observed that the Department could not be faulted for issuing the letter dated 24th August, 20178 declaring the respondent as unfi t for appointment in government service on the ground that it was a case of moral turpitude, the Division Bench held to the contrary and relying on the very same decision along with one rendered by this Court in Pradeep Kumar11(supra) and a Full Bench decision of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh in Ashutosh Pawar v. High Court of M.P and Another12 observed that in a case like the present one where there was no other criminal case pending against the respondent, except for the one in which he had been acquitted and the Department had not undertaken a deeper look at the respondent’s past, it was a fi t case for relegating the matter to the appellants for fresh consideration. 8. The standard for assessing the suitability of a candidate is measured by the employer based on various factors including the nature of the post, nature of duties, eff ect of suppression over suitability, etc. However, no hard and fast rule can be laid down in this regard [Refer, Pawan Kumar12 (supra)]. It must be emphasised that a candidate who proposes to participate in a selection process, must furnish true and correct information in respect of his character and antecedents in the affi davit/verifi cation form required 12 2018 SCC Online MP 72 (Writ Petition No. 5865 of 2016) 446 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. to be fi lled up during the selection process or after induction in the service, as the case may be. A candidate who makes a false declaration or suppresses material information or furnishes half–baked information which may not be the whole truth, can be visited with adverse consequences to the point of his exclusion even though he may have qualifi ed in the entire selection process, based on the said falsity/suppression. 9. In view of the cleavage of opinion expressed in several decisions of this Court, a Division Bench in Jainendra Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh13,decided to refer the issue to a larger Bench for an authoritative pronouncement on the question of suppression of information/submitting of false information in the verifi cation form by an aspirant of a job when the incumbent has faced criminal prosecution, been arrested or on account of pendency of a criminal case. The aforesaid confl icting opinions were fi nally settled by a three-Judges Bench of this Court in Avtar Singh10 (supra) where after examining diff erent views expressed by Benches of this Court from time to time, broad guidelines were laid down as to the yardstick to be applied for verifi cation of disclosures made by a candidate to the employer for deciding as to whether the incumbent would be fi t for appointment or not.