Evidence Act, 1872 – ss. 8, 105 – Section 105 of the Indian Evidence Act, which places the burden of proving, has its exceptions – Though, as a general principle, the onus is upon the person accused to bring his case under the exception, dealing with the case u/s. 84 of the IPC, one has to apply the concept of C preponderance of probabilities – The aforesaid provision has to be read along with Section 8 of the Indian Evidence Act. Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – Chapter XXV – ss. 329- 339 – Object and Purpose – The idea under the provisions to facilitate a person of unsound mind to stand trial, not only because of his reasoning capacity, but also to treat him as the one who is D having a disability – The role of the Court is to find the remedial measures and do complete justice. Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD : 1. Section 84 of the IPC recognizes only an act which could not be termed as an offence. It starts with the words E “nothing is an offence”. The said words are a clear indication of the intendment behind this laudable provision. Such an act shall emanate from an unsound mind. Therefore, the existence of an unsound mind is a sine qua non to the applicability of the provision. A mere unsound mind per se would not suffice, and it should be to the extent of not knowing the nature of the act. Such F a person is incapable of knowing the nature of the said act. Similarly, he does not stand to reason as to whether an act committed is either wrong or contrary to law. Needless to state, the element of incapacity emerging from an unsound mind shall be present at the time of commission. [Para 4][828-A-C] 2. The provision speaks about the act of a person of G unsound mind. It is very broad provision relatable to the incapacity, as aforesaid. The test is from the point of view of a prudent man. Therefore, a mere medical insanity cannot be said to mean unsoundness of mind. There may be a case where a person suffering from medical insanity would have committed an act, however, the test is one of legal insanity to attract the mandate H PRAKASH NAYI @ SEN v. STATE OF GOA 825 of Section 84 of the IPC. There must be an inability of a person in A knowing the nature of the act or to understand it to be either wrong or contrary to the law. The aforesaid provision is founded on the maxim, actus non reum facit nisi mens sit rea, i.e., an act does not constitute guilt unless done with a guilty intention. It is a fundamental principle of criminal law that there has to be an element of mens rea in forming guilt with intention. A person of B an unsound mind, who is incapable of knowing the consequence of an act, does not know that such an act is right or wrong.