[K. M. JOSEPH, J.] a) operation and maintenance guidelines recommended by the A manufacturers of the plant and equipment to be incorporated in the Project; b) the requirements of Indian Law; and c) the physical conditions at the Site;” B (123) We have set out the history of the notifications relating to grant of exemption for power projects. All of it began with the policy issued in the year 1995. The exemptions had their origin with the notification issued in the year 1999. Thereafter there is Notification 21/ 2002 which was issued on 01.03.2002. Entry 400 in the said notification C reads as follows: D E F G H 78 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (124) Thereafter another notificationnamely Notification No. 26/ 03 which has given a final shape to it came to be issued which has been noticed also by the Authority of Advance Ruling. It reads as follows: B C (Emphasis supplied) D (125) We may notice that with the issuance of the said notification what stands out is the following: (126) While in the opening words of the Entry, there is reference to power project, it is conditioned by the words ‘that is to say’. We can quite safely proceed on the basis that Entry 400 in the Notification No. E 21/2002 which came into effect on 01.03.2002 as amended by Notification No. 46/2008 is the Entry which must be treated as holding the field as on the cut off date. It is thereafter, no doubt, that the first respondent has invoked the change in law clause by seeking to draw inspiration from the OM issued on 17.06.2011. F (127) Change in law clause is sought to be invoked apparently contending that there has been a change in interpretation by Indian Governmental Authority which has the final say in terms of the law. The question which looms large before the Court is whether there has been a change in law in terms of ‘change in interpretation’ placed by the Governmental authority with reference to the position obtaining under G the notifications issued under the Customs Act. Even the clauses in the PPA which we have referred to maintain a distinction between a power plant and a captive mine. A power plant cannot be treated as the same as captive mine. In fact, Schedule 1A which defines the site refers to the captive mines in terms of the coal blocks which are allotted. The definition of captive mine also indicates that it is the coal mines as H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 79 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] described in Schedule 1A and the associated fuel transport system up to A the power station. No doubt, the word ‘site’ has also been defined as the land over which the Project will be developed as provided in Annexure 1A. (128) Undoubtedly, in view of the very purpose of having a coal mine which is to supply the requisite fuel for the operation of the power B plant, there would be a certain measure of geographical contiguity.