16.8. Andrew F. Sellars, in his essay published by Harvard University, titled ‘Defining Hate Speech,’ has examined the concept of ‘hate speech’ in different democratic G jurisdictions.The author has identified that certain remarks, which, although may not be ‘hate speech’ in the strict sense of the term, b on the said term. That even tacit elements of intent of the speaker to cause harm, may constitute some species of hate speech. Intent may refer to non-physical aspects like to demean, vilify, humiliate, or H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 755 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] being persecutorial, disregarding or hateful. The author has A also recognised that in some contexts, “at home speeches” may themselves amount to hate speeches as such speech cannow be uploaded and circulated in the virtual world through internet etc. The only pre-requisite is that the speech should have no redeeming purpose, which means that “the B speech primarily carries no meaning other than hatred, hostility and ill-will.” Beyond ‘hate speech’: 17. The expansive scope of ‘hate speech’ as set out above, would include within its sweep not only ‘hate speech’simplicitor which C is defined as speech aimed at systematic discrimination and eventual political marginalisation of a community, but also other species of derogatory, vitriolic and disparaging speech. 18. A philosophical justification to control and restrain derogatory, vitriolic and disparaging speech has been very poignantly conveyed by D Lau Tzu, a celebrated Chinese philosopher and writer, in the following words: “Watch your thoughts; they becomewords. Watch your words; they becomeactions. E Watch your actions; theybecome habit. Watch your habits; theybecome character. Watch yourcharacter; it becomes your destiny.” 19. Theoretical and doctrinal underpinnings justifying restraints F on derogatoryand disparaging speech, may be traced to two primary factors: human dignity as a value as well as a right;the Preambular goals of ‘equality’ and ‘fraternity.’ Human dignity as a value as well as a right under the Constitution of India: G 20. As discussed supra, human dignity is not only a value but a right that is enforceable under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. In a human-dignity-based democracy, freedom of speech and expression must be exercised in a manner that would protect and promote the rights of fellow-citizens. H 756 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A International practice: 21. In attempting to justify restraints on free speech, on the argument founded on considerations of autonomy, dignity and self-worth of the person(s) against whom derogatory statements are made, reference may be made to international practice in this regard. B i) Canada: Canadian jurisprudence on the subject proceeds on the basis of inviolability of human dignity as its paramount value and specifically limits the freedom of expression when necessary to protect the right to personal honour. The Canadian approach emphasises on multiculturalism and C group equality, as it places greater emphasis on cultural diversity and promotes the idea of an ethnic mosaic. Interestingly, the Canadian position, as discernible from the Canadian Supreme Court’s verdict in R vs. James Keegstra, (1990) 3 SCR 697(“Keegstra”)(Canada) considers the likely impact of hate speech on both the D targeted groups and non-targeted groups.