We say so particularly because of the fact that the appellant was never appointed substantively on the new post of ‘Assistant Registrar’ and was continued temporarily on the said post subject to the outcome of the pending litigation challenging his appointment. The said fact also fi nds support from the Preamble of the Resolution of the University dated 23.12.2000. Further, the appointment of appellant to the new post was subject to probation of two years and due to pending litigation, he was continued on a temporary basis despite completion of two years. Nothing has been brought on record by respondent-University to negate the applicability of mandate of Rule 20 Note 4 of KCS Rules on appellant. 19. Further, it is not the case of the respondent-University that the appellant was permanently absorbed or confi rmed on the new post. Conversely, the respondent’s case is that, in absence of any representation made by the appellant seeking continuation of his lien on the previous post, he cannot claim it subsequently on being retained after quashing of his appointment. In our view, the said stand of the University cannot be countenanced in terms of Rule 20 Note 4 of KCS Rules. As per the language of the said Rule, the lien of a government servant on the previous post stands protected till his or her continuation on probation period on the new post. The intention of the said rule is clear, viz., to protect the past service of the government servant in cases where the government servant is not confi rmed or absorbed substantively on the new post on account of his/her failure to satisfactorily complete the probation period or for any other reason. 20. So far as question of the ‘relieving ’ being treated as resignation is concerned, in terms of Rule 252(b) of KCS Rules, it cannot be treated as resignation. The said Rule makes it clear that if another appointment is taken up by a government servant with proper permission, 116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. then it cannot be termed as resignation of public service. Thus, the fi nding as recorded by the Writ Appellate Court are not sustainable. 21. In view of the discussion made herein above, we answer the questions framed above as follows – (i) dated 08.04.1993 passed by respondent-University, relieving the appellant to take up the new appointment as ‘Assistant Registrar’ is not to be treated as resignation in terms of Rule 252(b) of KCS Rules. (ii) The appellant’s lien on the original/previous post of ‘Offi ce Superintendent’ shall be maintained and deemed to be continued from the date when he was relieved by respondent-University, i.e., 08.04.1993. (iii) Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and in to do complete justice, the appellant will be entitled to all the service benefi ts including seniority, consequential promotions and pensionary benefi ts at par with his juniors, though notionally, since he superannuated on 30.06.2007 and has not worked on the promoted post. 22. Accordingly, the appeal is allowed and the impugned dated 23.10.2009 passed in Writ Appeal No.