Since Smti Dangwimsai Pul had obtained the legal heir certifi cate in respect of other properties in her favour, I feared that she may also apply for another legal heir certifi cate in respect of this plot of land also. In to force Smti Dangwimsai Pul to part with the papers of this plot of land, I challenged the legal heir certifi cate dated 04.05.2017 on the advice of Shri Biluso Tulang, who is my fi rst cousin and has been helping me in managing my various social, legal and political matters. During the pendency of the criminal revision petition fi led by me challenging the said legal heir certifi cate, the papers of the said plot of land were given to me after which I stopped taking interest in my criminal revision petition. Subsequently, the said plot of land was allotted in my favour.” 15. A perusal of the above extracted portion of the deposition would indicate that the appellant was claiming her right to Plot No.230 situate at Tezu township since her late husband had made it clear that the said plot is meant for the appellant. The challenge was therefore raised as a pressure tactics to secure the documents of the said property from Smt. Dangwimsai DASANGLU PUL v. LUPALUM KRI 1031 [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] Pul i.e., the fi rst wife. Therefore, it was her clear understanding that the remaining properties will belong to the fi rst wife of Late Khaliko Pul and her entitlement was to Plot No.230 mentioned above. While weighing the entire case in the background of the evidence tendered and arriving at a decision based on preponderance of probability, the explanation put forth by the appellant in the fact situation herein will have to be accepted as plausible since the appellant while fi ling her nomination in Form No.26 and indicating the details of the properties standing in her name has indicated Plot No.230 in Tezu township, to which she was laying claim based on the assurance given to her by her late husband during his lifetime and has not laid claim to any other property which stood in the name of her deceased husband, to which, as contended by her the fi rst wife has succeeded. 16. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the instant case if all these aspects are taken into consideration the disclosure of the said properties in the column in Form-26 to indicate the properties belonging to the spouse would not arise, fi rstly, since the spouse was not alive and on his death the succession had opened, even otherwise she had not claimed any interest in the properties which are the subject matter and belonged to the deceased spouse. Hence it cannot be construed that there was a defect of substantial character in the present facts and circumstances of the case. Hence, this was not a case of improper acceptance of the nomination fi led by the appellant. As such the principle enunciated in Mairembam Prithviraj @ Prithviraj Singh vs. Pukhrem Sharatchandra Singh (2017) 2 SCC 487 was not applicable herein.