8 1980 Crl LJ 1022 9 1992 CRl LJ 2377 10 1998 Crl LJ 2879 11 2011 CrlLJ 1347 450 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. e) Recently, a Single Bench of Chhattisgarh High Court took similar view in the case of Narendra Rajput vs. State of Chhattisgarh through Secretary, Department of Home Aff airs (Police) and Others12. 82. This Court endorses the above view and holds that FIR is a public document defi ned under Section 74 of the Evidence Act. 83. Now, what is to be seen is that any public document does not stand proven by the mere fact of its production. It is proved in the usual manner of proof when an objection to it is taken. The Court usually accepts a fact as proved when, after considering the document and the evidence before it, concludes that what is stated in the document is believable based on what the document, on the face of it, states along with what a witness to the document states about the contents and how the document was prepared/authored. 84. According to the common practice of Trial Court and also according to the General Rules (Criminal) as applicable in the case, all the papers and documents fi led and produced during any inquiry and trial of a criminal case are marked as ‘Paper No.’ and at the stage of evidence, when any article, weapon, material, or document is admitted as evidence, it is marked as an exhibit, be it in any manner whatsoever either by use of alphabets or by use of numbers (generally as Ex-Ka for prosecution evidence and Ex-Kha as defence evidence). 85. At the stage of evidence, when any document/paper is formally produced for being treated as a piece of evidence, the Court looks at two basic aspects. Firstly, the existence of the document on the Court’s record and, secondly, the proof of its execution or its contents being suffi ciently deposed to by a witness having requisite knowledge thereof, where after, the document in question is marked as exhibit. At the stage of exhibiting any document as a piece of evidence, the truth of what is stated in the document is not considered. It is left open to fi nal evaluation at the trial after cross- examination, and the entire testimony of the witness about the existence and contents of the document is weighed in conjunction with various other factors emerging during a trial. At the fi nal evaluation stage, the Trial Court concludes whether the document speaks the truth and decides what weight 12 2019 SCC Online Chh 16 HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 451 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] to give it for fi nal decision. In other words, its evidentiary value is analysed by the Courts at the time of fi nal . 86. This Court in the case of Arbada Devi Gupta vs Birendra Kumar Jaiswal and Anr.13, in paragraph 16 has held as follows: “16. ………………..The legal position is not in dispute that mere production and marking of a document as exhibit by the Court cannot be held to be a due proof of its contents.