The choice/option whether to continue or not to continue such an employee always must be given to the employer. At the cost of repetition, it is observed and as observed hereinabove in catena of decision such an employee cannot claim the appointment and/or continue to be in service as a matter of right.” 15. On applying the law expounded by this Court in a series of decisions to the facts of the instant case, we fi nd that the Division Bench of the High Court has dismissed the appeal1 preferred by the appellant – State 454 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Government and set aside the passed by the learned Single Judge who had upheld the passed by the Competent Authority8, terminating the services of the respondent on the ground that he was candid enough to make a disclosure in his verifi cation form stating that he had been chargesheeted in a criminal case3 wherein he was later on acquitted and there was no other criminal case pending against him at the relevant time. 16. We are, however, unable to concur with the aforesaid view. Even though the respondent had truthfully declared that he was involved in a criminal case which was decided by the trial Court vide judgement 26th October, 2015, on perusing the facts of the said case as noted hereinabove and the observations made in the judgement, quite clearly, this was not a case of clean acquittal. It is evident from the facts narrated that after the chargesheet was fi led, the respondent had arrived at a compromise with the complainant and fi led an application under Section 320 of the CrPC, based on which the off ence under Section 341 IPC was compounded. As for the remaining off ences for which the respondent was charged i.e. Section 354(D) of the IPC and Section 11 (D)/12 of the POCSO Act, they were non compoundable and therefore, the matter was taken to trial. The respondent was acquitted by the trial Court primarily on account of the fact that the complainant did not support the case set up by the prosecution and the other prosecution witnesses had turned hostile. In such circumstances, the respondent’s plea that he had been given a clean acquittal in the criminal case, is found to be devoid of merits. 17. This is a classic example of the situation contemplated in para 38.4.3 of Avatar Singh10 (supra)where the charges framed against the respondent herein involved moral turpitude and though he was acquitted on the prosecution witnesses having turned hostile, but given the facts and circumstances of the case which led to his acquittal, we are of the view that the appellant – State Government was well within its right to exercise its discretion against the respondent and terminate his services on the ground that he was unfi t for appointment in the police department. Here was a case where the complainant had reneged from the statement made to the police in view of a settlement arrived at with the respondent.