On that day, she was busy with her official duty in a collection drive organized by the department to collect dues from the consumers. Her explanation is that the complainant was her neighbour and he wanted her assistance to deposit electricity charges. She stated that earlier, she had a transaction of sale and purchase of a car E through the complainant. She has also stated that the complainant was a history-sheeter and there were three First Information Reports (FIRs) registered against him. In this context, PW-5 was questioned in the cross-examination. PW-5 did not confirm the correctness of the suggestion but stated that he was not in a F position to deny the same. In fact, PW-7, the investigation officer, deposed that cash of Rs.71,900/– was found in the appellant’s car. This lends support to the defence that there was a recovery drive conducted by the appellant. Apart from the evidence of PW-5, there is no other evidence that is pressed into service by the prosecution for proving the demand by the appellant. Even G taking the statements of PW-5 in the examination-in-chief as correct, it is impossible to even infer that the demand of Rs.10,000/- was made by the appellant by way of gratification. Every demand made for payment of money is not a demand for gratification. It has to be something more than mere demand for H money. [Para 17][1011-F-H; 1012-A, D-E] NEERAJ DUTTA v. STATE (GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI) 999 1.3 In the complaint filed by the deceased complainant on A 17th April 2000, in the form of his statement recorded by the Anti- Corruption Bureau, he has stated that pursuant to the application dated 6th May 1996, a meter was installed in his shop and after a few months, he found that the meter was removed. However, the Special Court has observed in paragraph 19 of the B impugned that a complaint regarding a stolen electricity meter was registered at the instance of the complainant on 25th April 2000. Thus, the grievance regarding stolen meter was made by the complainant 8 days after the alleged demand for bribe. In fact, PW-7 admitted that the complainant did not produce a copy of the application made by him for providing electricity meter. C PW-7 further stated that the complainant did not clearly tell him that he had given such application. In absence of proof of making such application, the prosecution’s case regarding demand of bribe for installing new electricity meter becomes doubtful. Moreover, till 24th April 2000, the complainant did not register D a complaint regarding commission of offence. This makes the prosecution’s case regarding the demand of gratification on 17th April 2000 for installing a new electricity meter extremely doubtful. [Para 18][1012-F-H; 1013-A-B] 1.4 There are no circumstances brought on record which E would prove the demand for gratification. Therefore, the ingredients of the offence under Section 7 of the PC Act were not established and consequently, the offence under Section 13(1)(d) will not be attracted.