However, insofar as the other appeals are concerned, in addition to the three common issues, certain additional issues were also involved. B 16. The said three common issues are thus: (i) Whether Change in Law relief on account of NCDP 2013 should be on ‘actuals’ viz. as against 100% of normative coal requirement assured in terms of NCDP 2007 OR C restricted to trigger levels in NCDP 2013 viz. 65%, 65%, 67% and 75% of Assured Coal Quantity (ACQ)? (ii) Whether for computing Change in Law relief, the operating parameters be considered on ‘actuals’ OR as per technical information submitted in bid? D (iii) Whether Change in Law relief compensation to be granted from 1st April 2013 (start of Financial Year) or 31st July 2013 (date of NCDP 2013)? 17. Vide the and dated 3rd March 2023 in the case of MSEDCL v. APML and Others (supra), this Court decided those E two appeals after considering the aforesaid three issues. 18. The first issue was answered by this Court, holding that the Change in Law relief for domestic coal shortfall should be on ‘actuals’ i.e. as against 100% of normative coal requirement assured in terms of NCDP, 2007. Insofar as the second issue is concerned, it was held that F the Station Heat Rate (SHR) and Auxiliary consumption should be considered as per the Regulations or actual, whichever is lower. The third issue was answered by holding that the Start date for the Change in Law event for the NCDP, 2013 is 1st April 2013. 19. Insofar as Issue Nos. 2 and 3 as framed by the APTEL are G concerned, the same stand squarely covered by the of this Court in the case of MSEDCL v. APML and Others (supra). The remaining three issues, which are required to be considered in the present appeals, are thus: 2 2023 SCC OnLine 233 H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 675 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J. ] “Issue No.1:- Whether introduction SHAKTI Policy does A not amount to Change in Law under the PPAs entered into between APML and MSEDCL and whether APML has not provided notice of such Change in Law to the Respondent MSEDCL. B Issue No. 2:- . .... Issue No. 3:- ………… Issue No. 4:- Whether the MERC was justified in directing APML to provide advance intimation of impact C on energy charge by using alternate coal for the purpose of Merit Despatch? Issue No. 5:- Whether the Respondent MSEDCL is justified in contesting APML’s entitlement to Carrying cost.” D 20. We will first consider the question as to whether the SHAKTI Policy would amount to Change in Law. 21. It will be apposite to refer to some relevant parts of the of this Court in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra), which read thus: “50. ……Even otherwise, from a reading of Clause 13, it is clear E that Clause 13.1.1 is in four different parts. The first part speaks of enacted laws; the second speaks of interpretation of such laws by courts or other instrumentalities; the third speaks of changes in consents, approvals or licences which result in change in cost of the business of selling electricity; and the fourth refers to any F change in the declared law of the land for the project, cost of implementation of resettlement and rehabilitation or cost of implementing the environmental management plan.