Explanation.- In this sub- section,” equity share capital” and equity F shares” have the same meaning as in section 85.” (Emphasis Supplied) 64. Section 81(1A) permitted offering of shares to any other persons, if certain conditions were met. Section 81(2) read as follows: G “81(2) Nothing in clause (c) of sub- section (1) shall be deemed- (a) to extend the time within which the offer should be accepted, or (b) to authorise any person to exercise the right of renunciation H for a second time, on the ground that the person in whose favour HASMUKHLAL MADHAVLAL PATEL v. AMBIKA FOOD 279 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] the renunciation was first made has declined to take the shares A comprised in the renunciation. 65. Section 81(3)(a) provided that nothing in Section 81 will apply to a private company. There are other parts of Section 81, which need not detain us. We have already noticed the principles laid down in Dale & Carrington Invt. (P) Ltd. and another (supra) as per which though B Section 81(3) made the provision inapplicable to private companies, the higher stand applied to private companies. 66. A perusal of Section 81(1) indicates that it dealt with a proposal to increase ‘the subscribed capital’ of the company by allotment of C ‘further shares’. Section 105-C of the Companies Act, 1913, which we have noticed, used the words ‘where the Directors decide to increase the ‘capital’ of the company by issue of ‘further shares’. In Section 81 of the Companies Act, 1956, the words used are ‘it is proposed to increase the subscribed capital of the company by allotment of further shares’. D 67. The Authorised Capital of a company, which is also known as nominal capital of the company, represents the maximum number of shares that can be issued. It must be indicated in the Memorandum of Association. It can be increased only by the company by passing a resolution in a General Body Meeting. In this regard, we may notice Regulation 44 of Table A of Schedule I of the Companies Act, 1956, E which read as follows: “44. The company may, from time to time, by ordinary resolution, increase the share capital by such sum, to be divided into shares of such amount, as may be specified in the resolution.” F 68. In other words, the Authorised Capital cannot be increased by the Board of Directors. It is out of the Authorised Capital that a company issues shares. It then becomes the Issued Capital. Whatever is issued, need not be subscribed to. Whatever is subscribed to, would become the Subscribed Capital. Paid-up Capital is defined in Section 2(32) of the Companies Act, 1956 as including capital credited as paid-up. The G Subscribed Capital may be wholly or partly paid-up. 69. We proceed on the basis that an increase in the Authorised Capital does not fall within the powers of the Board, as contemplated in Section 291 of the Act. In Nanalal Zaver (supra), this Court was H 280 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.