But in Rule 19(viii) of the same rules, it is stated that if a requisition is made the general secretary has to C convenespecial meeting within 30 days from the date of receipt of such requisition. Even when the rules were framed a clear difference and distinction between holding a meeting and convening a meeting was kept in view. The learned single Judge in paragraphs 38 to 41 of the under appeal, referring to various decisions, has taken the view that convening a meeting is D to call for a meeting. We agree with the same. As already noticed above, even otherwise the plaintiff herself had convened the meeting. The defendant having been expelled on 19.5.1997 from the primary membership of the party, prima facie, he had no locus standi to convene the meeting of the general council. E 74. Nothing prevented even the requisitioning members participating in the meeting convened by the plaintiff to ventilate their grievances, even though such a meeting was not called on requisition, as according to the plaintiff there was no requisition to call for such a meeting. Under the circumstances when the F requisition was not at all received by the plaintiff to convene a general council meeting, the defendant has been expelled from the primary membership of the party on 19.5.1997 itself and who had no locus-standi to convene a meeting, and the general secretary alone was competent to convene a meeting, prima-facie, we have no hesitation to agree with the finding of the learned G single Judge that the action of the defendant in convening of the meeting of the general council which was held on 3.6.1997 was unauthorised and against the rules of the party.” 21.2. In Wander Ltd. (supra), a decision strongly relied upon by the learned counsel for the appellants, this Court explained the principle H 1168 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A that ordinarily, the Appellate Court would not be interfering with the exercise of discretion by the Court of first instance and substitute its own discretion except in the cases where discretion was shown to have been exercised arbitrarily, capriciously or perversely or against the settled principles of law. This Court observed and held as under: - B “9. Usually, the prayer for grant of an interlocutory injunction is at a stage when the existence of the legal right asserted by the plaintiff and its alleged violation are both contested and uncertain and remain uncertain till they are established at the trial on evidence. The court, at this stage, acts on certain well settled principles of administration of this form of interlocutory remedy C which is both temporary and discretionary. The object of the interlocutory injunction, it is stated “...is to protect the plaintiff against injury by violation of his rights for which he could not adequately be compensated in damages recoverable in the action if the uncertainty were D resolved in his favour at the trial. The need for such protection must be weighed against the corresponding need of the defendant to be protected against injury resulting from his having been prevented from exercising his own legal rights for which he could not be adequately compensated.