In the fi eld of international arbitration, neutrality is generally related to the nationality of the arbitrator. In the international sphere, the “appearance of neutrality” is considered equally important, which means that an arbitrator is neutral if his nationality is diff erent from that of the parties. However, that is not the aspect which is being considered and the term “neutrality” used is relatable to impartiality and independence of the arbitrators, without any bias towards any of the parties. In fact, the term “neutrality of arbitrators” is commonly used in this context as well. (See: Voestalpine Schienen GMBH (supra)) 91. Keeping in mind the aforequoted recommendation of the Law Commission, with which spirit, Section 12 has been amended by the Amendment Act, 2015, it is manifest that the main purpose for amending the provision was to provide for neutrality of arbitrators. In to achieve this, sub-section (5) of Section 12 lays down that notwithstanding any prior LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 999 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] agreement to the contrary, any person whose relationship with the parties or counsel or the subject-matter of the dispute falls under any of the categories specifi ed in the Seventh Schedule, he shall be ineligible to be appointed as an arbitrator. In such an eventuality i.e. when the arbitration clause fi nds foul with the amended provisions extracted above, the appointment of an arbitrator would be beyond pale of the arbitration agreement, empowering the court to appoint such arbitrator(s) as may be permissible. That would be the eff ect of the non obstante clause contained in sub-section (5) of Section 12 and the other party cannot insist on appointment of the arbitrator in terms of the arbitration agreement. (See: Voestalpine Schienen GMBH (supra)) 92. There are a plethora of s of this Court even prior to the amendment of Section 12, where courts have appointed the arbitrators, giving a go-by to the agreed arbitration clause in certain contingencies and situations, having regard to the provisions of unamended Section 11(8) of the Act which, inter alia, provided that while appointing the arbitrator, Chief Justice, or the person or the institution designated by him, shall have regard to the other conditions as are likely to secure the appointment of an independent and impartial arbitrator. See Datar Switchgears Ltd. v. Tata Finance Ltd reported in (2000) 8 SCC 151, Punj Lloyd Ltd. v. Petronet MHB Ltd. reported in (2006) 2 SCC 638, Union of India v. Bharat Battery Mfg. Co. (P) Ltd. reported in (2007) 7 SCC 684, Deep Trading Co. v. Indian Oil Corpn. reported in (2013) 4 SCC 35, Union of India v. Singh Builders Syndicate reported in (2009) 4 SCC 523 and North Eastern Railway v. Tripple Engg. Works reported in (2014) 9 SCC 288. 93. Taking note of the aforesaid s, this Court in Union of India and Others v. Uttar Pradesh State Bridge Corporation Limited reported in (2015) 2 SCC 52 summed up the position in the following manner: “13.