Furthermore, constant monitoring of the existence of vacancies and their fi lling up shall take place. (13) NCSK, NCSC, NCST and the Union government are required to co-ordinate and prepare training and education modules, for information and use by district and state level agencies, under the 2013 Act. (14) A portal and a dashboard, containing all relevant information, including the information relating to sewer deaths, and victims, and the status of compensation disbursement, as well as rehabilitation measures taken, and existing and available rehabilitation policies shall be developed and launched at an early date. Conclusion “For ours is a battle not for wealth or for power. It is a battle for freedom. It is the battle of reclamation of human personality.”46 Dr. B. R. Ambedkar 97. If we are to be truly equal, in all respects the commitment that the constitution makers gave to all sections of the society, by entrenching emancipatory provisions, such as Articles 15 (2), 17, 23 and 24, each of us must live up to its promise. The Union and the States are duty bound to ensure that the practice of manual scavenging is completely eradicated. Each of us owe it to this large segment of our population, who have remained unseen, unheard and muted, in bondage, systematically trapped in inhumane conditions. The conferment of entitlements and placement of obligations upon the Union and the States, through express prohibitions in the constitution, and provisions of the 2013 Act, mean that they are obliged to give real meaning to them, and implement the provisions in the letter and spirit. Upon all of us citizens lie, the duty of realizing true fraternity, which 46 Address at the All-India Depressed Classes Conference held at Nagpur in July 1942 113 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. is at the root of these injunctions. Not without reason does our Constitution place great emphasis on the value of dignity and fraternity, for without these two all other liberties are chimera, a promise of unreality. It is all of us who today proudly bask in the achievements of our republic, who have to awake and arise, so that the darkness which has been the fate of generations of our people is dispelled, and they enjoy all those freedoms, and justice (social, economic and political) that we take for granted. 98. Lastly, this court also expresses its gratitude to Amicus Mr. K Parmeshwar for his valuable contribution and eff orts. List the matter on 01.02.2024. Headnotes prepared by: Directions issued. Divya Pandey