Undoubtedly, the rulers of the Princely States, had a contemporaneous and parallel understanding of the 70 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. consequences of accession – the loss of sovereignty. Indeed, this was one of the factors (if not the main factor) which caused some of the Princely States (such as Hyderabad) to hesitate in acceding to India. The following portions of the Objectives Resolution are of particular signifi cance: a. Paragraph 2 indicated that the territories which acceded would be acceding to the sovereign country of India; b. Paragraph 3 indicated that the acceding territories would retain some level of autonomy (which is diff erent from sovereignty); c. Paragraph 4 indicated that the sovereignty of India was derived from its people as a whole. This included the people of the acceding territories; and d. Paragraph 7 reinforced that the centrality of sovereignty vests with the people of the country as a whole. 109. On 20 February 1947, Clement Attlee, the Prime Minister of United Kingdom announced that: a. The British Government would grant full self-government to British India by 30 June 1948; and b. The future of the Princely States would be decided after the date of fi nal transfer was determined. 110. On 3 June 1947, representatives of the Indian National Congress, the Muslim League and the Sikh Community came to an agreement with Lord Mountbatten, the agreement being known as the ‘Mountbatten Plan’. The Mountbatten Plan inter alia envisaged: a. The partition of British India; b. Grant of Dominion status to successor governments; c. Autonomy and sovereignty to India and Pakistan; d. Adoption of Constitutions by both the nations; and e. An option to Princely States to either join India or Pakistan. 111. On 13 June 1947, a meeting was convened by Lord Mountbatten with Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel, Acharya Kripalani, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 71 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Liaquat Ali Khan, Sardar Abdul Nishtar and Sardar Baldev Singh, at which the creation of a States’ Department was envisaged. It was envisaged that: “That it would be advantageous if the Government of India were to set up a new Department, possibly called the “States Department”, to deal with matter of common concern with the States; that, if this were done, the new Department should be divided into two sections, ready for the partition of the country and that the existing Political Department and the Political Adviser should give all possible assistance and advice in the formation of this new Department” 112. On 15 June 1947, the Congress Working Committee on States repudiated the British perspective that the lapse of paramountcy would result in the creation of independent states. It stated that : “The committee does not agree with the theory of paramountcy as enunciated and interpreted by the British Government; but even if that is accepted, the consequences that fl ow from the lapse of paramountcy are limited in extent. The privileges and obligations as well as the subsisting rights as between the States and the Government of India cannot be adversely aff ected by the lapse of paramountcy.