22. The latest is of 2023 in the case of Subhash Chander (supra). In this case, the Court held that rate of annual increase could vary from 8% to 15% per year. However, considering the facts of the said case, this Court had awarded 10% annual increase cumulatively for a period of two years only. 23. From the above, we notice that the consistent view taken by this Court for awarding annual increase to determine the just compensation varies from case to case and the period to be applied is a major factor to be considered. In the present case, the period is 11 years which is pretty large as compared to the time period considered in the cases referred to above. 24. Taking an overall view in the matter and the consistent view of this Court, the fair and reasonable compensation in the present case would be best determined if we apply 8% annual increase with cumulative eff ect. This is for the reason that the gap is huge i.e. 11 years. For shorter period 934 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. of 3-5 years, it could have been 10% or 12%. But in no case 15% would be justifi ed for a period of 11 years as awarded by the High Court in the impugned . In the present case, given the 11 years gap, 8% would be considered just and proper. 25. On rough assessment, the compensation would be equivalent to compensation awarded by the Reference Court. The High Court fell in error in enhancing the compensation by applying the cumulative annual increase of 15%. 26. In view of the above, the appeals are allowed. The impugned and of the High Court dated01.06.2016is set aside. The Land Acquisition Collector to calculate the compensation at the rate as determined above. 27. According to the appellant, an amount of Rs.3,72,01,551/- had already been deposited and also disbursed to the respondents. In case, after the fi nal calculation, the Land Acquisition Collector fi nds that any additional amount has been paid to the respondents, the same be recovered in accordance with the law, however, if the fi nal calculation requires some additional amount to be paid to the respondents, the same to be paid within two months from the date of receipt of this . 28. There shall be no as to costs. 29. Pending applications, if any, are disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals allowed. Divya Pandey