While the fi rst two decisions are of ancient vintage, viz.Vadilal Panchal v. Dattatraya Dulaji Ghadigaonkar17 and Chandra Deo Singh v. Prokash Chandra Bose18, being decisions rendered by Benches of 3 (three) and 4 (four) Hon’ble Judges, respectively, the remaining three are decisions of not too distant an origin, viz.Jeff rey J. Diermeier v. State of West Bengal19, Manoj Kumar Tiwari v. Manish Sisodia20 and B.R.K. Aathithan v. Sun Group21 rendered by Benches of 2 (two) Hon’ble Judges of this Court. 32. Vadilal Panchal (supra) arose from the decision of the Bombay High Court reversing an of the Presidency Magistrate under section 203, Cr. PC. In course of a public agitation, one Sitaram died because of a gunshot injury infl icted by the appellant. Upon a complaint being lodged before the Presidency Magistrate, he ed an inquiry by the Superintendent of Police, CID. Materials collected in course of such inquiry suggested that the appellant, who was accused of murdering Sitaram, had exercised his right of self-defence. Considering the same and after extending due opportunity to the complainant, the Presidency Magistrate dismissed the complaint. The Bombay High Court set aside the of dismissal and directed the Presidency Magistrate to issue process against the appellant and deal with the case in accordance with law, on the ground that though Sitaram’s death was indisputable, the accused would have to establish the necessary ingredients of the right of private defence as laid down in section 96 and onwards of the Indian Penal Code; that there was nothing in any of 17 (1961) 1 SCR 1 18 (1964) 1 SCR 639 19 (2010) 6 SCC 243 20 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1434 21 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1705 242 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the sections in Chapter XVI to show that such an exception can be held to be established from the mere report of the police; that there is nothing in sections 202 or 203 of the Cr. PC abrogating the rule as to the presumption laid down in section 105 of the Evidence Act and the mode of proof of exception laid down in imperative language in that section; and that it was not a proper case in which the Presidency Magistrate should have dismissed the complaint under section 203, there being no evidence before him as and by way of proof to establish the exception of the right of private defence pleaded by the accused. 32.1 The question that arose before this Court was, whether the High Court of Bombay was right in its view that when a Magistrate directs an enquiry under section 202 of the Cr. PC for ascertaining the truth or falsehood of a complaint and receives a report from the enquiring offi cer supporting a plea of self-defence made by the person complained against, is it not open to him to hold that the plea is correct on the basis of the report and the statements of witnesses recorded by the enquiring offi cer? Must the Magistrate, as a matter of law, issue process in such a case and leave the person complained against to establish his plea of self-defence at the trial?