38. The conduct of the authorities themselves in subjecting the appellant to screening before the Screening Committee, like they did for Smt. Jayasree Deb Roy (Dutta) and Others, also clearly indicates that even they wanted to treat the appellant’s case on par with the case of Smt. Jayasree Deb Roy (Dutta) and Others. It is on that basis that the appellant was found fi t for absorption as a primary teacher and he was so absorbed. The only reason given in the denying continuity for the appellant while granting continuity of the same for the others is that, in the case of the appellant, this Court had not directed any specifi c regarding continuity of service. Rights under the Master Circular: 39. The appellant’s right fi rst of all fl ows from the Master Circular dated 29.01.1991, as has been rightly contended by learned counsel for the appellant. For the sake of convenience, we extract herein below the relevant clauses:- “4. BENEFITS. 4.1. Substitutes engaged should be paid regular scales of pay and allowances admissible to the post against which they have been appointed irrespective of the nature of duration of the vacancy. 4.2. They be allowed all the rights and privileges as are admissible to temporary railway employees on completion of four months continuous Service. 268 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 4.3. Substitute school teacher may, however, be aff orded temporary status after they have put in continuous service of three months. Their service to be treated as continuous for all purposes except seniority on their eventual absorption against regular posts after selection. 4.4 The conferment of temporary status after completion of four months continuous service in the case of others and three months continuous service in the case of substitute teachers mentioned in paras - 4.2 and 3 above does not entitle them to automatics absorption/ appointment to Railway service unless they are selected in the approved manner for appointment or absorption to regular posts. 4.5 Service of substitutes will count for Pensionary benefi ts from the date of completion of four months (3 months in the case of teachers) continuous service provided it is followed by absorption in regular Group-C’ (Class lll)/Group-’D’ (Class -IV) Service without break.” ... ... “5. Screening of the substitutes for their absorption in regular service:- 5.1 Substitutes, who have acquired temporary status should be screened by screening Committees and not by Selection Boards, Constituted for this purpose be-fore being absorbed in regular Group -’C’ (Class-Ill) and Group-’D’ (Class-IV) posts. Such a screening Committee should consist of at least three members, one of whom should belong to the SC/ST Communities and another to minority communities.” … ... 5. 11 Gaps which may occur in service of substitutes between two engagements should be ignored for the purpose of temporary status on completion of four months services and in case of teachers, on completion of 3 months service.” … … “6. Date of appointment. The date of appointment of a substitute to be recorded in the service book against the column “date of appointment” should be the date SAMIR KUMAR MAJUMDER v. 269 THE UNION OF INDIA & ORS.