[Para 81][679-D, E] E 11. The understanding of this Court in A.K. Gopalan, that deprivation of personal liberty required a physical restraint, underwent a change in Kharak Singh and Gobind . From there, the law marched to the next stage in Satwant Singh Sawhney vs. D. Ramarathnam, Assistant Passport Officer, New Delhi where a Constitution Bench of this Court held by a majority, that the right F to personal liberty included the right of locomotion and right to travel abroad. It was held in the said decision that “liberty” in our Constitution bears the same comprehensive meaning as is given to the expression “liberty” by the 5th and 14th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution and the expression “personal liberty” in G Article 21 only excludes the ingredients of “liberty” enshrined in Article 19 of the Constitution. The Court went on to hold that “the expression “personal liberty” in Art. 21 takes in the right of loco-motion and to travel abroad, but the right to move throughout the territories of India is not covered by it inasmuch as it is specially provided in Art. 19. [Para 88][683-F-H; 684-A] H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 587 12. Technological eavesdropping except in accordance with A the procedure established by law was frowned upon by the Court. This was at a time when mobile phones had not become the of the day and the State monopoly was yet to be replaced by private players such as intermediaries/service providers. Today, the infringement of the right to privacy is mostly by private players B and if fundamental rights cannot be enforced against non--State actors, this right will go for a toss. [Para 97][688-D, E] 13. The expression “collective responsibility” can be traced to some extent, to Article 75(3) insofar as the Union is concerned and to Article 164(2) insofar as the States are concerned. But in C both the Articles, it is the Council of Ministers who are stated to be collectively responsible to the House of the People/Legislative Assembly of the State. Generally collective responsibility of the Council of Ministers either to the House of the People or to the Assembly should be understood to correlate to the decisions and actions of the Council of Ministers and not to every statement D made by every individual Minister. [Para 112][693-F, G] 14. What follows from the discussion is, (i) that the concept of collective responsibility is essentially a political concept; (ii) that the collective responsibility is that of the Council of Ministers; and (iii) that such collective responsibility is to the E House of the People/Legislative Assembly of the State. Generally, such responsibility correlates to (i) the decisions taken; and (ii) the acts of omission and commission done. It is not possible to extend this concept of collective responsibility to any and every statement orally made by a Minister outside the House of the F People/Legislative Assembly. A statement made by a Minister even if traceable to any affairs of the State or for protecting the Government, cannot be attributed vicariously to the Government by invoking the principle of collective responsibility.