Bhausaheb Damodar Modhave and Murlidhar Damodar Modhave, the extent of their individual holdings alone would have to be taken into consideration though, some of the records would refl ect the said two persons holding certain lands jointly KESHAV BHAURAO YEOLE (D) BY LRS. v. MURALIDHAR 957 (D) & ORS. [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] with others. Hence, for the purposes of computation we have confi ned only to the two revenue records available in the original fi le, namely, the account extract of Form No.8A relating to the year August 1977 since the deposition of the landlord came to be recorded on 09.06.1977, 20.06.1978 and that of the respondent on 22.08.1977. When such an exercise is undertaken, the irresistible conclusion which is to be drawn would be that the appellant would be entitled to 8.00 Acres 34 Guntas as computed above which is in tune with principles enunciated in the full Bench Judgement of Bombay High Court in Devidas Narayan More (supra). 29. We do not think that the High Court was correct in remanding the case, in its entirety to the original authority on the ground that the landlord having died pending eviction proceedings, his heirs had to demonstrate afresh, the bonafi de requirement of leased lands for personal cultivation. In Gaya Prasad v. Pradeep Srivastava12, this Court, while considering an eviction petition fi led by the landlord against his tenant, laid down the principle that the crucial date for deciding the bona fi des of the requirement of the landlord is the date of his application for eviction. Events occurring subsequent to this date have no bearing on the issue as to whether the eviction was a bona fi de requirement. It was reasoned therein that if every subsequent development was to be accounted for in the post-petition period, there would perhaps be no end so long as the unfortunate situation in the litigative slow-process system subsists. Therefore, the High Court fell into grave error in ing remand of the case by considering, events which occurred subsequent to the date of fi ling of the petition. 30. We may also record here that it was unnecessary for the revisional authority to remand the case for framing an issue on the applicability of Section 31A-31D. The applicability of those provisions was dependent on the question of whether the landlord’s holding exceeded one unit of economic holding. That question was merely one of law, the fact of the landlord’s holding having already come on record before the original authority. The revisional authority could have taken upon itself the task of deciding the question and disposing off the dispute before itself. Be that as it may. 12 2001 2 SCC 604; See also Shakuntala Bai v. Narayan Das, 2004 5 SCC 772, Para 10 958 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 31. In light of the discussion and analysis made above, we allow this appeal by setting aside the impugned dated 29.07.2005 passed in Writ Petition No.2193 of 1981 (Bombay) by the High court of Judicature of Bombay and the application fi led by the original landlord under Section 43A of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1956 is allowed in part and hold that appellants (legal heirs of original landlord) are entitled to 8.34 Acres in Survey No.291 and the jurisdictional tehsildar shall take steps to handover physical possession of the said land to the appellants as indicated herein expeditiously and at any rate within an outer limit of three months from the date of receipt of this .