The credibility of the three eyewitnesses is impeached, as they were related to the deceased and further, according to the appellants, their statements otherwise suffer from material contradictions and are implausible. Learned counsel submitted that taken as a whole, the evidence cannot lead one to conclude that the finding of common intention F is made out. Learned counsel argued that the dispute arose in a flash, suddenly at the spot when the deceased -Vrindawan started getting the disputed land levelled, due to which the appellants (who lived in the same locality in adjacent houses) went out of their houses, and allegedly assaulted the deceased. Therefore, in these circumstances, it is argued, G the appellants are liable only to the extent of their individual overt acts. It was argued alternatively, that the incident happened all of a sudden and without premeditation. The appellants had no intention to cause death but deter Vrindawan from doing any activity on the disputed land. Therefore, the conviction of the appellants may not travel beyond Section 304 Part-II IPC. H PRASAD PRADHAN & ANR. v. THE STATE OF 247 CHHATTISGARH [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 6. Learned counsel for the appellants also argues that the death A of Vrindawan took place after about 20 days of the incident on account of complication in the surgery and it cannot be said that the cause of death was injury as the prosecution could not prove that injury caused to the deceased, in ordinary course of nature, was sufficient to cause death. Learned counsel highlighted that the injury caused by the appellants, B particularly the head injury, was stitched in and had healed. Learned counsel emphasized that Vrindawan died as a result of cardio-respiratory failure, as stated by PW14. Such being the case, the finding of the courts below that the appellants were guilty of the offence of Section 302 IPC was clearly in error of law. It was argued that arguendo, if the prosecution could be said to have proved the attack by the appellants on C the deceased, the cause of death neither being immediate nor a direct result of it, there is no question of the ingredients of the offence of murder under Section 302 IPC having been proved beyond reasonable doubt. 7. It was submitted that taken together, the appellants could, at D the highest, be convicted of the offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304 Part I IPC since it was neither their intention to kill the deceased nor was the injury sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature – which was borne out by the circumstance of him surviving the attack for 20 days. It was submitted that the appellants should be granted the benefit of a modified conviction E to one, under that provision. Justifying the submission, the learned counsel stated that there was a prior history of disputes between the appellants and the deceased. The deceased’s conduct in calling for a heavy JCB machine, to get the tank on the property repaired, was a sudden provocation, given the history of bad blood, which the prosecution witness PW1 in fact, deposed to.