[2023] 15 S.C.R. 848 : 2023 INSC 1073 CASE DETAILS SAUMYA CHAURASIA v. DIRECTORATE OF ENFORCEMENT (Criminal Appeal No.3840 of 2023) DECEMBER 14, 2023 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE AND BELA M. TRIVEDI, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Appellant aggrieved by the of the High Court dismissing the bail application fi led u/s.439 of Cr.P.C. has preferred this appeal. (i) Whether the appellant was prima facie found involved in the commission of the off ence of money laundering as defi ned in s.3 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002; (ii) Whether the appellant being a woman should be granted the benefi t of the fi rst proviso to s.45 of the PMLA; (iii) Whether an impudent attempt was sought to be made by alleging all the throughout in the synopsis, list of dates, questions of law and the grounds in the SLP that the High Court had grossly erred in not appreciating the charge-sheet and the cognizance . Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 – s.3 and s.45 – An FIR was registered against one ‘S’ for the off ences u/ss.186, 204, 120-B, 353 and 384 of IPC – Thereafter, the Directorate of Enforcement registered an ECIR and appellant was arrested – The Special Court rejected bail application of the appellant – Then appellant fi led a bail application being before the High Court – When the in the bail application was awaited in the High Court, the Police fi led the charge-sheet against the accused ‘S’ – The Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate took cognizance u/ss. 204 and 353 of the IPC on the charge-sheet submitted against ‘S’ – After which bail application of the appellant was rejected by the High Court – Propriety: Held: The evidence relating to strong relations between the appellant and ‘S’, between the appellant and other persons ‘M’ and ‘A’; the evidences 848 SAUMYA CHAURASIA v. DIRECTORATE OF 849 ENFORCEMENT of movement of funds acquired out of extortion syndicate run by ‘S’ to ‘M’, proxy of the appellant; the utilization of proceeds of crime and acquisition of properties by the appellant in the name of her mother and cousin ‘A’ along with the details of the said properties etc. have been detailed in the said prosecution complaint, which leave no doubt in the mind of the Court that prima facie the appellant has been found involved in the commission of the off ence of money laundering as defi ned in s.3 of the said Act – The Courts should exercise the discretion judiciously using their prudence, while granting the benefi t of the fi rst proviso to s.45 PMLA to the category of persons (a person who is under the age of sixteen years or is a woman or is sick or infi rm) mentioned therein – The extent of involvement of the persons falling in such category in the alleged off ences, the nature of evidence collected by the investigating agency etc., would be material considerations – In the instant case, there is suffi cient evidence collected by the respondent Enforcement Directorate to prima facie come to the conclusion that the appellant who was Deputy Secretary and OSD in the Offi ce of the Chief Minister, was actively involved in the off ence of Money Laundering as defi ned in s.3 of the PMLA – As against that there is nothing on record to satisfy the conscience of the Court that the appellant is not guilty of the said off ence and the special benefi t as contemplated in the proviso to s.45 should be granted to the appellant who is a lady.