It is clear from the records submitted that the Central Government “assured” the Central Board of the Bank that sufficient safeguards would be taken while embarking on the process of demonetisation and that it would also result in reducing bank notes in the economy and a switch over to the digitalisation D of the economy. The Central Board of the Bank, in resolving to opine onthe measure of demonetisation to the Central Government, acted only on such “assurances”. 19.3 Further, the Central Government cannot in the guise of seeking an opinion on its proposal to demonetise bank notes, E “obtain” a “recommendation from the Central Board of the Bank” as if it is acting under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, and consequently, issue a gazette notification by which demonetisation of bank notes would be given effect to. Such a procedure, in my view, would be contrary to the import of sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, inasmuch F as the Central Government cannot act under the said provision by the issuance of a notification, as if a “recommendation” has been made by the Central Board of the Bank when in fact, what actually transpired in the instant case, was that the Central Government initiated the G process of demonetisation by formulating a proposal in this regard and subsequently secured the imprimatur of the Bank on such proposal. In fact, the Central Board of the Bank has no jurisdiction to “recommend” demonetisation of bank notes of “all series” of “all denomination” to the Central Government, as already held above. H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 223 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 19.4 The powers of the Central Board of the Bank are restrictive A in nature inasmuch as it can only recommend that a particular series of a particular denomination would cease to be legal tender. Hence, the Central Government cannot rely on the semblance of a “recommendation made to it by the Central Board of the Bankunder sub-section (2) of Section 26 of B the Act” when it initiates the process of demonetisation. The Central Government also cannot “obtain” any recommendation to that effect, and if it has done so, it would imply that the Central Board of the Bank is acting at the behest of the Central Government, only to concur with what the Central Government intends to do. Such an opinion would C not be on the basis of any independent application of mind of the experts who form the Central Board of the Bank. Moreover, when the Central Government seeks the opinion of the Central Board of the Bank to its proposal for demonetisation, the latter would have to be given some time to consider the pros and cons and the impact that it would D have on the citizens of India, as bank notes are a species of negotiable instruments and a medium through which goods and services are traded andtherefore, they are the lifeline of the economy. The Central Government also failed to indicate that the demonetised currency had lost the E guarantee provided vide sub-section (1) of Section 26 of the Act in the impugned notification.