Now, in the present case, Atul Products Limited has undoubtedly G interest in the business of the assessee, since Atul Products Limited holds 50 per cent of the share capital of the assessee and has interest as shareholder in the business carried on by the assessee. But it is not possible to say that the assessee has any interest in the business of Atul Products Limited. There H 626 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A are two points of view from which the relationship between the assessee and Atul Products Limited may be considered. First, it may be noted that Atul Products Limited is a shareholder of the assessee to the extent of 50 per cent of the share capital. But we fail to see how it can be said that a limited company has any interest, direct or indirect, in the B business carried on by one of its shareholders, even though the shareholding of such shareholder may be 50 per cent. Secondly, Atul Products Limited is a wholesale buyer of the dyes manufactured by the assessee but even then, since the transactions between them are principal to principal, it is C difficult to appreciate how the assessee could be said by virtue of that circumstance to have any interest, direct or indirect, in the business of Atul Products Limited. ‘Atul Products Limited buys dyes from the assessee in wholesale on principal-to- principal basis and then sells such dyes in the market. The assessee is not concerned whether Atul Products Limited sells D or does not sell the dyes purchased by it from the assessee nor is it concerned whether Atul Products Limited sells such dyes at a loss. It is impossible to contend that the assessee has any direct or indirect interest in the business of a wholesale dealer who purchases dyes from it on principal to principal E basis. The same position obtains in regard to Crescent Dyes and Chemicals Limited. Perhaps the position in regard to Crescent Dyes and Chemicals Limited is much stronger then that in regard to Atul Products Limited. Crescent Dyes and Chemicals Limited is not even a shareholder of the assessee and it has, therefore, no interest direct or indirect in the F business of the assessee.” 12. In the subsequent decision Hind Lamp Ltd. (supra), the same principle was echoed: “It is not enough that the assessee has an interest, or indirect G in the business of person alleged to be a related person nor is it enough that the person alleged to be a related person has an interest, direct or indirect in the business of the assessee. To attract the applicability of the first part of the definition, the assessee and the person alleged to be a related person must have interest direct or indirect in the business of each H M/S BILAG INDUSTRIES P. LTD. v. COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. 627 DAMAN [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] other. Each of them must have a direct or indirect interest in A the business of the other.