This Court rejected the argument of the State that Section 50 was not applicable as no further recoveries were made from the person of the accused after the recovery from the bag. Accordingly, the recovery was held to be in violation of Section 50 and the accused’s acquittal was upheld. It was held that:- “15. The legal proposition advanced by Mr. Terdal, based on the distinction between search of someone’s person and the baggage carried by him/her is unexceptionable but his submission is not supported by the facts of this case. We have carefully gone through the records of this case. From the evidence of the complainant, PW 1 and the seizure memo (fard baramdegi) Ext Ka-2 it is evident that the two respondents were subjected to a body search in course of which packets of heroin were found in the shoulder bags carried by them and were recovered from there. RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 355 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 16. The facts of the case in hand are very close to another decision of this Court in Dilip and Anr. v. State of M.P. where it was observed in paragraphs 12, 15 and 16 as under: … 17. On the facts of the case we fi nd that the alleged recovery of heroin from the respondents was made in complete violation of the provisions of Section 50 of the Act.” 100. A similar view was taken by a Division Bench of this Court in Parmanand (supra). This Court was called upon to consider whether Section 50 ought to apply when the search of the person and his bag is carried out. This Court held that if the bag is searched without searching the accused, then Section 50 would have no application. However, as a corollary it was held that if the bag carried by the accused is searched along with his search, then Section 50 would be applicable. The relevant portion is as under:- “15. Thus, if merely a bag carried by a person is searched without there being any search of his person, Section 50 of the NDPS Act will have no application. But if the bag carried by him is searched and his person is also searched, Section 50 of the NDPS Act will have application. In this case, Respondent 1 Parmanand’s bag was searched. From the bag, opium was recovered. His personal search was also carried out. Personal search of Respondent 2 Surajmal was also conducted. Therefore, in light of s of this Court mentioned in the preceding paragraphs, Section 50 of the NDPS Act will have application.” (Emphasis supplied) 101. Parmanand (supra) was relied upon by a three-Judge Bench in SK. Raju (supra). In the said case, the police received information that a drug dealer was likely to visit a park. The accused after being apprehended was searched and was found to be in possession of 1.5 kgs of charas, which was recovered from a jute bag he was carrying. This Court, while holding that the search was not vitiated as Section 50 was complied with, held that whenever a person and his or her bag is searched, irrespective from where the recovery is made, Section 50 must be complied with.