[2023] 15 S.C.R. 280 : 2023 INSC 1023 CASE DETAILS M/S. IFCI LIMITED v. SUTANU SINHA & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 4929 of 2023) NOVEMBER 09, 2023 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, SUDHANSHU DHULIA AND AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the Compulsorily Convertible Debentures-CCDs with a “put option” and in the event of default on part of ICTL-borrower during the window period, can be said to be really a debt and not an equity. Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 – s. 62 – Appeal to Supreme Court – Jurisdiction u/s. 62 – Compulsorily Convertible Debentures-CCDs to be categorised as debt or an equity – On facts, project awarded in terms of Concession Agreement executed between the Authority and IVRCL-ICTL – ICTL was a subsidiary company of IVRCL holding 100 per cent share capital of ICTL – Consortium of lenders provided term loan facility to the ICTL to execute company loan agreement, and the balance project was to be fi nanced by IVRCL through equity infusion – As a part of the equity component of the project, the fi nancing was to be obtained through Compulsorily Convertible Debentures-CCDs – Date of conversion into equity from the CCDs was stated – Appellant-IFCI subscribed to the CCDs at the request of ICTL in terms of a Debenture Subscription Agreement – Project ran into fi nancial diffi culties – Invocation of Corporate guarantees of IVRCL and initiation of Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process-CIRP – IFCI claimed that the amount owing to it had a status of a debt, and lodged a claim in that behalf, however, was rejected by the Resolution Professional and an entire amount claimed was refused – NCLT and NCLAT upheld the same holding that any 280 M/S. IFCI LIMITED v. SUTANU SINHA & ORS. 281 instrument which is compulsorily convertible into shares is regarded as an “equity” and not a loan or debt - Correctness: Held: ICTL does not have a liability or obligation qua the appellant because the appellant is actually an equity participant and does not have a debt to be repaid – Debenture subscription agreement clearly defi nes ICTL as the special purpose vehicle while IVRCL is the sponsor company and IFCI is the lender – Appellant was provided security under the Debentures Subscription Agreement but the obligations are of the sponsor company, it cannot be of ICTL – Unless the debt is of the ICTL, the appellant cannot seek a recovery of the amount on the basis of being a creditor of the ICTL – Contract means as it reads – It is diffi cult to read into or add to what the document says about a CCD – There is nothing which the appellant can recover from the sponsor company, there being no assets and funds – While in the ICTL it is being treated as a shareholder and thus, does not benefi t as none of the shareholders-original investors and the appellant get any benefi t under the scheme which has been approved – In the impugned , it was held that treating them as a debt would tantamount to breach of the concessional agreement and the common loan agreement – Investment was clearly in the nature of debentures which were compulsorily convertible into equity and nowhere is it stipulated that these CCDs would partake the character of fi nancial debt on the happening of a particular event – Amount was treated as an equity alone and not as a debt – Furthermore, the jurisdiction comes from s. 62 – Jurisdiction is restricted to a question of law akin to a second appeal – Law does not envisage unlimited tiers of scrutiny and every tier of scrutiny has its own parameters – Thus, the lis inter se the parties has to be analyzed within the four corners of the ambit of the statutory jurisdiction conferred on this Court – Appeal does not raise any such question of law and that the fi ndings of the courts below are in accordance with settled principles.