There is no provision either in the Companies Act or in the Companies (Court) Rules which restricts claims and debts only till the date of C the winding up . Pre-liquidation claims, which had arisen before the Official Liquidator took possession of the assets and properties of the company, would necessarily have to be estimated by the Official Liquidator on the basis of available records and the proof adduced by the claimant and/or creditor. Post liquidation debts and claims D do not require to be proved. Section 530 does not absolve a company in liquidation, represented by the Official Liquidator, of its liability towards revenue and taxes. The said Section merely provides for payment of revenues, taxes, cesses and rates which became due and payable within 12 months E from the relevant date, being the date of the winding up in priority to other pre-liquidation debts. Post liquidation liabilities are to be treated as part of the costs of winding up of the company in liquidation and such liabilities get priority over all other liabilities of the company. F **** **** **** In winding up, liquidators who carry on the company’s business continue with rateable occupation of the premises and they are in rateable occupation even if they occupy merely for the purpose of fulfilling the outstanding contracts or preventing damage to the G company’s property (Halsbury Laws of England, 4th Edn., Vol.39). It is true that the Official Liquidator did not carry on any business on behalf of the company. The Official Liquidator, however, retained possession for beneficial winding up of the company. H OFFICIAL LIQUIDATOR v. UJJAIN NAGAR PALIKA NIGAM 1091 & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] As rightly argued by Mr. Mukherjee, appointed as amicus curiae A by this Court, and by Mr. Banerjee, appearing on behalf of the applicant, the expenses incurred in winding up are payable, not provable. The principle of priority of certain creditors is applicable to liability of the company at the time when the for winding up of the company was made. Costs and expenses incurred on B behalf of the company, in winding up ought to have paid in full.” 7.2. The Company Court also took note of the fact that the appellant OL had rejected the claims only on the ground that he was not liable to pay post-liquidation expenses but had neither objected to the determination of annual value nor filed any appeal under Section 184 of C the M.P. Act of 1956. The Court observed that unless an objection or appeal was filed and the demand was reduced, the OL would be bound to discharge the tax liability, as per the claim of the Nigam, even for post-liquidation period. Therefore, the Court set aside the rejection notice by the appellant but extended him liberty to file an appeal against the demands, if so chosen, within thirty days and also provided that the D appellant would, within eight weeks from the date of receipt of the in appeal under Section 184 of the M.P.