development of the cities and urban areas and issued directions A for demolition of the illegal/unauthorized constructions, those in power have come forward to protect the wrong doers either by issuing administrative s or enacting laws for regularization of illegal and unauthorized constructions in the name of compassion and hardship. Such actions have done irreparable harm to the B concept of planned development of the cities and urban areas. It is high time that the executive and political apparatus of the State take serious view of the menace of illegal and unauthorized constructions and stop their support to the lobbies of affluent class of builders and others, else even the rural areas of the country will soon witness similar chaotic C conditions.” [Emphasis supplied] 126. A strong reliance has been placed on behalf of the respondents on the provisions of the 2017 Rules. It has been submitted that the 2017 D Rules clearly permit construction of three storeys. It is submitted that ‘storey’ has been defined to mean any horizontal division of a building so constructed as to be capable of use as a living apartment, although such horizontal division may not extend over the whole depth or width of the building but shall not include mezzanine floor. It is therefore submitted that when the 2017 Rules itself 1permit construction of three storeys E having independent kitchens etc. and the 2017 Rules having not been challenged, it is not permissible for the appellants to argue that three persons cannot be permitted to occupy three different dwelling units on each storey. 127. We are unable to accept the said argument. It is a different F matter that three co-sharers decide to construct a building for residential house and construct three storeys for occupation by each of the co-sharers. However, allowing such modus operandi to continue, which, in effect, nullifies the effect of repeal of the 2001 Rules, enactment of the 2007 Rules, and recalling an attempt to reintroduce apartmentalization in the draft CMP-2031, would be permitting to do something indirectly G which is not permissible in law. 128. Another aspect that needs to be taken into consideration is that the CMP-2031 as well as the report of the said Board emphasizes that in to maintain the “Corbusian Chandigarh” status of Phase-I H 664 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A of Chandigarh, no redensification is to be done without the permission of the Heritage Committee. Undisputedly, permitting three apartments to be constructed in one dwelling unit would result in increasing the density in population in the Le Corbusier zone. This, in our view, cannot be done without the same being approved by the Heritage Committee and the Central Government. B 129. It further needs to be noted that one of the guiding principles that has been taken into consideration by the said Board is that the same practices which were followed while developing the New Delhi Municipal area (Lutyen’s Delhi) be followed in respect of the city of Chandigarh. Insofar as the practices that were followed while developing New Delhi C Municipal area (Lutyen’s Delhi), a Bench consisting of three learned Judges of this Court had an occasion to consider the same in the case of New Delhi Municipal Council and Others v. Tanvi Trading and Credit Private Limited and Others17, wherein this Court observed thus: “6.