Act only till the publication of auction notice and not thereafter, in light of the amended Section 13(8). [Paras 64 and 68] Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002 – r.9(2) and r.9(6) – Whether a Bank after having confi rmed the sale under r.9(2), can withhold the sale certifi cate u/r.9(6) and enter into a private arrangement with a borrower. Held: The Bank after having confi rmed the sale under Rule 9(2) of the Rules of 2002 could not have withhold the sale certifi cate under Rule 9(6) of the Rules of 2002 and enter into a private arrangement with a borrower. [Para 105] Constitution of India – Art. 226 – Scope u/Art. 226, to apply equitable considerations to override the outcome contemplated by the statutory auction process prescribed by the SARFAESI Act – Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest Act, 2002 (SARFAESI Act). Held: The High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution could not have applied equitable considerations to overreach the outcome contemplated by the statutory auction process prescribed under the SARFAESI Act. [Para 105] The Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 – s.13(8) – Interpretation of. Auction - Auction process under the SARFAESI Act. Auction – Public Auction – Sanctity of – Courts ought to be loath in interfering with auctions. Held: As per the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, once the borrower fails to tender the entire amount of dues with all cost & charges to the secured creditor before the publication of auction notice, his right of redemption of mortgage shall stand extinguished / waived on the date of publication of the auction notice in the newspaper in accordance with Rule 8 of the Rules of 2002 – It is the duty of the courts to zealously protect the sanctity of any auction conducted – The courts ought to be loath in interfering with auctions, otherwise it would frustrate the very object and purpose behind auctions and deter public confi dence and participation in the same – Any other interpretation of the amended Section 13(8) will lead to a situation where multiple redemption off ers would be encouraged by a mischievous borrower, the members of the public would be dissuaded and discouraged CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 57 LTD. & ORS. from in participating in the auction process and the overall sanctity of the auction process would be frustrated thereby defeating the very purpose of the SARFAESI Act – Thus, it is in the larger public interest to maintain the sanctity of the auction process under the SARFAESI Act. [Paras 86, 87 and 88] Equity – Law and Equity – Relationship. Held: Equity cannot supplant the law – Equity has to follow law, if the law is clear and unambiguous. [Para 104] LIST OF CITATIONS AND OTHER REFERENCES Concern Readymix, rep. by its Proprietor, Smt. Y. Sunitha v. Authorised Offi cer, Corporation Bank and Anr. 2018 SCC OnLine Hyd 783; M/s Pal Alloys and Metal India Private Limited & Ors.