These H 668 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A changes in no way jeopardize the singular and outstanding value of Lucio Costa’s Pilot Project (Plano Piloto), which remains wholly preserved, both physically and symbolically. It is possible based on the still undeveloped areas around Brasilia, the surrounding green spaces, and the location’s topography, to clearly distinguish the city’s limits from the territorial expanse in B which it was introduced, singular attributes that enable analysis of the site without losing any of the basic information critical to transmitting its continued Outstanding Universal Value.” 140. It will also be relevant to extract the following passage from the said website, which would show the steps taken for protection of the C urban framework of Brasilia: “Protection of the Urban Framework of Brasilia is governed by a series of legal instruments intended to ensure its preservation on three operational levels: local, federal, and global. At the local level, a set normative instruments consisting of specific laws aimed at protecting the heritage site as well as highly complex body of D technical and operational urban legislation based on the Federal District’s Urban and Land Settlement Policy have been put in place.” 141. The said website would also show that similar steps have been taken for protecting the White City of Tel-Aviv and the city of Le E Havre, rebuilt by Auguste Perret. 142. We find that similar steps need to be taken by the Chandigarh Administration as well as the Government of India for protecting the heritage status of Le Corbusier’s Chandigarh. 143. In this respect, we may also refer to the Directive Principles contained in Articles 49 and 51A(f) and (g) of the Constitution of India, F which read thus: “49. Protection of monuments and places and objects of national importance. – It shall be the obligation of the State to protect every monument or place or object of artistic or historic interest, declared by or under law made by Parliament to be of G national importance, from spoliation, disfigurement, destruction, removal, disposal or export, as the case may be. 51A. Fundamental duties. – It shall be the duty of every citizen of India – …….. H (f) to value and preserve the rich heritage of our composite culture; RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 669 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] (g) to protect and improve the natural environment including forests, A lakes, rivers and wild life, and to have compassion for living creatures;” 144. A conjoint reading of the aforesaid provisions would reveal that a responsibility is cast upon the State as well as the citizens to protect and conserve the heritage. Undisputedly, Phase-I of Chandigarh, B i.e., Corbusian Chandigarh, even according to the respondent-authorities, possesses a heritage status. The CMP-2031 itself emphasizes that Chandigarh should be included in the UNESCO’s World Heritage List due to its outstanding universal value. As already discussed hereinabove, the fragmentation/apartmentalization of residential units in Phase-I of Chandigarh is destructive of the vision of Le Corbusier.