4.1 Under the circumstances, the High Court has committed a G very serious error in directing to legalise the unauthorized occupation and possession made by the original writ petitioners on payment of market price. Even the other directions issued by the High Court are not capable of being implemented, namely, to segregate the vacant land from the residential house and which can be separated and utilised for earmarked H THE STATE OF HARYANA AND ORS. v. SATPAL & ORS. 19 [M. R. SHAH, J.] purpose, i.e., school premises. The unauthorized construction is in such A a manner and even some areas are not used for residential purpose and some of the area is covered by vegetation and therefore, it is not possible to segregate and separate the same, which can be used for school premises. There is no other panchayati land and/or other land, which is available, which can be used as school premises / playground. The B adjacent land belongs to some private persons and they are not ready to part with their land to be used as school premises / playground. 5. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the impugned and passed by the High Court and the directions issued (reproduced hereinabove) directing to legalise the unauthorized C occupation and possession made by the original writ petitioners on the land, which is earmarked for school premises / playground is unsustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and set aside and is accordingly quashed and set aside. However, the original writ petitioners are granted 12 months’ time to vacate the land, which is occupied by them unauthorizedly and if within one year from today, they do not vacate the D lands in question, the appropriate authority is directed to remove their unauthorized and illegal occupation and possession. With this, the present appeals are allowed to the aforesaid extent. However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no as to costs. E Ankit Gyan Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri and Mahendra Yadav, LCRAs) F G H