It is also important to be mindful of the power dynamics that are mired in sexual harassment at the workplace. There are several considerations and deterrents that a subordinate aggrieved of sexual harassment has to face when they consider reporting sexual misconduct of their superior. In the present case, the complainant was a constable complaining against the respondent who was the head constable - his superior. Without commenting on the merits of the case, it is evident that the discrepancy regarding the date of occurrence was of a minor nature since the event occurred soon after midnight and on the next day. Deeming such a trivial aspect to be of monumental relevance, while invalidating the entirety of the disciplinary proceedings against the respondent and reinstating him to his position renders the complainant’s remedy at nought. The history of legal proceedings such as these is a major factor that contributes to the deterrence that civil and criminal mechanisms pose to persons aggrieved of sexual harassment. The High Court, in this case, was not only incorrect in its interpretation of the jurisdiction of the Commandant and the obligation of the SSFC to furnish reasons under the BSF Act 1968 and Rules therein, but also demonstrated a callous attitude to the gravamen of the proceedings. We implore courts to interpret service rules and statutory regulations governing the prevention of sexual harassment at the workplace in a manner that metes out procedural and substantive justice to all the parties.” (Emphasis supplied) E.2 Whether the Central Complaints Committee could have looked into the second complaint dated 18.09.2012? 45. The High Court in its impugned observed that the Disciplinary Authority had constituted the Central Complaints Committee on the basis of the complaint fi led by the victim. Since, at the time when the Central Complaints Committee came to be constituted, there was only one complaint i.e., the complainant’s fi rst complaint dated 30.08.2011, it necessarily meant that the Central Complaints Committee was mandated and empowered to inquire into only that complaint to which the committee owed UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 541 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] its existence or in other words, the complaint that was before the Disciplinary Authority which led the authority to take the decision of constituting the Central Complaints Committee in the fi rst place. 46. At this juncture, it would be apposite to refer to the 2006 Standing more particularly Clause 10(i), which prescribes the fi rst step for making a complaint of sexual harassment and provides how the complaint and redressal mechanism for sexual harassment is set-into motion. The said provision is being reproduced below: - “10. COMPLAINT MECHANISM i) Any person aggrieved shall prefer a complaint before the Complaints Committee at the earliest point of time.” 47. A bare perusal of the aforementioned provision makes it abundantly clear that the complaint mechanism begins with a complaint being made to the “complaints committee” and as such any inquiry into the complaint of sexual harassment under Rule 14 of the 1965 CCS Rules read with the 2006 Standing begins the moment any complaint is made to a complaints committee specifi ed in Clause 9, be it a Frontier Complaints Committee or a Central Complaints Committee.