We have our doubt as to whether detaining a stray bull D from the street against its wish could give rise to the constitutional writ of habeas corpus or not. In the of A. Nagaraja (supra), the question of elevation of the statutory rights of animals to the realm of fundamental rights has been left at the advisory level or has been framed as a judicial suggestion. We do not want to venture beyond that and leave this exercise to be considered by the appropriate legislative body. E We do not think Article 14 of the Constitution can also be invoked by any animal as a person. While we can test the provisions of an animal welfare legislation, that would be at the instance of a human being or a juridical person who may espouse the cause of animal welfare. 25. We shall next test the argument of the authorities, i.e., the F Union, the three States as also the Animal Welfare Board (in their changed stance) that bovine sports are part of the culture and tradition of the respective States. We have already referred to the relevant provisions of the three Amendment Acts which carries expression to this effect. 26. Ordinarily, whether a particular practice or event is part of G culture or tradition is to be decided by the custom and usage of a particular community or a geographical region which can be translated into an enactment by the appropriate legislature. But here the continuance of the subject sports have been found to be in breach of a Central Statute by a Division Bench of this Court and these three Amendment Acts seek to revive the earlier position. That is the petitioners’ argument. H THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. 465 UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] 27. In to come to a definitive conclusion on this question, A some kind of trial on evidence would have been necessary. It is also not Court’s jurisdiction to decide if a particular event or activity or ritual forms culture or tradition of a community or region. But if a long lasting tradition goes against the law, the law Courts obviously would have to enforce the law. Learned counsel appearing for the parties, however, B have cited different ancient texts and modern literature to justify their respective stands. In Public Interest Litigations, this Court has developed the practice of arriving at a conclusion on subjects of this nature without insisting on proper trial to appreciate certain social or economic conditions going by available reliable literature. In paragraphs 53 and 73 in the case of A. Nagaraja (supra), there is judicial determination about the practice C being offensive to the provisions of the Central Statute. It would be trite to repeat that provisions of a Statute cannot be overridden by a traditional or cultural event. Thus, we accept the argument of the petitioners that at the relevant point of time when the decision in the case of A. Nagaraja (supra) was delivered, the manner in which Jallikattu was performed did D breach the aforesaid provisions of the 1960 Act and hence conducting such sports was impermissible.