v. THE STATE OF 871 HARYANA [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] thereafter, the appellant-convicts snatched the chunni from Poonam and strangulated Devinder and caused his death, they put the dead body in a gunny bag and placed it in the Ambassador car parked near fodder room and on being taken the corpse near to Delhi canal it was thrown into the said canal. 15. It is in the aforesaid context that the specifi c charges framed against the appellants, as extracted above, would assume relevance. Evidently, the very fi rst charge framed against the appellants, as extracted hereinbefore, was under Section 364 read with Section 34, IPC. The phrase ‘common intention’ used in Section 34, IPC implies a pre-arranged plan and acting in concert to the plan. In the decision in Badruddin v. State of UP3 this Court held thus:- “Though establishing common intention is a diffi cult task for the prosecution, yet, however diffi cult it may be, the prosecution has to establish by evidence, whether direct or circumstantial, that there was a plan or meeting of mind of all the assailants to commit the off ence, be it pre-arranged or on the spur of the moment but it must necessarily be before the commission of the crime.” A bare perusal of Section 364, IPC would reveal that to establish an off ence under this Section it must be proved that the person charged with the off ence had the intention at the time of kidnapping or abduction to murder or to dispose of as to be put in danger of being murdered. (See the decision in Gopal & Ors. v. State of Tamil Nadu)4. 16. We have referred to the fi rst charge framed against the appellants under Section 364 read with Section 34, IPC only to indicate that the case of the prosecution, going by the fi rst charge, was that the appellants in furtherance of their common intention kidnapped Devinder to commit his murder. In the contextual situation it is apposite to refer to the decision of a Division Bench of High Court of Delhi in State v. Sushil Sharma5. It was held therein thus:- 3 (1998) 7 SCC 300 4 (1986) 2 SCC 93 5 2007 (94) DRJ 777 (DB) 872 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. “It is well settled that in criminal cases there is no room for conjectures and surmises. The prosecution is supposed to establish its case as it put forth by it and if the case is disbelieved on any aspect by the Court then the Court cannot make out a new case on its own for the prosecution.” 17. We agree with the aforesaid proposition. As a matter of fact, in the appeal which arose from the in Sushil Sharma’s case (supra) this Court only commuted the capital sentence to life sentence. We are not oblivious of the fact in the instant case though the prosecution did not establish its case as is put forth it cannot be said that the Court on its own made out a new case for the prosecution.