If it is the Accused who desires to produce the requisite certificate as part of his defence, this again will depend upon the justice of the case-discretion to be exercised by the Court in accordance with law. (emphasis supplied) B 44. Therefore, we are inclined to agree with the ratio in Sonu by not allowing the objection which is raised at a belated stage that the CDRs are inadmissible in the absence of a Section 65B certificate, especially in cases, where the trial has been completed before 18 September 2014, i.e. before the pronouncement of the decision in Anvar C P.V.. However, we are also mindful of the fact that the instant matter involves the death sentence having been awarded. 45. Most recently, in Mohd. Arif v State (NCT of Delhi)15, a three judge Bench of this Court while deciding a review petition in a case involving the review of a death penalty faced a similar fact situation D where the decisions of the trial court and appellate courts were rendered during the period when Navjot Sandhu was the prevailing law. In that case as well, the Court took note of it being a matter involving a death sentence and held that: “24. Navjot Sandhu was decided on 4.8.2005 i.e., before the E was rendered by the Trial Court in the instant matter. The subsequent s of the High Court and this Court were passed on 13.9.2007 and 10.8.2011 respectively affirming the award of death sentence. These two s were delivered prior to the decision of this Court in Anvar P.V. which was given on 18.9.2014. The s by the trial Court, High Court and F this Court were thus well before the decision in Anvar P.V. and were essentially in the backdrop of law laid down in Navjot Sandhu. If we go by the principle accepted in paragraph 32 of the decision in Sonu alias Amar, the matter may stand on a completely different footing. It is for this reason that G reliance has been placed on certain decisions of this Court to submit that the matter need not be reopened on issues which were dealt with in accordance with the law then prevailing. However, since the instant matter pertains to 15 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1509 H 1044 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A award of death sentence, this review petition must be considered in light of the decisions made by this Court in Anvar P.V. and Arjun Panditrao. 25. Consequently, we must eschew, for the present purposes, the electronic evidence in the form of CDRs which B was without any appropriate certificate under Section 65- B(4) of the Evidence Act.” (emphasis supplied) 46. Accordingly, we too deem it appropriate to consider this review petition by eschewing the electronic evidence in the form of CDRs as C they are without the appropriate certificate under Section 65B even if the law, as it was during the time the trial in the present case was conducted, allowed for such electronic evidence to be admitted.