In Cockle v Isaksen (1957) 99 CLR 155, neither party wished to challenge the jurisdiction of the High Court to hear a particular appeal. However, the Court permitted the Commonwealth to intervene to argue the issue of validity, without, in that case, becoming a party…” ××××× 44. The observations of Barton J in Federated Engine Drivers, quoted at [40] above, indicate that it is not essential for an issue of jurisdiction to be raised by a party to proceedings. That matter MUMTAZ YARUD DOWLA WAKF v. M/S BADAM 1009 BALAKRISHNA HOTEL PVT. LTD. & ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] had earlier been determined by the High Court in the course of a preliminary application in Federated Amalgamated Government Railway and Tramway Service Association v The NSW Railway Traffi c Employees’ Association (1906) 4 CLR 488. Objection had been taken to a point being raised by an intervenor concerning the validity of the statute, on the basis that such a point should not be raised except in litigation between parties, where it is necessary to determine the issue of validity. Griffi th CJ, with whom Barton and O’Connor JJ agreed, said at 495: “A point of jurisdiction, when it is seriously raised or, if it suggests itself to the Court without being taken by a party, cannot properly be disregarded.” (emphasis supplied) 25. Having dealt with the aforesaid principle and making it applicable to the Courts in India, we are inclined to hold that any failure on the part of the Court to do so would draw the legal maxim “actus curiae neminem gravabit’ (no one shall be prejudiced by an act of Court). As a consequence, in a case where a Court has failed to check its jurisdiction and a plea has been raised subsequently and that too after receiving an adverse verdict, the forum shall not be declared as the one having lack of jurisdiction, especially when there is no apparent injury otherwise to the rights conferred under a particular statute. Indore Development Authority v. Manoharlal and Others, (2020) 8 SCC 129, “320. The maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit is founded upon the principle due to court proceedings or acts of court, no party should suff er. If any interim s are made during the pendency of the litigation, they are subject to the fi nal decision in the matter. In case the matter is dismissed as without merit, the interim is automatically dissolved. In case the matter has been fi led without any merit, the maxim is attracted commodum ex injuria sua nemo habere debet, that is, convenience cannot accrue to a party from his own wrong. No person ought to have the advantage of his own wrong. In case litigation has been fi led frivolously or without any basis, iniquitously in to delay and by that it is delayed, there is no equity in favour of such a person. Such cases are required to be decided on merits. In 101 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.