It is G because the sense of class honour has no legitimacy even if it is practised by the collective under some kind of a notion. Therefore, if the collective interest or the public interest that serves the public cause and further has the legitimacy to claim or assert a fundamental right, then only it can put forth that their right should be H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 651 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] protected. There can be no denial of the fact that the A rights of the victims for a fair trial is an inseparable aspect of Article 21 of the Constitution and when they assert that right by themselves as well as the part of the collective, the conception of public interest gets galvanised. The accentuated public interest in such B circumstances has to be given primacy, for it furthers and promotes “Rule of Law”. …” (ix) In Railway Board representing the Union of India vs. Niranjan Singh53, a trade union worker was charged of the misconduct of addressing meetings within the railway C premises, in contravention of the directions issued by the employer. When he sought protection under clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Article 19(1), this Court rejected the same by holding “that the exercise of those freedoms will come to an end as soon as the right of someone else to hold his property intervenes.” This Court went on to state that “the D validity of that limitation is not to be judged by the test prescribed in sub-Articles (2) and (3) of Article 19”. (x) In Life Insurance Corporation of India vs. Prof. Manubhai D. Shah54, two fundamental rights were not competing or in conflict with each other. But the right to E free speech and the right to propagate one’s ideas, in the context of censorship under the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and in the context of a State institution refusing to publish an Article in an in-house magazine were in question. In Paragraph 23 of the Report, this Court said: “every right F has a corresponding duty or obligation and so is the fundamental right of speech and expression. The freedom conferred by Article 19(1((a) is therefore not absolute as perhaps in the case of the US First Amendment: it carries with it certain responsibilities towards fellow citizens and society at large. A citizen G who exercises this right must remain conscious that his fellow citizen too has a similar right. Therefore, the right must be so exercised as not to come in direct conflict with the right of another citizen.” 53 (1969) 1 SCC 502 H 54 (1992) 3 SCC 637 652 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 44. The series of decisions discussed above shows that whenever two or more fundamental rights appeared either to be on a collision course or to be seeking preference over one another, this Court has dealt with the same by applying well-established legal tools. Therefore, we are of the view that under the guise of invoking other fundamental rights, additional restrictions, over and above those prescribed in Article B 19(2), cannot be imposed upon the exercise of one’s fundamental rights.