G e) In case of change in the ownership and no environmental clearance of the plant this facility shall stand withdrawn, and f) Penalty/ incentive under this arrangement would be considered in terms of (a) above. H UTTAR HARYANA BIJLI VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. ADANI 1105 POWER (MUNDRA) LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] A statement showing the modification in the FSA models applicable A for New Power plants (for both PSU/ Govt. PUs and Private PUs) is enclosed.” 26. It can thus be seen that the said communication refers to the decision of the CIL taken in its meeting held on 27thMay 2013. A perusal thereof would reveal that the transfer of coal which was not allowed B hitherto, has been allowed only between the power plants owned by the purchaser or its wholly owned subsidiary. It further provides that no transfer of coal shall be allowed for a JV Company of the purchaser. It further provides that the supply of coal shall, for all commercial purpose under the FSA, remain unchanged and on account of the original Power C Plant. It further provides that both the Power Plants should have executed FSA in the modified FSA Model applicable for new power plants and not having any supplies linked to coal blocks. It further provides that in case of IPPs, both the plants must have valid long term PPAs with DISCOMS. It further provides that in no case the transferred quantity to a plant together with the quantity supplied under the applicable FSA D shall exceed the ACQ of the Transferee Plant for a particular year which is proportional to the long term PPA with DISCOMS. It further provides that transfer of coal will not be allowed to those plants who are allotted coal blocks under this arrangement. It further provides that in case of change in the ownership and no environmental clearance of the plant, E this facility shall stand withdrawn. 27. It could thus be seen that the said communication reflects the decision of CIL. The CIL is an instrumentality of the Government of India. As such, we find that APTEL erred in holding the said communication dated 19th June 2013 not to amount to ‘Change in Law’. F 28. APTEL has held that the said communication is an administrative instruction addressed to all the subsidiaries. It will be apposite to refer to the following findings of APTEL: “109. There is no denial of the fact that the letter dated 19.06.2013 addressed by CIL intimating to all subsidiaries the decision taken G at its 298thboard meeting (27.05.2013), allowing IPT of coal was conditional upon transfer (of coal) to be allowed only between the power plants wholly owned by the purchaser or its wholly owned subsidiary and supply of coal for all commercial purpose under the FSAs to remain unchanged and on account of original power plant. In particular context of the first respondent, it follows as a H 1106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A sequitur that IPT of coal is allowable if Mundra TPS transfers its portion of linkage coal from MCL coal mine, Talcher to Tiroda TPS (both owned by Adani group) for utilization of such coal at Tiroda TPS and that even though linkage coal from MCL coal mine, Talcher of Mundra TPS (original power plant in terms of the FSA) was actually utilized at Tiroda TPS (transferee plant), it B will be accounted as if it were consumed at Mundra TPS.