14. Similarly, while considering extension of the age of retirement of Doctors in the Dental faculties under the Medical Education Service, taking note of a letter addressed by the Director of Medical Education who stated that some highly qualifi ed members of the Senior Dental faculty were due to retire and their retirement would adversely aff ect the research students DR. PRAKASAN M.P. AND OTHERS v. STATE OF KERALA 303 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] working under them, as also hinder the conduct of some of the ongoing Post Graduate Courses in Government Dental Colleges, the State permitted enhancement of their age from 55 years to 60 years. 15. When it came to the third G.O. dated 7th April, 2012, the recitals therein refer to the report of the Director of Ayurveda Medical College who pointed out dearth of qualifi ed teaching staff in higher categories and the adverse remarks made by the Central Council of India Medicine, which had proceeded to reduce the number of BAMS seats from the sanctioned strength of 70 to 50 in the Government Ayurveda College, Thiruvananthapuram, and had refused to grant permission for Postgraduate courses in diff erent specialities. Keeping this scenario in mind, the State decided to enhance the retirement age of the teaching faculty in Ayurveda Colleges from 56 years to 60 years. Lastly, came G.O. dated 9th April, 2012 wherein, taking note of the representation received from the Principal of the Government Homeopathic College, Thiruvannathapuram, similar benefi t was extended to the teaching staff in Homeopathic Colleges. The singular diff erence was that unlike G.O. dated 14th January, 2010, the subsequent three G.Os issued by the State were made prospective, thus denying any relief to the teaching faculties in the Dental, Ayurvedic and Homeopathic streams who had superannuated in the meantime. In this background, the appellants fi led the additional affi davit questioning the decision of the State of not incorporating a clause in the three G.O’s. issued later on, making their operation retrospective, which would have otherwise enured to their benefi t. 16. Had the matter stood as it was on the date when the impugned judgement came to be passed, perhaps the appellants could have advanced an argument that the action of the State must be expected to be fair and reasonable and in line with the guarantees extended under Article 14 of the Constitution of India and that there was no rationale in treating them diff erently when Doctors/Professors from all streams teaching in Medical Colleges in the State formed a homogenous class and are governed by the same set of Service Rules and Regulations. But after the respondent No.1 – State Government issued three successive G.Os extending the age of retirement of the members of the Dental Faculties, Ayurvedic Faculties and Homeopathic Faculties from 55 years to 60 years, the insistence on the 304 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. part of the appellants that these G.Os ought to be given retrospective eff ect, even though there was no clause to that eff ect inserted therein, cannot be countenanced.