2. For the sake of convenience, the parties herein shall be referred to in terms of their rank and status before the Trial Court. D 3. The case of the plaintiffs in a nutshell is stated as under:- (i) The suit property was owned and possessed by Braja Mohan Dey and plaintiff no. 2, namely, Dhirendra Chandra Saha was a tenant running a shop in a hut located within the suit property. Braja Mohan Dey took a loan of Rs. 10,000/- E from plaintiff no. 2 and since he was unable to repay the loan, he sold the land in favour of plaintiff no.1 in lieu of the loan amount. (ii) However, soon after the sale, Braja Mohan Dey went to East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) and could not complete F registration of the sale deed in favour of plaintiff no. 2. Therefore, he executed a Power of Attorney dated 01st August, 1968, in favour of plaintiff no. 2 before the 1st Class Magistrate, Komilla, Komilla District, East Pakistan thereby appointing plaintiff no. 2 as his attorney i.e. on behalf of the G seller, Braja Mohan Dey, to execute a sale deed and transfer the property to the buyer as his Attorney. (iii) On the strength of the Power of Attorney dated 01st August, 1968, plaintiff no. 2 executed and registered a sale deed dated 03rd September 1968 in his own favour as the attorney H 164 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A on behalf of the seller, Braja Mohan Dey. Plaintiff no. 2 thereby became the owner of the suit property. (iv) In his capacity as the absolute owner of the suit property, plaintiff no. 2 then executed a sale deed dated 29th October, 1968, in favour of his wife-plaintiff no. 1, namely, Gita Rani B Saha. The said sale deed was registered on 09th November, 1968. That the suit land stood in the name of plaintiff no. 1 who duly paid municipality tax, land revenue etc. (v) That on one portion of the suit property described as schedule ‘A’ property in the plaint, plaintiff no. 2 was running C a grocery business under the name M/s. Dipak Bhandar. That the land falling to the eastern side of schedule ‘A’ property, described as schedule ‘B’ property in the plaint, was sold by plaintiff no. 2 to Makhan Chand Deb, who subsequently sold the said land to Gauranga Chandra Dey. Defendant no 1 was Gauranga Chandra Dey’s tenant in D respect of schedule ‘B’ property. (vi) That plaintiff no. 2 constructed a godown in the portion behind his shop and the same has been described as schedule ‘C’ property in the plaint. The same was also in the possession of plaintiff no. 2. That defendant no. 1 tried E to take forceful possession of the suit property by breaking down the said godown. In this regard Miscellaneous Case No. 02 of 1981 was registered in the Court of the Sub- Divisional Magistrate, Sadar and a prohibitory was issued under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, F 1898.