A doing away with the requirement of two parallel assessments. In such category of cases, the expression “total income” cannot be construed literally as per the definition provided under Section 2 as the same would not only be contrary to the objective of the legislation (which is to do away with two parallel assessments) but also manifestly arbitrary as despite no B incriminating material being found and despite assessment having been completed earlier, the Revenue will indulge into roving enquiry to tinker with earlier assessment in the garb of assessment under Section 153A. That cannot be permissible and become a tool to bypass the period of limitation for regular C assessment. xiii) It is submitted that the expression “total income” in such category of cases of completed assessments, where no incriminating material is found, ought to be interpreted, not as per definition provided under Section 2, but in light of the D objective of Sections 132 and 132A, as the context so requires. Since the assessment under Section 153A of the Act is linked with search and requisition under Sections 132 and 132A of the Act wherein the object of the section is to bring to tax the undisclosed income which is found during the course of or pursuant to the search or requisition, the expression “total E income” for the purpose of first proviso Section 153A(1) is to be read in such context and consequently, the expression “total income” for the purpose of completed assessment cannot be read to give unfettered powers to the Revenue to tinker with the unabated assessments de hors any incriminating material. F In such cases, the expression “total income” shall be read to mean as under: A. If an assessment has been made earlier, the “total income” as per the assessment is considered as the “total income” for the purpose of Section 153A. G B. Where no assessment has been made earlier but time limit to initiate assessment proceedings have expired, the return is treated as final (Refer: Chintels India Limited Versus DCIT, [2017] 397 ITR 416 (Del)]. Accordingly, H PRINCIPAL COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, CENTRAL-3 923 v. ABHISAR BUILDWELL P. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] total income as per such return shall be treated as total A income for the purpose of Section 153A in such cases. xiv) It is submitted that thus, the expression “total income” under Section 153A in respect of completed assessment, when read in light of Sections 132 and 132A, shall mean the total income as per assessment passed under Section 143(3) where assessment B had been made earlier or; total income as per return where no assessment was made earlier but time limit to issue notice under Section 143(2) has expired. xv) Insofar as the words used ‘total income’ in section 153A of the Act, 1961, it is submitted that before insertion of the new C scheme of assessment under Section 153A, there was a concept of block assessment in respect of the search period. There was one assessment for the block period in respect of the undisclosed income found during the search.