He said that, whenever Bhawna came to meet them, she used to tell him and all the neighbours that her husband, Nimish, mother-in-law, Kusum Lata, and brothers-in-law, Abhishek and Sourabh, used to tell her that her father had given nothing in dowry and when she went to her parental home, she should bring ₹ 2 lakhs in cash, a car and gold jewellery. He stated that they had been harassing his daughter mentally and physically for dowry. He alleged that, on Karvachauth day, Bhawna’s mother-in-law had demanded 100 sarees but he had refused. Renubala, Bhawna’s mother, also made a statement on 08.09.2013 on identical lines. Two of their neighbours, Sushila Bai and Mohan, also gave statements on the same day, supporting Bhawna’s version. According to them, whenever Bhawna came to meet her parents, she used to tell them that her in-laws were torturing her mentally and physically for dowry. On the other hand, Shailendra and Radhey Shyam, who lived in the neighbourhood where Nimish’s father had his residence, stated to the eff ect that there were no demands made of Bhawna or her family for dowry and that she was never harassed on that ground. In their fi nal report dated 20.09.2013, the police merely replicated the contents of the FIR and added nothing further on the strength of their investigation. 9. Certain other facts are also of pertinence and may be noted. Abhishek entered judicial service as a Civil Judge six or seven months after the marriage of Bhawna with Nimish. He was posted at Ujjain and, thereafter, at Neemuch in Madhya Pradesh. Kusum Lata used to reside with ABHISHEK v. STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 513 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] Abhishek. Saurabh, Bhawna’s other brother-in-law, is an architect and was working at Delhi since the year 2007. Nimish made written representations to the police authorities at Narsinghpur on 09.09.2012 and 17.11.2012 complaining of intimidation by and at the behest of Bhawna. Prior thereto, an anonymous complaint was made to the Chief Justice, Madhya Pradesh High Court, against Abhishek, making scandalous allegations to the eff ect that he was undeserving of judicial offi ce. A complaint was also made to the Anti-Corruption Bureau, Mumbai, purportedly in the name of one Sanyogita Mishra. Again, the allegations therein were directed against Abhishek. 10. Notably, the examination-in-chief of Bhawna on 27.10.2018 in Nimish’s divorce petition in Civil Suit No. 153A of 2015 on the fi le of the Family Court, Narsinghpur, is made available. Therein, she asserted that her entire stridhan jewellery was with Nimish and in spite of repeated demands, he was not returning it to her as he wanted to snatch her jewellery. Further, during her cross-examination therein, she admitted that she had made a complaint to the Madhya Pradesh High Court against Abhishek. She however denied making any such complaint to the Anti-Corruption Unit at Mumbai. 11. This being the factual backdrop, we may note at the very outset that the contention that the appellants’ quash petition against the FIR was liable to be dismissed, in any event, as the chargesheet in relation thereto was submitted before the Court and taken on fi le, needs mention only to be rejected.