44. To understand this provision, it would be appropriate to take note of Sections 4 and 5 of the CrPC, 1973: Section 4 “4. Trial of off ences under the Indian Penal Code and other laws.— (1) All off ences under the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) shall be investigated, inquired into, tried, and otherwise dealt with according to the provisions hereinafter contained. (2) All off ences under any other law shall be investigated, inquired into, tried, and otherwise dealt with according to the same provisions, but subject to any enactment for the time being in force regulating the manner or place of investigating, inquiring into, trying or otherwise dealing with such off ences.” Section 5 “5. Saving.—Nothing contained in this Code shall, in the absence of a specifi c provision to the contrary, aff ect any special or local law for the time being in force, or any special jurisdiction or power conferred, or any special form of procedure prescribed, by any other law for the time being in force.” V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 879 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] 45. Sub-section (2) to section 4 of the CrPC, 1973 amplifi es the fact that any inquiry or investigation, along with their process, over an off ence should necessarily be only under that statute and not under the CrPC, 1973. The aforesaid position has been reiterated under Section 5 of the CrPC, 1973 whereby a distinct clarifi cation has been given that the CrPC, 1973 will not stand in the way of the operation of special law. Thus, a conjoint reading of Section 65 of the PMLA, 2002 along with Sections 4 and 5 of the CrPC, 1973 leaves no room for doubt on the precedence of the former over the latter when it comes to investigation. ROLE OF THE DESIGNATED AUTHORITY UNDER THE PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING ACT, 2002: 46. The PMLA, 2002 is a distinct and special statute having its own objective behind it. The scheme of the PMLA, 2002 provides for both prevention and action against money laundering. The object is to prevent the laundering and to recover when it happens, while extending punishment to the off ender. In that process, materials collected can be used and exchanged for either of the purposes. In other words, for an inquiry and investigation there can be same materials, while there is no bar for reliance on additional ones. They can travel in the same channel, but their destinations are diff erent. One material can be used for both purposes, along with numerous others. So long as they travel together, there is not much of a diff erence between an inquiry and investigation. When they take separate routes, an inquiry ends before the Adjudicating Authority, while the other leads to a Special Court in the form of a complaint. This distinction has to be kept in mind to avoid any possible confl ict or confusion. Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra): “27. The task of the Director or an authority authorised by the Central Government under the 2002 Act for the collection of evidence is the intrinsic process of adjudication proceedings.