b) Whether the interest on income earned by Clubs such as the appellants herein would be covered under the principle of mutuality and therefore be exempt from payment of tax? c) What ? Principle of mutuality: 8. At the outset it would be useful to understand and discuss the principle of mutuality in the context of income tax law. 8.1 The principle of mutuality is rooted in common sense. A person cannot make a profi t from herself. This implies that a person cannot earn profi t from an association that he shares a common identity with. The essence of the principle lies in the commonality of the contributors and the participants who are also benefi ciaries. There has to be a complete identity between the contributors and the participants. Therefore, it follows, that any surplus in the common fund shall not constitute income but will only be an increase in the common fund meant to meet sudden eventualities. 8.2 The landmark House of Lords precedent on the application of the doctrine of mutuality to the taxability of the surplus made by mutual benefi t SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1007 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] associations is the Styles case. The members of New York Life Insurance Company comprised its policyholders. The Company calculated insurance premium based on the estimated death rate in its membership. The surplus of premium collected after deducting the expenditure incurred towards insurance claims was returned to the members in the form of credit to their account. The question was whether the surplus returned to the members – being earned from and by holders of the participating policies - was liable to be assessed to income tax as profi ts or gains. The insurance company sought to distinguish its case from Last vs. London Assurance Corporation, 10 App. Cas. 438 (“London Assurance Corporation”), wherein surplus premiums credited to members of the insurance company were held to be exigible to tax. The Company argued that its premium income was not profi t, and hence not amenable to income tax. The Queen’s Bench Division being of the opinion that the case could not be distinguished from London Assurance Corporation, held that the premium income of the Company received under participating policies was liable to be assessed to income tax and reversed the determination of the Commissioners. This decision was affi rmed by the Court of Appeal. 8.3 Against these decisions, the company brought an appeal before the House of Lords. The House of Lords was divided in the ratio 4:2 in the matter, with the majority holding that that no part of the premium income received under participating policies was liable to be assessed to income tax as profi ts or gains. That London Assurance Corporation was distinguishable, the income in that case being derived from transactions with persons who were not members and not from mutual insurances between members only. 8.4 The majority concluded that for income to be taxable, its source must be external to the Assessee.