This would encourage meritorious advocates who will come into the field knowing that there is scope to rise to the top. The profession F has seen a paradigm shift over a period of time, particularly with the advent of newer law schools such as National Law Universities. The legal profession is no longer considered as a family profession. Instead, there are newer entrants from all parts of the country and with different backgrounds. Such newcomers must be encouraged. G The Personal Interview: 38. The requirement of allocating 25 points in this category was debated. One of the criticisms against retaining this category was that it would delay the process of designation, keeping in mind the practical issue of interviewing a large number of candidates. Further, very little H 444 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A purpose would be served by an interview as the candidates were already being assessed by their appearances before the Court. 39. We are conscious of the aforesaid criticisms. We believe that an interview process would allow for a more personal and in-depth examination of the candidate. An interview also enables a more holistic B assessment, particularly as the Senior Advocate designation is an honour conferred to exceptional advocates. A Senior Advocate is also required to be very articulate and precise within a given timeframe, which are values that can be easily assessed during an interview. 40. It is in this spirit that we have sought to make the interview C process more workable. We have thus restricted the number of interviews to the appropriate amount as deemed feasible by the Permanent Committee, keeping in mind the number of Senior Advocates to be designated at a given time. 41. As we have streamlined the process by restricting the number D of interviews in the context of number of candidates to be designated, we believe a meaningful exercise can be carried out. Thus, we are not inclined either to do away with or to reduce the marks assigned under this category, especially in view of the fine-tuning we have done by the present to make this exercise more meaningful. E Other General Aspects: 42. We may now turn to some general aspects which emerged during the oral submissions. 43. Presently, as per the 2018 Guidelines, the process of designation is to be undertaken twice a year, i.e. each year in the month of January F and July. However, Mrs. Madhavi Divan, ASG, submitted that if the exercise has to be undertaken in the aforesaid elaborate form, it would be very difficult to undertake the process twice a year. 44. In this regard, we would only like to say that the process should be carried out at least once a year so that applications do not G accumulate. In this respect, some disturbing instances have emerged from certain High Courts where the exercise of designation has not been undertaken for many years. As a consequence, meritorious advocates at the relevant time lose out on the opportunity of being considered for designation.