This application H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 15 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] was premised on Notification 21 of 2002-Customs. However, vide A an Office Memorandum dated 17.06.2011, the Ministry of Power has intimated that the exemption for customs duty for UMPPs is given only with respect to power equipment, which was forwarded to Petitioner by Government of Madhya Pradesh on 20.06.2011. Copies of letters dated 05.05.2011 and 17.06.2011 are annexed B herewith and marked as Annexure P-33(Colly)” “81.Based on Ministry of Power’s Office Memorandum’s, the Energy Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh declined to issue the recommendation letter which was required by the Petitioner to claim nil customs duty. In view of the refusal by C Energy Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh and in the interest of the Project and power consumers, Petitioner had to seek recommendation letter from Energy Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh to import mining equipments at project import rate of 20.94%, which is now reduced to 16.85% with effect from 17.03.2012.” D “82.The decision of the Ministry of Power detailed in its office memorandum dated 17.06.2011 and refusal by Energy Department, Goverment of Madhya Pradesh to provide recommendation letter to import mining equipments for Sasan UMPP under nil custom duty amounts to a Change in Law under E Article 13.1 of the PPA and Petitioner is entitled to be compensated for the same.” “83.The total amount of customs duty paid by the Petitioner on mining equipments imported for Sasan UMPP is Rs. 361.47 Crores till date. The total custom duty for mining equipments is estimated F to be about Rs. 531 Crores. The details of the custom duty paid on mining equipments and estimated to be paid in future are annexed herewith in Annexure P-34 (Colly).” “84.It is submitted that the Petitioner has already surpassed the indicative costs provided by the Procurers and in certain instances G as indicated hereinabove, the Petitioner will be required to pay the increased Capital Cost in the future. In this regard, the Petitioner is claiming the following reliefs: (a) In relation to the Changes in Law where the additional Capital Cost has already been incurred, this Hon’ble Commission may H 16 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A direct the Procurers to compensate the Petitioner for such increase in Capital Cost; and (b) In relation to the Changes in Law for which the liability is yet to be incurred, the Petitioner is seeking a declaration from this Hon’ble Commission that the increased expenditure amounts to B Change in Law. The actual payment will be claimed as and when it falls due.” “89.From the above discussions and facts, it is clear that:- (a) One of the objectives of the National Electricity Policy and the Tariff Policy is to secure commercial viability of electricity C sector while ensuring fair pricing and quality of supply. (b) Power procurement under Section 63 of the Act is governed by the statutory framework comprising (i) Section 63 of the Act, (ii) Government of India’s Guidelines and (iii) standard documents being RFP and PPA.