That, as I understand [it], is the eff ect of the decision in Styles case .” (emphasis supplied) XXX 28. This brings us to the facts of the present case. As aforesaid, the assessee is an AoP. The banks concerned are all corporate members of the Club. The interest earned from fi xed deposits kept with non- member banks was off ered for taxation and the tax due was paid. SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 993 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Therefore, we are required to examine the case of the assessee, in relation to the interest earned on fi xed deposits with the member banks, on the touchstone of the three cumulative conditions, enumerated above. 29. Firstly, the arrangement lacks a complete identity between the contributors and participators. Till the stage of generation of surplus funds, the set-up resembled that of a mutuality; the fl ow of money, to and fro, was maintained within the closed circuit formed by the banks and the Club, and to that extent, nobody who was not privy to this mutuality, benefi ted from the arrangement. However, as soon as these funds were placed in fi xed deposits with banks, the closed fl ow of funds between the banks and the Club suff ered from defl ections due to exposure to commercial banking operations. During the course of their banking business, the member banks used such deposits to advance loans to their clients. Hence, in the present case, with the funds of the mutuality, the member banks engaged in commercial operations with third parties outside of the mutuality, rupturing the “privity of mutuality”, and consequently, violating the one-to-one identity between the contributors and participators as mandated by the fi rst condition. Thus, in the case before us the fi rst condition for a claim of mutuality is not satisfi ed. 30. As aforesaid, the second condition demands that to claim an exemption from tax on the principle of mutuality, treatment of the excess funds must be in furtherance of the object of the club, which is not the case here. In the instant case, the surplus funds were not used for any specifi c service, infrastructure, maintenance or for any other direct benefi t for the member of the Club. These were taken out of mutuality when the member banks placed the same at the disposal of third parties, thus, initiating an independent contract between the bank and the clients of the bank, a third party, not privy to the mutuality. This contract lacked the degree of proximity between the Club and its member, which may in a distant and indirect way benefi t the Club, nonetheless, it cannot be categorised as an activity of the Club in pursuit of its objectives. It needs little emphasis that the second condition postulates a direct step with direct benefi ts to the functioning of the Club. For the sake of argument, one may draw remote connections 994 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. with the most brazen commercial activities to a Club’s functioning.