On the basis of such declaration fi led by the assessee, the duty for a particular month has to be calculated by application of the appropriate rate of duty specifi ed in the notifi cation as indicated under Rule 7. Necessarily to ascertain the duty payable, the issue of classifi cation will have to be gone into in an inquiry held under sub-rule (2) of Rule 6, as otherwise the inquiry contemplated would become redundant or meaningless. Secondly, to calculate the duty of the product, the condition precedent is the capacity of the production. Thus, it becomes important to ascertain the capacity of 638 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. production fi rst, which can only be done when the concerned authority is acquainted with the product as described which would ultimately assist the Competent Authority to classify the product under the appropriate tariff head as provided under CETA. Thirdly, the rationale behind Rule 6(2) is that, unless there is proper classifi cation of the product, the Competent Authority would not be in a position to ascertain the correct classifi cation under the tariff head and consequently would not be able to determine the annual capacity of the production of the notifi ed goods, which may lead to improper calculation. This is more so, for every notifi ed product may not possess similar ingredients as that of the other product. It is trite law that changes in the ingredient of a product can bring about change in the production capacity, namely, aff ect the manufacturing process. Thus, in the event of mis-description, wrong description or erroneous description or intentional improper classifi cation of the product manufactured would not tie the hands of the Competent Authority from piercing the corporate veil to ascertain the true nature of the product and reclassify the same, necessarily after aff ording an opportunity of hearing which would be in compliance of the doctrine of natural justice. The object sought to be achieved by this Rule is to empower the Department to determine the annual capacity based on the declaration of the assessee and such declaration would not be required to be accepted in the event of there being an improper description of the goods or product in the declaration so fi led. In fact, declaration Form No.1 itself would indicate that in column No.15A, the declarant has agreed to bind itself to pay any additional amount of excise duty on notifi ed goods manufactured by it by such declaration, if found to be untrue or incorrect. This undertaking would reinforce the fact that even in case of acceptance of such declaration by the Competent Authority, it does not preclude them thereafter to demand the diff erential duty on account of short demand to recover such duty, and necessarily complying with the principles of natural justice. 107. As noticed hereinabove both the parties have relied upon the of this Court in CCE V. Cotspun (supra) whereunder this Court has held that once there is the levy of excise duty on the basis of an approved classifi cation list, until the correctness of the approval of the question by issuance of a show cause notice to the assessee, same cannot be disturbed.