Similarly, while understanding the intendment of Section 167 of the CrPC, 1973, the provision has to be read along with the proviso. This Court in Rakesh Kumar Paul v. State of Assam, (2017) 15 SCC 67: “67.While interpreting any statutory provision, it has always been accepted as a golden rule of interpretation that the words used by the legislature should be given their natural meaning. Normally, the courts should be hesitant to add words or subtract words from the statutory provision. An eff ort should always be made to read the legislative provision in such a way that there is no wastage of words and any construction which makes some words of the statute redundant should be avoided. No doubt, if the natural meaning of the words leads to an interpretation which is contrary to the objects of the Act or makes the provision unworkable or highly unreasonable and arbitrary, then the courts either add words or subtract words or read down the statute, but this should only be done when there is an ambiguity in the language used. In my view, there is no ambiguity in the wording of Section 167(2) of the Code and, therefore, the wise course would be to follow the principle laid down by Patanjali Shastry, C.J. in Aswini Kumar Ghose v. Arabinda Bose, (1952) 2 SCC 237 : AIR 1952 SC 369, where he very eloquently held as follows: (AIR p. 377, para 26) “26. … It is not a sound principle of construction to brush aside words in a statute as being inapposite surplusage, if they can have appropriate application in circumstances conceivably within the contemplation of the statute.” V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 921 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] In Jugalkishore Saraf v. Raw Cotton Co. Ltd., AIR 1955 SC 376, S.R. Das, J., speaking for this Court, held as follows: (AIR p. 381, para 6) “6. … The cardinal rule of construction of statutes is to read the statutes literally, that is, by giving to the words used by the legislature their ordinary, natural and grammatical meaning.” 68. External aids of interpretation are to be used only when the language of the legislation is ambiguous and admits of two or more meanings. When the language is clear or the ambiguity can be resolved under the more common rules of statutory interpretation, the court would be reluctant to look at external aids of statutory interpretation. 69. Gajendragadkar, J., speaking for this Court in Kanai Lal Sur v. Paramnidhi Sadhukhan, AIR 1957 SC 907 held : (AIR p. 910, para 6) “6. … the fi rst and primary rule of construction is that the intention of the legislature must be found in the words used by the legislature itself.” 70. These sound principles of statutory construction continue to hold the fi eld. When the natural meaning of the words is clear and unambiguous, no external aids should be used.” (emphasis supplied) 74. A decision of a Court cannot be read like a statute, out of context and in ignorance of the requisite provisions.