(a) Prisoners who have attained the age of 55 and completed sentence of 25 years including remission; OR (b) Prisoners who have completed 23 years of actual sentence. III. Category of prisoners eligible after 20 years of sentence including remission All prisoners who do not come under category I and II shall be eligible for premature release after 20 years of sentence including remission irrespective of their age, but on the following conditions. […]” Further, while considering the premature release of certain other convicts recommended by the Committee, the state government “decided to approve the proposal, excluding the following category of prisoners: 1. Persons involved in most cruel murder. 2. Persons who committed murder of women and children, persons who committed murder with rape. 3. Among the prisoners who are undergoing treatment for mental illness, the prisoners whose relatives are reluctant to receive them”. Thus, incorporating in the general guidelines, the three excluded categories as they appeared in the earlier executive instruction dated 20.04.2022. 28. To issue a policy directive, or guidelines, over and above the Act and Rules framed (where the latter forms part and parcel of the former), and undermine what they encapsulate, cannot be countenanced. Blanket exclusion of certain off ences, from the scope of grant of remission, especially by way of an executive policy, is not only arbitrary, but turns the ideals of reformation that run through our criminal justice system, on its head. Numerous s of this court, have elaborated on the penological goal of reformation and rehabilitation, being the cornerstone of our criminal justice system, rather than retribution. The impact of applying such an executive instruction/guideline to guide the executive’s discretion would be JOSEPH v. THE STATE OF KERALA 521 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] that routinely, any progress made by a long-term convict would be rendered naught, leaving them feeling hopeless, and condemned to an indefi nite period of incarceration. While the sentencing courts may, in light of this court’s majority in Sriharan (supra), now impose term sentences (in excess of 14 or 20 years) for crimes that are specially heinous, but not reaching the level of ‘rarest of rare’ (warranting the death penalty), the state government cannot – especially by way of executive instruction, take on such a role, for crimes as it deems fi t. 29. It is a well-recognized proposition of administrative law that discretion, conferred widely by plenary statute or statutory rules, cannot be lightly fettered. This principle has been articulated by this court many a time. In U.P. State Road Transport Corporation & Anr v. Mohd. Ismail & Ors.25, this court observed: “It may be stated that the statutory discretion cannot be fettered by self-created rules or policy. Although it is open to an authority to which discretion has been entrusted to lay down the norms or rules to regulate exercise of discretion it cannot, however, deny itself the discretion which the statute requires it to exercise in individual cases.” 30. Likewise, in Chairman, All India Railway Rec. Board & Ors.