21. It did not take much time for this Court to reverse the approach B in Antique Art Exports (supra). A three-judge bench in Mayavati Trading (supra) expressly overruled the above-referred decision in Antique Art Exports, observing that: “10. This being the position, it is clear that the law prior to the 2015 Amendment that has been laid down by this Court, which would have included going into whether accord and C satisfaction has taken place, has now been legislatively overruled. This being the position, it is difficult to agree with the reasoning contained in the aforesaid , as Section 11(6-A) is confined to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement and is to be understood in the narrow D sense as has been laid down in the in Duro Felguera, SA.” 22. The entire case law on the subject was considered by a three- judge bench of this Court in Vidya Drolia (supra), and an overarching principle with respect to the pre-referral jurisdiction under Section 11(6) E of the Act was laid down. The relevant portion of the is as follows: “153. Accordingly, we hold that the expression “existence of an arbitration agreement” in Section 11 of the Arbitration 18 (2019) 5 SCC 362: F “21. In the instant case, prima facie no dispute subsisted after the discharge voucher being signed by the respondent without any demur or protest and claim being finally settled with accord and satisfaction and after 11 weeks of the settlement of claim a letter was sent on 27-7-2016 for the first time raising a voice in the form of protest that the discharge voucher was signed under undue influence and coercion with no supportive prima facie evidence being placed on record in absence thereof, G it must follow that the claim had been settled with accord and satisfaction leaving no arbitral dispute subsisting under the agreement to be referred to the arbitrator for adjudication. 22. In our considered view, the High Court has committed a manifest error in passing the impugned and adopting a mechanical process in appointing the arbitrator without any supportive evidence on record to prima facie substantiate that an arbitral dispute subsisted under the agreement which needed to be referred H to the arbitrator for adjudication.” NTPC LTD. v. M/S SPML INFRA LTD. 859 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] Act, would include aspect of validity of an arbitration A agreement, albeit the court at the referral stage would apply the prima facie test on the basis of principles set out in this . In cases of debatable and disputable facts, and good reasonable arguable case, etc., the court would force the parties to abide by the arbitration agreement as the Arbitral B Tribunal has primary jurisdiction and authority to decide the disputes including the question of jurisdiction and non- arbitrability. 154. Discussion under the heading ”Who Decides Arbitrability?” can be crystallised as under: C 154.1. Ratio of the decision in Patel Engg. Ltd. [SBP & Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618] on the scope of judicial review by the court while deciding an application under Sections 8 or 11 of the Arbitration Act, post the amendments by Act 3 of 2016 (with retrospective effect from D 23-10-2015) and even post the amendments vide Act 33 of 2019 (with effect from 9-8-2019), is no longer applicable.