6. On the other hand, learned counsel for the Bank submitted that seeing the conduct of the workman, who had been misbehaving with his senior offi cers and was also in the habit of not complying with the s of the authorities, he was imposed a very light punishment of stoppage of two graded increments, otherwise the notice issued to him after enquiry was to show cause as to why he should not be dismissed from service. There is no place for any indisciplined person in any institution, especially in a Bank where entire business depends upon the dealing of the staff with its customers. Even after the punishment was imposed upon him and to avoid any further untoward incident, seeing his past conduct, the workman was directed to report for duty at a diff erent branch. However, the workman did not comply with that and continued raising the dispute with the Bank at diff erent levels. He further mis-conducted himself by sitting on a hunger strike. This aggravated the issue and shows the attitude of the workman who was 898 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. not fi t to be retained in service. It was contended that there is no error in the s passed by the High Court setting aside the award of the Tribunal and the workman does not deserve any relief. 7. We have heard the workman, who appeared in-person and the learned counsel for the Bank and perused the relevant referred record. 8. A fact which is not in dispute and has been specifi cally recorded by the learned Single Judge of the High Court in his is that in the year 1985 the workman got himself enrolled as an Advocate with the Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh. It was admitted by him that he had been handling cases of the Union and other employees of the Bank. 9. It is a fact that the workman was awarded the punishment of stoppage of two graded increments vide dated 28.09.1983. In the same , the workman was directed to report for duty to the Manager, Branch Offi ce, Bhagwantnagar, Unnao (U.P.). The fact which remains undisputed is that the workman never challenged the of punishment or his transfer before the competent authority or the Court and the said became fi nal. He was only aggrieved with his posting to the Branch Offi ce, Bhagwantnagar, Unnao. Instead of joining his new place of posting, he continued writing letters. In terms of Clause XVI of the Bipartite Agreement, in case a workman absents from work consecutively for 90 days or more, without submitting any application for leave, the Bank is entitled, after 30 days’ notice, to conclude that the employee has no intention to join duty and is deemed to have voluntarily retired on expiry of the notice period of 30 days. The relevant Clause is extracted below: “Clause XVI- Voluntary Cessation of Employment by the Employees Where an employee has not submitted any application for leave and absents himself from work for period of 90 days or more consecutive days without or beyond any leave to his credit or absents himself for 90 or more consecutive days beyond the period of leave originally sanctioned or subsequently extended or where there is satisfactory evidence that he has taken up employment in India or the management is satisfi ed that he has no present intention of joining duties, the management may at any time thereafter give a notice to the employee U.P.