It was also the case on behalf of the original writ petitioner - respondent no.1 herein that he rectified the defect of not B furnishing a solvency certificate in his own name. It was submitted that it is true that earlier the solvency certificate should have been issued in the name of the Trust of which he was the Chairman, however, on 29.01.2021 itself he had written to the Tehsildar for substituting the solvency certificate submitted with the bid with another issued in his own name and, therefore, even the said defect stood cured. It was C submitted that without taking note of this, the Collector had cancelled the lease. 2.7 The writ petition was opposed by the State as well as the appellant herein- original respondent no.5. It was submitted on behalf of the appellant herein that the bid submitted by respondent no.1 herein - D original writ petitioner was ab initio void and should never have been accepted since it was not accompanied by a valid solvency certificate in the name of the original writ petitioner. It was submitted that the document that was enclosed as a solvency certificate was in fact not correctly issued and was contrary to the express of Sub-Collector. It was E submitted that as the bid of the first highest bidder - Sukanti Sahoo was earlier cancelled and the original writ petitioner was the second highest bidder whose lease has been rightly cancelled by the Collector, being the third highest bidder the lease ought to have been granted in his favour. 2.8 By the impugned and and having opined that F the initial solvency certificate was issued in favour of the original writ petitioner which was issued in the name of the original writ petitioner, though required to be issued in the name of the Trust, was a bona fide error which subsequently came to be cancelled and even a fresh solvency certificate was issued in favour of the original writ petitioner, the Collector had erred in cancelling the lease deed in favour of the original writ G petitioner. The High Court also has observed that under the OMMC Rules, 2016, the competent authority in terms of Schedule (IV) who can cancel the lease deed, is the Tehsildar and therefore, the competent authority’s power under the OMMC Rules, 2016 would not have been straight way exercised by the Collector in the first instance. Therefore, H 78 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the High Court by the impugned and has set aside the passed by the Collector cancelling the lease deed in favour of the original writ petitioner. 2.9 The impugned and passed by the High Court quashing and setting aside the passed by the Collector, Cuttack B dated 24.03.2021 cancelling the lease in favour of the original writ petitioner - respondent no.1 herein is the subject matter of the present appeal at the instance of the original respondent no.5 – third highest bidder. 4. Shri R. Basant, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf C of the appellant and Shri A.N.S.