G Though a notification issued under the sub-delegated power can be withdrawn, modified or altered, the effect of the impugned notification dated 04.03.2021 needs to be noted to consider as to whether the same is wholly justified or as to whether any portion of it falls foul of the object for which it is made and the manner in which it has been modified. H 292 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 43. To the extent as noticed, the right being conferred under Section 7B(1) of Act 1955 through the impugned notification dated 04.03.2021 if it was for the first time conferring such right, the petitioners could not have made any grievance. In fact, a perusal of the notification at first blush gives an impression that merely the earlier notifications dated 11.04.2005, 05.01.2007 and 05.01.2009 have been consolidated to B crystallize all the rights to be provided under one notification. However, a closer perusal of the said notification which has been extracted above in the course of this would indicate that clause 4(ii) of the notification though provides the right to appear for the All India Entrance Test, which was hitherto available to make them eligible for admission in C parity with Non-Resident Indians has now restricted the eligibility for admission only against the seats which are reserved for Non-Resident Indians. In a situation where there is a certain marked economic difference between OCI Cardholders and Non-Resident Indians to acquire such seats, the OCI Cardholders claim to be at a disadvantage and the right which was available to them earlier has stood altered to their detriment. D Even if that be so, if the said right which is conferred in modification of the right which had been bestowed earlier was made with prospective effect, certainly the petitioners and the similarly placed persons based on the contentions which are at present urged herein could not have been heard to complain in a proceeding of this nature and would have E been a matter to be considered by the executive based on the claim of the Indian diaspora. 44. However, what is necessary to be taken note is that the right which was bestowed through the notification dated 11.04.2005 and 05.01.2009 insofar as the educational parity, including in the matter of appearing for the All India Pre-Medical Test or such other tests to make F them eligible for admission has been completely altered. Though the notification ex facie may not specify retrospective application, the effect of superseding the earlier notifications and the proviso introduced to clause 4(ii) would make the impugned notification dated 04.03.2021 ‘retroactive’ insofar as taking away the assured right based on which G the petitioners and similarly placed persons have altered their position and have adjusted the life’s trajectory with the hope of furthering their career in professional education. 45. The learned senior counsel for the petitioners would in that context contend that since sub-section (2) to Section 7B of Act, 1955 H does not exclude the right under Article 14 of the Constitution, it is ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS.