62. History or traditions may not be the only methods to trace constitutional values which can arguably be the result of an evolving society. Yet the court cannot stray too far from the express provisions and the manner in which they are cast. In the case of free speech and expression, right to association and the other rights spelt out in Article 19 and the rights spelt out in Article 25, the core content of these are hard fought freedoms and rights primarily directed against state action and its tendency to curb them. To the question whether it is possible to locate an entitlement to lead to positive obligation and to facilitate the exercise of free speech, generally by mandating a horizontally applicable parliamentary law or legal regime, the answer would be a self-evident negative. 63. There is no diffi culty about the right of two consenting persons to decide to live together, to co-habit with each other, and create their unique idea of a home, unconstrained by what others may say. That is the natural sequitur to K.S. Puttaswamy (supra) and Navtej Johar (supra). Conduct hitherto criminalised, is now permissible. The liberative eff ect of Section 377 being read down is that two individuals, regardless of their sexual orientation are enabled to live together, with dignity, and also protected from any kind of violence, for living and existing together. Therefore, the right to be left alone, the right to exercise choice, the right to dignity, and to live one’s life, with the person of one’s choice, is an intrinsic and essential feature of Article 21 of the Constitution. 64. The idea that one right can lead to other rights, emanating from it, has been conclusively rejected by this court by seven judges, in All India Bank Employees Association v. National Industrial Tribunal62. That decision was quoted with approval in Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India (UOI) & Ors. , (hereafter, “Maneka Gandhi”)63: “This theory has been fi rmly rejected in the All India Bank Employees Association’s case and we cannot countenance any attempt to revive it, as that would completely upset the scheme of Article 19(1) and to quote the words of Rajagopala Ayyanger, J., speaking on behalf of the Court in All India Bank Employees Association’s case “by a series of 62 1962 (3) SCR 269 63 1978 (2) SCR 621 146 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. ever expending concentric circles in the shape of rights concomitant to concomitant rights and so on, lead to an almost grostesque result”. So also, for the same reasons, the right to go abroad cannot be treated as part of the right to carry on trade, business, profession or calling guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g). The right to go abroad is clearly not a guaranteed right under any clause of Article 19(1)” 65. As the two 7-judge bench decisions have affi rmed whilst there is no dispute that there is an interconnectedness of various fundamental rights, their manifestations in diff erent forms especially under Article 19 and the distinct grounds on which they can be circumscribed, sets each freedom and right apart.