Inspector General of Police Telecom: G By promotion on the basis of the eligibility of the permanent State Audio Officers through the Commission However if any suitable person is not available for promotion, then the recruitment can be made from direct recruitment under Rule 15; H SUSHIL PANDEY v. STATE OF U.P. THR. PRINCIPAL 213 SECRETARY (HOME) [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] 14. Determination of vacancies :- The appointing Authority A shall determine the number of vacancies to be filled up during the year and the number of vacancies reserved for the candidates of scheduled caste, scheduled tribe and other categories and shall inform to the commission; 15. Procedure for direct recruitment :- The Commission shall B invite an application in the prescribed format, which can be obtained from the Secretary of the Commission after making the payment. (2) The Commission under Rule 6 after considering the assurance of due representations of candidates belonged to C Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other categories, shall invite the candidates for interview, who are fulfilling the required eligibilities. (3) The Commission shall prepare a list of the candidates, in the serial of their proficiency, reflects from the D marks secured by the candidate in the oral examination. If two or more candidate would secure the equal marks, then commission shall keep their names for the services on the basis of the general suitability in the serial of eligibility. The number of names in the list shall be more than the vacancies, E however not more than 25 percent. The commission shall forward the list to the Appointing Authority. ….. 17. Combined Selection list - If the appointment has been made through direct recruitment and promotion both, F then one combined selection list would be prepared, wherein the name of the candidates would be taken from the list prepared under rule 15 and Rule 16 in such a manner that there would be an ordained ratio of the direct recruitment and promotional officers. The first name would be from the list prepared under rule 16. G ….. 22 - Seniority - The seniority of the post on any category of post in the service, would be the same which has been determined since the date of original appointment and H 214 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A if two or more persons have been appointed, then the same would be determined in the serial, in which their names have been kept in the appointment . However One - The mutual seniority of the persons appointed in B the service as direct recruitment in the service, would be the same as determined at the time of selection. Two - the mutual seniority of the persons appointed through the promotion in the service would be, which he was bearing on the original post at the time of promotion.” C (quoted verbatim from the paperbook) 5. On the question of determination of seniority, it was held by the Division Bench in the delivered on 12thSeptember 2012:- “11. The determination of seniority is a vital aspect in the D service career of an employee, his future promotion is dependent on this, therefore, determination of his seniority must be in strict compliance of the Rules governing the service.