1 and 2 are directed to take appropriate steps to incorporate pension scheme for the Board’s employees at par with State Government employees. The entire exercise shall be completed within a period of three months from the date of communication of this .” E 8. In challenge to the so passed by the learned Single Judge, the appellant State preferred an intra-court appeal, being W.A. No. 268 of 2011, which was decided by the impugned dated 20.12.2012. The Division Bench of the High Court observed that the direction of the learned Single Judge was only advisory in nature and the same was in the welfare of the employees of the Board; and the State Government F shall honour the same while keeping in view the interest of the retired employees in terms of the mandate of Article 41 of the Directive Principles of State Policy by discharging its constitutional obligations towards aged persons who have served the State through the Board. The relevant parts of the impugned dated 20.12.2012 could be usefully G reproduced as under: “10. After hearing learned counsel for the respective parties, we have examined the matter at length. Perusal of the different provisions of the Act, 1955, Rule, 1956 and Regulation, 1960 framed thereunder by the Government leaves no manner of doubt that the real control, authority of the Board rests with the Industries H STATE OF ORISSA v. ORISSA KHADI AND VILLAGE INDUSTRIES 1063 BOARD KARAMCHARI SANGH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Department of the Government, in other words the Board is under A the direct control of the State Government and is totally dependant on the Government for running its administration and in carrying out its activities including finance. Notwithstanding the fact that the Board is a statutory one and right from the commencement, the management, the administration, the appointment, framing B regulations, carrying on with its activities, formulations of policy are all controlled by the State Government. Furthermore, the employees of the Board in question are governed and controlled by Rules as are applicable to the State Government servants and the provisions of the Odisha Service Code, which are applicable to the State Government servants, are also applicable to the C employees of the Board. The Travelling Allowance Rules and Odisha Leave Rules are also applicable to the employees of the Board. The function of the Board is well defined in Section 17 of the Act, 1955. To discharge such functions, programmes have been drawn by the Board with the sanction of the State Government D and therefore, the State Government has all pervasive control over the Board and got power to frame Rules under Section 35 of the Act, 1955. It is true that the Regulation 52 of the Regulation, 1960 provides that the employees of the Board are not entitled to pensionary benefits but to overcome such a hurdle the Board have recommended to the Government for amending Regulation 52 and E this Court also directed the Government to consider such demand of pension to the employees of the Board in OJC No.15344 of 1998 and W.P.