[Paras 24 and 25][567-F-G; 568-A-B] 1.4 The impugned of the Executing Court bearing in mind the unchallenged dated 5th April 2018 passed by the High Court has found the objections to be maintainable, at least warranting an enquiry. On facts, there is no legal infirmity in such G deserving interference. [Para 27][568-E] 1.5 Simply because this Court did not interfere with the first appellate decree dated 11th February 2014 is no ground to H 554 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A hold that such would bar an enquiry of the nature contemplated by Rule 101. This Court would not allow its vision to be colored by treating the dated 13th October 2014 as bringing an end to the controversies between the decree-holders and the strangers/third parties, who were not before it. While it cannot be gainsaid that the dignity, prestige and majesty of this B Court has to be maintained, yet, merely because the issue between the Appellants on the one hand and defendant nos. 2 and 3 on the other has attained finality, the same would not afford any justification for this Court, much less sufficient justification, to uphold the contention of the appellants which has the effect of C subverting, rather than effectuating, the substantive right that Rules 97 to 103 of XXI confer on strangers/third parties not bound by the decree for recovery of possession. The claim regarding right, title and interest in respect of their respective shares in the decretal property, as raised by the respondents, cannot be thrown out at the threshold since it is well within their D rights to contest the application under XXI Rule 97, CPC filed by the appellants. Since evidence is required to be led before it, the Executing Court was well-nigh justified in holding the objections to be maintainable at this stage not in the sense that the decree cannot be executed against them but in the sense E that a prima facie case had been set up for an enquiry to be conducted, and posting the matter for evidence to be led by the parties. Upon determination of the questions referred to in Rule 101, the Executing Court would proceed in the manner mandated by Rule 98. [Para 28][568-E-H; 569-A-C] F 1.6 This Court should not entertain the appeals against the of the Executing Court without such having been subjected to any challenge by the Appellants before the High Court. Litigants should not be indulged to hop, skip and jump to reach the Supreme Court for no better reason than the remedy is quick and more efficacious. As a matter of practice, the Supreme G Court in its discretion does entertain special leave petitions directly from s of tribunals/courts without the High Court having been approached only in matters where substantial questions of general importance are involved or where a similar issue is pending for its (the Supreme Court’s) consideration. The H JINI DHANRAJGIR & ANR. v. SHIBU MATHEW & ANR. ETC. 555 power to grant leave under Article 136 itself being discretionary, A this Court would not allow a party invoking the ‘special leave’ jurisdiction to bypass the remedy available at the level of the High Court without the two situations being satisfied.