6791 of 2013. From the and dated 25.04.2012 of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi in Original Petition No.178 of 1999. Appearances: Mrs. Anitha Shenoy, Sr. Adv., Shantanu M. Adkar, Ms. Ayushma Awasthi, Ms. Namrata Caleb, Ms. Pariksha, Ms. Aparna Jha, Advs. for the Appellant. M/s. Gagrat and Co., Ujjwal A. Rana, Himanshu Mehta, Advs. for the Respondents. / OF THE SUPREME COURT A. S. BOPANNA, J. 1. The appellant is before this Court assailing the dated 25.04.2012 passed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New PRAKASH BANG v. GLAXO SMITHKLINE 569 PHARMACEUTICALS LTD. & ANR. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] Delhi (‘NCDRC’ for short) in Consumer Case No.178 of 1999. Through the said the NCDRC has held that the complainant has miserably failed to establish his case in regard to either any defect in the drug in question or any negligence amounting to defi ciency in service on the part of the respondent who is the manufacturer of the drug. In that view, the complaint fi led by the appellant was dismissed by the NCDRC. 2. The brief facts leading to the complaint is that the appellant in to achieve immunity against contracting Hepatitis B, on 10.08.1998 approached his family physician Dr. Satyajit Pathak for administering the repeat dose of the vaccine Engerix-B, along with his family members. The appellant contended that he had purchased four single dose vaccines which were administered by Dr. Satyajit Pathak, one each to him, his wife and two sons. The family members of the appellant had no adverse reaction to the said drug but insofar as the appellant, after four days of being vaccinated, the appellant felt severe pain in his left shoulder at the site of the injection and he suff ered pain while moving his shoulder. It was noticed that the skin at the place where he was injected was found shiny with a bit of erythema with local tenderness. The appellant took certain analgesics under medical advice and visited an orthopaedic surgeon on 17.08.1998. The orthopaedic suggested certain radiological tests like X-ray and C.T. Scan of the left shoulder but no orthopaedic abnormality was detected. 3. The appellant thereafter contacted a general physician named Dr. Madan Phadnis and a general surgeon Dr. Makarand Paranjpe who examined the appellant had referred him to a neuro physician. After taking treatment from 13.09.1998 he was admitted in Ruby Hall Clinic where he was examined by neuro physician and the nerve conduction test was carried out and a dose of steroids was administered. The appellant contended that he developed sudden permanent disability in his shoulder which according to him was caused due to adverse reaction of the vaccine Engerix-B manufactured by the respondents and administered on 10.08.1998. The appellant was working as a Chief Executive of M/s Quicksel Communications, which eff ected his performance and as such he had taken up the issue with the respondent company. Since his grievance was not redressed but in the process since the appellant learnt that the pain being suff ered by the appellant was due to ‘myositis’ which is a condition occurring as an adverse reaction due to 570 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.