This was followed by a legal notice dated 04.01.1983 calling upon the appellant to get the sale deed registered at the same rate at which the plot was initially allotted,@ ₹25/- per square yard. Thereafter, the respondent remained silent. A Civil Suit was fi led after more than three years since the issuance of legal notice and more than two decades after the plot was booked. The alternative prayer made in the suit was for grant of refund of earnest money along with interest @ 18% per annum. Once an alternative relief has been claimed in the suit fi led for specifi c performance, the plaintiff is entitled to only that relief. The appellant does not have any objection to the grant of that relief as it is ready and willing to refund the amount of earnest money deposited by the respondent along with interest, as claimed. The appellant is even ready to pay interest to the respondent even at higher rate of 36% per annum also. 6. He further submitted that at present the agreement of contract is frustrated on account of developments which have taken place in the last sixty years as no plot is available. Even in his cross-examination, the respondent stated that he was not ready and willing to take the plot @ ₹135/- per square yard. It was only a matter of gesture that the appellant had off ered a plot to the respondent after taking licences/permissions under the 1963 Act and 1971 Act, which intervened after the plot was booked by the respondent. Once the respondent had failed to accept the off er within the time permitted, the earnest money deposited by him stood forfeited. In support of the argument, reliance was placed upon the of this Court in Kanshi Ram v. Om Prakash Jawal and M/S. GREATER ASHOKA AND LAND DEV. COMPANY v. KANTI 937 PRASAD JAIN (D) THROUGH LRS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] others10. He further referred to an dated 21.08.2003 passed by the High Court in M/s Ashoka Enclave Plot-holders Association v. M/s Greater Ashoka Land & Development Co.11, wherein the appeal fi led by the Association of Plot-holders of the same colony seeking same relief was dismissed, while upholding the of the Trial Court. The aforesaid litigation being in representative capacity, even the respondent would be bound by the result thereof. 7. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the argument raised by learned counsel for the appellant that the contract for allotment of plot to the respondent had been frustrated with the passage of time is fallacious. The appellant itself had off ered the plot to the respondent on 13.12.1982. It is wrong to allege that the respondent refused to accept the off er. In fact, the respondent had paid a sum of ₹4,945/- as earnest money at the time of booking of the plot and subsequently. All that the respondent had asked for from the appellant was as to how that money already paid and the interest thereon will be dealt with as the delay in allotment of plot was attributable to it.