d) The courts below have overlooked significant material contradictions, improvements, and omissions in the statements of prosecution witnesses. 16. It was, accordingly, prayed by the learned counsel that the appeal be allowed, and the conviction recorded and sentence imposed on Kallu be set aside. 17. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent/State supported the impugned and of the High Court. It was submitted by him that the Trial Court has carefully considered all the materials placed on record and arrived at a just conclusion. No case for interference having been set up by appellant Kallu, learned counsel prayed for dismissal of the appeal. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 18. We have considered the submissions advanced by learned counsel for the parties and have also perused the materials on record. 19. There can be no two opinions that the quality of evidence led by the prosecution in the present case to nail Manoj and Kallu was wholly untrustworthy for convicting them and the Trial Court as well as the High Court erred in not acquitting them. Disclosure Statements 20. The facts of the case reveal that all the accused persons made disclosure statements to the I.O. whereupon recovery of money, jewellery, etc. was eff ected. Although it is quite unusual that all fi ve accused, after being arrested, would lead the I.O. to the places for eff ecting recovery of 3 (1955) 2 SCR 881 256 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the stolen articles, we do not propose to disbelieve the prosecution plea only on this score. Manoj’s involvement was primarily based on the disclosure statements made by co-accused Suleman and Jaihind where they admitted to selling the stolen articles to him and a similar statement made by Manoj himself which led to recovery under Section 27, Evidence Act. Similarly, both the courts below, in convicting Kallu, largely relied upon the disclosure statement made by Kallu himself as well as co-accused Jaihind, who confessed to giving Rs.3,000.00 to Kallu from the stolen money and storing a country-made pistol along with three cartridges at his house/tapra. 21. A doubt looms: can disclosure statements per se, unaccompanied by any supporting evidence, be deemed adequate to secure a conviction? We fi nd it implausible. Although disclosure statements hold signifi cance as a contributing factor in unriddling a case, in our opinion, they are not so strong a piece of evidence suffi cient on its own and without anything more to bring home the charges beyond reasonable doubt. 22. The law on the evidentiary value of disclosure statements under Section 27, Evidence Act made by the accused himself seems to be well- established. The decision of the Privy Council in Pulukuri Kotayya and others vs. King-Emperor4 holds the fi eld even today wherein it was held that the provided information must be directly relevant to the discovered fact, including details about the physical object, its place of origin, and the accused person’s awareness of these aspects. The Privy Council observed: The diffi culty, however great, of proving that a fact discovered on information supplied by the accused is a relevant fact can aff ord no justifi cation for reading into s. 27 something which is not there, and admitting in evidence a confession barred by s. 26.