A Officer of an Oil Company, or a person authorized by the Central Government or a State Government and notified by the Central Government may, with a view to ensuring compliance with the provisions of this , for the purpose of satisfying herself that this or any made thereunder has been complied with: B (a) Stop and search any vessel or vehicle which the Officer has reason to believe has been, or is being or is about to be, used in the contravention of this ; (b) Enter or search any place with such aid or assistance C as may be necessary; (c) Seize and remove with such aid or assistance as may be necessary , the entire quantity of any stock of liquefied petroleum gas in cylinders, cylinder valves and pressure regulators, alongwith the vehicles, vessels or any other conveyances used in carrying such stock if he has reason D to suspect that any provision of this has been or is being or is about to be, contravened in respect of such stock and thereafter take or authorise the taking of all measures necessary for securing the production of the stock of liquefied petroleum gas in cylinder, cylinders, gas E cylinder valves, pressure regulators, vehicles, vessels or other conveyances so seized before the Collector having jurisdiction under the provisions of section of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955) and for their safe custody pending such production……” F 14. It nowhere prescribes that a Sub-Inspector of the Police can take action. No doubt, the aforesaid Clause provides that in addition to the specified officers, the persons authorised by the Central or State Government may take action under the . However, nothing has been placed on record to support the argument that the Sub-Inspector of the Police was authorised to take action under the aforesaid . G 15. It is a settled law that where a power is given to do a certain thing in a certain way, the thing must be done in that way or not at all. Other methods are necessarily forbidden. Reference can be made to Dharani Sugars and Chemicals Ltd. Vs. Union of India and Ors. reported in (2019) 5 SCC 480. H AVTAR SINGH & ANR. v. STATE OF PUNJAB 643 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 16. In the absence of the authority and power with the Sub- A Inspector to take action as per the , the proceedings initiated by him will be totally unauthorised and have to be struck down. 17. For the reasons mentioned above, the appeal is allowed. The by the High Court of Punjab & Haryana in Criminal Appeal No. 562-SB of 1997 dated January 15, 2010 and the dated B 08.07.1997 passed by the Trial Court are set aside. As a consequence, the conviction and sentence of the appellants under Section 7 of the Act is set aside. The bail bond stands discharged. Nidhi Jain Appeal allowed. C D E F G H