However, prima facie, it is made out that they are holding one year diploma in computer. In such circumstances, there shall be a direction in the interim to the Respondent Commission to permit the applicants, who admittedly have already appeared in the written/Typing Test, to appear in the interview, provisionally. However, their result shall not be declared and instead kept in a sealed cover till the matter with regard to equivalence of the diploma held by them with the diploma required as per the aforesaid educational qualifi cations is considered and decided by the newly added Respondent No.2- State, which shall be done as expeditiously as possible but within the reasonable time frame.” 8 Takniki Board 9 O.A. Nos.2830, 2989, 2994, 2998, 3009 and 3026 of 2017 10 Himachal Pradesh State Administrative Tribunal ANKITA THAKUR & ORS. v. THE H.P. STAFF SELECTION 821 COMMISSION & ORS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] (H) In deference to the above , the Commission sought directions / clarifi cations / guidance from the Govt., inter alia, on the following issues: (1) Whether the diplomas possessed by those applicants equivalent to the diploma required by the Rules. (2) Whether diploma / certifi cate obtained from private Institutes, regarding which there was no information about their recognition, could be considered as one from a recognized University / Institute. (I) Pursuant to that, the Commission was informed about the Govt.’s decision dated 21.08.2017, which was in the following terms: “(1) All such candidates having one year Diploma in Computer or higher qualifi cation in Computer Science/ Application/IT from any private Institution like from Society under Societies Act, Rashtriya Saksharta Mission IT programme/Skill Development Programme etc. be considered for fi nal selection subject to having successfully passed their skill test i.e. Typing Test on Computer and after having obtained their undertaking/ declaration certifying that they had attended the classes/ diploma course by attending the classes regularly. (2) That the Computer Science is not limited to the specifi c nomenclature of Diploma prescribed in the R&P Rules, as such, the Diploma in Computer and other Higher Qualifi cations belonging to Computer Science/ application irrespective of their nomenclature be also considered for fi nal selection subject to having successfully passed their skill test i.e. Typing Test on Computer and after having their undertaking/declaration certifying that they had attended the classes/diploma course by attending the classes regularly. There may be instance where certifi cates are issued instead of diploma, in such cases, the Commission is to ascertain and ensure that subjects studied are at par with one year Diploma course in Computer Science/ Application/lT. 822 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (3) The date of personal interview of the candidate concerned in the instant case be treated as valid date for evaluation/ consideration/ acceptance of his/ her diploma/ essential qualifi cation. (4) With regard to educational qualifi cation, as informed during the meeting, the Commission has sought clarifi cation of equivalence in some cases from the concerned authorities, therefore, the Commission need to proceed further in accordance with the clarifi cation/ decision obtained from the State Level Board of Equivalence Committee / H.P.