We are not inclined to interfere with the process of selection as the Public Service Commission is also involved in the process of selection. The fi nal recruitment would take place on the basis of the joint consultation with the High Court of Punjab & Haryana, representatives of the State and the Haryana Public Service Commission as per the decision of December 22, 2008. As large number of posts are still lying vacant, we request the High Court as well as Haryana Public Service Commission and the State Government to complete the process of selection at the earliest. The of 11.5.2007 is modifi ed to the extent indicated above.” (emphasis supplied) 15. The process which has been followed in the State of Haryana is that the State Government has notifi ed alterations in the Rules so as to facilitate the selection process to the judicial service being conducted under the supervision of a Committee consisting of three-Judges of the High Court nominated by the Chief Justice, two representatives of the State Government and a member of the Public Service Commission. 16. By a notifi cation dated 14 December 2020 issued by the Governor in exercise of powers conferred by Article 234 read with proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution, the Punjab Civil Service (Judicial Branch) Haryana Amendment Rules 2020 were notifi ed. Rule 7B has been substituted in the following terms: “7B (1)Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in these rules, appointment to two hundred and thirty nine presently lying vacant and seventeen anticipatory/unforeseen posts of Civil Judges (Junior Division) shall be made by 692 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the State Government through Special recruitment on the recommendations of a Selection Committee constituted for the purpose in the manner hereinafter laid down. (2) The Selection Committee referred to in sub-rule (1) shall comprise of the following members, namely:- (i) three Judges of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana nominated by the Chief Justice, of whom the senior-most shall be the Chairman; (ii) the Advocate General, Haryana; (iii) the Chief Secretary to Government, Haryana; and (iv) the Chairman of the Haryana Public Service Commission.”. Part C of the Rules which provides for conducting of the competitive examination has also been substituted. The substitution of Rule 7B was specifi cally made to facilitate the fi lling up of 239 vacancies in the post of Civil Judge (Junior Division) which were lying vacant and 7 anticipated vacancies. 17. In the application which has now been fi led before this Court, the State of Haryana seeks a direction that it should be permitted to conduct the entire selection process through the Public Service Commission for recruitment to the Judicial Branch and the dated 12 February 2009 should be modifi ed in to facilitate this exercise. 18. In support of the application, it has been urged by Mr Lokesh Sinha, Senior AAG, that the Rules contemplate that: (i) The selection process to the judicial service has to be carried out by the Public Service Commission; (ii) Rule 4 of Part-C provides that while the examination papers shall be set and marks awarded by the examiners appointed by the Public Service Commission, a representative of the High Court shall be one of the members of the Selection Committee for conducting the viva voce and the opinion given by that representative in regard to the suitability of the candidate would not be disregarded, save and except for cogent reasons to be recorded in writing; MALIK MAZHAR SULTAN v. U P PUBLIC SERVICE 693 COMMISSION [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (iii) Rule 5 provides that the Judges of the High Court may from time to time declare the subject of the examination; (iv) Hence, in terms of the mandate of the Rules, it is for the Public Service Commission to carry out the entire process of recruitment and a limited role is assigned to the representative of the High Court in conducting interviews; and (v) The of this Court dated 4 January 2007 also contemplated that the rules for recruitment which have been framed by the respective States have to be followed.