Since constitutional amendments relates to the fundamental law of the land which is a source of authority for other laws, it can be achieved only through fulfi lling the special procedure. 78. The distinction between constituent power and legislative power was commented upon by the late H.M. Seervai in the Constitutional Law of India32 : “the constituent power therefore a juristic entity or category separate from legislative power. In the case of India there are three diff erent modes of amending the Constitution – the fi rst is the easiest or the simplest where states reorganization or names of States are sought to be changed, in that event a Parliamentary enactment would suffi ce. In other cases, an amendment to the Constitution requires the special procedure of two thirds majority in both houses by members sitting and voting and assent by the President. In the special category carved out is proviso to Article 368, not only the special procedure to be resorted to but also super added to it is the requirement of amendment 31 1973 Supp 1 SCR 1 32 4th Edition Volume 3 page 3119 THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 183 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] having to secure the ratifi cation and the proviso of one half of the State Legislature by the Resolutions. Thus the nature of the amendment and structure of Article 368 distinctly brings home the point that it encapsulates both the power and also contains the procedure for amendment.” 79. This Court had in the reported as AK Roy (supra) dealt with some aspects of this issue. The challenge there essentially, was to provisions of the then National Security Act. One of the grounds of challenge is that it violated Article 22. Since Article 22 was amended by the 44th Amendment to the Constitution and provisions of those amendments were not brought into force, Section 1(2) of that Constitution Amendment was challenged. This Court, held as follows: “It is well settled that the power conferred upon the Parliament by Article 245 to make laws is plenary within the fi eld of legislation upon which that power can operate. That power, by the terms of Article 245, is subject only to the provisions of the Constitution. The constituent power, subject to the limitation aforesaid, cannot be any the less plenary that the legislative power, especially when the power to amend the Constitution and the power to legislate are conferred on one and the same organ of the State, namely, the Parliament. The Parliament may have to follow a diff erent procedure while exercising its constituent power under Article 368 than the procedure which it has to follow while exercising its legislative power under Article 245. But the obligation to follow diff erent procedures while exercising the two diff erent kinds of power cannot make any diff erence to the width of the power. In either event, it is plenary, subject in one case to the constraints of the basic structure of the Constitution and in the other, to the provisions of the Constitution.