This has long been the position of law in India with respect to the Stamp Act. In Gulzari Lal Marwari v. Ram Gopal,48 one of the parties contended that the agreement was invalid because it was not properly stamped. The portion of Section 35 which bars the admissibility of unstamped instruments was the same then as it is now. The Calcutta High Court held: “…The eff ect of the section is to make such an unstamped document inadmissible in evidence, and unable to be acted upon by persons having authority to receive evidence or by any public offi cer. It does not aff ect the validity of the document. There is a clear distinction to be drawn between invalidity and inadmissibility of documents. Certain statutes and sections render documents invalid if they are not stamped. No section of the Indian Stamp Act has this eff ect…” The position of law has also been noticed by the High Courts in other cases including the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Boottam Pitchiah v. Boyapati Koteswara Rao49. 51. In N N Global 2 (supra), this Court held that the failure to stamp an arbitration agreement is not a “curable defect.” Relying on the provisions 48 1936 SCC OnLine Cal 275 49 1964 SCC OnLine AP 5 112 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. of the Contract Act as well as Section 11(6-A) of the Arbitration Act, it held that an unstamped arbitration agreement is void. The relevant paragraphs of the of the majority are extracted below: “103. … It may not be apposite to merely describe an unstamped arbitration agreement as a “curable defect”. As long it remains an unstamped instrument, it cannot be taken notice of for any purpose, as contemplated in Section 35 of the Stamp Act. It remains unenforceable. … It is “not enforceable in law”. In the said sense, it also cannot exist in law. It would be void. Our view in this regard that voidness is confl ated to unenforceability receives fortifi cation from Section 2(j) of the Contract Act which renders a contract which ceases to be enforceable void.” (emphasis in original) 52. The above observation of this Court is incorrect. Section 2(j) of the Contract Act provides as follows: “(j) A contract which ceases to be enforceable by law becomes void when it ceases to be enforceable.” 53. Section 2(j) is not attracted when an instrument is rendered inadmissible under Section 35 of the Stamp Act. The eff ect of the latter is not to render an unstamped agreement unenforceable. If it was unenforceable, it would imply that it was void. We have already discussed why an unstamped or inadequately stamped agreement is not void in the preceding paragraphs. Indeed, the approach of the majority in N N Global 2 (supra) to the Contract Act would render unstamped agreements void ab initio and not void. 54. In N N Global 2 (supra), this Court also relied on Section 11(6A) of the Arbitration Act to reach its conclusion: “104.