This Court has time and again deliberated upon the crucial question of G distinction between Sections 299 and 300 of the IPC, i.e. ‘culpable homicide’ and ‘murder’ respectively. In Phulia Tudu v. State of Bihar, (2007) 14 SCC 588, this Court noticed that confusion may arise if the courts would lose sight of the true scope and meaning of the terms used by the legislature in these sections. This Court observed that the H 1112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A safest way of approach to the interpretation and application of these provisions seems to be to keep in focus the keywords used in the various clauses of these sections. 37. This Court in Phulia Tudu (supra) has observed that the academic distinction between ‘murder’ and ‘culpable homicide not B amounting to murder’ has always vexed the courts. The confusion is caused if courts losing sight of the true scope and meaning of the terms used by the legislature in these sections, allow themselves to be drawn into minute abstractions. The safest way of approach to the interpretation and application of these provisions seems to be to keep in focus the keywords used in the various clauses of Sections 299 and 300 of the C IPC. The following comparative table will be helpful in appreciating the points of distinction between the two offences:- Section 299 Section 300 A person commits Subject to certain exceptions culpable D culpable homicide if homicide is murder if the act by which the the act by which the death is caused is done- death is caused is done- INTENTION (a) with the intention (1) with the intention of causing death; or E of causing death; or (b) with the intention (2) with the intention of causing such bodily of causing such bodily injury as the offender knows to be likely to injury as is likely to cause the death of the person to whom the cause death; or harm is caused; or (3) with the intention of causing bodily F injury to any person and the bodily injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death; or KNOWLEDGE (c) with the (4) with the knowledge that the act is so knowledge that the act imminently dangerous that it must in all G is likely to cause death probability cause death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, and commits such act without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as is mentioned above. H ANBAZHAGAN v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY THE 1113 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 38. Clause (b) of Section 299 of the IPC corresponds with clauses A (2) and (3) of Section 300 of the IPC. The distinguishing feature of the mens rea requisite under clause (2) is the knowledge possessed by the offender regarding the particular victim being in such a peculiar condition or state of health that the internal harm caused to him is likely to be fatal, notwithstanding the fact that such harm would not in the B ordinary way of nature be sufficient to cause death of a person in normal health or condition.