4. A suit was fi led by Ganagaramaiah seeking permission from the Court to mortgage the property of the minor. A public notice was issued inviting objections. Vide dated 27.09.1978 permission was granted to execute fresh Mortgage Deed in to discharge the earlier mortgage for a sum of ₹ 7000/- (Rupees Seven Thousand). On 26.03.1987, the legal heirs of Rudramma sold the property in-question in favour of defendant no.4 in the suit, namely, N. Shashidar. Gangaramaiah died on 30.04.1987. 5. A suit2 was fi led by the appellant praying for various reliefs, which was dismissed by the trial Court. The of the trial Court was upheld by the High Court. APPELLANT’S ARGUMENTS 6. In the aforesaid factual matrix, Mrs. Kiran Suri, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant, submitted that the fi nding recorded by the courts below, that the suit fi led by the appellant-plaintiff was time barred, is totally erroneous. The prayer in the suit was for redemption of the mortgage. On interpretation of the documents, it is clearly made out that the intention of the vendor was to mortgage the property. On the very same date, the Reconveyance Deed was executed though separately, in terms of which the vendee had agreed to re-transfer the property on returning back the consideration money within a period of fi ve years from the date of execution of the Sale Deed. The terms mentioned in the document need to be interpreted. It can be very well made out that, it was a mortgage and not an agreement for re-purchase of the property. It was submitted that even if under Section 58(c) of the 1882 Act4, it is provided that clauses to treat the transaction of sale as a mortgage have to be in a single document, it is not a pre-condition, as the intention of the parties can be inferred from two separate documents executed on the same date. 7. The fi nding recorded by the trial Court, as upheld by the High Court regarding the suit being time barred, is totally erroneous. The case of the appellant will not fall under Article 60 of the Schedule attached to the 1963 4 The Transfer of Property Act, 1882 1038 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Act5. Rather, it will fall under Article 61 thereof. It was not a simplicitor case of challenging the Sale Deed executed by the guardian of the appellant when at the relevant point of time, he was a minor. Rather it was a case of redemption of mortgage for which limitation prescribed was 30 years. 8. It was further submitted that the appellant was the absolute owner of the property for which the Sale Deed was got registered by his father when he was a minor. Considering his age at that time, it could not be established that purpose of the sale of property was for the benefi t of the minor. Even otherwise, the onus to prove the same was on the alienee of the property, which he had failed to discharge.