D 20. MIB issued a show cause notice stating that, MBL has “ceased to fulfil the eligibility requirement for ‘renewal’ of permission for uplinking and downlinking” due to the denial of security clearance. MBL was asked to show cause as to why the ‘permission granted to them should not be revoked or cancelled’. By its letter dated 31 January 2022, MIB ed that the permission granted to MBL to uplink and downlink Media E One be ‘revoked’. Though the show cause notice stated that security clearance which is a requirement for ‘renewal’ of license is denied, MIB was asked to show cause as to why its license should not be ‘revoked’. A similar phraseology of ‘revocation’ was used in MIB’s dated 31 January 2022. TheDivision Bench of the High Court in F its dated 2 March 2022 noted the inconsistency between the phraseology used in the ‘renewal’ application and ‘revocation’ . 21. The notice to show cause and the of revocation refer to the ‘revocation of license’. However, both the former and the latter note that MBL has not fulfilled one of the conditions for renewal of license G since it was denied a security clearance by the MHA. Counsel for the appellants have not made submissions on the inconsistency arising out of the use of the phrases ‘renewal’ and ‘revocation’ interchangeably. Thus, we will proceed on the understanding that the of MIB dated 31 January 2022 rejected the application for renewal of the licence to operate the channel. H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 627 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] D. Requirement of security clearance for renewal of A permission 22. Paragraph 10 of the Uplinking Guidelines stipulates the conditions for renewal of existing permissions. According to paragraph 10, renewal of permission is to be considered for ten years, subject to the condition that the channel should not be found guilty of violating the B terms and conditions of permission, including any violation of the programme and advertising code on five or more occasions. Paragraph 10.4 stipulates that the terms and conditions applicable at the time when permission is granted would be applicable at the time of renewal, subject to modifications made by the terms of the permission. The relevant C paragraphs of the provision are extracted below: “ 10. RENEWAL OF EXISTING PERMISSIONS 10.2 Renewal of permission will be considered for a period of 10 years at a time, subject to the condition that the channel should not have been found guilty of violating the terms and conditions of D permission including violations of the programme and advertisement code on five occasions or more. What should constitute a violation would be determined in consultation with the established self- regulating mechanisms. […] E 10.4 At the time of considering the renewal of permission of the existing permission holders, the eligibility criteria of net worth of the company and experience of the top management will not apply. However, other terms and conditions would be applicable as per modified terms and conditions of the permission.” F 23.