Yet another of this Court in the case of Atbir vs. Government (2010) 9 SCC 1 which is to the same eff ect has also been relied upon by the Sessions Judge to convict the accused, whereunder it has been held that dying declaration can be the sole basis for conviction. “(a) If it satisfi es the conscience of the court that deceased was in a fi t state of mind at the time of making the statement and that it was not a case of prompting or imagination; PARANAGOUDA AND ANOTHER v. THE STATE OF 931 KARNATAKA AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] (b) It is true and voluntary and no further corroboration is required; (c) It is not suspicious.” It has also been observed therein that rule requiring corroboration is merely a rule of prudence. If the dying declaration discloses that deceased was unconscious or could never have made any statement, the conviction cannot be sustained. Even non-mentioning of minute details cannot be a ground to reject the said declaration and brief statement would suffi ce. If the evidence on record would suggest that the deceased was not in a fi t condition to make statement or declaration, the medical opinion cannot prevail. 12. In the instant case, we notice from the facts that the deceased had self-immolated. A plain reading of the dying declaration Ex.P-45 recorded by PW-25 would indicate that reason for self-immolation by the deceased was on account of her inability to tolerate the torture meted out by the accused persons and she was not able to withstand the same and as such she self-immolated in the agricultural land. The physical disability suff ered by her on account of the burn injuries sustained would not disentitle her to make statement, if said statement had been made consciously knowing the consequences thereof and such statement or declaration cannot be brushed aside only on the ground of burn injuries (in the instant case 70% to 80%) having been sustained by her. As such, the contention raised by the learned advocates appearing for the appellants cannot be accepted or in other words the dying declaration cannot be brushed aside. The acceptance of the dying declaration by the court below is just a proper and under similar circumstances, this Court, in the case of Kamlavva And Anr Vs. State of Karnataka (2009) 13 SCC 614 has held that even in circumstances where the burn injuries was to the extent of 70% to 80% the dying declaration can be accepted and it has been further held to the following eff ect. “20. The next and the most vital issue which was raised is regarding the admissibility of the dying declaration stated to have been made by the deceased before her death. Before dealing with the factual aspect of the dying declaration, it would be necessary to know the exact legal position which has been laid down and reiterated by this Court time and again. 932 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.