and the main purpose of such structuring is obtaining benefi ts under this Agreement. In respect of Articles 10 (Dividends), 11 (Interest) and 12 (Royalties and fees for technical services), if under any Convention, Agreement or Protocol between India and a third State which is a member of the OECD signed after the signature of this Amending Protocol, India limits its taxation at source on dividends, interest, royalties or fees for technical services to a rate lower than the rate provided for in this Agreement on the said items of income, the same rate as provided for in that Convention, Agreement or Protocol on the said items of income shall also apply between both Contracting States under this Agreement as from the date on which such Convention, Agreement or Protocol enters into force. If after the date of signature this Amending Protocol, India under any Convention, Agreement or Protocol with a third State which is a member of the OECD, restricts the scope in respect of royalties or fees for technical services than the scope for these items of income provided for in Article 12 of this Agreement, then Switzerland and India shall enter into negotiations without undue delay in to provide the same treatment to Switzerland as that provided to the third State.” It is urged that the change in terminology is significant. The earlier Protocol had obliged parties to enter into negotiations to ensure that benefi ts extended to state parties which later entered into OECD membership, were given to Switzerland. However, the language of the third Protocol is more emphatic, in that it, states, through the second paragraph of the amended Protocol to Article 11, that in such event (of entry by third party state into OECD): “the same rate as provided for in that Convention, Agreement or Protocol on the said items of income shall also apply between both Contracting States under this Agreement as from the date on which such Convention, Agreement or Protocol enters into force.” 63. At this stage, it would also be useful to note that the second Protocol, by Article 16, had provided that: 118 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “ARTICLE 16 The Governments of the Contracting States shall notify each other through diplomatic channels 1. that all legal requirements and procedures for giving eff ect to this Protocol have been satisfi ed. [..]” It could plausibly be argued that this condition is not substantive, but only diplomatic. However, what it requires is that the concerned governments have to notify how and when the Protocol is assimilated into the domestic legal system. Quite correctly the provision does not assign any time frame within which the Protocol has to be made eff ective. Therefore, inbuilt in the entire eco-system of the DTAAs is the inarticulate premise that assimilation into the domestic legal system is not always within the control of the executive wing which enters into the convention, or signs the protocol and that compelling constitutional and legal requirements have to be satisfi ed, before its benefi ts are integrated within the national legal regimes.