Section 10A of the said Act provides that, notwithstanding anything contained in the Act or any other law for the time B being in force, no person shall establish a medical college; or no medical college shall open a new or higher course of study or training which would enable a student of such course or training to qualify himself for the award of any recognised medical qualification, except with the previous permission of the Central Government. That the permission as C contemplated in Section 10A is the permission to open a new or higher course of study or training which would enable a student of such course or training to qualify himself for the award of any “recognised medical qualification”. As the Diploma in DMRHC as defined in Section 2(e) of the D Assam Act is not akin to “recognised medical qualification” referred to in Section 10A of the IMC Act, 1956, the Assam Act can certainly co-exist. The powers and functions of rural health practitioners as delineated in Section 24 of the Assam Act would go to show that both legislations can co- exist without there being any overlapping. E ii. That a perusal of Regulation 11 framed by the State Authority under the Regulations of Assam Rural Health Regulatory Authority, 2005 would reveal that practice of medicine under the scheme of the State Act has a very limited meaning. Similarly, the word “surgery” has also been F assigned a limited scope. Therefore, the underlying purpose is not to encroach upon the field covered by the Central Act but to provide rural health care to the needy persons. In attainment of the aforesaid objectives, if there is any incidental encroachment, the same cannot have the potential G of adjudging the Assam Act as ultra vires. iii. That in determining whether an enactment is a legislation with respect to a given power, what is relevant is whether, in its pith and substance, it is a law upon the subject matter in question. Reliance was placed on State of Bombay vs. H 942 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A F. N. Balsara, AIR 1951 SC 318, (“F. N. Balsara”) wherein it was held that mere incidental encroachment on matters which have been assigned to another legislature does not vitiate the legislation. It was contended that in the instant case, the State Legislature has not made any attempt to encroach upon the field covered by the IMC Act, 1956 B by offering qualifications envisaged in Section 2(h) read with First Schedule to the said Act. That the Parliament even after enacting the IMC 1956 Act left out certain grey areas, thus, the Assam Act is an attempt to cover the fields left open by the Parliament. C iv. That when one entry is made ‘subject to’ another entry, it means that out of the scope of the former entry, a field of legislation covered by the latter entry has been reserved to be specifically dealt with by the appropriate legislature.