7 Ashish Chandra v. Asha Kumari, (2012) 1 SCC 680 H 1106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the preliminary objection raised by the respondents on the locus standi of the petitioner in seeking transfer of the subject trial. C.1. LOCUS STANDI OF THE PETITIONER 22. Section 406(2) of the CrPC provides that the Supreme Court B may transfer a case “only on the application of the Attorney-General of India or of a party interested”. 23. In the case of K. Anbazhagan v. Superintendent of Police8, this Court discussed the meaning of expression “a party interested” under Section 406, CrPC and held as follows: C “The words “party interested” are of a wide import and, therefore, they have to be given a wider meaning. If it was the intendment of the legislature to give restricted meaning then it would have used words to the effect “party to the proceedings”. In this behalf the wording of Article 139-A of D the Constitution of India may be looked at. Under Article 139- A the transfer can be if “the Supreme Court is satisfied on its own motion or on an application made by the Attorney General of India or by a party to any such case”. (emphasis supplied) Also if the provisions of Chapter XXIX of the Criminal Procedure Code are looked at, it is seen that when the E legislature intended a “party to the proceedings” to have a right of appeal it specifically so stated. The legislature, therefore, keeping in view the larger public interest involved in a criminal justice system, purposely used words of a wider import in Section 406. Also, it is a well-settled principle of F law that statutes must be interpreted to advance the cause of statute and not to defeat it.” 24. Considering this apt and expansive interpretation of phrase ‘party interested’ under Section 406(2) of the CrPC, we hold that the Petitioner, being the real brother of the Deceased, is vitally interested in G a fair trial so that the Deceased and his family gets justice. The Respondents’ challenge to the locus standi of the Petitioner is thus rejected. H 8 K. Anbazhagan v. Superintendent of Police (2004) 3 SCC 767. AFJAL ALI SHA @ ABJAL SHAUKAT SHA v. STATE OF WEST 1107 BENGAL & ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] C.2. GROUNDS FOR TRANSFER A 25. Coming to the second limb of the contentions raised on behalf of the parties, we may firstly notice some of the well-defined contours in relation thereto. It has by now been well established that a well-founded apprehension that justice will not be done is a prerequisite for transfer of the case. Tracing the power of transfer of a case, we are reminded of B Lord Hewart’s dictum in Rex v. Sussex Justices9 stating that “It is not merely of some importance but is of fundamental importance that justice should not only be done, but should manifestly and undoubtedly be seen to be done”. 26. The right to a fair trial is a fundamental right under Article 21 C of the Constitution of India10 and its importance cannot be emphasised enough.