The Prime Minister or the Chief Minister does not have disciplinary control over F the members of the Council of Ministers. It is true that in practice, a strong Prime Minister or Chief Minister will be able to drop any Minister out of the Cabinet. But in a country like ours where there is a multi-party system and where coalition Governments are often formed, it is not possible at all times for a Prime Minister/Chief Minister to take the whip, whenever a statement is made by someone in the Council of Ministers. G 129. Governments which survive on wafer-thin majority (of which we have seen quite a bit), sometimes have individual Ministers who are strong enough to decide the very survival of such Governments. This problem is not unique to our country. H 702 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 130. We have followed the Westminster Model but the Westminster Model itself became shaky after the United Kingdom saw the first coalition Government in 2010, since the Churchill Caretaker Ministry of 1945. It is interesting to note that in a Report submitted by the Constitution Committee (UK) in the year 2014, under the title, “Constitutional Implications of Coalition Government” it was pointed B out that “collective ministerial responsibility has been the convention most affected by coalition Government”. The Report proceeds to state that the coalition Government formed in 2010 (in UK) set out five specific issues on which the parties would agree to differ. But, in reality the number of areas of disagreement has been greater resulting on one C occasion, in Ministers being whipped to vote in opposite lobbies and on another, in MPs on the Treasury Benches attempting to amend the Address on the Queen’s speech. 131. In the “Briefing Paper” (Number 7755, 14 November 2016) on “Collective responsibility” by Michael Everett available in the House D of Commons Library, (i) the early origins and development of the concept of collective responsibility; (ii) what is collective responsibility; (iii) the conventions of collective responsibility; and (iv) departures from collective responsibility are dealt with. This Paper traces early beginnings of the doctrine of collective responsibility to the reign of George III (1760- 1820). According to the Briefing Paper, the development of today’s E concept of collective responsibility arose during the Victorian golden age of Parliamentary Government. In fact, the Briefing Paper quotes some commentators who have questioned whether the convention of collective responsibility remains appropriate for the Government of today. The Briefing Paper quotes Barry Winetrobe, a Research Fellow at the F Constitution Unit who said that the doctrine of collective responsibility was developed at a time when a sense of coherence was required to be maintained among disparate ministerial forces in the face of the Monarch and that it is not necessarily appropriate in an age, not just of democracy, but of greater and more direct participative democracy. G 132. It will be useful to quote a portion of Chapter 2.3 under the heading “Enforcing collective responsibility” from the Briefing Paper as follows: “…Dr Felicity Matthews, Senior Lecturer in Governance and Public Policy at the University of Sheffield, has also argued that H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS.