He submits that no perversity could be noticed in the concurrent fi ndings of fact. 8. The conviction by the trial court and the High Court is primarily on the basis of evidence of Narayanappa (PW-1). 9. Narayanappa (PW-1), in his evidence, has stated about the deceased’s previous enmity with the accused persons in the year 2002, wherein the deceased and his wife Radha (PW-3) had gotten injured after a scuffl e between the parties. PW-1 also stated that the trial with regard to that incident was ongoing in the Judicial Magistrate Court, Hosur. PW-1 further stated that on 14th September 2004 at around 09:45 hours, he and his deceased brother were riding on a TVS 50 motor vehicle. When they were riding towards MS Nursery Farm, accused No. 1 – Nagaraja Reddy, accused No. 2 – Nagi Reddy, accused No. 3 – Sridhar Reddy, accused No. 4 – Krishna Reddy and accused No. 5 – Ranganatha Reddy, stopped them by brandishing harvest knives and then threw chili powder in their eyes. He stated that accused No. 1 – present appellant, stabbed the deceased with a harvest knife, due to which the deceased Rajappa fell down. Thereafter, accused No. 2 – Nagi Reddy attacked him with a harvest knife with considerable force on his right leg. Resultantly, his leg was severed into two parts. PW-1 further stated that, thereafter, accused No. 3 – Sridhar Reddy attacked the deceased on his left foot. After that, accused No. 4 – Krishna Reddy attacked him on the middle part of the deceased’s head. He submitted that, thereafter, he ran through a short cut route and informed Radha (PW-3), wife of Rajappa about the said incident. 462 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 10. Insofar as other witnesses are concerned, undisputedly, none of them is an eye witness. The other witnesses, including Radha (PW-3), wife of the deceased, only stated that all of the accused persons came to their home in the village and exhorted that they had killed Rajappa. 11. On the basis of the very same evidence, all the accused, except accused No. 1 – present appellant and accused No. 3 – Sridhar Reddy, were acquitted by the trial court. The High Court acquitted accused No. 3 - Sridhar Reddy, only on the ground that he was arrested by the police within few days after the incident, whereas the arrest is shown on 22nd September 2004. The present appellant was convicted on the ground that he was absconding after the incident and that he surrendered voluntarily before the Magistrate on 23rd September 2004. 12. We fi nd that the reasoning given by the High Court in distinguishing the case of the present appellant as against accused No. 3 is totally perfunctory. 13. Undisputedly, Narayanappa (PW-1) is an interested witness, being the brother of the deceased. He has also admitted that there existed previous enmity between the parties. As held by this Court in a catena of cases including a recent decision in the case of Khema alias Khem Chandra etc.