Nonetheless, it is recognised that none of them by itself is conclusive and the determination one way or the other has to be made on the facts and circumstances of each case. However, Sikri, C.J. in his dissenting opinion reasoned that the mode of payment of purchase price of any capital asset cannot convert the capital payment into a revenue payment in C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 431 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] the hands of the vendee. The mode of payment may aff ect the character of the receipt in the hands of the vendor but as far as the vendee is concerned, what is obviously a capital payment cannot be converted to a revenue payment. However, the majority held that the transaction did not amount to a sale and that the payment of consideration for the use of the goodwill of the business which is indefi nite and depends on the profi ts earned by the company each year can be a revenue expenditure. (c) Reliance was also placed on Sarada Binding works by Sri Datar. In the said case, a registered fi rm carrying on business as a book binder and publisher had entered into an agreement with “B” under which it obtained the right to run the business of a publication concern for a consideration of a fi xed sum of Rs.5,000/- per annum plus a sum equivalent to 10% of the net profi ts of each year of business. The assessee claimed the said amount as a business expenditure. The Madras High Court held that where the transaction in question amounted to a purchase of the business, the consideration paid partly as a fi xed annual sum and partly a periodical payment on a certain percentage of the profi ts earned by the assessee from the said business could not be treated entirely as capital payment. The fi xed annual sum payable was a capital payment but the periodical payments of sums which were indefi nite depending upon the future profi ts earned could not be treated as capital in nature. In the said case, the following extract from Wheatcroft’s treatise on The Law of Income Tax, Sur Tax and Profi ts Tax, was quoted wherein three types of cases where the purchase price may be paid periodically or in instalments and the points of distinction between them were quoted: “First, there are cases where all the payments must be treated as income of the recipient and the payer is entitled to deduct tax on payment and to a deduction in computing his total income. Secondly, there are cases where the payments are all treated as capital and are neither taxable to the recipient nor deductible in computing the payer’s total income. Thirdly, there are cases where 432 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the payments must be dissected into an income content and a capital content so that the former part is taxable and deductible whilst the latter is not.” On facts, the case before was classifi ed as falling under the third category and it was held that the question, whether, the payment is capital or revenue has to be considered in relation to the facts of each case and the true nature of the payment has to be ascertained from the documents and all the surrounding circumstances with the important features to consider being the nature of the original obligation, the period of time during which the payments are to continue, whether or not they are expressed in the form of instalments of some capital sum and what provisions, if any, are made for commutation.