PC, a Sessions Court can try an off ence against any accused upon committal of the case to the Court of Sessions. In respect of off ences which are exclusively triable, certainly when the accused appears or brought before the Magistrate concerned, the case would be committed to the Court of Session after complying with the provisions in accordance with law. We have already found that as relates to an off ence under Section 409 IPC, going by the First Schedule to Cr.PC, it is triable by Court of a Magistrate of the First Class and since that expression takes in the Court of a Chief Judicial Magistrate. The case on hand is presently under trial before the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Raipur. The question is what should be the procedure to be followed for committal of such a case before the Court of Session concerned at this stage. Since the case is already before the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, the learned counsel for both sides submitted that the case AMANDEEP SINGH SARAN v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 455 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] could not be committed to the Court of Session concerned in exercise of the power under Section 325, Cr. PC. We do not think it necessary to delve into that question as according to us this could be done legally in exercise of the power under Section 323, Cr. PC which reads thus: - “323. Procedure when, after commencement of inquiry or trial, Magistrate fi nds case should be committed. - If, in any inquiry into an off ence or a trial before a Magistrate, it appears to him at any stage of the proceedings before signing the that the case is one which ought to be tried by the Court of Session, he shall commit it to that Court under the provisions hereinbefore contained [and thereupon the provisions of Chapter XVIII shall apply to the commitment so made]”. 27. A scanning of the provisions under Section 323 Cr. PC would show that in any inquiry or trial before a Magistrate, “which expression would take in the Chief Judicial Magistrate as well”, it appears to him at any stage of the proceedings before signing the that the case is one which ought to be tried by the Court of Session, it should commit to that Court. Thus, it is evident that before signing the , the power under Section 323, Cr. PC is available to be exercised. Certainly, the sine qua non for exercise of the power under Section 323 is the opinion of the Magistrate concerned that it is a case which ought to be tried by the Court of Session. In view of the provision, under normal circumstances, it is desirable to direct the Court of the Magistrate concerned to exercise the power after due consideration. However, in view of the peculiar circumstances of this case which we have already taken into account, id est that the maximum penalty imposable by the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate is imprisonment not exceeding 7 years, that taking into account the fact that the appellant herein had already undergone incarceration for a period of more than 8 years we have already passed an for his release on bail and the fact that only 10 out of 86 witnesses on the side of the prosecution have been examined, we direct the Court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Raipur to commit the case under trial against the appellant herein, arising out of FIR No.22/2015 of Police Station, New Rajendra Nagar, Raipur in the State of Chhattisgarh, to the Court of Session to which he is subordinate, to enable that Court to conduct the trial in the said case.