repealed or re-enacted by an Act of the Legislature, and any reference in this Constitution to any Acts of or laws made by the Legislature shall be construed as including a reference to such law. (5) No Proclamation under sub-section (1) shall be issued except with the concurrence of the President of India. (6) Every Proclamation under this section shall, except where it is a Proclamation revoking a previous Proclamation, be laid before each house of the Legislature as soon as it is convened.” “PART XII AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION 147. Amendment of the Constitution.- An amendment of this Constitution may be initiated only by the introduction of a Bill for the purpose in the Legislative Assembly and when the Bill is passed in each House by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the total membership of that House, it shall be presented to the Governor for his assent and, upon such assent being given to the Bill, the Constitution shall stand amended in accordance with the terms of the Bill: Provided that a Bill providing for the abolition of the Legislative Council may be introduced in the Legislative Assembly and passed by it by a majority of the total membership of Assembly and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members of the Assembly present and voting: Provided further that no Bill or amendment seeking to make any change in- (a) this section; or (b) the provisions of Sections 3 and 5; or (c) the provisions of the Constitution of India as applicable, in relation to the State, shall be introduced or moved in either House of the Legislature.” 28. The Constitution (Application to Jammu and Kashmir) Third Amendment , 1964 (hereinafter referred to as “C.O. 71”) dated 21.11.1964, modifi ed the Constitution of India, as applicable to the State of IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 319 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] Jammu & Kashmir, and made Article 356 applicable to the State, with the modifi cation that the expression ‘Constitution’ included the ‘Constitution of Jammu & Kashmir’. The Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir (Sixth Amendment) Act, 1965, was passed on 10.4.1965, replacing the expressions ‘Sadar-i-Riyasat’ and the ‘Prime Minister’ in the State Constitution with the ‘Governor’ and the ‘Chief Minister’ respectively. Simultaneously, the Constitution (Application to Jammu & Kashmir) Second Amendment , 1965 (hereinafter referred to as “C.O. 74”) was issued by the President of India in concurrence with the Government of the State of Jammu & Kashmir, under Article 370(1). It inter alia amended CO 48 to substitute Article 367(b) to refl ect the nomenclature change of Sadar-i-Riyasat to Governor. 29. Political negotiations and developments saw the Kashmir Accord, 1975 being entered into between the Government of India and the Government of Jammu & Kashmir, inter alia, emphasizing that the relationship between the two would be governed by Article 370 of the Indian Constitution (as per Clause (1) of the Kashmir Accord). Clause (2) of the Accord reiterated that the residuary powers would remain with the State.