322. On 26 January 1950, when the Constitution was adopted, the State of Jammu and Kashmir became an integral part of the territory of India. The mandate of Article 1 is that “India that is Bharat shall be a Union of States”. The States and their territories would be those specifi ed in Parts A, B and C of the First Schedule. The State of Jammu and Kashmir was a Part B State on the date of the adoption of the Constitution. With the adoption of the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution which obliterated the distinction between Parts A, B and C States, Jammu and Kashmir became a State in the Union of States. In other words, Article 370 of the Constitution read together with Article 1 leaves no manner of doubt that the integration of Jammu and Kashmir as a part of the nation, which in itself was a Union of States was complete. Any interpretation of Article 370 cannot postulate that the integration of Jammu and Kashmir with India was temporary. v. The eff ect of dissolution of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir on the scope of powers under Article 370(3) 323. The principal argument urged by Mr Kapil Sibal, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners248 is that Article 370 was only temporary when the Constituent Assembly of the State was in existence, that is, 248 W.P. (C) No. 1037 of 2019: Mohd Akbar Lone & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 197 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] between 1951 to 1957. The power under Article 370(3) ceased to exist after the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly. However, the respondents argue that the power under Article 370(3) to declare that the provision ceases to exist or shall exist with such modifi cation subsisted even after the Constituent Assembly ceased to exist. The respondents argue that it is because the Constituent Assembly under the proviso to Article 370(3) only had the power to make recommendations which were not binding on the President and that the President could always unilaterally exercise the power under Article 370(3). 324. Thus, the question which needs to be addressed is whether Article 370 assumed permanency after the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir or whether it was by its very nature, object and purpose temporary. This Court must take into account the inference drawn on an analysis of the historical context of including Article 370 and the text, placement and marginal note of the provision while deciding this issue. We have concluded above that: a. Article 370 by its text, placement and marginal note is a ‘temporary’ provision; and b. A special provision in the form of Article 370 was included for the State of Jammu and Kashmir because of three special circumstances, which were that (a) the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir had accepted the legislative competence of the Union on three limited subjects along with certain ancillary powers; (b) the Constituent Assembly of the State had not been convened before the Constitution of India was adopted to expand the scope of legislative competence and ratify the Constitution; and (c) the impending war in Jammu and Kashmir at the time of framing the Constitution of India.