13. On behalf of the appellant, Mr. A. Velan, learned Advocate had appeared. It was argued that the report of the Sankara Nethralaya Hospital which was sought, dated 26.05.2023 used the reputed “Ishihara Pseudo Isochromatic Plates” based test. The material portion of the test revealed that he had mild colour vision defi ciency. The conclusions of the Sankara Nethralaya Eye Hospital were as follows: MOHAMED IBRAHIM v. THE CHAIRMAN & MANAGING 933 DIRECTOR & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “3. On the above tests, he was diagnosed to have mild colour vision defi ciency. a) With Ishihara colour vision screening test except for the demo plate, he did not provide correct response to other plates. b) With AO - HRR test, he was able to identify the demo plates and with the diagnostic plates, he responded for two of the milder form protan plates. c) In FM 100 hue test, he was able to perform without any delay and he reconfi rmed that he understood the test. d) He was able to perform the wire matching test with fl uency (Figure 1). e) On signal test, he was making errors and confused it with yellow. 4. He was then taken to the “on the fi eld test” for observing his capabilities at work station. The test was conducted at the work station of TANGEDCO situated at 141, Anna Salai, Chennai-600 002). He was asked to read out the colours of the display panels appeared on the monitor of the computer system. He was making errors when the colour comes closer to yellow. He was misreading that colour as lighter shade of green which is actually yellow. 5. On the control panel large display unit, he was asked to read out signals and also the numbers written in various colours. He was able to read the numbers and text without any diffi culty. He was also able to identify the coloured arrow marks. (We are unable to provide picture as we were not allowed to take photo quoting confi dentiality). 6. At the Chennai Distribution Control Unit, he was asked to identify the colours on the distribution line charts. He was able to identify majority of the colours but made errors with colours yellow and green closely placed. 7. He was also made to identify wires in the control room station. He identifi ed majority of the colours but made errors with brown and orange coloured wires and also with green and yellow coloured wires. 934 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 8. After the fi eld visit, dilated fundus examination was performed. Retina, macula and optic nerve head appeared to be normal for both eyes.” OBSERVATION: 1. With the above fi ndings observed during the examination conducted and considering his job profi le, we conclude that he could encounter errors while reading the distribution line charts which is crucial for the job profi le of AE’s to make on the running of the lines. 2. He also has confusion when it comes to lighter shades of colours of green and red.” 14.