The right against double jeopardy, and the right against self-incrimination available under sub-Articles (2) and (3) of Article 20 may also be available even against non-State actors in the case of prosecution on private complaints. We need not elaborate D more, as the table given above places all rights in perspective. 76. That takes us to the question as to how the Courts in India have dealt with cases where there were complaints of infringement by non-State actors, of fundamental rights, other than those covered in column 2 of the Table in para 73 above. To begin with, this Court was E weary of extending the enforcement of fundamental rights against private individuals. But this reluctance changed over a period of time. Let us now see how the law evolved: (i) In P.D. Shamdasani (supra), a Five Member Bench of this Court was dealing with a writ petition under Article 32, F filed by a person who lost a series of proceedings both civil and otherwise, against the Central Bank of India Limited, which was at that time a company incorporated under Companies Act. The grievance of the petitioner in that case was that the shares held by him in the company were sold G by the bank in exercise of its right of lien for recovery of a debt. Therefore, the petitioner pitched his claim under Article 19(1)(f) and Article 31(1)(which was available at that time). But while making a comparison between Article 31(1) (as it stood at that time) and Article 21, both of which contained a declaration in the same negative form, this Court H 668 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A observed in P.D. Shamdasani as follows: “There is no express reference to the State in Article 21. But could it be suggested on that account that that Article was intended to afford protection to life and personal liberty against violation by private individuals? The words “except by procedure established by law” plainly B exclude such a suggestion”. (ii) The aforesaid principle in P.D. Shamdasani was reiterated by another Five Member Bench of this Court in Smt. Vidya Varma vs. Dr. Shiv Narain Varma66 holding that the language of Article 31(1) and Article 21 are similar and C that they do not apply to invasions of a right by a private individual and that consequently no writ will lie in such cases. (iii) In Sukhdev Singh vs. Bhagatram Sardar Singh Raghuvanshi67 two questions arose before a Constitution Bench of this Court. One of the questions was whether an D employee of a statutory corporation is entitled to protection of Articles 14 and 16 against the corporation on the premise that these statutory corporations are authorities within the meaning of Article 12. In his separate but concurring opinion, Mathew, J. pointed out that the concept of State has E undergone drastic changes in recent years and that today State cannot be conceived of simply as a coercive machinery wielding the thunderbolt of authority. The learned Judge quoted the decision of the US Supreme Court in Marsh vs. Alabama68, where a person who was a Jehovah’s witness was arrested for trespassing and distributing pamphlets, in F a company town owned by a corporation.