Sub-Article (3) of Article 40 states that “The State guarantees in its laws to respect, and, as far as practicable, by its laws to defend and vindicate the personal rights of the citizen”. In other words, two rights are guaranteed namely G (i) respect for the personal rights of the citizen; and (ii) to defend and vindicate the personal rights of its citizen. 56. The second clause of sub-Article (3) of Article 40 of the Irish Constitution states that “The State shall, in particular, by its laws protect H 58 376 U.S. 254 (1964) KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 655 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] as best it may from unjust attack and, in the case of injustice done, A vindicate the life, person, good name, and property rights of every citizen”. 57. The above provisions have been interpreted by the Irish Supreme Court as imposing a positive obligation on all State actors, including the Courts to protect and enforce the rights of individuals. It B appears that full horizontal effect was given by the Irish Supreme Court to Constitutional rights such as freedom of association, freedom from sex discrimination and the right to earn a livelihood. For instance, the Irish Supreme Court had an occasion to consider in John Meskell, the Constitutional rights of citizens to form associations and unions guaranteed C by Article 40.6.1. This case arose out of an agreement reached between certain trade unions and the employer to terminate the services of all workers and to reemploy them on condition that they agree to be members of the specified trade unions at all times. One employee whose services were terminated was not reemployed, as he refused to accept the special condition. Therefore, he sued the company for damages and claimed a D declaration that his dismissal was a violation of the Constitutional rights. Holding that the Constitutional right of citizens to form associations and unions necessarily recognized a correlative right to abstain from joining associations and unions, the Irish Supreme Court awarded damages on the ground that the non-State actors actually violated the E Constitutional right of the plaintiff. In other words, the Constitutional rights were considered to have horizontal effect. 58. The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 also provides horizontal effect to certain rights. Section 8.2 of the said Constitution states: “A provision of the Bill of Rights binds a natural F or a juristic person if, and to the extent that, it is applicable, taking into account the nature of the right and the nature of any duty imposed by the right.” 59. The manner in which Section 8.2 has to be applied is spelt out in Section 8.3. The same reads thus: G “8. Application ….. 3. When applying a provision of the Bill of Rights to a natural or juristic person in terms of subsection (2), a court - H 656 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A a. in to give effect to a right in the Bill, must apply, or if necessary develop, the common law to the extent that legislation does not give effect to that right; and b. may develop rules of the common law to limit the right, provided that the limitation is in accordance with section B 36(1).” 60.