Thereafter, the Tender Committee consisting of the C Approver, A-3 and A-4 processed the names of all these firms and recommended the award of contract to M/s Entoma Hydro Systems, giving false justifications for recommending them though the said firm did not have necessary experts or technical expertise. The Committee even recommended the sanction of interest free mobilisation advance, in violation of existing practice, to cause pecuniary advantage to A-5. D Accordingly, an interest free mobilisation advance of Rs.4.32 crores was paid to A-5’s firm. The amount was deposited in the account of the firm with Indian Bank. From the said account, a sum of Rs.1.52 crores was diverted to a sister concern of A-5, in which A-5, his father (A-6) and his brother (A-7) were partners. By such an action, A-5 to A-7 E obtained wrongful gain from BHEL. The Prosecution alleged that by these actions, A-1 to A-7 committed the offences charged against them. 8. As stated in para 6 above, the Prosecution examined 44 witnesses, which included the Approver, who was examined as PW-16. 94 documents were marked as exhibits on the side of the prosecution. F One witness was examined on the side of the defence as DW-1 and 6 documents were marked as exhibits Ex. D-1 to D-6. 9. In its dated 08.09.2006, the Special Court brought on record the charges, the evidence and the rival contentions from paragraphs 1 to 60. The actual discussion and analysis by the Court began from G paragraph 61. 10. To begin with, the Special Court took up for consideration the contention of the accused that BHEL did not suffer any wrongful loss and that, therefore, the charge under Section 420 IPC does not lie. But this contention of the accused was rejected by the Trial Court on the ground that the entire interest free mobilisation advance of Rs.4.32 crores H A. SRINIVASULU v. THE STATE REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF 29 POLICE [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] was deposited in the account of M/s Entoma Hydro Systems with Indian A Bank and that out of the same, a sum of Rs.1,52,50,000/- was transferred to a firm by name M/s Insecticides & Allied Chemicals, of which A-5 to A-7 were partners. Therefore, the Special Court came to the conclusion that on the date on which the transfer of money took place, a direct wrongful monetary loss was caused to BHEL and a direct wrongful B monetary gain caused to A-5 to A-7. The Special Court also held that after the termination of the contract with M/s Entoma Hydro Systems, BHEL divided the contract into several parts and awarded the contracts to various persons and that, therefore, the money paid to each of such contractors was a wrongful loss to BHEL. Though the Special Court also found that BHEL actually recovered Rs.4.32 crores (by invoking C the bank guarantee), the Court concluded that there was no proof to show that money was paid out of the firm M/s Insecticides & Allied Chemicals.