It was also found that the water intake at the original location indicated by WAPCOS in the pre-bid report would have resulted in shutdown of power plant for a considerable period during the lean season.” E “67. Thereafter, WAPCOS conducted detailed bathymetric studies and recommended a new location for water intake, which was 23 km from the power plant as against 12.5 km initially indicated at the time of bidding (original location). It was highlighted that new location would ensure reliable water supply to the power plant. F Due to increase in distance, submergence area along the route and construction time, there has been considerable increase in the cost of the water intake system as detailed below. The report of WAPCOS recommending the revised location is annexed herewith and marked as Annexure p-25.” G “68. The cost for the construction of water system for the new location is Rs. 244 Cr. Out of the aforesaid amount, a sum of Rs.185 Crores has already been incurred and balance of Rs. 59Crores is to be spent. The estimated increase in cost of the water intake system due to the change in location of the water intake system is Rs.152 Crores. Since this increase is directly H 14 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A attributable to the error in the WAPCOS report provided to the bidders at the pre-bid stage, the Petitioner is required to be compensated for the same. The cost break up for the new/ appropriate location which will ensure reliable water supply is annexed herewith and marked as Annexure P-26.” B “75. It is submitted that the UMPP Policy envisages domestic coal based UMPPs as integrated projects where the power station and the captive coal mines are treated as an integrated unit. This is also recognized in the PPA as well as other project documents like the RFQ and the RFP.” C “76.As per Notification 21 of 2002-Customs dated 01.03.2002 issued by the Ministry of Finance, Government of India, the customs duty on goods required for setting up mega power projects has been prescribed as nil meaning thereby that no customs duty will be levied on goods imported for setting up a mega power project. A copy of Notification 21 of 2002-Customs is annexed D herewith and marked as Annexure P-32.” “77.Sasan UMPP was accorded in-principle mega power project status as per Ministry of Power’s letter no. F.No. 12/18/2006- P&P dated 20.10.2006. The final certificate was issued on 21.09.2007.” E “78.Sasan UMPP is an integrated power project with captive coal mines viz. Moher, Moher Amlohri Extension and Chhatrasal Coal Blocks. The captive coal mines allocated for Sasan UMPP form an integral and essential part of the Project and any equipment imported in relation to the captive coal mines would therefore be F treated as goods imported for setting up the Project.” “79.The Petitioner was required to import mining equipment for setting up the captive coal mines from which coal will be sourced for the Project since the required mining equipments were not available in India.” G “80.On 05.05.2011, the Petitioner applied to the Energy Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh for recommendation letter to import mining equipments for Sasan UMPP under nil custom duty as is applicable for the other equipment such as power plants of the Project.