the Code, if the cognizance is not taken within the period of limitation the same gets barred by limitation. This argument seems to be inspired by the chapter heading of Chapter XXXVI of the Code which reads thus: “Limitation for taking cognizance of certain off ences”. It is primarily based on the above language of the heading of the Chapter, the argument is addressed on behalf of the appellants that the limitation prescribed by the said Chapter applies to taking of cognizance and not fi ling of complaint or initiation of the prosecution. We cannot accept such argument because a cumulative reading of various provisions of the said Chapter clearly indicates that the limitation prescribed therein is only for the fi ling of the complaint or initiation of the prosecution and not for taking cognizance. It of course prohibits the court from taking cognizance of an off ence where the complaint is fi led before the court after the expiry of the period mentioned in the said Chapter. This is clear from Section 469 of the Code found in the said Chapter which specifi cally says that the period of limitation in relation to an off ence shall commence either from the date of the off ence or from the date when the off ence is detected. Section 470 indicates that while computing the period of limitation, time taken during which the case was being diligently prosecuted in another court or in appeal or in revision against the off ender should be excluded. The said section also provides in the Explanation that in computing the time required for obtaining the consent or sanction of the Government or any other authority should be excluded. Similarly, the period during which the court was closed will also have to be excluded. All these provisions indicate that the court taking cognizance can take cognizance of an off ence the complaint of which is fi led before it within the period of limitation prescribed and if need be after excluding such time which is legally excludable. This in our opinion clearly indicates that the limitation prescribed is not for taking cognizance within the period of limitation, but for taking cognizance of an off ence in regard to which a complaint is fi led or prosecution is initiated beyond the period of limitation prescribed under the Code. Apart from the statutory indication of this view of ours, we fi nd support for this view from the fact that taking of cognizance is an act of the court over which the prosecuting agency or the complainant has no control. V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 897 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] Therefore, a complaint fi led within the period of limitation under the Code cannot be made infructuous by an act of court. The legal phrase “actus curiae neminem gravabit” which means an act of the court shall prejudice no man, or by a delay on the part of the court neither party should suff er, also supports the view that the legislature could not have intended to put a period of limitation on the act of the court of taking cognizance of an off ence so as to defeat the case of the complainant.