Importantly, we must be cautious of the diff erence between the terms ‘acquisition’ and ‘resumption’ in the context of property laws. While both terms indicate deprivation of a right, there exists a signifi cant distinction in their actual legal connotation. Acquisition denotes a positive act on behalf of the State to deprive an individual’s enjoyment of a pre-existing right in a property in furtherance of its policy whereas resumption denotes a punitive action by the State to take back the right or an interest in a property which was granted by it in the fi rst place. The term ‘resumption’ must not therefore be confl ated with the term ‘acquisition’ as employed within the meaning of Article 300- A of the Constitution so as to create a right to compensation. Keeping this mark distinction in view, it is not necessary for us to determine whether an expropriated owner has an impeachable constitutional right to compensation under Article 300A of the Constitution in lieu of his acquired property. 31 Mekala Pandu (n 10). 32 A.P. Industrial Infrastructure Corporation Ltd v Ramesh Singh and other connected appeals (Civil Appeal No. 7904-7912 of 2012, 4 August 2014). 658 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 74. It is also pertinent to note that serious allegations prevail against the Appellants for being involved with the land mafi a to usurp the Subject Land for private interests which was the precise reason for the Government to introduce legislation in the nature of the 1977 Act. Resultantly, in the facts and circumstances of this case, we hold that the Appellants are not entitled to any compensation under the existing constitutional framework. D. CONCLUSION 75. In light of the abovementioned discussion, we conclude that the proceedings emanating out of the Second SCN were valid; the Subject Land was non-alienable and hence was subject to the provisions of the 1977 Act. We further hold that the Appellants had transferred the Subject Land in contravention to the provisions of 1977 Act and therefore, the resultant resumption dated 27.01.2007 is valid. The Appellants are also not entitled to any compensation on account of the resumption of the assigned land. 76. We are not oblivious to the fact that the parties have been litigating since the year 1994. During these decades, the Subject Land has acquired enormous value. Some of the documents on record do indicate that land mafi a has already ousted the gullible Assignees and now have vulture’s eyes on the land. Additionally, a security agency of paramount national importance currently occupies the Subject Land in public interest. We, therefore, deem it appropriate to invoke our powers under Article 142 of the Constitution to do complete justice to the parties and issue the following further directions/declarations:- a) The Subject Land in its entirety is declared to have vested in the State Government. On further allotment, its ownership and possessory rights, free from all encumbrances, stand transferred in favour of the Greyhounds; b) No Civil Court or High Court shall entertain any claim whatsoever on behalf of any Assignee, their legal representative, GPA holder or any other claimant under any Agreement to sell or other instruments, claiming direct or indirect interests in the Subject Land; and YADAIAH AND ANR.