The Courts recognise that the process of selection involves a high degree of expertise and discretion and D that it is not appropriate for Courts to substitute their for that of a selection committee. It would be indeed, treading on thin ice if the Court were to venture into reviewing the decision of experts who form a part of a selection board. Thus, it is not within the domain of the Courts, exercising the power of judicial E review, to enter into the merits of a selection process, a task which is the prerogative of and is within the expert domain of a Selection Committee, subject of course to a caveat that if there are proven allegations of malfeasance or violations of statutory rules, only in such cases of inherent arbitrariness, can the Courts intervene. Thus, the Courts while exercising the power of judicial F review cannot step into the shoes of the Selection Committee or assume an appellate role to examine whether the marks awarded by the Selection Committee in the viva-voce are excessive and not corresponding to their performance in such test. The assessment and evaluation of the performance of candidates appearing before the Selection Committee/Interview Board G should be best left to the members of the Committee. In light of the position that a Court cannot sit in appeal against the decision taken pursuant to a reasonably sound selection process, the following grounds raised by the writ petitioners, which are based on an attack of subjective criteria employed by the selection H 716 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A board/interview panel in assessing the suitability of candidates, namely, that the candidates who had done their post–graduation had been awarded 10 marks and in the viva-voce, such PG candidates had been granted either 18 marks or 20 marks out of 20; and that although the writ petitioners had performed exceptionally well in the interview, the authorities had acted in B an arbitrary manner while carrying out the selection process, would not hold any water. [Para 12, 12.1][748-C-D; 750-G-H; 751- A-C] 1.2. It is trite that candidates, having taken part in the selection process without any demur or protest, cannot challenge C the same after having been declared unsuccessful. The candidates cannot approbate and reprobate at the same time. In other words, simply because the result of the selection process is not palatable to a candidate, he cannot allege that the process of interview was unfair or that there was some lacuna in the process. Thus, the D writ petitioners in these cases, could not have questioned before a Court of law, the rationale behind recasting the selection criteria, as they willingly took part in the selection process even after the criteria had been so recast. Their candidature was not withdrawn in light of the amended criteria. A challenge was thrown against the same only after they had been declared unsuccessful in the E selection process, at which stage, the challenge ought not to have been entertained in light of the principle of waiver and acquiescence.