Contracts in prescribed or standard forms or which embody a C set of rules as part of the contract are entered into by the party with superior bargaining power with a large number of persons who have far less bargaining power or no bargaining power at all. Such contracts which affect a large number of persons or a group or groups of persons, if they are unconscionable, unfair D and unreasonable are injurious to the public interest. To say such a contract is only voidable would be to compel each person with whom the party with superior bargaining power had contracted to go to Court to have the contract adjudged voidable. This would only result in multiplicity of litigation which no Court should encourage and also would not be in public interest. Such E a contract or such a clause in a contract ought, therefore, to be adjudged void under section 23 of the Indian Contract Act, as opposed to public policy,” And still further; “The Indian Contract Act does not define the expression “public F policy” or “opposed to public policy”. From the very nature of things, such expressions are incapable of precise definition. Public policy, however, is not the policy of a particular government. It connotes some matter which concerns the public good and the public interest. The concept of what is for the G public good or in the public interest or what would be injurious or harmful to the public good or the public interest has varied from time to time. As new concepts take the place of old, transactions which were once considered against public policy are now being upheld by the courts and similarly where there has been a well-recognized head of public policy, the courts H UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. M/S. BHARAT ENTERPRISE 821 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] have not shirked from extending it to new transactions and A changed circumstances and have at times not even flinched from inventing a new head of public policy. The principles governing public policy must be and are capable on proper occasion, of expansion or modification. Practices which were considered perfectly normal at one time have today become B abnoxious and oppressive to public conscience. If there is no head of public policy which covers a case, then the court must in consonance with public conscience and in keeping with public good and public interest declares such practice to be opposed to public policy. Above all, in deciding any case which may not be covered by authority Indian Courts have before them the C beacon light of the Preamble to the Constitution. Lacking precedent, the Court can always be guided by that light and the principles underlying the Fundamental Rights and the Directive Principles enshrined in our Constitution.” It is not the case that the payment of the final bill was made D promptly and delay in payment alone should constitute a separate ground for submission of the bills by the Contractor on closer scrutiny of his claims to make fresh claims which may have escaped contractor’s notice at the time of presentation of the final bill.