The expression “as soon as possible” is signifi cant. It conveys a constitutional imperative of expedition. Failure to take a call and keeping a Bill duly passed for indeterminate periods is a course of action inconsistent with that expression. Constitutional language is not surplusage. In State of Telangana v. Secretary to Her Excellency the Hon’ble Governor for the State of Telangana & Anr.7 this court observed that “The expression “as soon as possible” has signifi cant constitutional content and must be borne in mind by constitutional authorities.” The Constitution evidently contains this provision bearing in mind the importance which has been attached to the power of legislation which squarely lies in the domain of the state legislature. The Governor cannot be at liberty to keep the Bill pending indefi nitely without any action whatsoever. 25. The Governor, as an unelected Head of the State, is entrusted with certain constitutional powers. However, this power cannot be used to thwart the normal course of lawmaking by the State Legislatures. Consequently, if the Governor decides to withhold assent under the substantive part of Article 200, the logical course of action is to pursue the course indicated in the fi rst proviso of remitting the Bill to the state legislature for reconsideration. In other words, the power to withhold assent under the substantive part of Article 200 must be read together with the consequential course of action to be adopted by the Governor under the fi rst proviso. If the fi rst proviso is not read in juxtaposition to the power to withhold assent conferred by the 7 WP(C) No. 333 of 2023 STATE OF PUNJAB v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNOR OF 793 PUNJAB AND ANOTHER [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] substantive part of Article 200, the Governor as the unelected Head of State would be in a position to virtually veto the functioning of the legislative domain by a duly elected legislature by simply declaring that assent is withheld without any further recourse. Such a course of action would be contrary to fundamental principles of a constitutional democracy based on a Parliamentary pattern of governance. Therefore, when the Governor decides to withhold assent under the substantive part of Article 200, the course of action which is to be followed is that which is indicated in the fi rst proviso. The Governor is under Article 1688 a part of the legislature and is bound by the constitutional regime. 26. Insofar as Money Bills are concerned, the power of the Governor to return a Bill in terms of the fi rst proviso is excluded from the purview of the constitutional power of the Governor. Money Bills are governed by Article 207 in terms of which the recommendation of the Governor is required for the introduction of the Bill on a matter specifi ed in clauses (a) to (f) of clause (1) of Article 199. 27. Senior counsel for the respondent has argued that the Governor has assented to about 185 Bills which would indicate that the delay on the part of the Governor on the four Bills in question was only based on his objection to the validity of the sitting of the Vidhan Sabha.