In case of ineligibility which goes the root of the appointment - and this is the consequence of the introduction of Section 12(5) [which is in emphatic terms and overrides other previous agreements], the arbitrator’s relationship with the parties or counsel or the subject matter of the dispute or the existence of any of the categories of the Seventh Schedule (which are 19 specifi c enumerated grounds) render that tribunal ineligible to even continue. The only exception is if the party waives that ineligibility expressly in writing in terms of the proviso to 101 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Section 12(5). Per HRD (supra),in that event, the Arbitral Tribunal becomes de jure, unable to perform its functions. 31. The analysis in HRD (supra), and the subsequent decision in Bharat Broad Band (supra), therefore are clear enunciations of law in that any legal disability which attaches on the grounds enumerated in the Fifth Schedule [or any other circumstance, given the terminology of Section 12 (3) which is not restricted to fi fth schedule ineligibility], the aggrieved party has to fi rst apply before the tribunal as a matter of law. In other words, the tribunal should be given the opportunity to deal with the party’s reservations and decide whether or not to continue with the proceedings. This view is in accord with the long line of decisions of this court rendered in the context of reasonable apprehension of bias by courts and quasi-judicial authorities starting from Manak Lal v Dr. Prem Chand20 to raise the issue, at the earliest opportunity before same forum. 32. The decisions in HRD (supra) and Bharat Broadband (supra) are unequivocal and to the eff ect that the issue of bias should be raised before the same tribunal at the earliest opportunity. The advertence of the time limit of 15 days is nothing but a statutory incorporation of that idea. However, when the grounds enumerated in the Seventh Schedule occur or are brought to the notice of one party unless such party expressly waives its objections, it is ipso facto suffi cient for that party, to say that the Tribunal’s mandate is automatically terminated. The party aggrieved then can go ahead and challenge the tribunal’s continuation with the proceedings under Section 14. 33. In the present case, this court is conscious of the fact that ONGC (supra) is the authority for the proposition that the issue of fi xation of fee, is contractual, and wherever there is no prior arrangement or court , the tribunal has to fi x it at the threshold. The arrangement is by way of a tripartite agreement, which means that regardless of what mode of payment (ad-valorem or sitting fee, or diff erent rates, depending upon the number of hearings, or the issue of fee increase being contemplated allowing the 20 1957 [1] SCR 575 CHENNAI METRO RAIL LTD. ADMIN. BUILDING v. 1015 M/S TRANSTONNELSTROY AFCONS (JV) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] tribunal to revise its fee at a later stage), any revision or revisiting of the fee condition, should be based on consultation, and agreement of both contesting parties, and the tribunal.