Moreover, it was submitted that there was no intention to kill; neither there were repeated blows, nor was it pre-planned, when admittedly there was a civil suit pending between Accused No.1 and PW1. It was submitted that even the prosecution story would indicate that a quarrel had arisen between the Accused No.1 and PW1, due to which a complaint to the police was made by PW1, which further aggravated the enmity. The appellants are alleged to have come to the shop of the Complainant, when he was alone, armed with one knife each and attempted to attack the complainant on his neck but he managed to escape unhurt. It was submitted that had the appellants come with the motive to kill both PW1 and PW2 and were armed with knives, they could easily have ensured the death of the Complainant. Learned counsel submitted that in any view of the matter, there could have been some justifi cation to proceed against the appellants under Sections 323 and 324 of the IPC but not under Section 307, IPC, as has been done. It was submitted that the two victims had sustained only simple injuries, whereas one victim-PW2 had complained that she had fallen upon being attacked on her back but she did not sustain any extraordinary injury and even that was found to be simple in nature. Likewise, the other victim PW1 sustained abrasion injuries on his right shoulder and left thumb which are simple in nature. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT-STATE/POLICE: 7. Learned counsel for the State submitted that the appellants being armed with knives (one each) clearly indicates that they intended to kill and it was only due to providence that their lives were saved. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 8. Section 307, IPC reads as under: SIVAMANI v. STATE REPRESENTED BY INSPECTOR OF POLICE, 853 VELLORE TALUK POLICE STATION, VELLORE DISTRICT [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] ‘307. Attempt to murder.—Whoever does any act with such intention or knowledge, and under such circumstances that, if he by that act caused death, he would be guilty of murder, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fi ne; and if hurt is caused to any person by such act, the off ender shall be liable either to imprisonment for life, or to such punishment as is hereinbefore mentioned. Attempts by life convicts.—When any person off ending under this section is under sentence of imprisonment for life, he may, if hurt is caused, be punished with death. Illustrations (a) A shoots at Z with intention to kill him, under such circumstances that, if death ensued, A would be guilty of murder. A is liable to punishment under this section. (b) A, with the intention of causing the death of a child of tender years, exposes it in a desert place. A has committed the off ence defi ned by this section, though the death of the child does not ensue. (c) A, intending to murder Z, buys a gun and loads it.