On the other hand, every person, who is, for the time being, entered in the electoral roll of E any constituency, is declared entitled to vote in the constituency. Section 62(2) then proceeds to declare that no person shall vote at an election in any constituency, if he is subject to any of the disqualifications referred to in Section 16 of the 1950 Act. In our view, the meaning of the Section 62(1) read with Section 62(2) is the following: F To cast the vote, a person must be included in the electoral roll of the constituency. However, even if it be that he is so included, if at the time of the election, when he casts the vote, he has incurred any of the disqualifications referred to in Section 16 of the 1950 Act, then his Right to Vote will stand eclipsed. G 123. Section 62(3) forbids a person, who may find his name in the electoral roll of more than one constituency of the same class, from casting his vote in more than one constituency. In such an eventuality, notwithstanding the fact that his name is so included, if he votes in more than one constituency, his ballot will be void in regard to all the constituencies in which he casts his vote. H 116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 124. Equally, under Section 62(4), if his name is included more than once in the electoral roll of the same constituency and should he cast his vote more than once, all the votes in regard to the said constituency are declared void. 125. Section 62(5) enacts a prohibition against the person casting B his vote, if he is confined to a prison. This would mean that while a person’s name may be included in an electoral roll, which would entitle him, ordinarily, to cast his vote, however, Section 62(5) deprives him of his right to cast his vote, when he is so confined. We have noticed that the validity of this provision has been upheld in Anukul (supra). Also, we find the same view taken in Chief Election Commissioner and C Others v. Jan Chaukidar (Peoples Watch) and Others40, wherein this Court has upheld the validity of Section 62(5). A person may be so confined, if he is under a sentence of imprisonment or transportation or otherwise or if he is in the custody of police. We may, at this juncture, notice one feature. Article 326, undoubtedly, provides for adult suffrage. It declares that if a person is a citizen and is above eighteen years of age D and he is not disqualified as provided in Article 326 by or under any law, then, such person shall be entitled to have his name entered in the electoral roll. It does not expressly say that he shall have the right to cast his vote. The right to cast the vote, as such, is expressly conferred under Section 62(1), undoubtedly, on a person, whose name is entered in the electoral E roll.