Withdrawal of relaxation in the D year 1979 ought to have resulted in the reversal of not only the fixing of additional seats but all subsequent decisions that proceeded on the basis thereof. It is difficult to appreciate how even applying the test of substantial compliance the authorities could consider the theatre to be compliant with the DCR, 1953 especially insofar E as the same related to an important aspect like gangways and exits so very vital for speedy dispersal from the cinema hall.” (17) She would also seek support from the reasoning which has been employed by both the trial Court and the High Court viz., the fact that here is an officer who stoutly defended his action taken under F dated 28.07.1979 in the light of the notification dated 27.07.1979 revoking the earlier decision to grant extra seats which was not followed to its logical culmination when it came to the removal of the extra seats. In other words, here is a person who prevaricated without justification, what is more, contrary to the statutory rules governing the safety features which must be indispensably maintained and fostered. G (18) She also sought to draw support from the recent of this Court viz., ShantabenBhurabhaiBhuriyav. Anand Athabhai Chaudhari and Others 2021 SCC Online SC 974. She would point out on the strength of the said that even if this Court finds that sans sanction, cognizance became vulnerable, it would still justify this H 686 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Court directing grant of sanction be considered and given. The tragedy which occurred after 17 years could have been averted. The causa causans was the refusal to remove the extra seats which means the immediate cause for the fire and the deaths caused by the fire could have been avoided. B (19) Shri KTS Tulsi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the first respondent, would submit that cognizance is taken of the offence and not the offender. No wrong has been done by the Magistrate in taking cognizance in a case as grave as the present case. He points out that the proportions of the tragedy that overtook the lives of as many as 59 persons should not be lost sight of by the Court. He reiterates the C argument of Smt. Aparajita that the matter has engaged the attention of three Courts which includes this Court and the blame of officers of the licensing bodies which includes the appellant and that the same cannot be overlooked. (20) Learned senior counsel would submit that a perusal of the D pleadings of the appellant would also reveal conduct unbecoming on the part of an applicant before the High Court. It is the requirement of an applicant who comes to Court to conduct himself fairly. He elaborates by pointing out that at one juncture, appellant had a case that he had personally inspected the theater. It is contrasted with his pleading wherein E he took the stand that he has not personally inspected the theaters whereas, actually, inspection was done by the members of the inspecting team.