Section 123(3-A) of the same Act declares “the promotion of, or attempt to promote, feelings of enmity or hatred between different classes of the citizens of H India on grounds of religion, race, caste, community, KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 751 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] or language, by a candidate or his agent or any other A person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of that candidate or for prejudicially affecting the election of any candidate”, a “corrupt practice”. vii) The Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, B 1995 requires that all programmes and advertisements telecast on television conform to the Programme Code and the Advertisement Code. Rule 6, Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994 lays down the Programme Code and prohibits the carrying C of any programme on the cable service which: (a) contains an attack on religion or communities or contains visuals or words contemptuous of religious groups or which promotes communal attitudes; D (b) is likely to encourage or incite violence or contains anything against maintenance of law and or which promotes anti-national attitudes; (c) criticises, maligns or slanders any individual in E person or certain groups, segments of social, public and moral life of the country; (d) contains visuals or words which reflect a slandering, ironical and snobbish attitude in the portrayal of certain ethnic, linguistic and F regional groups. Similarly, the Advertising Code under Rule 7 of theCable Television Networks Rules, 1994 prohibits the carriage of advertisements on the cable service which hurt the religious susceptibilities of G subscribers, which derides any race, caste, colour, creed or nationality, or incite violence or dis or breach of law. The Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 empowers the authorised officer appointed H 752 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A under the Act to prohibit the transmission of a programme or channel, if it is not in conformity with the Programme Code or the Advertisement Code; or if it is likely to promote disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different religious, racial, linguistic or regional groups; or is likely to B disturb public tranquillity. Further, the Central Government is empowered to prohibit the transmission or re-transmission of any channel or programme in the interest of the sovereignty, integrity or security of India or of public . C viii) Under the Cinematograph Act, 1952, a film can be denied certification on various grounds, including on the ground that it is likely to incite the commission of an offence or that it is against the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India or public . D ix) The Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act) allows the interception of information by the authorities in the interest of public , or the sovereignty and integrity of India, or for the purpose of preventing incitement to the commission of a E cognizable offence. Section 66-A of the same Act which sought to penalise information that is ”grossly offensive” or of “menacing character” or despite knowledge that it is false, is sent to cause annoyance, inconvenience, danger, obstruction, insult, criminal intimidation, enmity, hatred or ill-will, was struck down F in Shreya Singhal on the ground of, inter alia, vagueness.