205 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. ] (f) to ensure that details of disclosure guidelines are refl ected in the Annual Report as per Clause 6.1 of the O.M. dated 07.11.2019; and (g) to send ‘Action Taken Report’ to the concerned Information Commission as per Clause 4.3 of O.M. dated 07.11.2019. 5. In other words, the prayers in the Writ Petition are for implementation of Section 4 of the Act, coupled with the instructions for its execution as provided in the O.M. dated 07.11.2019. 6. Union of India has fi led a ‘Note on Submissions’ explaining the steps that have been taken for implementation of the statutory mandate of Section 4. We will refer to some of these before giving necessary directions. 7. In to implement the provisions of the Act, the Department of Personnel and Training constituted a Task Force on 06.05.2011 to improve quality and quantity of disclosure contemplated under Section 4. Pursuant to the report submitted by the Task Force, the Department issued certain Guidelines through its O.M. dated 15.04.2013. These guidelines relate to various issues including suo motu proactive disclosures under Section 4 and also to put in place a mechanism for compliance and monitoring. 8. As per the Guidelines each Public Authority must undertake the following steps: “(a) Comply with the guidelines and send an action taken report to the CIC; (b) Get the proactive disclosure package [Section 4(1)(b) of the RTI, Act] audited by a third party audit every year. This should be communicated to the CIC annually through publication on their own websites. This requirement to publish the needful information on the website of each public authority would fully take care of the grievances of the petitioner; (c) The CIC should examine the third-party audit reports for each Ministry/Public Authority and offer advice/ recommendations to the concerned Ministry/Public Authority; (d) The CIC should carry out sample audits for a few of the Ministries/Public Authorities each year with regard to adequacy of the items included as well as compliance of the Ministry/Public Authority 206 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. with these guidelines; (e) An offi cer, not below the rank of a Joint Secretary, should be appointed as the Nodal offi cer in the Central Ministry/Public Authority to ensure compliance with the proactive disclosure guidelines, and (f) Every Ministry/Department to include a chapter on RTI Act in its Annual Report submitted to the Parliament, mandatorily containing the details about compliance with proactive disclosure guidelines.” 9. It is relevant to refer to Clause 4 of O.M. dated 15.04.2013 which deals with the compliance mechanism: “4.0 Compliance with Provisions of suo motu (proactive) disclosures under the RTI Act. 4.1 Each Ministry/Public Authority shall ensure that these guidelines are fully operationalized within a period of 6 months from the date of their issue. 4.2 Proactive disclosure as per these guidelines would require collating a large quantum of information and digitizing it. For this purpose, Ministries/Public Authorities may engage consultants or outsource such work to expeditiously comply with these guidelines.