It appeared form the plea, as submitted in the note in the Court, that the discrepancy in terms of the yield loss and quality of washed coal usually happens when good quality of coal was diverted under the garb of rejects in the washing process, which should have been useful for generation of power and this in turn resulted in the issue of mismatch of GCV. The respondents contended that they could not be left remediless as it is a dispute, which needs adjudication, for which the relevant authority is the Regulatory Commission. 17. This Court opined in para 14 unequivocally that the matter arising from the dated 05.10.2017 and s passed in the applications from time to time stood closed. What was sought to be raised was really in the nature of fresh dispute and “if that be the position” we have not precluded the respondents from raising “all future disputes” as we were concerned with the adjudication of certain aspects. It was left to the authority concerned whether any of the claims, sought to be preferred by respondents, could really be opened to any fresh adjudication in view of the rendered by this Court and the s passed from time to time. It was further clarifi ed that the liberty to approach the Regulatory Commission arose from the contract itself but ‘certainly cannot’ open the chapter which had been closed and that would be taken care of by the Regulatory Commission. The proceeding was NABHA POWER LIMITED v. PUNJAB STATE POWER 721 CORPORATION LIMITED [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] closed with the hope and a caution to the respondent that there should be no further occasion for moving an application or revival of the contempt proceedings otherwise the consequences would be very serious. In the end, it was further observed that this Court had not expressed a view on the merits of the dispute now sought to be raised by the respondents as the occasion for the same had not arisen. 18. The submission of the respondent was that what had been done was in pursuance to the liberty granted and all that the Commission had opined was that it would examine the issue and the of this Court would not foreclose the examination in view of the dated 09.03.2021 passed in Second Contempt Petition. The alleged non-disclosure of information evidencing the fact of infl ating the cost in relation to coal, it was alleged that though the calorifi c value of coal of 1500 kilos calorie per kg was the average mark provided, coal of higher calorifi c value was taken out as coal rejects while the coal rejects had to be less than 2200 kilo calories per kg. The details of the coal rejects were not provided resulting in higher washing charges and not taking into account the income from the disposal of the coal rejects. In this context, it was submitted that the washing of the coal was done by a washing operator of the appellant though it was approved by the respondent.