Rajagopalan, resolution applicant herein, as the other successful prospective resolution applicant, Mr. Madhav Dhir, could not submit his resolution plan even after being granted extension once, whose request for further extension was denied by CoC and it was decided to continue with the resolution F plan received from Mr. M.K. Rajagopalan. After discussing on the resolution plan so submitted, the resolution applicant was asked to submit the revised resolution plan after incorporating the changes suggested by the CoC members and he promised to do so by 30.12.2020. Further, the RP apprised the CoC that the third valuer as appointed had visited the premises and conducted valuation of the non-core assets and promised G to submit the draft valuation by 30.12.2020. 19 There had been other observations occurring in this and dated 05.05.2021, which have been relied upon by NCLT while approving the resolution plan in question and have formed a part of contentions in these appeals, as shall be noticed later. H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 803 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 12.11. In the eighth CoC meeting held on 04.01.2021, the revised A resolution plan of the resolution applicant was presented and discussed with CoC members. After long deliberation on various aspects of the plan, it was decided that the plan could be put to vote through CoC meeting on 22.01.2021. 12.12. On 21.01.2021, just a day before the resolution plan was to B be put to voting, the promoter and erstwhile director of the corporate debtor - Dr. Periasamy Palani Gounder - submitted another OTS proposal with reference to Section 12-A of the Code to the CoC. A so-called “Term Sheet” dated 22.01.2021 issued by Deutsche Bank was relied up as a proof of funding. C 12.13. However, the CoC stuck to the agenda before it and the resolution plan submitted by the resolution applicant - Mr. M.K. Rajagopalan - was put to vote in the ninth CoC meeting held on 22.01.2021. Though, the said plan was approved with 87.39% of the total voting share of financial creditors present and voting in the meeting, D the RP was required to send the resolution plan back to the resolution applicant as there was dissent by some of the financial creditors and in terms of Section 30 (2) of the Code, the amount to be paid to dissenting financial creditors shall not be less than the amount paid to such creditors in accordance with Section 53 in the event of liquidation of the corporate debtor. Therefore, resolution applicant was asked to further revise the E resolution plan. The relevant resolution on Agenda Item No. A.1. in the ninth CoC meeting, having its relevance to the present matter is reproduced as under: - “Agenda Item No. A.1 – To discuss and put to vote the Resolution Plan submitted by Mr. M.K. Rajagopalan. F The Resolution Professional apprised the CoC members that as decided in the last CoC meeting the revised Resolution Plan submitted by Mr. M.K. Rajagopalan will be put to physical voting for approval of the CoC members.