37. In Canara Bank (supra), this Court emphasized that the group of companies doctrine could be invoked on the basis of the principle of “single economic unit”. In that case, the facts were that Canbank Financial Services Ltd19, a wholly owned subsidiary of Canara Bank, subscribed to the bonds fl oated by MTNL. CANFINA subsequently transferred the bonds to Canara Bank. Eventually, MTNL cancelled the bonds which gave rise to the dispute between the parties. Canara Bank fi led a writ petition before the Delhi High Court challenging the cancellation of bonds by MTNL. The High Court referred the parties to arbitration, but Canara Bank challenged the impleadment of CANFINA. This Court dismissed Canara Bank’s objection on the ground that CANFINA was a necessary and proper party to the arbitral proceedings, being the original purchaser to the bonds. While dealing with the contours of the group of companies doctrine, this Court noted that the doctrine could also be invoked “in cases where there is a tight group structure with strong organizational and fi nancial links, so as to constitute a single economic unit, or a single economic reality.” 38. The last in the series of decisions dealing with the group of companies doctrine is a three-Judge Bench decision of this Court in Discovery Enterprises 18 (2019) 7 SCC 62 19 “CANFINA” COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 657 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (supra). In that case, ONGC entered into a contract with Discovery Enterprises for operating a shipping vessel. After a dispute arose between the parties, ONGC invoked the arbitration clause in the contract against Discovery Enterprises and Jindal Drilling and Industries Ltd., a sister company of Discovery Enterprises. The arbitral tribunal refused to proceed with the claim against Jindal Drilling and Industries Ltd. on the ground that it was not a signatory to the arbitration agreement. In an appeal fi led by ONGC under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act, the High Court upheld the decision of the tribunal. The High Court’s decision was challenged before this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution. This Court cited Chloro Controls (supra) and the subsequent decisions with approval to emphasize that the group of companies doctrine can be applied to bind a company within a group which is not a signatory to the arbitration agreement. The Court held that in addition to the cumulative factors laid down in Chloro Controls (supra), the performance of the contract was also an essential factor to be considered by the courts and tribunals to bind a non-signatory to the arbitration agreement. Ultimately, this Court set aside the decision of the arbitral tribunal on the ground that it failed to address the plea raised by ONGC, and remanded the matter back to the tribunal to decide afresh. ii. France – The Dow Chemicals case 39. The application of the group of companies doctrine in arbitration law mainly originated from the decisions rendered by international arbitral tribunals. Before proceeding to analyze the contours of the doctrine, it is necessary to understand its origin and development in the international context.