‘11. Other conditions for a valid adoption. - In every adoption, the following conditions must be complied with: ― (i) to (v) …. ; (vi) the child to be adopted must be actually given and taken in adoption by the parents or guardian concerned or under their authority with intent to transfer the child from the family of its birth or in the case of an abandoned child or a child whose parentage is not known, from the place or family where it has been brought up to the family of its adoption: Provided that the performance of datta homam shall not be essential to the validity of adoption’ 37. We may now take note of relevant case law. In Laxmibai (Dead) through LRs. and another vs. Bhagwantbuva (Dead) through LRs. and others15, this Court held that the mere signature or thumb impression on a document is not adequate to prove the contents thereof but, in a case where a person who has given his son in adoption appears in the witness box and proves the validity of the said document, the Court ought to accept the same taking into consideration the presumption under Section 16 of the Act of 1956. Ergo, the proving of the validity of the document is a must. 38. Much earlier, in Kishori Lal vs. Mst. Chaltibai16, a 3-Judge Bench of this Court held that, as an adoption results in changing the course of succession, it is necessary that the evidence to support it should be such that it is free from all suspicions of fraud and so consistent and probable as to leave no occasion for doubting its truth. On facts, the Bench found that no invitations were sent to the brotherhood, friends or relations and no publicity was given to the adoption, rendering it diffi cult to believe. 39. In Govinda vs. Chimabai and others17, a Division Bench of the Mysore High Court observed that the mere fact that a deed of adoption has been registered cannot be taken as evidence of proof of adoption, as an adoption deed never proves an adoption. It was rightly held that the factum 15 (2013) 4 SCC 97 16 AIR 1959 SC 504 17 AIR 1968 Mysore 309 MOTURU NALINI KANTH v. GAINEDI KALIPRASAD (DEAD, 665 THROUGH LRS.) [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] of adoption has to be proved by oral evidence of giving or taking of the child and that the necessary ceremonies, where they are necessary to be performed, were carried out in accordance with shastras. 40. In Padmalav Achariya and another vs. Srimatyia Fakira Debya and others18, the Privy Council found that a cloud of suspicion rested upon an alleged second adoption and the factum of the second adoption was sought to be proved on the basis of evidence of near relatives who were also partisan, which made it unsafe to act upon their testimonies. The Privy Council held that both the adoptions were most improbable in themselves and were not supported by contemporaneous evidence.