If there is undisclosed investment in bullion, jewellery or other valuable articles, which are not fully disclosed in the books of account the case would fall under the ambit of s. 69B of the Act, 1961. In the case on hand, there was excess stock, which can be held as unexplained investment, not investment in bullion, jewellery or other valuable articles. In the entire survey, it was not found F that any bullion, jewellery or other valuable articles has been found. The Kirana articles cannot be held as other valuable articles. 14. “Valuable article” means an article which is valuable and having a high price, not other ordinary articles, as in the instant case. 15. The surrendered income ought to have been treated as deemed G income under the provisions of s.69 of the Act, 1961, however, on the wrong provision applied in the assessment though the effect is one and the same the surrendered income cannot be held that it was not an income under the provisions of s.69 of the H 20 (2011) 339 ITR 651 Chhattisgarh M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 585 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Act, 1961. As such, the substantial question of law, i.e., (i) and A (iii) are answered accordingly.” (Emphasis supplied) 68. The word ‘valuable’ has been defined in Black’s Law Dictionary as follows: - B “Valuable adjective. Worth a good price; having financial or market value.” 69. The word ‘valuable’ has been defined in the Concise Oxford Dictionary as follows: - The word ‘valuable’ has been defined as again an adjective. “worth C a great deal of money. Very useful or important.” 70. The word ‘money’ has been described in Black’s Law Dictionary as follows: - “money. 1. The medium of exchange authorized or adopted by a D government as part of its currency; esp. domestic currency <coins and currency are money>.2. Assets that can be easily converted to cash <demand deposits are money>. 3. Capital that is invested or traded as a commodity <the money market>. 4. Funds; sums of money <investment moneys>. – Also spelled (in sense4) monies. See Medium of Exchange; Legal Tender.” E 71. The word ‘article’ has been defined in Black’s Law Dictionary as “Generally, a particular item or thing <article of clothing>. 72. The Word ‘bullion’ has been defined in the Concise Oxford Dictionary as ‘gold or silver in bulk before coining, or valued by weight’ F M. PRINCIPLE OF EJUSDEM GENERIS; NOSCITUR A SOCIIS 73. Section 69A provides for unexplained ‘money, bullion, jewellery’. It is thereafter followed by the words ‘or other valuable articles’. Does this mean that the words ‘other valuable articles’ must G be read e jusdem generis? The principle applies when the following conditions are present [Principles of Statutory Interpretation by Justice G P Singh, 14th Edition]: “(1) the statue contains an enumeration of specific words; (2) the subjects of enumeration constitutes a class or category; (3) that H 586 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.