v. UNION OF INDIA & 267 ORS. (2) exemption from registration with the Foreigners A Regional Registration Officer or Foreigners Registration Officer for any length of stay in India: Provided that the OCI cardholders who are normally resident in India shall intimate the jurisdictional Foreigners Regional Registration Officer or the Foreigners Registration Officer B by email whenever there is a change in permanent residential address and in their occupation; (3) parity with Indian nationals in the matter of,- (i) tariffs in air fares in domestic sectors in India; and C (ii) entry fees to be charged for visiting national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, the national monuments, historical sites and museums in India; (4) parity with Non-Resident Indians in the Matter of,- D (i) inter-country adoption of Indian children subject to the compliance of the procedure as laid down by the competent authority for such adoption; (ii) appearing for the all India entrance tests such as National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, Joint E Entrance Examination (Mains), Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced) or such other tests to make them eligible for admission only against any Non-Resident Indian seat or any supernumerary seat; F Provided that the OCI cardholder shall not be eligible for admission against any seat reserved exclusively for Indian citizens. (iii) Purchase or sale of immovable properties other than agricultural land or farm house or plantation property; G and (iv) Pursuing the following professions in India as per the provisions contained in the applicable relevant statutes or Acts as the case may be, namely:- H 268 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A (a) doctors, dentists, nurses and pharmacists; (b) advocates; (c) architects; (d) chartered accountants; B (5) in respect of all other economic, financial and educational fields not specified in this notification or the rights and privileges not covered by the notifications made by the Reserve Bank of India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999), the OCI cardholder shall have the same rights and privileges as a foreigner. C Explanation – For the purposes of this notification,- (1) The OCI Cardholder (including a PIO cardholder) is a foreign national holding passport of a foreign country and is not a citizen of India. D (2) “Non-resident Indian” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Foreign Exchange Management (Acquisition and Transfer of Immovable Property in India) Regulations, 2018 made by the Reserve Bank of India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of E 1999) and who fulfills the “Non-Resident Indian” status as per the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961). [F.No.26011/CC/05/2018-OCI] PRAMOD KUMAR, Director” F (emphasis supplied) 22. A perusal of the notification dated 04.03.2021 would ex facie indicate that the rights bestowed thereunder on the OCI Cardholders are in fact a consolidation of the rights which had been bestowed through G the notification dated 11.04.2005, 05.01.2007 and 05.01.2009. However, the impugned portion of the notification is the portion which has been emphasised i.e. the proviso to clause 4(ii) and Explanation (1) thereto and limiting the parity only to NRI seats and supernumerary seats.