It postulates a rational basis and does not mean herding together of certain persons and classes arbitrarily. Thus the legislature may fix the age at which H 284 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A persons shall be deemed competent to contract between themselves, but no one will claim that competency to contract can be made to depend upon the stature or colour of the hair. “Such a classification for such a purpose would be arbitrary and a piece of legislative despotism”. B (ii) (1955) 1 SCR 1045 Budhan Choudhary Vs.State of Bihar “5. The provisions of Article 14 of the Constitution have come up for discussion before this Court in a number of cases, namely, Chiranjit Lal Chowdhuri v. Union ofIndia [(1950) 1 SCR 869] , State of Bombay v. F.N. Balsara C [(1951) 2 SCR 682] , State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar [(1952) 3 SCR 284] , Kathi Raning Rawat v. State of Saurashtra [(1952) 3 SCR 435] , Lachmandas Kewalram Ahuja v. State of Bombay [(1952) 3 SCR 710] and Qasim Razvi v. State of Hyderabad [AIR 1953 SC 156 : (1953) 4 SCR 581] and Habeeb Mohamad v. State D of Hyderabad [(1953) 4 SCR 661] . It is, therefore, not necessary to enter upon any lengthy discussion as to the meaning, scope and effect of the article in question. It is now well established that while Article 14 forbids class legislation, it does not forbid reasonable classification for E the purposes of legislation. In , however, to pass the test of permissible classification two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (i) that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes persons or things that are grouped together from others left out of the group and (ii) that differentia must have a rational relation F to the object sought to be achieved by the statute in question. The classification may be founded on different bases; namely, geographical, or according to objects or occupations or the like. What is necessary is that there must be a nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the G Act under consideration. It is also well established by the decisions of this Court that Article 14 condemns discrimination not only by a substantive law but also by a law of procedure. The contention now put forward as to the invalidity of the trial of the appellants has, therefore to be tested in the light of the principles so laid down in the H decisions of this Court. ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 285 ORS. (iii) (1976) 2 SCC 310 State of Kerala Vs. N.M. Thomas A “31. The rule of parity is the equal treatment of equals in equal circumstances. The rule of differentiation is enacting laws differentiating between different persons or things in different circumstances. The circumstances which govern one set of persons or objects may not necessarily be the B same as those governing another set of persons or objects so that the question of unequal treatment does not really arise between persons governed by different conditions and different sets of circumstances.