Upon receiving the same, the Executive Magistrate, Ludhiana reached the DMC, Ludhiana and moved another application (Ex. P.S.) before the Medical Offi cer at about 04.15 p.m. thereby seeking his opinion with regards to the fi tness of the deceased. When Dr. Jatinder Pal Singh (PW-8) gave his opinion (Ex. P.S/1) that the deceased was fi t to make a statement, Mr. Sadhu Singh (PW-5) proceeded to record the statement of the deceased (Ex. P.L.) on the same day at about 04.40 p.m. The statement was read over and explained to the deceased, who had put her thumb impression on the same after admitting to its contents to be correct. A First Information Report (“FIR” for short) (Ex. P.E./1) was recorded based on the said statement of the deceased against Jora Singh, father-in-law of the deceased, appellant herein and Dhan Kaur, mother-in-law of the deceased, for the off ences punishable under Sections 498-A, 307, 406 and 34 of IPC. On 18th November 1991, at about 06.00 p.m., Dr. Jatinder Pal Singh (PW- 8) sent ruqa (Ex. P.M.) to the Police Station Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana, regarding the death of the deceased. Following which, the Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI), Sri Bhagwan (PW-9) prepared an inquest report at the DMC, Ludhiana on 19th November 1991 with regards to the dead body of the deceased and made an application for conducting of post-mortem examination as well (Ex. P.R./1). 2.3 Upon completion of investigation, a charge-sheet came to be fi led in the court of jurisdictional Magistrate. Since the case was exclusively triable by the learned Sessions Judge, it came to be committed to the learned Sessions Court. Charges were framed for the off ences punishable under Section 302 read with Section 34 of IPC and Section 304-B of IPC. The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 2.4 In to substantiate the charges levelled against the accused persons, the prosecution examined as many as nine witnesses. Thereafter, 798 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the accused persons were examined under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (“Cr.P.C.” for short). They denied the prosecution allegations regarding demand for dowry and harassment of the deceased and alleged that they were being falsely implicated. The accused persons also denied that the deceased was set ablaze by them. At the conclusion of trial, the learned trial court convicted all the three accused persons for the off ence punishable under Section 304-B of IPC for causing the dowry death of the deceased and accordingly sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of seven years along with fi ne. However, the learned trial court was pleased to extend the benefi t of doubt qua the charge under Section 302 of IPC and thus, acquitted the accused persons of the said charge. 2.5 Being aggrieved thereby, the accused persons preferred an appeal before the High Court with regards to the conviction and sentence awarded by the learned trial court; whereas, the State of Haryana and Pavitar Singh (PW-3) also fi led their respective appeals before the High Court with regards to the acquittal of the accused persons for the charge under Section 302 of IPC.