Government s: Inter-departmental communications – Official notings in the file – Reliance upon – Held: Inter- departmental communications are merely in the process of consideration for an appropriate decision – Reliance cannot be D placed upon as a basis to claim any right – Mere notings in the file do not amount to an unless it is communicated to a party, thus, no right accrues – On facts, no passed by the Government and conveyed to the party for allotment of any land, thus, no relief admissible to them solely relying on the official notings. E Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 There is a huge delay on the part of the respondents to avail of their appropriate remedy against the final publication of record of rights. Hence, the respondents are not entitled to any relief. [Para 54(i)][1082-A] F 1.2 On the application of principle of constructive res judicata, the writ petition filed by the respondents after withdrawal of the civil suit was not maintainable as no liberty was granted. In case still filing of writ petition was to be justified, at least complete facts need to be disclosed for the purpose, which were missing. G In the writ petition there was no mention regarding filing of civil suit earlier for the same relief and withdrawal thereof. A litigant can be non–suited in case he is found guilty of concealing material facts from the court or mis–stating the same. Hence, the respondents are not entitled to any relief. [Para 54(ii)] [1082-B-C] H STATE OF ORISSA & ANR. v. LAXMI NARAYAN DAS (DEAD) 1051 THR. LRS & ORS. 1.3 There was no passed by the Government and A conveyed to the respondents for allotment of any land in their favour. Hence, the respondents are not entitled to any relief solely based on the official notings. [Para 54 (iii)][1082-D] Effect of delay and laches in availing the remedies against the final publication of record of rights B 2. It is evident that there is huge delay on the part of the respondents to avail of their appropriate remedy. Record of rights was finalised in the year 1962. As admitted in the writ petition, objections were filed by the respondents or their predecessors– in–interest before that. Remedy, after publication of final record C of rights, was revision under Section 15(b) of the Orissa Survey and Settlement Act, 1958 to be filed within one year. No remedy was availed of. Nearly three decades after finalisation of record of rights, application was filed before the Settlement Officer, which was not maintainable after final record of rights is published. When D no relief was granted by the Settlement Officer, the respondents kept quite for 13 years before filing a civil suit in the year 2003. It was dismissed as withdrawn in the year 2007. The writ petition was filed in the year 2008, which is subject matter of dispute in the instant appeal. The said facts show that the writ petition to claim relief was filed after 46 years of finalisation of record of E rights, which was highly belated.