With the completion of investigation, challan was presented in the court for trial only against accused Narendra Zala. 4. The Ld. Trial Court convicted the accused on the ground that the incident was witnessed by Nirav Bipinbhai Patel (PW-3), whose C testimony, being the sole eye-witness was trustworthy and reliable to the extent that there was motive, being money dispute which the deceased had to return to the Accused. The Police pursuant to Appellants disclosure statement recovered the weapon of crime. 5. The High Court upheld the judgement of the Ld. Trial Court on D the ground that the prosecution story was reliable and worthy of credence. Even on the absence of motive being established, i.e. whether or not the deceased owed money to the Appellant, the testimony of the sole eyewitness (PW-3), worthy of credence, fully matched with the case of Murder as set out by the prosecution. E 6. We have heard learned counsels for both the parties at length. Certain facts are not in dispute: (A) The identity of the deceased and the death as result of a gun shot injury; (B) The Post Mortem conducted by Dr. Ravjibhai Makwana (PW - 5) who prepared the Post Mortem Report (Ex. P.36) evidencing F the fact that 60 metal pellets were recovered from the muscular tissues of the neck of the deceased; (C) The cause of death being haemorrhage on account of injury on the right side of the neck pursuant to the use of firearm; (D) The prosecution case rests on the testimony of material witnesses, i.e. PW-3 sole eyewitness, who was the deceased’s friend and PW-1 who is father of the deceased. G 7. In the considered view of this Court this case primarily rests solely upon the testimony of PW-3, which is full of blemishes, absolutely uninspiring in confidence and the witness not having deposed the truth. 8. It is a settled principle of law that doubt cannot replace proof. H Suspicion, howsoever great it may be, is no substitute of proof in criminal NARENDRASINH KESHUBHAI ZALA v. STATE OF GUJARAT 751 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] jurisprudence [Jagga Singh v. State of Punjab, 1994 Supp (3) SCC A 463]. Only such evidence is admissible and acceptable as is permissible in accordance with law. In the case of a sole eye witness, the witness has to be reliable, trustworthy, his testimony worthy of credence and the case proven beyond reasonable doubt. Unnatural conduct and unexplained circumstances can be a ground for disbelieving the witness. This Court B in the case of Anil Phukan v. State of Assam, (1993) 3 SCC 282 has held that: “ 3. … So long as the single eyewitness is a wholly reliable witness the courts have no difficulty in basing conviction on his testimony alone. However, where the single eyewitness is not found to be a C wholly reliable witness, in the sense that there are some circumstances which may show that he could have an interest in the prosecution, then the courts generally insist upon some independent corroboration of his testimony, in material particulars, before recording conviction.