I need not point out that this restraint on the exercise of the power of sale will be exercised by courts only G under the limited circumstances mentioned above because otherwise to grant such an injunction would be to cancel one of the clauses of the deed to which both the parties had agreed and annul one of the chief securities on which persons advancing moneys on mortgages rely. (See Ghose, Rashbehary: Law of Mortgages, Vol. II, 4th Edn., p. 784. )”” H PUNJAB AND SIND BANK v. FRONTLINE CORPORATION 867 LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 13. It could thus be seen that this Court has held that the jurisdiction A of the civil court is barred in respect of matters which a DRT or an Appellate Tribunal is empowered to determine in respect of any action taken “or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred under this Act”. The Court has held that the prohibition covers even matters which may be taken cognizance of by the DRT though no measure in that B direction has so far been taken under sub-section (4) of Section 13 of the SARFAESI Act. It has been held that the bar of jurisdiction is in respect of a proceeding which matter may be taken to the Tribunal. It has categorically been held that any matter in respect of which an action may be taken even later on, the civil court shall have no jurisdiction to entertain any proceeding thereof. The Court held that the bar of civil C court thus applies to all such matters which may be taken cognizance of by the DRT, apart from those matters in which measures have already been taken under sub-section (4) of Section 13 of the SARFAESI Act. 14. This Court has further held that, to a very limited extent jurisdiction of the civil court can also be invoked, where for example, the D action of the secured creditor is alleged to be fraudulent or his claim may be so absurd and untenable which may not require any probe whatsoever or to say precisely to the extent the scope is permissible to bring an action in the civil court in the cases of English mortgages. 15. In the present case, it cannot be said that the action of the E secured creditor, i.e. the appellant is either fraudulent or that its claim is so absurd or untenable which may not require any probe whatsoever. It is further to be noted that the SARFAESI Act itself provides remedies to an aggrieved party in view of the provisions of Sections 17 and 18. 16. We find that the present appeal deserves to be allowed on F another ground also. Undisputedly, the jurisdiction which was exercised by the Division Bench was analogous to the one exercised under XLIII Rule 1 of the CPC. It will be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Wander Ltd. and Another v. Antox India P. Ltd.2: G “14.