approval of the President before or after the commencement of these rules, in regard to matters covered by such special provisions. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the President may by exclude any class of Government servants from the operation of all or any of these rules. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), or the Indian Railway Establishment Code, these rules shall apply to every Government servant temporarily transferred to a Service or post coming within exception (a) or (e) in sub-rule (1), to whom, but for such transfer, these rules would apply. (4) If any doubt arises– (a) whether these rules or any of them apply to any person, or (b) whether any person to whom these rules apply belongs to a particular Service. the matter shall be referred to the President, who shall decide the same. 13. The standing s, on the other hand, as we have seen, cover a whole range of activities of work related to a workman in an industrial establishment which not only includes his working hours, the facilities to be given to a workman, his duties and responsibilities but even minor activities of a workman in an industrial establishment. There is hardly any area which is not covered under these standing s. Another important feature of the standing s is that it is totally focused on the activities, nature of work of a workman and the treatment he deserves vis-a-vis the employer and the duties towards his employer. All these are comprehensively laid down. The CCA Rules, 1965 do not comprehensively cover the service conditions of a workman as a standing does. 14. The purpose and the scope of 1946 Act is explained best in the words of Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy in U.P. State Electricity Board and Another v. Hari Shankar Jain and Others, AIR 1979 SC 65, which held as under: “6. Let us now examine the various statutory provisions in their proper context with a view to resolve the problem before us. First, UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. K. SURI BABU 1057 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Act, 1946. Before the passing of the Act, conditions of service of industrial employees were invariably ill-defi ned and were hardly ever known with even a slight degree of precision to the employees. There was no uniformity of conditions of service for employees discharging identical duties in the same establishment. Conditions of service were generally ad-hoc and the result of oral arrangements which left the employees at the mercy of the employer. With the growth of the trade union movement and the right of collective bargaining, employees started putting forth their demands to end this sad and confusing state of aff airs. Recognising the rough deal that was being given to workers by employers who would not defi ne their conditions of service and the inevitability of industrial strife in such a situation, the legislature intervened and enacted the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Act. It was stated in the statement of objects and reasons: “Experience has shown that ‘Standing s’, defi ning the conditions of recruitment, discharge, disciplinary action, holidays, leave etc., go a long way towards minimising friction between the management and workers in industrial undertakings.