Article 239-AA(7) is extracted below: B “(7)(a) Parliament may, by law, make provisions for giving effect to or supplementing the provisions contained in the foregoing clauses and for all matters incidental or consequential thereto. (b) Any such law as is referred to in sub-clause (a) shall not be deemed to be an amendment of this Constitution for the purpose C of Article 368 notwithstanding that it contains any provision which amends or has the effect or amending, this Constitution.” 15. While Article 239-AA(7)(a) states that the law must only give effect to or supplement the provisions of Article 239-AA, Article 239- AA(7)(b) states that the law shall not be deemed an amendment to the D Constitution even if it has the effect of amending Article 239-AA. A primary reading of Article 239-AA(7)(a) indicates that the law shall not alter the existing constitutional structure envisaged for NCTD in Article 239-AA. However, a prima facie reading of Article 239-AA(7)(b) denotes that the law enacted under Article 239-AA(7)(a) could alter the E existing constitutional structure of governance of NCTD. This apparent conflict between the two clauses on the nature of law making power vis-à-vis NCTD’s constitutional structure of governance needs to be resolved by this Court. 16. Neither the 2018 Constitution Bench 4 nor the 2023 Constitution Bench has dealt with the interpretation of Article F 239-AA(7). We are of the considered opinion that the disposal of the writ petition requires this Court to answer a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution. We accordingly refer the following questions to a Constitution Bench: (i) What are the contours of the power of Parliament to enact G a law under Article 239-AA(7); and (ii) Whether Parliament in the exercise of its power under Article 239- AA(7) can abrogate the constitutional principles of governance for NCTD. H 4 Government of NCT of Delhi v. Union of India, Civil Appeal No. 2357 of 2017 GOVERNMENT OF NATIONAL CAPITAL TERRITORY OF 501 DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 17. We are also of the opinion that it would be appropriate for the A Constitution Bench to dispose of the writ petition because of the protracted legal battle between the Union of India and the Government of NCTD on the administration of NCTD. We direct the Registry to place the papers of this petition before the Chief Justice of India on the administrative side for the constitution of a Constitution Bench to answer B the questions identified above and for the disposal of the petition. IA No. 130505 of 2023 seeking a stay of the NCT Ordinance is dismissed. Nidhi Jain Questions referred to constitution Bench. (Assisted by : Tamana, LCRA) C D E F G H