He fell down immediately.” 11. PW-18 Dr. Anbumalar in her examination in chief has state as under:- “I am currently working as a Senior Doctor in Namakkal Government District Head Hospital. On 26.10.2015, while I G was on duty then the body of one Balasubramaniam (57 years old) was brought by one Arunagiri, Head constable for post- mortem examination with permission letter and accordingly on 26.10.2015 at 2.15 PM, the post- mortem was performed. The details of the post- mortem examination are as follows – H ANBAZHAGAN v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY THE 1103 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] External injuries respectively, A There was bleeding from the ear and nose, above the left eye brow 3×2 cm cut injury. A cut injury measuring 4 × 2 cm was found on the left forehead. The front skull bone was fractured on both sides (Both parietal bone). B Internal Inspection Details- The skull bone was broken and the inner lining was torn. Left Side Temporal Bone 7.5 cm. was broken. There was a blood clot at the base of the skull. The inside of the sprout was red. Navicular bone was correct. Left ribs 3 and 4 were fractured.” C 12. The Trial Court, upon appreciation of the oral and documentary evidence on record and more particularly having regard to the genesis of the occurrence; the manner of assault and the nature of the weapon, took the view that the case was not one of murder punishable under Section 302 of the IPC but could be said one of culpable homicide not D amounting to murder punishable under Section 304 Part I of the IPC and accordingly sentenced the appellant herein. 13. The High Court also came to the conclusion that the Trial Court was right in holding the appellant herein guilty of the offence punishable under Section 304 Part I of the IPC. E 14. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellant is here before this Court with the present appeal. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 15. Mr. S. Nagamuthu, the learned senior counsel appearing for F the appellant herein submitted that considering the manner in which the incident had occurred and the role attributed to the appellant, the conviction deserves to be altered from Section 304 Part I of the IPC to one under Section 304 Part II of the IPC. According to the learned senior counsel, the case does not fall within clause thirdly of Section 300 of the IPC. All G that can be attributed to the appellant is ‘knowledge’ and ‘not intention’. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT STATE 16. Dr. Joseph Aristotle S., the learned counsel appearing for the respondent State on the other hand, submitted that the Trial Court as H 1104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A well as the High Court rightly held the appellant herein guilty of the offence punishable under Section 304 Part I of the IPC. According to the learned counsel, the case is not one falling within the ambit of Section 304 Part II of the IPC.