75. It also needs to be stated that, in Amme Srisailam (supra) the High Court did not apply the observations made by this Court in Shakeena (supra) as regards the amended Section 13(8) because it was of the view that the same were only obiter dicta and moreover because a subsequent and larger bench decision of this Court in S. Karthik (supra) had held that right of redemption would be extinguished only upon issuance and registration of the sale certifi cate. 76. We may however point out that, this Court in S. Karthik (supra) had made no reference as to whether it was considering the unamended or the amended Section 13(8), nor any reference was made to the 2016 Amendment. Thus, in our opinion, the decision in S. Karthik (supra) cannot be said to have considered the amended provision of Section 13(8) especially in view of the fact that, it had placed strong reliance on Mathew Varghese (supra) which as discussed before had dealt with the unamended provision of Section 13(8). 77. We also fi nd that, in Pal Alloys (supra) the reliance on the Joint Committee Report specifi cally the heading “Provisions to stop secure creditor to lease or assignment or sale in the prescribed conditions- Amendment to Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act” occurring in it, to construe that the said amendment was only to restrict the secured creditor is misplaced. We say this, because, initially in the Report, the proposed amendment to sub-section (8) of Section 13 stated as under: “The proposed modifi ed section 13(8) provides as under:- “(8) Where the amount of dues of the secured creditor together with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by him are tendered to the secured creditor at any time before the date fi xed for lease, assignment or sale of the secured assets,- CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 135 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (i) the secured assets shall not be leased, assigned or sold by the secured creditor; and (ii) in case, any step has been taken by the secured creditor for lease or assignment or sale of the assets before tendering of such amount under this sub-section, no further step shall be taken by such secured creditor for lease or assignment or sale of such secured assets.”” (Emphasis supplied) 78.The amendment as initially proposed specifi cally used the words “at any time before the date fi xed for lease, assignment or sale of the secured assets”. The heading it was placed under read as to only restricting the rights of the secured creditor. However, remarkably, the Joint Committee subsequently changed the proposal to as under: - “The Committee after examining the proposed amendment and the existing Rules in this regard decide to modify proposed Clause 11(ii) [section 13(8) of the principal Act] as under: “(8) Where the amount of dues of the secured creditor together with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by him is tendered to the secured creditor at any time before the date of publication of notice for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale of the secured assets:- (i) the secured assets shall not be transferred by way of lease, assignment or sale by the secured creditor; and (ii) in case, any step has been taken by the secured creditor for transfer by way of lease or assignment or sale of the assets before tendering of such amount under this sub-section, no further step shall be taken by such secured creditor for transfer by way of lease or assignment or sale of such secured assets.”” (Emphasis supplied) 79.