While sub-section (10) of Section 10 of the Act 1996 provides that upon appointment, the term of the Vice-Chancellor would be for four years and that he shall be eligible for reappointment. The proviso attached to sub-section (10) stipulates that no person shall be appointed as Vice-Chancellor for more than two terms. 49. A close reading of the statutory provisions of Section 10 of the Act 1996 would reveal that sub-section (9) deals with a situation prior to or leading upto the appointment of Vice-Chancellor whereas sub-section (10) contemplates a situation after the appointment of Vice-Chancellor has been made. This is discernible from a very fi ne but pertinent distinction between the language of the two provisions. Sub-section (9) which provides the outer age limit for appointment uses the word “person”. This connotes that the Vice-Chancellor is yet to be appointed whereas sub-section (10) uses the word “Vice-Chancellor” which connotes that it is applicable to the incumbent holding the offi ce of Vice-Chancellor or simpliciter the Vice- Chancellor after having been appointed. 50. Thus, in our view sub-section (9) of Section 10 of the Act 1996 will apply only at the stage of appointment of Vice-Chancellor and would have no application whatsoever when it comes to reappointment of Vice-Chancellor under sub-section (10). This is reinforced from the words “shall be eligible for re-appointment” occurring in sub-section (10) which connotes that the 420 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. same is an enabling provision whereby the Vice-Chancellor by virtue of holding his offi ce is deemed eligible for reappointment irrespective of the other provisions. 51. We are conscious of the fact that, the proviso to sub-section (10) which provides that the Vice-Chancellor shall not be appointed for more than two terms also uses the word “person” which in our opinion is a deliberate choice. We say so because the proviso deals with a situation where the Vice- Chancellor has demitted offi ce by virtue of lapse of his tenure. 52. The aforesaid aspect may be looked at from one another angle. If we were to hold that the outer age limit provided in sub-section (9) would apply even to reappointment, then the same would eff ectively mean that only those persons who are appointed as Vice-Chancellor at the age of fi fty-fi ve or below could be considered for reappointment. Such an interpretation would result in conditions being read into sub-section (10) which have not been prescribed by the legislature. Had the intent of legislature been otherwise, sub-section (10) or the words “shall be eligible for re-appointment” would have been specifi cally qualifi ed by or made subject to the words “sub-section (9)” or “provisions of this section”. 53. If sub-section (9) is interpreted so as to be made applicable even to reappointment as provided in sub-section (10), then the result would be that any person who is appointed as Vice-Chancellor at the age of fi fty-six or more would not be eligible for reappointment, thereby rendering sub- section (10) and its proviso completely otiose and meaningless in such cases.