The company had entered into a PPA based on the assurance of one of the instrumentality of GoI to provide the coal mine. Therefore, other instrumentality of a state F government may need to consider the fact of subsequent non- availability of coal mine. This fact has been acknowledged by MERC….” 8.13 We are in agreement with this rationale. This rationale conforms to the Tribunal’s findings in the dated G 14.09.2019 (Appeal No 202 of 2018 & 305 of 2018) (Adani Rajasthan ) wherein it was held that: “11.13. The purpose of change in law relief/compensation is to restore the affected party to the same economic position as if the change in law had not occurred. In the instant case, this H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 667 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J. ] would involve compensating Adani Rajasthan for the cost A incurred in purchasing alternate coal to meet the non-availability of domestic coal promised under the NCDP 2007. The MoP letter of 31.07.2013 as well as the Revised Tariff Policy of 2016 support the principle of compensation to the generators for the additional cost incurred in procuring alternate coal. The B methodology proposed by Adani Rajasthan prima facie appears to be consistent with the principle/basis of compensation for shortfall/non-availability of domestic coal given by the MoP and we do not find any reason to interfere with the same.” 8.13 In the aforesaid case, the principle which was considered by C us is that to restore the affected party to the same economic position as prevailing at the time of bid submission, the affected party shall be compensated for any additional cost incurred in procuring alternate coal to mitigate the nonavailability/shortfall of coal from the bid-identified source. Since the bid identified source of coal in the aforesaid case was linkage coal, the compensation D allowed by the Tribunal was the difference between alternate coal cost and linkage coal cost. The formula for such computation is: Compensation = A - B [where ‘A’ is cost of alternate coal and ‘B’ is cost of coal from the bid-identified source of fuel i.e. linkage coal.] Here, we find it important to note that the methodology E approved in Adani Rajasthan has not been interfered with by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in its dated 31.08.2020 in Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam v. Adani Power Rajasthan Limited and Anr. (Civil Appeal No. 8625-8626 of 2019). 8.14 Applying the same ratio as held in Adani Rajasthan , F the formula for compensation for non-availability of coal from Lohara Coal Blocks should have been Compensation = A - B [where, ‘A’ is cost of alternate coal and ‘B’ is cost of coal from the bid-identified source of fuel i.e. Lohara Coal Blocks.] Considering linkage coal cost as base will not restitute Adani to the same economic position as if no change in law had occurred G and thus runs contrary to the mandate laid down by the Energy Watchdog , the Uttar Haryana and the revised Tariff Policy 2016.