The relevant portion is reproduced below: - “Complaints Committee as envisaged by the Supreme Court in its in Vishaka case (1997) 6 SCC 241 : 1997 SCC (Cri) 932, SCC at p. 253, will be deemed to be an inquiry authority for the purposes of the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1964 (hereinafter call 556 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the CCS Rules) and the report of the Complaints Committee shall be deemed to be an inquiry report under the CCS Rules. Thereafter the disciplinary authority will act on the report in accordance with the Rules.” (Emphasis supplied) 71. This Court in Sakshi v. Union of India and Others reported in (2004) 5 SCC 518 had observed that quite often in sensitive matters particularly those involving crime against women the victims either due to fear or embarrassment were not able to openly disclose the entire incident. Often the victims during their testimony were put embarrassing questions by accused with the sole purpose of confusing or suppressing out of shame. To remedy this, directions were issued by this Court that for cross-examination of victims, the question would be given to the presiding offi cer who in turn would ask them in clear language which is not embarrassing. The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “32.The mere sight of the accused may induce an element of extreme fear in the mind of the victim or the witnesses or can put them in a state of shock. In such a situation he or she may not be able to give full details of the incident which may result in miscarriage of justice. Therefore, a screen or some such arrangement can be made where the victim or witnesses do not have to undergo the trauma of seeing the body or the face of the accused.Often the questions put in cross- examination are purposely designed to embarrass or confuse the victims of rape and child abuse. The object is that out of the feeling of shame or embarrassment, the victim may not speak out or give details of certain acts committed by the accused. It will, therefore, be better if the questions to be put by the accused in cross-examination are given in writing to the presiding offi cer of the court, who may put the same to the victim or witnesses in a language which is not embarrassing. There can hardly be any objection to the other suggestion given by the petitioner that whenever a child or victim of rape is required to give testimony, suffi cient breaks should be given as and when required. The provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 327 CrPC should also apply in inquiry or trial of off ences under Sections 354 and 377 IPC. xxx xxx xxx UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 557 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “34. The writ petition is accordingly disposed of with the following directions: (1) The provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 327 CrPC shall, in addition to the off ences mentioned in the sub-section, also apply in inquiry or trial of off ences under Sections 354 and 377 IPC.