Thus, it is obvious that the three-Judge Bench in KSL & Industries Ltd. (supra) considered the question whether a recovery application under the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial D Institutions Act, 1963 (RDDB Act) would lie or be proceeded with against a sick company in view of the Bar contained in Section 22 (1) of SICA. Evidently, even after finding that an ‘application for recovery’ under RDDB Act could not specifically be described as proceedings for execution, distress or the like against any of the properties, it was held E that it is certainly a proceeding which may result in the execution and distress against the property of the company and is therefore, liable to be construed as a proceeding for the execution, distress or the like against any of the properties of the industrial company. Accordingly, it was held that such a construction would be within the intendment of the Parliament. Moreover, it was held therein that there would be no purpose in construing F the Parliament intended that such an application for recovery by summary procedure should lie or be proceeded with, but only its execution be interdicted or inhibited. That apart the three-Judge Bench found nothing contrary in the intention of the SICA to exclude a recovery application from the purview of a Section 22 thereof, taking note of the fact that the G purpose of the said provision is to protect the properties of sick company, so that they may be dealt with in the best possible way for the purpose of its revival by BIFR. 14. In view of the provisions under Section 22 (1) of SICA and the decisions in Paramjeet Singh case (Supra) and in KSL & Industries Limited (supra), it is worthwhile to note that in the case on hand it was H SABARMATI GAS LIMITED v. SHAH ALLOYS LIMITED 201 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] the industrial company (respondent herein) that approached the BIFR A under the provisions of SICA and got it declared as ‘sick company’ by filing Case No. 13 of 2010; that it is thereafter that the appellant filed Miscellaneous Application No. 432/2013 thereon praying, inter-alia, to permit it under Section 22 of SICA to approach a Civil Court of appropriate jurisdiction for recovery of the above-mentioned dues along with interest; B that the said application was disposed of only on 09.09.2015, as per Annexure-A40 proceedings, that too, only with a direction to the respondent company to incorporate the dues of the applicant in the DRS and that as per Annexure-A40, Case No.13 of 2010 and M.A. No. 292/2014 filed thereon, were then, posted for hearing. In short, Case No. 13 of 2010 was pending before the BIFR when SICA was C repealed w.e.f. 01.12.2016 and Sections 8 and 9, IBC took its effect from 01.12.12016. Thus, obviously, proceedings under SICA were then pending before the BIFR when the default from the part of the respondent allegedly occurred and by virtue of Section 22 (1), SICA and the decisions referred above, the appellant could not have, then, D resorted to any legal proceedings for enforcing any right which may result in recovery from the properties of the respondent company.