294. It is thus clear that Section 4 of the 2017 Act provides an integrated scheme. Sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the 2017 Act F empowers the Central Government to provide a window to the persons holding SBNs on or before 8th November 2016 to tender the same within the grace period with such declarations or statements. Clause (i) thereof is applicable to the citizens who were outside India between 9th November 2016 and 30th December 2016. Clause (ii) thereof enables the Central Government to provide a window to such class of persons and for such G reasons as may be specified in the notification by the Central Government. Sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the 2017 Act provides for consideration of the cases covered by sub-section (1) thereof. It provides that the RBI, upon its satisfaction, after making such verifications as it may consider necessary that the reasons for failure to deposit the notes H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 141 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] prior to 30th December 2016, are genuine, will credit the value of the A notes in KYC compliant bank account of such a person. If any person is aggrieved by the refusal of the RBI under sub-section (2), an appellate opportunity is provided to such a person, under sub-section (3). 295. The Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Popatlal Shah v. The State of Madras72, observed thus: B “It is a settled rule of construction that to ascertain the legislative intent, all the constituent parts of a statute are to be taken together and each word, phrase or sentence is to be considered in the light of the general purpose and object of the Act itself.” C 296. We may gainfully refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Peerless General Finance and Investment Company Limited (supra): “33. Interpretation must depend on the text and the context. They are the bases of interpretation. One may well say if the text is the D texture, context is what gives the colour. Neither can be ignored. Both are important. That interpretation is best which makes the textual interpretation match the contextual. A statute is best interpreted when we know why it was enacted. With this knowledge, the statute must be read, first as a whole and then E section by section, clause by clause, phrase by phrase and word by word. If a statute is looked at, in the context of its enactment, with the glasses of the statute-maker, provided by such context, its scheme, the sections, clauses, phrases and words may take colour and appear different than when the statute is looked at without the glasses provided by the context. With these glasses F we must look at the Act as a whole and discover what each section, each clause, each phrase and each word is meant and designed to say as to fit into the scheme of the entire Act. No part of a statute and no word of a statute can be construed in isolation.