It was emphasized that the Court would take recourse to this expanded option primarily because, in the facts of the case, the sentence of 14 years’ imprisonment would F amount to no punishment at all. 9. Affirming the view taken in Swamy Shraddananda (supra), the majority opinion in V. Sriharan (supra)observed that it could be said without any scope for controversy that, when by way of a judicial decision after a detailed analysis, having regard to the proportionality of the crime G committed, it is decided that the offender deserves to be punished with the sentence of life imprisonment, i.e., till the end of his life or for a specific period of 20 years or 30 years or 40 years, such a conclusion should survive without any interruption. It was, therefore, held that in to ensure that the punishment imposed, which is legally provided H for in the Penal Code read along with Criminal Procedure Code, operates RAVINDER SINGH v. THE STATE GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI 487 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] without any interruption, the inherent power of the Court concerned A should empower the Court, in public interest as well as in the interest of the society at large, to make it certain that such punishment will operate, as imposed, by stating that no remission or other liberal approach should come into effect to nullify such imposition. It was further observed that no prohibition is prescribed in the Penal Code, or for that matter any of B the provisions where death penalty or life imprisonment is provided for, that imprisonment cannot be imposed for a specific period within the said life span and, when life imprisonment means the whole life span of the person convicted, it cannot be said that the Court which is empowered to impose the said punishment cannot specify the period up to which the said sentence of life should remain, befitting the nature of the crime C committed. The majority opinion, therefore, concluded by stating that the ratio laid down in Swamy Shraddananda (supra), that a special category of sentence, insteadof death, can be substituted by the punishment of imprisonment for life or for a term exceeding 14 years and that category can be put beyond application of remission, is well D founded.It was further held that the power to impose a modified punishment within the punishment provided for in the Penal Code for such specified offences can only be exercised by the High Court and in the event of further appeal, by the Supreme Court, and not by any other Court in the country. E 10. In the light of this settled legal position, it was clearly not within the domain of the learned Additional Sessions Judge to impose a restriction that the term of the appellant’s life imprisonment should be for at least 20 years and that he should not be given any clemency till then. Such power could only be exercised by the High Courts or by this Court. No doubt, the Delhi High Court confirmed the sentence passed F by the learned Additional Sessions Judge but mere affirmation of the hollow exercise of a power, that was not conferred, by the learned Additional Sessions Judge does not qualify as an independent exercise by the High Court and would not suffice in terms of the legal requirement.