In the latest three judge bench decision of this court, in Revanasiddappa v. Mallikarjuna13, this court clarifi ed that with the enactment of Section 16 of the HMA, the legitimacy conferred upon children born of void or voidable marriages would be that they are “entitled only to a share in their parent’s property but cannot claim it of their own right as a consequence of which they cannot seek partition during the life-time of their parents”. The court also held that they cannot claim any rights other than what was expressly provided for. Thus, uncodifi ed law and custom was upheld. 24. Legislative action initiated at diff erent points in time thus were reformatory or meant to eff ectuate certain fundamental rights. Practices and customs which had resulted in the degradation or diminution of individuals, seen as inconsistent and abhorrent to democratic society, were sought to be eliminated by these laws. When codifi cation attempts resulted in residual discrimination, the courts stepped in to eliminate and enforce the fundamental rights [Independent Thought v. Union of India & Anr., (hereafter, “Independent Thought”)14; Shayara Bano v. Union of India & Anr.15, etc.]. 25. The only legislations which come to one’s mind which in fact created social status or facilitated the status of individuals in private fi elds are the Special Marriage Act, 1954, the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 (“DV Act”), and Section 41 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act (which enables adoption amongst members of all faiths and communities). The latter, i.e., the provision enabling parents is a Hindu, Buddhist, Jaina or Sikh by religion and who is brought up as a member of the tribe, community, group or family to which such parent belongs or belonged;” 12 Section 3 (2) states that “(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) nothing contained in this Act shall apply to the members of any scheduled Tribe within the meaning of clause (25) of article 366 of the Constitution unless the Central Government, by notifi cation in the Offi cial Gazette, otherwise directs.” 13 2023 INSC 783; ; 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1087 14 2017 (13) SCR 821 15 2017 (9) SCR 797 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1445 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] adoption was preceded by certain guidelines which facilitated inter-country adoptions. These guidelines, initially pioneered in the of this court in Laxmi Kant Pandey v. UOI16 - were accepted. Executive instructions fi lled in the vacuum to some extent assimilating the guidelines of the court but at the same time the limitation in law that prevented adoption of children from diff erent faiths and backgrounds, persisted. These limitations were fi nally overridden through the enactment of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2016. The Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 which was for the purpose of more eff ective protection of the rights of women guaranteed under the Constitution who are victims of violence of any kind occurring within the family.