239 maintained and that Basekhi Singh used to give maintenance A allowance to the widows who were messing separately. It is urged that adverse inference should be drawn from the fact accounts were not produced by the respondents and that if they had been produced that would have shown payment not of maintenance allowance but of half share of the income to the widows by virtue B of their right to the property. Itis true that Dwarika Prasad Singh said that his father used to keep accounts. But no attempt was made on behalf of the appellant to ask the court to Dwarika Prasad Singh to produce the accounts. An adverse inference could only have been drawn against the plaintiffs-respondents if the appellant had asked the court to them to produce accounts C and they had failed to produce them after admitting that Basekhi Singh used to keep accounts. But no such prayer was made to the court, and in the circumstances no adverse inference could be drawn from the non-production of accounts. But it is urged that even so the accounts would have been the best evidence to show D that maintenance was being given to the widows and the best evidence was withheld by the plaintiffs and only oral evidence was produced to the effect that the widows were being given maintenance by Basekhi Singh. Even if it be that accounts would be the best evidence of payment of maintenance and they had been withheld, all that one can say is that the oral evidence that E maintenance was being given to widows may not be acceptable; but no adverse inference can be drawn (in the absence of any prayer by the appellant that accounts be produced) that if they had been produced they would have shown that income was divided half and half in accordance with the title claimed by the appellant.” F 6.2 In the case of Indira Kaur (supra) this Court after considering the observations made by this Court in the case of Ramrati Kuer (supra) has set aside the findings recorded by three courts below whereby an adverse inference had been drawn against the plaintiff therein for not producing the passbook and thereby holding that the plaintiff was not G ready and willing to perform his part of the agreement. It is observed and held that unless the plaintiff was called upon to produce the passbook either by the defendant or, the Court s him to do so, no adverse inference can be drawn. 6.3 Applying the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid two cases to the facts of the case on hand, no adverse inference could have H 240 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A been drawn by the High Court. The High Court seriously erred in reversing the findings recorded by the learned Trial Court on the readiness and willingness of the appellant. 7. Considering the circumstances narrated hereinabove, we are of the opinion that the High Court has materially erred in quashing and B setting aside the and decree passed by the learned Trial Court by reversing the findings on the readiness and willingness of the appellant.