Therefore, the learned CJM noted that possibility of false implication cannot be ruled out, especially when the same complainant made several other complaints against the same accused in that period D in which no allegation of rape on 29.11.2018 was made. 3.15 It is further submitted that the learned CJM also further observed that the complainant in her complaint to Behala Police Station dated 14.08.2020 had accused one of the appellants – Kailash Vijayvargiya of raping her at Hotel Peerless Inn on 09.08.2018, however, E the learned CJM did not find any mention of such incident in her application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C.. The learned CJM further observed that Behala Police Station Case No. 01/2018 against Amalendu Chattopadhyay and others was filed on 31.08.2018, that was much after the alleged rape by Kailash Vijayvargiya at Hotel Peerless Inn, however, even that complaint made to the Behala Police Station finds no mention of such F incident. Therefore, considering the unexplained delay of about two years in making the complaint along with several inconsistencies in the allegations, the learned CJM concluded that allegations appear to be unbelievable and therefore rightly rejected Section 156(3) application of the complainant. G 3.16 It is further submitted by the learned Senior Advocates appearing on behalf of the appellants that in the instant case, the learned CJM found the explanation for delay by the complainant wholly unsatisfactory. It is submitted that it is no doubt true that delay is not always fatal in the case of rape, particularly if adequately explained, however, there must be at least some credibility in the explanation for H KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 149 AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] delay. It is submitted that in the first information report for rape, a delay A of almost 2 years after the date of the alleged incident is a factor that of necessity would itself put any judicial mind on guard regarding the veracity of the complainant’s allegations. It is submitted that the learned CJM however did not dismiss the application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. solely on the ground of delay, but examined her conduct since the date B of the alleged rape till the filing of Section 156(3) application and found that her conduct contradicted her explanation for delay. That she was not a timid victim inasmuch as she was an experienced social/political worker; had a history of filing FIRs including for rape; had earlier filed FIRs against the accused in the instant case for other offences and indeed had invoked police powers against several powerful people. It is C submitted that therefore complainant is not a person who could be easily intimidated or silenced into inaction for an act of rape committed on her. It is submitted that therefore the learned CJM committed no error in dismissing the application under Section 156(3) which ought not to have set aside by the High Court on wrong application of law holding that at D the stage of considering the application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., the Magistrate has no jurisdiction at all to consider the truth and veracity of the allegations in the complaint/application.