This is a very common plea of the accused and, therefore, the prosecution has to be cautious to ensure that there is no scope for making such an allegation. If, however, circumstances are beyond control and there is some delay, it cannot be said to be fatal to the prosecution. 17. It is trite to say that the substantive evidence is the evidence of identifi cation in court. Apart from the clear provisions of Section 9 of the Evidence Act, the position in law is well settled by a catena of decisions of this Court. The facts, which establish the identity of the accused persons, are relevant under Section 9 of the Evidence Act. As a general rule, the substantive evidence of a witness is the statement made in court. The evidence of mere identifi cation of the accused person at the trial for the fi rst time is from its very nature inherently of a weak character. The purpose of a prior test identifi cation, therefore, is to test and strengthen the trustworthiness of that evidence. It is, accordingly, considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witnesses in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them, in the form of earlier identifi cation proceedings. This rule of prudence, however, is subject to exceptions, when, for example, the court is impressed by a particular witness on whose testimony it can safely rely, without such or other corroboration. The identifi cation parades belong to the stage of investigation, and there is no provision in the Code which obliges the investigating agency to hold or confers a right upon the accused to claim a test identifi cation parade. They do not constitute substantive evidence and these parades are essentially governed by Section 162 of the Code. Failure to hold a test identifi cation parade would not make inadmissible the evidence of identifi cation in court. 926 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. The weight to be attached to such identifi cation should be a matter for the courts of fact. In appropriate cases it may accept the evidence of identifi cation even without insisting on corroboration. (See Kanta Prashad v. Delhi Admn. [AIR 1958 SC 350:1958 Cri LJ 698], Vaikuntam Chandrappa v. State of A.P. [AIR 1960 SC 1340:1960 Cri LJ 1681], Budhsen v. State of U.P. [(1970) 2 SCC 128:1970 SCC (Cri) 343] and Rameshwar Singh v. State of J&K [(1971) 2 SCC 715 : 1971 Cri LJ 638] ) × × × × 19. In Harbajan Singh v. State of J&K [(1975) 4 SCC 480 : 1975 SCC (Cri) 545] , though a test identifi cation parade was not held, this Court upheld the conviction on the basis of the identifi cation in court corroborated by other circumstantial evidence. In that case it was found that the appellant and one Gurmukh Singh were absent at the time of roll call and when they were arrested on the night of 16-12-1971 their rifl es smelt of fresh gunpowder and that the empty cartridge case which was found at the scene of off ence bore distinctive markings showing that the bullet which killed the deceased was fi red from the rifl e of the appellant.