(See Ramavatar Budhaiprasad v. Asstt. STO [(1961) 12 STC 286 : AIR 1961 SC 1325] .) The High Court approached the matter from this angle and reached the correct conclusion that the expression “articles made of plastics” used in Tariff Item 15-A(2) does not cover such articles which are not directly made from the material indicated in sub-item (1) but are made from articles made out of such material.” M/S TRIVENI GLASS LIMITED REP. BY ITS DEPUTY 1107 GENERAL MANAGER (SALES AND P.R.) SHRI R.K. SINHA v. COMMISSIONER OF TRADE TAX, U.P. [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] 19. Reiterating the position with regard to interpretation of provisions in fi scal statues and adherence to the principle of popular meaning as understood in their common and popular ex-parlance in the matter of State of Jharkhand and others Vs. LA Opala RG Limited- (2014) 15 SCC 136 it came to be held: “22. It is a settled law that in taxing statutes the terms and expressions must be seen in their common and popular parlance and not be attributed their scientifi c or technical meanings. In common parlance, the two words “type” and “form” are not of the same import. According to the Oxford Dictionary, whereas the meaning of the expression “types” is “kind, class, breed, group, family, genus”; the meaning of the word “form” is “visible shape or confi guration of something” or the “style, design, and arrangement in an artistic work as distinct from its content”. Similarly, Macmillan Dictionary defi nes “type” as “a group of people or things with similar qualities or features that make them diff erent from other groups” and “form” as “the particular way in which something appears or exists or a shape of someone or something”. Therefore, “types” are based on the broad nature of the item intended to be classifi ed and in terms of “forms”, the distinguishable feature is the particular way in which the items exist. An example could be the item “wax”. The types of wax would include animal, vegetable, petroleum, mineral or synthetic wax whereas the form of wax could be candles, lubricant wax, sealing wax, etc.” 20. In the instant case, assessee has placed reliance on the full bench of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh in the matter of Commissioner of Sales Tax, Madhya Pradesh Vs. Triveni Sheet Glass Limited and others, (1990) 76 STC 308 (Full Bench)=1989 SCC online MP 346 whereunder the issue relating to entry of glass sheets had come up for consideration namely whether glass sheets falls within the ambit of the expression “goods made of glass and glassware”. This which was relied upon under the impugned came to be distinguished as under: “Then, reliance was placed on CST, Madhya Pradesh Vs Triveni Sheet Glass Works Limited (1990), 76 STC 308, a full bench decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court. Therein the question was with regard to the taxability of glass sheets. The relevant portion of the Entry was 110 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.