In this regard, it was highlighted that the services off ered by a social club to its members are not with any profi t motive and therefore, were not tainted with commerciality. Sri Datar submitted that subsequent to the delinking of the group “E” cases, this Court in Cawnpore Club held that the Revenue had not appealed with regard to the earnings from renting of rooms and that the other questions which arose in those appeals also included the question of interest earned on Fixed Deposit etc. invested in banks and it was held that such interest was also not taxable on the principle of mutuality. Therefore, the investment of surplus income made by the Clubs in the form of Fixed Deposits, Post Offi ce Deposits etc. were exempt from payment of income tax on the basis of the mutuality principle. 6.3 It was next submitted that there is a direct confl ict between the view taken in the case of Cawnpore Club and the of this Court in Bangalore Club which are both two Judge Bench decisions. That from the year 2004 onwards till 2013, when the in Bangalore Club was rendered by this Court, all interest earned from Fixed Deposits, Post Offi ce Deposits, by the clubs, was entitled to exemption from payment of income tax since it was the surplus income of the clubs which was earned without any profi t motive which was invested in the Banks and Post Offi ces and the interest income earned thereon was used exclusively for the benefi t of the clubs and its members. However, the in Bangalore Club reversed the entire prevalent view and denied exemption which was earlier available to the clubs. Thereafter, various High Courts have followed the of this Court in Bangalore Club and have disregarded the earlier passed by this Court in Cawnpore Club, which is not proper. 6.4 Learned senior counsel Sri Datar contended that there are glaring fl aws in the reasoning of this Court in Bangalore Club and hence, the said also being contrary to the passed in Cawnpore Club, is not a binding precedent and is per incurium. Therefore, the in Bangalore Club ought to be reconsidered and the matter may be referred to a larger Bench. SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 999 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 6.5 In this context, Sri Datar submitted that the decision in the Bangalore Club fails to note that when there is no profi t motive in the activities of a club and despite the fact that surplus income is generated, its activities and income cannot be tainted with commerciality. That in the said decision it was observed that the interest earned from fi xed deposits made in Banks, Post Offi ces etc. were held to be commercial in nature as the Banks have used them for commercial operations by lending the said amounts to third parties and earning a higher interest. Therefore, the essential ingredients for the application of the principle of mutuality being ruptured, exemption was not available to the banks, vis-à-vis, the interest income earned from the fi xed deposits was the reasoning, which is contrary to the passed in the case of Cawnpore Club.