A 9. While considering the aforesaid issue/question, Section 70 of the Karnataka Value Added Tax Act, 2003 is required to be referred to, which reads as under: “70. Burden of proof.- (1) For the purposes of payment or assessment of tax or any claim to input tax under this Act, the B burden of proving that any transaction of a dealer is not liable to tax, or any claim to deduction of input tax is correct, shall lie on such dealer. (2) Where a dealer knowingly issues or produces a false tax invoice, credit or debit note, declaration, certificate or other document with C a view to support or make any claim that a transaction of sale or purchase effected by him or any other dealer, is not liable to be taxed, or liable to tax at a lower rate, or that a deduction of input tax is available, the prescribed authority shall, on detecting such issue or production, direct the dealer issuing or producing such document to pay as penalty: D (a) in the case of first such detection, three times the tax due in respect of such transaction or claim; and (b) in the case of second or subsequent detection, five times the tax due in respect of such transaction or claim. E (3) Before issuing any direction for the payment of the penalty under this Section, the prescribed authority shall give to the dealer the opportunity of showing cause in writing against the imposition of such penalty.” 9.1 Thus, the provisions of Section 70, quoted hereinabove, in its F plain terms clearly stipulate that the burden of proving that the ITC claim is correct lies upon the purchasing dealer claiming such ITC. Burden of proof that the ITC claim is correct is squarely upon the assessee who has to discharge the said burden. Merely because the dealer claiming such ITC claims that he is a bona fide purchaser is not enough and sufficient. The burden of proving the correctness of ITC remains upon G the dealer claiming such ITC. Such a burden of proof cannot get shifted on the revenue. Mere production of the invoices or the payment made by cheques is not enough and cannot be said to be discharging the burden of proof cast under section 70 of the KVAT Act, 2003. The dealer claiming ITC has to prove beyond doubt the actual transaction which can be H proved by furnishing the name and address of the selling dealer, details THE STATE OF KARNATAKA v. M/S ECOM GILL COFFEE 657 TRADING PRIVATE LIMITED [M. R. SHAH, J.] of the vehicle which has delivered the goods, payment of freight charges, A acknowledgement of taking delivery of goods, tax invoices and payment particulars etc. The aforesaid information would be in addition to tax invoices, particulars of payment etc. In fact, if a dealer claims Input Tax Credit on purchases, such dealer/purchaser shall have to prove and establish the actual physical movement of goods, genuineness of B transactions by furnishing the details referred above and mere production of tax invoices would not be sufficient to claim ITC.