[HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] 20. The observations in M.P. Housing Board v Mohd. Shafi 16 are relevant in this context where the signifi cance of giving proper notice was noted as under: “8…..The object of issuing a notifi cation under Section 4 of the Act is two- fold. First, it is a public announcement by the Government and a public notice by the Collector to the eff ect that the land, as specifi ed therein, is needed or is likely to be needed by the Government for the «public purpose» mentioned therein; and secondly, it authorises the departmental offi cers or offi cers of the local authority, as the case may be to do all such acts as are mentioned in Section 4(2) of the Act. The notifi cation has to be published in the locality and particularly persons likely to be aff ected by the proposal have to be put on notice that such an activity is afoot. The notifi cation is, thus, required to give with suffi cient clarity not only the «public purpose» for which the acquisition proceedings are being commenced but also the «locality» where the land is situate with as full a description as possible of the land proposed to be acquired to enable the «interested» persons to know as to which land is being acquired and for what purpose and to take further steps under the Act by fi ling objections etc., since it is open to such persons to canvass the non-suitability of the land for the alleged "public purpose" also. If a notifi cation under Section 4(1) of the Act is defective and does not comply with the requirements of the Act, it not only vitiates the notifi cation, but also renders all subsequent proceedings connected with the acquisition, bad.” [emphasis supplied] 21. It logically follows from above that dispossession without following prescribed statutory process such as giving proper notice, is not only highly prejudicial but it is also a violation of constitutional rights and would thereby vitiate the entire process of land acquisition. Law is well- settled that strict adherence to the mandatory procedural requirements outlined in the legislation is sine-qua-non for the compulsory acquisition of land. Legally conducted acquisition procedures minimize the potential for arbitrary action by the concerned Authority. The fi ndings to this eff ect by 16 (1992)2 SCC 168 538 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. the Appellate Court and the High Court would therefore merit our approval. In other words, land acquisition proceedings for the entire 3 bighas of land is held to be void-ab-initio. 22. As far as the of this Court in Bhola Shankar v Dist. Land Acquisition Offi cer17 relied upon by Mr. Aruneshwar Gupta, learned Counsel for the Appellant is concerned, it is distinguishable from the facts of this case. In Bhola Shankar(supra), the factual matrix was such that the concerned plot was purchased subsequent to the publication of notifi cation under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act,1894. However, in the present case, the plaintiff together with defendant no.