iii) That even for commencement of a diploma course, previous permission of the Central Government is required. But in G the present case, no permission was taken. Therefore, it was concluded that the State had ventured to introduce a new diploma course in medicine and rural healthcare, without the necessary permission as contemplated under Section 10A of the Central Act. H 930 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A iv) That the power and scope of the State Legislature to legislate under the field covered under Entry 25 of List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India is very limited and is only in respect of a field unoccupied by a Central Act. In the present case, the Central Act fully covers the field and places a total restriction on opening a B new course in medicine without the permission of the Central Government. v) That it would be bizarre to say that the diploma-holders should practice in rural areas and not in urban areas, and they are entitled to treat only certain diseases and prescribe C only certain medicines. That such restrictions were unworkable in practice. Such conditions and restrictions were stipulated in Section 24 of the State Act. However, striking down that provision alone would not save the situation as Section 24 is the “soul” of the State Act and without the D said provision, the rest of the provisions of the Act would be meaningless. vi) Keeping in view the larger interest of health and welfare of society and the lapses committed by the State Legislature in enacting a legislation without obtaining necessary E approvals from the Central Government, the State Act was liable to be declared as unconstitutional and accordingly struck down. 3.7. Aggrieved by the impugned , certain persons who were admitted in the First year of the three-year Diploma Course in Medicine and Rural Health Care in the Jorhat Medical Institute, for the F sessions 2012-13, 2013-14 and 2014-15, during the pendency of the writ petition before the High Court, have preferred the present appeals. 3.8. At this stage itself, it may be mentioned that consequent upon the striking down of the Assam Act, the Assam Legislature passed the Assam Community Professional (Registration and Competency) Act, G 2015 (“2015 Act”, for short) with a view to remove the basis of the passed by the Division Bench of the Gauhati High Court in the aforesaid writ petition and in an attempt to restore the position of the diploma holders in medicine and to give them continuity in service. The said Act has been assailed by the diploma holders in Transferred Case H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 931 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (C) Nos. 24 and 25 of 2018 before this Court. In the circumstances, we A have heard these cases together and the same are being disposed of by this common . Bird’s Eye View of the Controversy: 4. The controversy in these cases revolve around the legislative B competence of the Assam State Legislature to enact the Assam Act which has been assailed by the writ petitioners before the Gauhati High Court on the ground of legislative competence as per Article 246 read with the relevant entries of List I and III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India.