B. PARDIWALA, J.] also saw the appellant-convict running away. Amzad and Shafi q have not been examined as the prosecution witnesses. It is not clear whether police even recorded the statements of Amzad and Shafi q under Section 161 of the CrPC? 41. If PW-2 and PW-4 were present at the time when the room was on fi re and it is they who opened the door and took out the three deceased persons, then why the PW-2 and PW-4 do not fi gure in the dying declarations of Irshad and Islamuddin? Why Islamuddin and Irshad said in their dying declarations that after a long time, the neighbour came to their rescue and took them out of the room? If a neighbour came to their rescue, then where were PW-2 and PW-4 at the time of the incident? PW-2 and PW-4 have deposed that they both were sleeping in the room adjacent to the room in which the deceased persons were sleeping. This is one very crucial aspect of the matter which, the prosecution has not been able to explain or clarify. 42. In such circumstances referred to above, we are left with either to believe the dying declarations or the oral evidence of the two so called eye- witnesses to the incident. It is also important to note that the PW-4 Soni, in her cross-examination has stated that to the best of her knowledge, Islamuddin and Naushad had fastened the latch from inside. If the door of the room, in which the deceased persons were sleeping was closed from inside, then how did the appellant-convict manage to open the door and enter the room so as to set the room on fi re as alleged? 43. The juristic theory regarding the acceptability of a dying declaration is that such declaration is made in extremity, when the party is at the point of death and when every hope of this world is gone, when every motive to falsehood is silenced, and the man is induced by the most powerful consideration to speak only the truth. Notwithstanding the same, great caution must be exercised in considering the weight to be given to this species of evidence on account of the existence of many circumstances which may aff ect their truth. The situation in which a man is on the deathbed is so solemn and serene, is the reason in law to accept the veracity of his statement. It is for this reason, the requirements of oath and cross- examination are dispensed with. Since the accused has no power of cross- examination, the courts insist that the dying declaration should be of such a nature as to inspire full confi dence of the court in its truthfulness and correctness. The 810 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. court, however, should always be on guard to see that the statement of the deceased was not as a result of either tutoring or prompting or a product of imagination. [See: Laxman v. State of Maharashtra, (2002) 6 SCC 710] 44.