If D the luxury bus owned by the religious society, Kolkata Branch in 1998 was so precious to them, they would not have sat silent for such a long time of eight years. In opinion of this Court, the criminal machinery set into motion by filing the complaint for the alleged incident which had taken place eight years ago, that act itself was nothing but a sheer misuse and abuse of the process of E the court. [Para 11][663-D-G] 2. That apart, from the bare perusal of the complaint filed before the Court, on the basis of which the FIR was registered at the Police Station on 20th February, 2009, it is discernible that except bald allegations made in the complaint with regard to the F theft of bus in question there was no material or document produced by the complainant to substantiate the allegations against the appellants. Even after the investigation of the said complaint, there was no evidence collected by the investigating officer to prima facie satisfy the ingredients constituting the G alleged offences under Sections 468, 471, 406 and 120B of IPC. Even if the allegations made in the complaint as well as in the Chargesheet are taken at their face value none of the ingredients constituting the alleged offences are culled out. The Senior Counsel for the appellants had strenuously urged relying upon the documents pertaining to the transfer of ownership and H CHANCHALPATI DAS v. THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL & 657 ANR. registration of the said bus, that the said documents were executed A by the then authorized persons of the religious society in Kolkata, in opinion of this Court, the said documents could not be considered in these proceedings, the same being not the part of the charge-sheet papers. In any case, there is nothing to suggest from the other documents on record of the instant appeals that B the investigating officer had even bothered to collect any cogent or substantive evidence against the appellants to prosecute them for the alleged offences. There was no expert opinion obtained or scientific evidence collected on the documents allegedly forged to show as to by whom, when and how the theft of vehicle and forgery of documents were committed. Under the circumstances, C allowing such prosecution to continue would not only be an empty formality but would be gross wastage of court’s precious time. [Para 12][663-G-H; 664-A-E] 3. In the light of afore-stated legal position, if the facts of the case are appreciated, there remains no shadow of doubt that D the complaint filed by the respondent-complainant after an inordinate unexplained delay of eight years was nothing but sheer misuse and abuse of the process of law to settle the personal scores with the appellants, and that continuation of such malicious prosecution would also be further abuse and misuse of process E of law, more particularly when neither the allegations made in the complaint nor in the chargesheet, disclose any prima facie case against the appellants.