(vi) A Central Employment Guarantee Council at the Central level and State Employment Guarantee Councils at the State H 404 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A level in all States where the legislation is made applicable will be constituted for review, monitoring and effective implementation of the legislation in their respective areas. (vii) The Standing Committee of the District Panchayat, District Programme Coordinator, Programme Officers and Gram B Panchayats have been assigned specific responsibilities in implementation of various provisions of the legislation at the Gram Panchayat, Block and District levels. (viii) The Central Government shall establish a fund to be called ‘National Employment Guarantee Fund’ for the purposes C of this legislation. Similarly, the State Governments may constitute State Employment Guarantee Funds. (ix) Provisions for transparency and accountability, audit, establishment of grievance and redressal mechanisms and penalty of noncompliance are also envisaged. D (x) Provisions for Minimum features of Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and conditions for guaranteed Rural Employment under a scheme and minimum entitlements of labourers have been laid. 33. Finally, the Act was introduced to provide for the enhancement E of the livelihood and security of the poor households in rural areas of the country by providing at least one hundred days of guaranteed wage employment in thefinancial year to every poor household whose adult members volunteer to do unskilled manual work and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto under the Act 2005. The State of Tamil Nadu is also included in the Schedule appended to the Act, 2005. F 34. Such applicant who is the head of the household or its other adult members who have applied for employment under the scheme be termed as an applicant to join in the projects for the purpose of providing employment to the applicants for the work taken up under a project as defined under Section 2(n) of the Act, 2005. The expression ‘scheme’ G has been defined under Section 2(p) which means a scheme notified by the State Government under sub-section (1) of Section 4. 35. Chapter II provides guarantee of employment in rural areas. Section 3 refers to guarantee of rural employment to households, the State Government has to provide to every household whose adult H THE GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU v. TAMIL NADU 405 MAKKAL NALA PANIYALARGAL [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] members volunteer to do unskilled manual work not less than one hundred A days of such work in a financial year. It further provides that every person who had done the work given to him under the Scheme shall be entitled to receive wages at the wage rate for each day of work on weekly basis or in any case not later than a fortnight after the date on which such work is done. B 36. Chapter III takes note of employment guarantee schemes and unemployment allowance. 37. Section 4 provides that as for the purposes of giving effect to the provisions of Section 3, every State has to issue a notification to introduce a scheme for providing not less than one hundred days of C guaranteed employment in a financial year to every household in the rural areas covered under the Scheme and whose adult members, by application, volunteer to do unskilled manual work.