It was held that so far as the assessment dated 31.03.2011 for AY 2005-06 to 2008- 09 were concerned, the material placed on record showed that the was served on the assessee, represented by its Director Mr. Pankaj D Agarwal, who was deponent to the affidavit in the writ petition. The court held that the service of the passed for AY 2005-06 to 2008- 09 could not be called in question; since the assessee did not question the assessment , it has attained finality. 10. So far as AY 2009-10 and 2010-11 are concerned, the revenue’s E contention with respect to the admission by the assessee in its pleadings in the previous writ petition was rejected: 5 “64. Mode of Service of s and notices (1) Unless otherwise provided in the Act, or these Rules, a notice or other document required or authorized under the Act or these Rules to be served shall be considered as sufficiently served,- F (a) on a person being an individual other than in a representative capacity if,- (i) it is personally served on that person ; or (ii) it is left at the person’s usual or last known place of residence or office or business in the State; or (iii) it is sent by registered post to such place of residence, office or business, or to the person’s usual or last known address in the State; or (b) on any other person if,- G (i) it is personally served on the nominated person ; or (ii) it is left at the registered office of the person or the person’s address for service of notices under the Act; or (iii) it is left at or sent by registered post to any office or place of business of that person in the State; (iv) where it is returned unserved, if it is put on board in the office of local chamber of commerce or traders association. (2) The certificate of service signed by the person serving the notice shall be evidence of the facts stated therein.” H 932 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A “the said contention urged does not hold water, since the challenge in the said Writ Petition filed by the respondent as petitioner was in relation to a notification issued by the petitioner’s banker bringing to auction the properties of the petitioner for recovery of loans advanced to it wherein the respondent, as petitioner, sought to claim priority over such B assets being a crown debt. The dispute in the said Writ Petition is primarily between the respondent as petitioner and the bank. Thus, the claim of the respondent in the counter affidavit that the petitioner herein did not choose to file a counter affidavit therein raising the said plea would not preclude the petitioner C from taking the said plea in the present proceeding.”6 11. The impugned also held that the revenue did not have record evidencing the service of assessment on the assessee for AY 2009-10 and 2010-11 by any of the modes prescribed under Rule 64(1)(b).