e) Signifi cant contradictions exist between the testimonies of police witnesses and seizure witnesses. The Trial Court predominantly relied on the statements of the police witnesses, overlooking the presence of additional testimonies of independent seizure witnesses available in the records, who subsequently turned hostile. 13. Finally, it was submitted that there was absolutely no material to convict Manoj under Section 411, IPC. Hence, the conviction and sentence of Manoj ought to be set aside and consequently, the appeal be allowed. 254 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 14. Learned counsel appearing for the respondent/State submitted that both the courts below delved deep into the materials on record and, upon meticulous consideration of evidence, did not fi nd any material contradiction in the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses. The procedural fl aws pointed out by his adversary did not result in any failure of justice and, therefore, there is no reason to interfere with the and passed by the Trial Court, which has since been affi rmed by the High Court. Supporting the conviction and sentence of Manoj, the learned counsel urged this Court to dismiss the appeal. 15. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of Kallu challenged the correctness of the impugned and advanced the following submissions: a) No evidence was presented to substantiate the alleged conspiracy on the part of Kallu to commit any crime as alleged by the complainant. In other words, the necessary elements of the off ence under Section 120-A, IPC, punishable under Section 120-B, IPC were not established. b) The Trial Court convicted the other accused persons primarily relying on the statements and information provided by the complainant. However, the complainant did not make any statement or allegation against Kallu. His conviction was based solely on two factual aspects: fi rst, that Rs.3,000.00 was recovered from him during the investigation based on information provided by the accused Jaihind and, secondly, that Kallu used to be the complainant’s driver one year ago. Apart from these circumstances, the prosecution failed to present any additional evidence to substantiate the charge under Section 120-B, IPC; the conviction and sentence, therefore, cannot sustain merely on these grounds. c) Suresh Chandra Bahri vs. State of Bihar1 was placed to support the contention that the essential elements of an agreement between Kallu and the other co-accused persons to commit the off ence are lacking, which is a necessary component to bring home the charge of criminal conspiracy. Additionally, Ram Sharan Chaturvedi vs. State of Madhya Pradesh2 was relied upon to emphasize the requirement for some kind of physical manifestation of agreement 1 (1995) Supp (1) SCC 80 2 (2022) SCC OnLine SC 1080 MANOJ KUMAR SONI v. 255 THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] in to establish the off ence of criminal conspiracy. Topandas vs. State of Bombay3 was placed for supporting the contention that one person alone can never be held guilty of criminal conspiracy for the simple reason that one cannot conspire with oneself. It was pointed out that in the present case, Kallu is the only person convicted under Section 120-B, IPC, while no other accused has been convicted under the same provision, inviting thereby serious doubts about the validity of Kallu’s conviction.