When the younger sister did not come back to her house, Priya Kumari started searching for her and as her eff orts failed to know the whereabouts of her younger sister, she immediately informed her mother Kiran Devi (the fi rst informant). At the relevant time, Kiran Devi was at the house of her elder sister namely Shakila Devi at Jamunia Parbatta. The PW1 Babloo Saw is the son of Shakila Devi. The PW 2 Kiran Devi happens to be the mousi of PW 1 Babloo Saw. It is the case of the prosecution that while Kiran Devi was at the house of her elder sister Shakila Devi, she was informed by Priya Kumari on telephone that the victim had gone to the house of the appellant in the morning to watch TV and thereafter she went missing. It was PW 1 Babloo Saw who brought Kiran Devi on his motorcycle back to her village i.e. her house. 20. We shall now look into the fi ndings recorded by the High Court in its impugned . To put it in other words, the circumstances relied upon by the High Court and the line of reasoning to hold the appellant herein guilty of the alleged crime is as follows:- “9 . … To start with, it would be fi rstly necessary to examine the fi rst hand information, which has come from the mouth of elder daughter of the informant i.e. P.W.3 namely Priya Kumari. She was the main 1024 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. witness, who had seen that appellant had persuaded and enticed the victim to go with him on the pretext of witnessing T.V. serial. 10. … Munna Pandey (appellant) carried the victim, at that time, it was about 9:00 AM (morning). After preparing food, she went to call the victim to the house of Munna Pandey (appellant), then she saw that Munna Pandey (appellant) was putting lock on his door. She saw that Munna Pandey (appellant), after putting lock on his room, was coming out. When she reached near the gate, till that time, Munna Pandey (appellant), after putting lock on gate also, was trying to move, then she asked Munna Pandey as to where is the victim, Munna Pandey (appellant) replied that she, after witnessing T.V., had already gone. P.W.3 thereafter returned back to her house and tried to search nearby. When she did not fi nd the victim then she made telephone call to her mother (P.W.2, Kiran Devi) and informed her. Her mother on the same date came back with her (Priya) cousin brother Babloo (P.W.1). Again, this witness narrated everything to her mother. Thereafter, she, her mother, aunt and cousin brother Babloo, all jointly started to search, but the victim was not traced, then they went to the house of Munna Pandey (appellant), where it was noticed that there was lock on the room of Munna Pandey (appellant). Outer gate was also locked. Thereafter, she inquired from other villagers, on which, villagers called Munna Pandey, then he came.