promise, offer or give any bribe, commission, gift or E advantages either himself or through his partner, agent or servant to any officer of employee of IRCON or to any person on his or on the behalf in relation to the execution of this or any other contract with IRCON. Then and in any of the said cases, the Project Manager on behalf F of the Company (IRCON) may serve the contractor with a notice in writing to that effect and if the contractor does not within 7 days after the delivery to him of such notice proceed to make good his default in so far as the same is capable of being made and carry on the work or comply with such directions as aforesaid G to the entire satisfaction of the Project Manager the Company (IRCON) shall be entitled after giving 48 hours notice in writing under the hand of the Project Manager (to remove the contractor from the whole or any portion or portions as may be specified in such notice) of the works without thereby avoiding the contract or releasing the contractor from any of his obligations or liabilities H INDIAN RAILWAY CONST. COMPANY LTD. v. M/S 723 NATIONAL BUILDINGS CONST. CORP. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] under the contract and adopt any or several of the following A courses. a) to rescind the contract, of which rescission notice in writing to the contractor under the hand of the Project Manager shall be conclusive evidence, in which case the security deposit of the contractor shall stand forfeited B to the Company IRCON without prejudice to the Company’s (IRCON) right to recover from the contractor any amount by which the cost of competing the works by any other agency shall exceed the value of the contractor. C b) to carry out the works or any part thereof, by the employment of the required labour and materials, the costs of which shall include lead, lift, freight, supervision and all incidental charges and to debit the contractor with such costs, the amount of which as certified by the D Project Manager shall be final and binding upon the contractor, and to credit the contractor with the value of the works done as if the works had been carried out by the contractor under the terms of the contract. And the certificate of Project Manager in respect of the amount to be credited to the contractor shall be final and binding E upon the contractor; c) to measure up the work executed by the contractor and to get the remaining work completed by another contractor at the risk and expense of the contractor in all respects in which case any expenses that may be F incurred in excess of the sum which would have been paid to the contractor if the works had been carried out by him under the terms of the contract, the amount of which excess as certified by the Project Manager shall be final and binding upon contractor shall be borne and G paid by the contractor and may be deducted from any moneys due to him by the Company (IRCON) under the contractor or otherwise or from his security deposit.