14, 15, 21 and 142. Interpretation of Statutes – Internal Aid – Proviso – Function E of – Held: The normal function of a proviso is to except something out of the provision or to qualify something enacted therein which, but for the proviso, would be within the purview of the provision – A proviso is added to an enactment to qualify or create an exception to what is in the enactment – A proviso cannot be construed as nullifying the provision or as taking away completely a right F conferred by the enactment – If it does so and is discriminatory then it falls foul of the equality clauses of the Constitution of India. Disposing of the writ petitions, the Court HELD: G per M.R. Shah, J. 1. The purpose of Section 10(26AAA) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 is to grant exemption to the residents of Sikkim from payment of income tax under the Income Tax Act. Therefore, all such Indians/citizens, who have settled in Sikkim prior to the H 292 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A merger of Sikkim with India on 26.04.1975 are to be treated at par and they form the same group/class and are entitled to the exemption under Section 10(26AAA) of the Income Tax Act. As such, there is no difference and/or distinction between those “Sikkim Subjects”, whose names are recorded in the register maintained under the Sikkim Subjects Regulations, 1961 and B those Indians, who have settled in Sikkim prior to the merger of Sikkim, but whose names were not recorded as “Sikkim Subjects” in the register maintained under the Sikkim Subjects Regulations, 1961. All are “Sikkimese”. Merely because at the relevant time and when the Sikkim Subjects Regulations, 1961 C was enacted, the Indians settled in Sikkim did not surrender their Indian citizenship or their fathers/forefathers’ names were not entered into the register maintained under the Sikkim Subjects Regulations, 1961, by itself, it cannot be said that they cease to be the “Sikkimese”. All of them are similarly situated with those “Sikkimese” / “Sikkim Subjects”, who all have settled in Sikkim D prior to the merger of Sikkim with India on 26.04.1975. The object and purpose of Section 10(26AAA) is to grant benefit of exemption from payment of income tax under the Income Tax Act to the residents of Sikkim. Therefore, there is no nexus sought to be achieved in excluding the Indians, who have settled E in Sikkim prior to the merger of Sikkim with India on 26.04.1975 but their names are not recorded as “Sikkim Subjects”. The Union of India has failed to satisfy any reasonable classification and/or nexus to exclude such class of Indians, who, in fact, have settled in Sikkim prior to 26.04.1975. Therefore, exclusion of old Indian settlers, who have settled in Sikkim prior to the merger of Sikkim F with India on 26.04.1975 from the definition of “Sikkimese” in Section 10(26AAA) is arbitrary, discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.