[2023] 14 S.C.R. 306 : 2023 INSC 770 CASE DETAILS CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. NAROTTAM DHAKAD & ANR. (Criminal Appeal No.2592 of 2023) AUGUST 25, 2023 [ABHAY S. OKA AND RAJESH BINDAL, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: In cases relating to off ences arising out of the Vyapam Scam, respondents-accused fi led applications seeking direction to supply a Hindi translation of the charge sheet fi led by the appellant in English language. Rejected by Magistrate and Sessions Court. High Court whether justifi ed in interfering and inter alia holding that Hindi was the only language of the Criminal Courts in the State of MP and therefore, the respondents were entitled to seek translation of the charge sheet into the language of the Court. Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.173 – Language of the fi nal report/charge sheet, if to be in the language of the Court determined in accordance with s.272, CrPC: Held: There is no specifi c provision in CrPC which requires the investigating agency/offi cer to fi le it in the language of the Court determined in accordance with s.272 – Even if such a requirement is read into s.173, per se, the proceedings will not be vitiated if the report is not in the language of the Court – The test of failure of justice will have to be applied in such a case as laid down in s.465, CrPC – When a copy of the report and the documents are supplied to the accused u/s.207 and/or s.208, an opportunity is available for the accused to contend that he does not understand the language in which the fi nal report or the statements or documents are written – But he must raise this objection at the earliest – In such a case, if the accused is appearing in person and wants to defend himself without opting for legal aid, there may be a requirement of supplying a translated version of the charge sheet and documents or the relevant part thereof concerning the said accused to 306 CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. NAROTTAM 307 DHAKAD & ANR. him – It is, however, subject to the accused satisfying the Court that he is unable to understand the language in which the charge sheet is submitted – On facts, it cannot be said that non-supply of translation of the charge sheet and other documents to the accused in both appeals will occasion failure of justice – Impugned s set aside. [Paras 18, 19 and 22] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – Charge sheet fi led in a language other than the language of the Court or the language which the accused does not understand, if illegal: Held: No – A charge sheet fi led within the period provided either u/s.167, CrPC or any other relevant statute in a language other than the language of the Court or the language which the accused does not understand, is not illegal and no one can claim a default bail on that ground.