In view of the disposal of Revenue’s appeals in the case of Cawnpore Club by a brief sans any reasoning and dehors any ratio, cannot be considered to be a binding precedent which has been ignored by another Coordinate Bench of this Court while deciding Bangalore Club. In our view, the passed in Cawnpore Club binds only the parties in those appeals and cannot be understood as a precedent for subsequent cases. 12. In this regard, it would be useful to refer to the of the Division Bench of the Patna High Court in Patna Golf Club vs. CIT, 2016 SCC OnLine Patna 2067 (Misc. Appeal No. 541 of 2007) wherein after referring to Bankipur Club and the passed subsequently in Cawnpore Club, it was observed that on a reading of the of this Court in Cawnpore Club, no inference could be drawn to the eff ect that the principle of mutuality would apply to interest income earned on fi xed deposits made in the banks. It was further observed that interest earned on income cannot be part of income from house property and consequently, it is income from other sources. Reference was also made to Sports Club of Gujarat Ltd. vs. CIT, 1018 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 171 ITR 504 to observe that when income is derived from investments in fi xed deposits in Banks, it is derived from a third party and is not by way of contributions of the members of the club and therefore, such interest earned on income is taxable and the principle of mutuality would not apply. Ratio decidendi: 13. It is a settled position of law that only theratio decidendi of a is binding as a precedent. In B. Shama Rao vs. Union Territory of Pondicherry, AIR 1967 SC 1480, it has been observed that a decision is binding not because of its conclusion but with regard to its ratio and the principle laid down therein. In this context, reference could also be made to Quinn vs. Leathem, 1901 AC 495 (HL), wherein it was observed that every must be read as applicable to the particular facts proved, or assumed to be proved, since the generality of the expressions which may be found there are not intended to be expositions of the whole law, but governed and qualifi ed by the particular facts of the case in which such expressions are found. In other words, a case is only an authority for what it actually decides. 14. Reliance could also be placed on the dissenting of A.P. Sen, J. in Dalbir Singh vs. State of Punjab, (1979) 3 SCC 745, wherein his Lordship observed that a decision on a question of sentence depending upon the facts and circumstances of a particular case, can never be regarded as a binding precedent, much less “law declared” within the meaning of Article 141 of the Constitution so as to bind all courts within the territory of India. According to the well-settled theory of precedents, every decision contains three basic ingredients: (i) fi ndings of material facts, direct and inferential.