H 4 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the Nigam’. OFFICIAL LIQUIDATOR v. UJJAIN NAGAR PALIKA NIGAM 1085 & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 2. Briefly put, the relevant facts are that the said company, IISCO A Ujjain Pipe and Foundry Company Limited, became sick and was referred to the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction5 under the provisions of Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1956. The BIFR recommended its winding up and, accordingly, it was ed to be wound up by the Company Court in its dated 10.07.1997. B The appellant herein was appointed as the Official Liquidator and was directed to take over possession of the assets of the company in liquidation. 3. Following an passed by the Company Court on 04.04.2003, the assets of the company in liquidation were put up for sale on “as is where is whatever there is” basis by means of sale notice dated C 09.05.2003. The said notice provided for inspection of the assets of the company by intending purchasers and mentioned the availability of terms and conditions of sale alongwith particulars about the assets of the company at the office of the appellant. This sale notice reads as under:- “SALE NOTICE D Pursuant to the of the Hon’ble High Court, Calcutta dated 4th April, 2003 offers are invited in sealed cover enclosing a Bank Draft or Pay in favour of Official Liquidator, High Court, Calcutta for an amount equivalent to 20% of the offered amount as earnest money for sale of the assets of the Company E [In Liqn.] like land structure, building, machineries etc., lying at Dewas Road, Ujjain M.P., and lease hold land building quarter at Nana-Kheda, Indore road, Ujjain, M.P. The assets of the company will be sold ‘as is where is whatever there is basis’. Balance amount is to be paid within 30 days from the date of sale and the possession is not be made only after full payment of the purchase F price. Sealed offers will be received by the Official Liquidator upon 5 p.m. dated 26th June 2003 and the same will be opened on 27th June 2003 at 2.00 p.m. before the Hon’ble Judge taking Company matters in the High Court at Calcutta for consideration G of such sealed offers. No one will be allowed to purchase in favour of nominee or nominees. Inspection of the assets of the Company [In liqn.] will be allowed to the intending purchasers on 26th May 2003 and 5 For Short, ‘BIFR’. H 1086 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 27th May 2003 between 12 noon to 4 p.m. Terms and conditions of sale alongwith the particulars of the assets of the Company [In Liquidation] will be available at the office of the undersigned on and from 22nd May 2003 during office hours at a cost of Rs.50/- per catalogue and also at site during inspection period. B Dated this 9th day of May, 2003.” 3.1. The abovementioned sale notice carried certain terms and conditions appended to it, reinforcing that the sale would be on “as is where is whatever there is” basis and stating that the appellant OL would not be providing any guarantee about the quality, quantity or C specification of the assets sold; the tenderers were to satisfy themselves in this regard after physical inspection of the assets of the company; and the purchasers would be deemed to offer with full knowledge as to defects, if any, in the description, quality or quantity of the assets sold.