v. AMAN KUMAR 153 SINGH & ORS. ETC. ETC [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] duty to the people of the nation to show zero tolerance to corruption and A come down heavily against the perpetrators of the crime while at the same time saving those innocent public servants, who unfortunately get entangled by men of dubious conduct acting from behind the screen with ulterior motives and/or to achieve vested interests. The task, no doubt, is onerous but every effort ought to be made to achieve it by B sifting the grain from the chaff. We leave the discussion here with the fervent hope of better times in future. 50. Insofar as the merits of the controversy is concerned, we must necessarily begin with a reading of the relevant provisions of the P.C. Act. “Public servant” is defined in section 2(c). It is not disputed C that AS as well as YS is comprehended within such meaning. Section 13(1) of the P.C. Act defines “criminal misconduct”. A public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct if (a) he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or any property under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do, or (b) he intentionally D enriches himself illicitly during the period of his office. Thus, intentional enrichment illicitly by a public servant during the period of his office is a criminal misconduct. There are two explanations in section 13(1). The first explanation provides that a person shall be presumed to have intentionally enriched himself illicitly if he or any person on his behalf, is E in possession of or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account for. The other explanation defines “known sources of income” to mean income received from any lawful sources. To attract this provision, the officer sought to be proceeded against must be a public F servant. He must be found to be in possession of, by himself, or through any person on his behalf, at any time during the period of his office, pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income. If he is unable to satisfactorily account for the same, he shall be liable to be proceeded against for having committed criminal G misconduct and suitably punished and fined if the charge is proved for such period, as provided in sub-section (2). Undoubtedly, this is a presumptive finding but that finding is based on three facts, viz. being a (i) public servant, (ii) if at any time during the period of his office, he has been in possession, by himself or through any person on his behalf, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources H 154 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A of income, then (iii) he is enjoined to satisfactorily account for the same.