A Naykar5. This Court opined that the benefit of a contract of repurchase which did not show that it was intended only for the benefit of the parties contracting, could be assigned. The option given to repurchase the property sold would prima facie be assignable. Para 9 of the is extracted below:- B “9. The Privy Council in Sakalaguna Nayudu v. Chinna Munuswami Naykar has held that the benefit of a contract of repurchase which did not show that it was intended only for the benefit of the parties contracting, could be assigned and such contract is enforceable. Beaumont, C.J. in Vishweshwar Narsabhatta Gaddada v. Durgappa Irappa C Bhatkar6held that both under the common law as well as under Section 23(b) of the Specific Relief Act, 1877, an option given to repurchase the property sold would prima facie be assignable, though it might also be so worded as to show that it was to be personal to the grantee and not assignable. On D the particular facts of that case, it was held that the contract was assignable. In Sinnakaruppa Gounder v. Karuppuswami Gounder7, it was held: “In our view, generally speaking, the benefits of a contract of repurchase must be assignable, unless the terms of the E contract are such as to show that the right of repurchase is personal to the vendor. In the latter case it will be for the person who pleads that the contract is not enforceable, to show that the intention of the parties thereto was that it was to be enforced only by the persons named therein and not by the assignee.” F 16.Again, the issue came up for consideration before this Court in Shyam Singh case (supra), wherein s of the Privy Council in Sakalaguna Nayudu and this Court in T.M. Balakrishna Mudaliar (supra) were referred to. It was a case in which a conditional sale deed was registered with a right of repurchase. The conditions as mentioned G in the sale deed in the aforesaid case, which were similar to the case in hand, are extracted below:- 5 AIR 1928 PC 174 6 AIR 1940 Bom 339 : 42 BLR 653 : ILR 1940 Bom 674 7 AIR 1965 Mad 506 : ILR (1965) 2 Mad 20 H INDIRA DEVI v. VEENA GUPTA & ORS. 381 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] “Whereas we, Daryao Singh, son of Hardeva, the first party and A Surajmal, Peetam and Babu, sons of Rati Ram, the second party, Jat, residents of Village Nala, Pargana Kandhala, Tehsil Budhana, District Muzaffarnagar. Party 2 has executed a sale deed today in favour of Party 1 for a sum of Rs 4900 in respect of 2 bighas 7 biswas of the land of Khasra No. 95, bearing a rent of Rs 6.25 B annually situate in Khata No. 331 of Village Nala, Pargana Kandhala, Tehsil Budhana, District Muzaffarnagar, about which it was agreed between the parties that if the second party paid the entire consideration of the sale deed of Rs 4900 to the first party or to the heirs of thefirst party within ten years from today then in that situation the first party will reconvey the aforesaid C land by sale deed in favour of the second party without any objection.