80. The legislature has evidently made provisions in Section 99, as we have construed earlier, to allow for the engagement of the debtor with the resolution professional before a report is submitted to the adjudicating 27 Swadeshi Cotton Mills v. Union of India, (1981) 1 SCC 664; Mangilal v. State of M.P., (2004) 2 SCC 447 and Manohar v. State of Maharashtra, (2012) 13 SCC 14. DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 609 authority. The process under Section 100 before the adjudicating authority must be compliant with the principles of natural justice. The adjudicating authority is duty bound to hear the person against whom an application has been fi led under Section 94 or Section 95 before it comes to the conclusion as to whether the application should be admitted or rejected. The duty of the adjudicating authority to furnish a hearing attaches to its role and function as an authority which is entrusted to decide questions of law and fact and to arrive at a conclusion on either to admit or reject the application fi led by the debtor or the creditor under Chapter III of Part III. 81. The resolution professional in exercise of their duty under Section 99 may not embark on a roving enquiry into the aff airs of the debtor or personal guarantor, as the case may be. The information sought by the resolution professional from the debtor, the creditor, or third parties must be relevant to the examination of the application of IRP. In this process, the debtor would inevitably be furnished with a fair opportunity by the resolution professional. Further, the aim of vesting such powers in the resolution professional combined with his duty to keep such information confi dential meets the proportionality test which this court has devised for privacy under Article 21 of the Constitution. The nature of the resolution professional’s role, the powers, and its nexus with the legitimate aim of the legislation also lead us to the conclusion that the impugned provisions are compliant with Article 14 of the Constitution. Therefore, we hold that Sections 95 to 100 of the IBC are not unconstitutional. 82. For the reasons which we have already indicated, we have come to the conclusion that an adjudicatory decision-making process of the nature which has been suggested by the petitioners would not be implicated under Section 97(5). To accept the submission of the petitioners would render the provisions of Sections 99 and 100 otiose. 83. Before concluding, it would be necessary to deal with two incidental submissions which were heard during the course of the hearing. It is sought to be urged that sub-section (2) of Section 95 indicates that an application under sub-section (1) can be initiated only in respect of a partnership debt which is owed to the creditor. We are of the view that this is not a correct reading of Section 95. Sub-section (1) indicates that a creditor may apply either by themselves or jointly with other creditors or through (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 610 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.