4.Searches were conducted at the residences/workplaces of the appellants and they were arrested on the same day, i.e. on 28th August 2018. They were initially put under house arrest and subsequently sent to judicial custody. Case of the NIA is that various letters and other C materials recovered from the arrested co-accused persons including Surendra Gadling and Rona Wilson showed appellants’ involvement with the Communist Party of India (Maoist). This organisation has been placed in the First Schedule to the 1967 Act as a terrorist organisation by a notification dated 22nd June 2009 issued in terms of Section 2(m) of the D 1967 Act. Prosecution’s case is that the appellants played an active role in recruitment of and training for cadres of the said organisation and Arun Ferreira (whom we shall refer to henceforth as AF), being the appellant in Criminal Appeal No.640 of 2023 also had role in managing finances of that organisation. The other accused persons who were detained in the third phase were P. Varavara Rao and Sudha Bharadwaj. E Among them, we are apprised by the learned senior counsel for the appellants, Ms. Rebecca John appearing for Vernon Gonsalves (VG in short), being the appellant in Criminal Appeal No.639 of 2023 and Mr. R. Basant (representing AF) that, P. Varavara Rao has been enlarged on bail by an of this Court passed on 10th August 2022. Sudha F Bharadwaj is on “default bail” granted by the Bombay High Court on 1st September 2021. Petition for special leave to appeal against that was rejected by a three-Judge Bench of this Court on 7th December 2021. Gautam Navlakha, as per information made available before this Court, is under house arrest. Another supplementary chargesheet has been submitted on 21st February 2019 by the State police implicating the G appellants, along with other co-accused persons for commission of aforesaid offences under the 1967 Act and the 1860 Code. On 9th October 2020, NIA had filed a further supplementary chargesheet against, inter- alia, Dr. Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Hany Babu, Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor, Jyoti Jagtap, Stan Swami (since deceased) and Milind H Teltumbde (since deceased) broadly under the same provisions of the VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 881 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] 1860 Code and the 1967 Act. Barring deceased Milind Teltumbde, all A these individuals had been arrested. Among them, Dr. Anand Teltumbde has been released on bail by the Bombay High Court and the to that effect was delivered on 18th November 2022. The petition for special leave to appeal against that decision has been dismissed by a coordinate Bench of this Court on 25th November 2022. VG, it transpires B from his pleadings, is a writer, columnist and has been vocal on issues of human rights, prison rights and reform of the criminal justice system. AF has described himself as a practising Advocate of the Bombay High Court as also a cartoonist and a human rights activist. 5.After the arrest of the appellants, a writ petition was filed before C this Court [Writ Petition (Criminal) No.