A Chapters IV and VI of the 1967 Act cannot lead to a prima facie satisfaction of the Court that such accusations are true and the available evidences at this stage do not fit the ingredients of these restrictive provisions. The nature of the accusations to invoke the bail-restricting clause has been stated in the supplementary chargesheet in which the appellants were implicated. The counter-affidavits also contain printouts/ B copies of several letters and documents. In the case of VG, the Agency has relied upon the statement of a protected witness who has disclosed that he had met VG in the year 2002. Referring to a time-length between 2002 and 2007, he has stated that during that period, both VG and AF were members of the Maharashtra State Committee of the said party. It C is also stated by the protected witness that, in 2002 VG wanted to resign from the party but his resignation was not accepted. 11.Before embarking on this exercise, we reproduce below the following provisions of the 1967 Act, the application of which we shall have to examine in respect of the appellants: - D “2. Definitions.- (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- xxxxxxxxxxx (k) “terrorist act” has the meaning assigned to it in section 15, and the expressions “terrorism” and “terrorist” shall be E construed accordingly; xxxxxxxxxxx (m) “terrorist organisation” means an organisation listed in the [First Schedule] or an organisation operating F under the same name as an organisation so listed; 13. Punishment for unlawful activities.—(1) Whoever— (a) takes part in or commits, or (b) advocates, abets, advises or incites the commission of, G any unlawful activity, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine. (2) Whoever, in any way, assists any unlawful activity of any association declared unlawful under section 3, after the notification by which it has been so declared has become H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 889 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] effective under sub-section (3) of that section, shall be A punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years, or with fine, or with both. (3) Nothing in this section shall apply to any treaty, agreement or convention entered into between the Government of India and the Government of any other country or to any B negotiations therefor carried on by any person authorised in this behalf by the Government of India. 15. Terrorist act.— (1) Whoever does any act with intent to threaten or likely to threaten the unity, integrity, security, economic security or sovereignty of India or with intent to strike terror or C likely to strike terror in the people or any section of the people in India or in any foreign country,— (a) by using bombs, dynamite or other explosive substances or inflammable substances or firearms or other lethal weapons or poisonous or noxious gases or other chemicals D or by any other substances (whether biological radioactive, nuclear or otherwise) of a hazardous nature or by any other means of whatever nature to cause or likely to cause— (i) death of, or injuries to, any person or persons; or E (ii) loss of, or damage to, or destruction of, property; or (iii) disruption of any supplies or services essential to the life of the community in India or in any foreign country; or F (iiia) damage to, the monetary stability of India by way of production or smuggling or circulation of high quality counterfeit Indian paper currency, coin or of any other material; or (iv) damage or destruction of any property in India or in a G foreign country used or intended to be used for the defence of India or in connection with any other purposes of the Government of India, any State Government or any of their agencies; or H 890 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.