The more expansive interpretation is sought to be substantiated on the basis of the following formulations: a. Children cloaked with legitimacy under Section 16(3) of the HSA 1956 are to be considered legitimate for the purpose of partition within the branch of the father. They cannot claim partition REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 339 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] in the larger coparcenary, but once the larger coparcenary is partitioned- notionally or actually, and the property comes in the hands of the father, all his children – legitimate per se or legitimate by reason of S.16(3), have the same right in partition of this property in the hands of the father. In other words, the only diff erence between a legitimate child and a child conferred with legitimacy under Section 16(3) is that after the death of the father, the latter cannot claim partition in the larger coparcenary, unlike the children who are per se legitimate. This limitation on their right ends once the father’s share in the larger coparcenary is determined. In the share of the father- once determined and separated from the larger coparcenary, they have the same rights as the children who are legitimate16. b. The purpose of the Amendment is not just to eliminate the stigma experienced by the children of void or voidable marriages, but to treat all legitimate children alike. It is the logical corollary of the legal fi ction, which cannot be overlooked. Once a legal fi ction is created, as has been created by Section 16(3), all inevitable corollaries thereof, including rights in the coparcenary property are also assumed17. c. Section 16(3) does not qualify the word “property” with ancestral/ coparcenary or separate/self-acquired. Therefore, inserting such a qualifi cation to exclude the coparcenary property of the parent would be legislation by the court18. To deny the right to the property of the parents, including the coparcenary property, to such children born out of a void or voidable marriage, is unduly harsh19. 16 Written submissions on behalf of appellant in Revanasiddappa & Anr. vs. Mallikarjun & Ors. by Kiran Suri, Sr. Advocate, page 3-4 17 Written submissions on behalf of the Petitioners in Balkrishna Pandurang Halde vs Yeshodabai Balkrishna Halde by Mr. Sudhanshu Choudhari, page 2, para 3 18 Written submissions on behalf of the Petitioners in Balkrishna Pandurang Halde vs Yeshodabai Balkrishna Halde by Mr. Sudhanshu Choudhari, page 7, para 2 19 Written note submitted on behalf of the appellants in Revanasiddappa vs Mallikarjun by Dr. Ravindra Chingale, page 2 340 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. d. The legislative intent of Act 68 of 1976 is to treat all legitimate children equally, as coparceners20. Once the children born out of void and voidable marriages have been treated as legitimate, there can be no discrimination between them and the other legitimate children born out of lawful marriages.21 e. Section 2 of the HSA 1956 makes the Act, including S. 6, which deals with coparcenary property, applicable to the children born out of void/voidable marriages.