1. This appeal under Section 2(1)(a) of the Supreme Court (Enlargement of Criminal AppellateJurisdiction) Act, 1970 by the sole accused in Sessions Case No.96 of 2012 on the file of the Fast Track B Court, Sagar Taluk,arises from a rendered by the High Court of Karnataka in Criminal Appeal No.335 of 2014 filed by the State of Karnataka against the of the Fast Track Court reversing the of acquittal and convicting the appellant for the offence punishable under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (for short ‘the IPC’), 201 of C IPC, 404 of IPC and 419 of IPC and sentencing him to simple imprisonment for life and also sentencing to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of 3 years/2years for the respective offences which has been ed to run concurrently and also fine. 2. Brief facts of the case as putforth by the prosecution are: accused was working as a labourer in the farmhouse of Mr. Jose Kafan D (deceased) in Kerodi village of Sagar Taluk (Karnataka State) and on 02.12.2011 between 6:00 am to 6:30 am, said accused had entered the room of the deceased through the eastern side of the farmhouse while he was sleeping there and murdered him by hitting with iron rod on his face, upon his left eyebrow and on his left chin with force, then stole the E articles in the farmhouse and sold the same and also sold the land of said farmhouse to others to make undue monetary gain. In to conceal the act and with a deliberate intention to destroy the evidence, the accused then hid the dead body in a pit meant for storing ash manure in the garden land located at a short distance from the farmhouse in the western side of the farmhouse. The iron rod used for committing the murder, F waist belt of the deceased person, his pant, shirt were also concealed below the upper crust of soil in the gardenafter which, he had sold theequipmentsstolen from the farmhouseto Sunil Kumar (CW-18) for consideration and likewise he had sold other items toMr. Denis C Thomas(CW20). It was alleged that said amount released by way of G sale was dishonestly misappropriated by the accused. It is further alleged by the prosecution that accused impersonating himself as the son of the deceased person had also attempted to sell the land of the deceased to others and to substantiate his false claims had also handed over the documents of the farmhouse of the deceased to CW-15 Mr. Lizo and thereafter he had absconded. H SIJU KURIAN v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 405 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] 3.Mr. Sajid, son of the deceased lodged a missing complaint and A in the backdrop of information regarding the accused,inquiry was conducted and accused confessed to the crime and showed where the dead body was concealed in the presence of witnesses. Hence, the prosecution alleged in this manner accused had murdered the father of the complainant, sold the belongings of the deceased and handed over B the documents of the land owned by the deceased, proclaiming himself to be the son of the deceased and had made attempts to sell the land illegally to others.