After considering the various pronouncements on the similar issue, this Court in the case of Sukhwinder Singh (supra) in paragraph 20 observed as thus: “20. In the present case neither any formal departmental inquiry nor any preliminary fact-fi nding inquiry had been held and a simple of discharge had been passed. The High Court has built an edifi ce on the basis of a statement made in the written statement that the respondent was a habitual absentee during his short period of service and has concluded therefrom that it was his absence from duty that weighed in the mind of the Senior Superintendent of Police as absence from duty is a misconduct. The High Court has further gone on to hold that there is direct nexus between the of discharge of the respondent from service and his absence from duty and, therefore, the discharging him from service will be viewed as punitive in nature 832 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. calling for a regular inquiry under Rule 16.24 of the Rules. We are of the opinion that the High Court has gone completely wrong in drawing the inference that the of discharge dated 16-3-1990 was, in fact, based upon misconduct and was, therefore, punitive in nature, which should have been preceded by a regular departmental inquiry. There cannot be any doubt that the respondent was on probation having been appointed about eight months back. As observed in Ajit Singh v. State of Punjab [(1983) 2 SCC 217 : 1983 SCC (L&S) 303 : AIR 1983 SC 494] the period of probation gives time and opportunity to the employer to watch the work, ability, effi ciency, sincerity and competence of the servant and if he is found not suitable for the post, the master reserves a right to dispense with his service without anything more during or at the end of the prescribed period, which is styled as period of probation. The mere holding of preliminary inquiry where explanation is called from an employee would not make an otherwise innocuous of discharge or termination of service punitive in nature. Therefore, the High Court was clearly in error in holding that the respondent’s absence from duty was the foundation of the , which necessitated an inquiry as envisaged under Rule 16.24(ix) of the Rules.” 17. The said has been followed by this Court in the case of Avtar Singh (supra) and in paragraph 11 of the said observed as thus: “11. We have heard learned counsel for the parties. We are in total agreement with the submission of the learned counsel for the State of Punjab that the controversy involved in this case is no longer res integra. Learned counsel appearing for the respondent had drawn our attention to a two-Judge Bench decision of this Court in Prithipal Singh v. State of Punjab [(2002) 10 SCC 133 : 2003 SCC (L&S) 103] . The Court held that once there is stigma, the principle is well settled, an opportunity has to be given before passing any .