A speedy investigation also serves a preventive function in that the persons who witness the swiftness and accuracy with which the criminal justice system punishes the perpetrator, will be deterred from committing similar crimes. Last but not least, an expeditious investigation and trial ensures that the trauma of victims / survivors is not prolonged because of the length of the proceedings. 17. This Court must express its anguish of the manner in which women have been subjected to grave acts of sexual violence in the course of the sectarian strife in Manipur. Subjecting women to sexual crimes and violence is completely unacceptable and constitutes a grave violation of the constitutional values of dignity, personal liberty and autonomy all of which are protected as core fundamental rights under Part III of the Constitution. Mobs commonly resort to violence against women for multiple reasons, including the fact that they may escape punishment for their crimes if they are a member of a larger group. In time of sectarian violence, mobs use sexual violence to send a message of subordination to the community that the victims or survivors hail from. Such visceral violence against women during confl ict is nothing but an atrocity. It is the bounden duty of the state – its foremost duty, even – to prevent people from committing such reprehensible violence and to protect those whom the violence targets. 18. The sectarian strife has also led to large scale destruction of residential property and places of religious worship. In this backdrop, this Court is duty bound to step in while performing its plain constitutional obligation. This Court is also of the opinion that its intervention will be a step towards the guarantee of non-repetition that victims of such crimes 1104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. are entitled to.6 The remedies which have been granted are those which the Court feels will be even handed across all communities and do justice to all those who have been injured (in any manner) by the sectarian violence. The victims of violence must receive remedial measures irrespective of their community. Likewise, the perpetrators of violence must be held accountable irrespective of the source of violence. There are serious allegations including witness statements indicating that the law-enforcing machinery has been inept in controlling the violence and, in certain situations, colluded with the perpetrators. Absent a proper investigation, this Court will not enter a fi nding of fact on these allegations. But, at the very least, such allegations require an objective fact-fi nding to be conducted. Those who are responsible for a breach of public duty must equally be brought to account, regardless of their rank, position, or post. Every offi cer of the state or other employee of the state who is guilty not only of the dereliction of their constitutional and offi cial duties but of colluding with perpetrators to become off enders themselves, must be held accountable without fail. This is the promise of justice that the Constitution demands from this Court and from all branches of the state.