G 54. The focus in the writ petitions challenging the summons issued by the ED was primarily on: - (i) the stay of further proceedings in two criminal cases for the predicate offences; H 1068 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (ii) the quashing of one criminal case for a predicate offence; and (iii) the attempt of the ED to proceed with the investigation in wilderness, after getting copies of the basic documents from the Special Court, without actually identifying the proceeds of crime. However, certain legal arguments were developed before the High Court in the course of B oral hearing. 55. The arguments advanced before the High Court in the course of arguments, revolved around:- (i) the law laid down by this Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary vs.Union of India12; C (ii) the necessity for the existence of jurisdictional facts before an authority or officer assumes jurisdiction; (iii) the absence of a combination of criminal activity amounting to a scheduled offence, the generation of proceeds of crime therefrom and the act of money-laundering, which form the jurisdictional fact for D ED to step in; and (iv) the danger of allowing the ED to go on a fishing expedition without any material. 56. It is of interest to note that the accused argued before the E High Court that their case was squarely covered by the decision in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) . It will be worthwhile to extract the relevant portions of the of the High Court dated 01.09.2022, in which the counsel for each of the accused is stated to have relied upon the decision in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary. F 57. The argument of the counsel for R.V. Ashok Kumar, brother of the Minister is extracted by the High Court in paragraph 3 as follows:- “3. Mr.Aryama Sundaram, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner in Writ Petition No.l8209 of 2022 pleaded at the outset that his client’s case is squarely covered by the G of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhury and others case (supra) in his favour, again proceeding further contended that Mr.R. V.Ashok Kumar is the brother of Mr.V.Senthil Balaji, who was the former Transport Minister during the period from 2011 to 2015…” H 12 (2022 SCC OnLine SC 929 Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1069 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 58. The argument of the counsel appearing for Shanmugam A (Accused No.3) is extracted by the High Court as follows:- “2. … there is no basis for proceeding against the petitioner under the Prevention of Money-laundering Act, because the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary and others v. Union of India and others, 2022 (10) SCALE 577 has held B that in the absence of proceeds of crime, the authorities under the Prevention of Money-laundering Act cannot step in or initiate any prosecution, therefore, the writ petition deserves to be allowed, by quashing the impugned proceedings. 59. Thus, it is seen from the impugned that at least two out C of three accused specifically argued before the High Court that their case was squarely covered by the decision of this Court in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary,but interestingly most of the arguments advanced before us turned out to be an attack on the correctness of the decision in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary.