This Court observed thus: “56. However, insofar as the applicability of Clause 13 to a change in Indian law is concerned, the respondents are on firm ground. It will be seen that under Clause 13.1.1 if there is a change in any consent, approval or licence available or obtained for the project, F otherwise than for the default of the seller, which results in any change in any cost of the business of selling electricity, then the said seller will be governed under Clause 13.1.1. It is clear from a reading of the Resolution dated 21-6-2013, which resulted in the letter of 31-7-2013, issued by the Ministry of Power, that the earlier G coal distribution policy contained in the letter dated 18-3-2007 stands modified as the Government has now approved a revised arrangement for supply of coal. It has been decided that, seeing the overall domestic availability and the likely requirement of power projects, the power projects will only be entitled to a certain H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 127 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] percentage of what was earlier allowable. This being the case, on A 31-7-2013…..” 88. This Court, thereafter, referred to the Tariff Policy dated 28th January 2016, the relevant part of which has already been reproduced by us herein above. This Court observed thus: B “57. Both the letter dated 31-7-2013 and the revised Tariff Policy are statutory documents being issued under Section 3 of the Act and have the force of law. This being so, it is clear that so far as the procurement of Indian coal is concerned, to the extent that the supply from Coal India and other Indian sources is cut down, the PPA read with these documents provides in Clause 13.2 that C while determining the consequences of change in law, parties shall have due regard to the principle that the purpose of compensating the party affected by such change in law is to restore, through monthly tariff payments, the affected party to the economic position as if such change in law has not occurred. Further, for the operation D period of the PPA, compensation for any increase/decrease in cost to the seller shall be determined and be effective from such date as decided by the Central Electricity Regulation Commission. This being the case, we are of the view that though change in Indonesian law would not qualify as a change in law under the guidelines read with the PPA, change in Indian law certainly E would.” 89. It can thus clearly be seen that insofar as the arguments with regard to effect of the Change in Law being given on the basis of ACQ is concerned, the same stands specifically rejected. 90. A bench of three learned Judges of this Court in Adani F Rajasthan case (supra) also had an occasion to consider a similar issue. An argument which is sought to be advanced before us that the Change in Law claim may be confined only to 35 to 40% was also advanced in the said case.