KSCARDB v. THE ASSESSING OFFICER, TRIVANDRUM 349 AND ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] c) In Apex Co-operative Bank of Urban Bank of Maharashtra and Goa Ltd., this Court on considering Section 56 of the BR Act, 1949 along with Section 22 thereof, observed that the Reserve Bank of India has the right to issue licences to companies to carry out banking business and no company can carry on a banking business unless it holds a licence issued by the Reserve Bank of India. After the amendment to Section 22 of the said Act, certain types of co-operative societies, as were brought within the purview of the BR Act, 1949, could be issued a licence by the Reserve Bank of India. Under Section 22, the term “co-operative society” would include all types of co-operative societies. This Court observed that in other words, no co-operative society can carry on banking business unless it falls within the permitted categories set out in Section 22. The term “co- operative bank” has been defi ned under Section 5(cci) as a state co-operative bank, a central co-operative bank and a primary co-operative bank. Thus, the term “co-operative bank” does not include all co-operative societies. It only includes the abovementioned three types of societies which function as banks. By virtue of Section 5(ccvii), the term state co-operative bank is to be understood as defi ned in NABARD Act, 1981. Thus, unless a co- operative society is a state co-operative bank or a central co-operative bank or a primary co-operative bank as defi ned under NABARD Act, 1981, no licence can be issued by Reserve Bank of India. It was further explained by this Court that under Section 22(1), a primary credit society can carry on banking business. However, if a co- operative society is not a primary credit society, then, to carry on banking business, it must be a co-operative bank and hold a licence issued by Reserve Bank of India. Therefore, a co-operative society other than a primary credit society, has to apply to Reserve Bank of India for licence before it can commence banking business. However, this does not mean that Reserve Bank of India can give to any or all co-operative societies, a banking licence. Reserve Bank of India can give a licence as provided in Section 22(1) only to a co-operative bank, which is defi ned under Section 56 of the said Act. It was further observed by this Court that when a term is specifi cally defi ned in a statute, then, for purposes of that statute, that term cannot bear a meaning assigned to it in another statute. One cannot ignore the specifi c defi nition given in the BR Act, 1949 and apply some other defi nition set 350 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. out in some other statute. Therefore, a co-operative bank must have the meaning assigned to it in Section 5(cci) of BR Act, 1949. Reserve Bank of India cannot go by any other meaning given to the term “co-operative bank” for purposes of licensing under BR Act, 1949.