It is submitted that while under the influence of intoxication he misbehaved with senior and threatened him of dire consequences, thus, committed an act of insubordination. It is submitted H UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. CONST SUNIL KUMAR 965 [M. R. SHAH, J.] that therefore, the of penalty of dismissal which was passed after A following the due procedure as required under Rule 27 of the CRPF Rules, 1955 cannot be said to be disproportionate to the charges and misconduct proved. 3.2 It is further submitted by Ms. Diwan, learned ASG, that of penalty of dismissal was imposed upon the delinquent – respondent in B exercise of powers under Section 11 of the CRPF Act, 1949. It is submitted that Section 11 of the CRPF Act, enables the authority to impose minor penalties/punishments other than suspension or dismissal. It is submitted that reliance placed upon Sections 9 and 10 of the CRPF Act, 1949 by the Division Bench of the High Court while interfering with the of penalty of dismissal imposed by the disciplinary authority C on the ground that the respondent – delinquent was not on active duty when he committed the misconduct and therefore, the same can be said to be a less heinous offence and therefore, the of penalty of dismissal is disproportionate, is absolutely misplaced. It is submitted that as such the consideration of heinous offence or less heinous offence D would have bearing on of imprisonment as provided under Sections 9 and 10 of the CRPF Act, 1949. It is submitted that it would not have any bearing on the imposition of penalty of dismissal under Section 11 in an appropriate case after holding the disciplinary proceedings. Reliance is placed upon the recent decision of this Court in the case of Union of India Vs. Ram Karan; (2022) 1 SCC 373 (paragraphs 16 to 21 and E 30). 3.3 It is further submitted by Ms. Diwan, learned ASG, that even on merits also the Division Bench of the High Court has committed a very serious error in observing that penalty of dismissal imposed was disproportionate to the proved charges and misconduct. It is submitted F that the respondent was working in a disciplined force – CRPF and he misbehaved with the superior and he threatened the senior officers with dire consequences and the act of respondent was of insubordination. It is submitted that therefore, the misconduct of disobedience of the s of the superior and insubordination and giving threats to the senior officers for dire consequences cannot be tolerated in a disciplined force. G 3.4 It is further submitted by learned ASG that in the case of Commandant, 22nd Battalion, CRPF Vs. Surinder Kumar; (2011) 10 SCC 244, it is observed and held by this Court that even in a case when a CRPF personnel is awarded imprisonment under Section 10(n) for an offence which though less heinous he can be dismissed from H 966 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A service after holding departmental enquiry if his conduct is found to be prejudicial to good and discipline of CRPF.