We are not impressed by either of these two arguments advanced by Mr Ramamurthy. So far as the historical background is concerned, the Attorney-General appearing on behalf of the Government also relied on it to urge that the provisions of Article 370 should be held to be continuing in force, because the situation that existed when this article was incorporated in the Constitution had not materially altered, and the purpose of introducing this article was to empower the President to exercise his discretion in applying the Indian Constitution while that situation remained unchanged. There is considerable force in this submission. The legislative history of this article cannot, in these circumstances, be of any assistance for holding that this article became ineff ective after the Constituent Assembly of the State had framed the Constitution for the State.” The Constitution Bench then held that there were “much stronger reasons” for holding that the provisions of Article 370 continued in force and remained eff ective even after the Constituent Assembly of the State had adopted the Constitution for the State because the Constituent Assembly did not in exercise of the power under the proviso to Article 370 recommend that the provision shall cease to exist. Rather the Constituent Assembly recommended that Article 370 must operate with a modifi cation of the Explanation to the provision: “7. There are, however, much stronger reasons for holding that the provisions of this article continued in force and remained eff ective even after the Constituent Assembly of the State had passed the Constitution of the State. The most important provision in this connection is that contained in clause (3) of the article which lays down that this article shall cease to be operative or shall be operative only with such exceptions and modifi cations and from such date as the President may specify by 200 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. public notifi cation, provided that the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State referred to in clause (2) shall be necessary before the President issues such a notifi cation. This clause clearly envisages that the article will continue to be operative and can cease to be operative only if, on the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State, the President makes a direction to that eff ect. In fact, no such recommendation was made by the Constituent Assembly of the State, nor was any made by the President declaring that the article shall cease to be operative. On the contrary, it appears that the Constituent Assembly of the State made a recommendation that the article should be operative with one modifi cation to be incorporated in the Explanation to clause (1) of the article. This modifi cation in the article was notifi ed by the President by Ministry of Law CO 44 dated 15th November, 1952, and laid down that, from 17th November, 1952, the article was to be operative with substitution of the new Explanation for the old Explanation as it existed at that time.