100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 13. The question that we must consider is whether the conviction, solely on the basis of offi cial witnesses is sustainable in the present facts? And, whether the delay of nearly 3 years in fi ling the challan can be said to be materially aff ecting the correctness of the judgement of the lower court as also the judgement impugned before us? 14. The trial court, when faced with this question of the conviction being based solely on the testimony of offi cial witnesses, referred to two judgements of this court in Tahir v. State ( Delhi)5 and Karamjiti Singh v. State (Delhi Administration)6 to observe that, there is no bar on convictions being based solely on the testimony of the police offi cials. 15. The act governing the instant dispute was brought into force to “consolidate and amend the law relating to the import, export, transport, manufacture, sale and possession of intoxicating liquor and of intoxicating drugs in the [state of Kerala]…” The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 has been brought on the statute books to “amend the law relating to narcotic drugs, to make stringent provisions for the control and regulation of operations relating to narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances…” Arguably, both these statutes seek the regulation of similar products, with the purpose of controlling the fl ow of identifi ed substances. We fi nd, in a case concerning the latter act, a Constitution bench of this Court in Mukesh Singh v. State (NCT of Delhi)7, having noted as follows:- “10.1. Under Section 173 CrPC, the offi cer in charge of a police station after completing the investigation is required to fi le the fi nal report/charge-sheet before the Magistrate. Thus, under the scheme of CrPC, it cannot be said that there is a bar to a police offi cer receiving information for commission of a cognizable off ence, recording the same and then investigating it. On the contrary, Sections 154, 156 and 157 permit the offi cer in charge of a police station to reduce the information of commission of a cognizable off ence in writing and thereafter to investigate the same… xxx 12. Therefore, as such, there is no reason to doubt the credibility of the informant and doubt the entire case of the prosecution solely on the 5 (1996) 3 SCC 338 6 (2003) 5 SCC 291 7 (2020) 10 SCC 120 SATHYAN v. STATE OF KERALA 101 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] ground that the informant has investigated the case. Solely on the basis of some apprehension or the doubts, the entire prosecution version cannot be discarded and the accused is not to be straightaway acquitted unless and until the accused is able to establish and prove the bias and the prejudice. As held by this Court in Ram Chandra [State of Rajasthan v. Ram Chandra, (2005) 5 SCC 151 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 1010] the question of prejudice or bias has to be established and not inferred.