To put it simply, the effect of IPT of coal is that IPT coal cost (linkage domestic coal) will continue to be booked in the account of Mundra TPS (original power plant in terms of the FSA/transferor plant under IPT scheme) and alternate coal cost (imported coal or C market-based e-auction coal used in the absence of linkage coal) will continue to be booked on ‘attributed cost’ basis in the accounts of Tiroda TPS (transferee plant under IPT scheme).” 29. We find that APTEL has failed to take into consideration that CERC had not decided the said issue, inasmuch as the decision on the D said issue would have affected the other two DISCOMS, i.e., MSEDCL and Rajasthan DISCOMS. It will further be relevant to note that the very same Tribunal, immediately after three months, in the case of Rattan India Power Limited v. Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission and Another3, has taken a totally contrary view. In the said case, it was sought to be argued on behalf of MSEDCL that the E Evacuation Facility Charge (for short, “EFC”) imposed by CIL vide its circular dated 19thDecember 2017 did not constitute ‘Change in Law’. It will be apposite to refer to the following observations: “9. It is incorrect to argue that to be covered as a change in law event under such contractual clauses as quoted earlier, the F instrument whereby the law is claimed to have undergone a change must have been published in official gazette to have the force of law. In Energy Watchdog & Ors. (supra), for illustration, even a letter of the Ministry of Power in the Government of India was accepted as an instrument having the “force of law”. G Similarly, in Kusum Ingots & Alloys v. Union of India (2004) 6 SCC 254 executive instructions without any statutory backing were also considered as “law”. That Coal India is Government instrumentality and the notifications, circulars, etc. issued by it have a force of law under Regulation 77(3) of the Constitution H 3Appeal Nos. 118 of 2021 and 40 of 2022 dated 22ndMarch 2022 UTTAR HARYANA BIJLI VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. ADANI 1107 POWER (MUNDRA) LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] of India was accepted by this tribunal in GMR Kamalanga Energy A Ltd. (supra).” 30. Vide of even date, in Civil Appeal Nos. 5005 of 2022 and 4089 of 2022, we have upheld the concurrent view of Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (for short, “MERC”) and APTEL holding the said EFC to be ‘Change in Law’. B 31. In that view of the matter, we are of the opinion that the finding of APTEL that the communication dated 19thJune 2013 permitting IPT is not a ‘Change in Law’ would not be sustainable. 32. It is to be noted that, while submitting the bid, AP(M)L must C have factored in the cost of transportation of linkage coal from MCL Coal Mine, Talcher to its plant at Mundra. As per the details given in the PPA, the mode of transportation is through railway.