In that view Section 11 also is valid.” 118. As such, it could thus clearly be seen that counsel for the D State Government in fairness stated that Section 11 was enacted only to defuse the effect of the writ of mandamus issued by this Court in the case of Om Prakash Agarwal v. Giri Raj Kishori27 to refund the fee collected therein to the appellants therein. However, a statement was made that under its guise the State did not intend to nor would it intend to E retain the said fund collected under the Act, which was held invalid and the entire fund would be passed on to the credit of the Board under the Act. As such, on the basis of the concession made by the learned counsel that the State did not intend to retain the fund collected and the entire fund would be passed on to the credit of the Board, this Court did not interfere with Section 11, which was intended to defuse the writ of F mandamus. As such, the said cannot be said to be an authority to hold that by a legislative enactment, a writ of mandamus issued by this Court could be defused. 119. Though we have held that s dated 17th November 2021 and 17th November 2022 granting extensions to respondent No.2 are not G valid in law, we are inclined to take into consideration the concern expressed by the Union of India with regard to FATF review. We are further inclined to take into consideration that the process of appointing the Director of Enforcement is likely to take some time. In that view of 27 (1986) 1 SCC 722 H 586 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A the matter, we find that in to ensure the transition to be smooth in the larger public interest, it will be appropriate to permit respondent No.2 to continue to be in office till 31st of July 2023. 120. Before we part with the , we place on record our deep appreciation for the assistance rendered by the learned Amicus B Curiae Shri K.V. Viswanathan (as His Lordship then was), Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General, Shri S.V. Raju, learned Additional Solicitor General, Mr. Anoop G. Choudhary, Mr. Gopal Sankarnarayanan, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned Senior Counsel, and Mr. Prashan Bhushan, Mr. J.S. Sinha, Mr. Sharangowda, and Ms. Vanshaja Shukla, learned counsel. We also place on record our appreciation for the valuable C assistance rendered by Mr. Ravi Raghunath, learned Advocate-on- Record, who ably assisted the learned Amicus Curiae. 121. In the result, we pass the following : (i) The challenge to Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Act, 2021 and the Delhi Special Police D Establishment (Amendment) Act, 2021 as well as to the Fundamental (Amendment) Rules, 2021 is rejected and the writ petitions are dismissed to that extent. (ii) The impugned s dated 17th November 2021 and 17th November 2022 granting extensions to the tenure of the E respondent No.2- Sanjay Kumar Mishra for a period of one year each are held to be illegal.