This was notwithstanding the fact that the issue arose from a contract between the parties, as was also the case in ABL International Ltd. & C Anr. v. Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India & Ors.5 It is in these circumstances that the High Court exercised its writ jurisdiction notwithstanding the availability of an alternative remedy, i.e. the arbitration clause or through the civil suit. ABL International6was also relied on to show that consequent monetary relief could be granted where such a writ petition was successful. D 16. With respect to striking down a contractual clause, Dr. Singhvi was at pains to point out that the ambit of Brojonath Ganguly’s7 case had been expanded and was not only restricted to service disputes. In Kalpraj Dharamshi & Anr. v. Kotak Investment Advisors Ltd. & E Anr.8, this Court considered the bargaining capacity of contracting parties in a commercial dispute as there was a seemingly unfair or unreasonable clause in the contract. Discussion: 17. We have considered the arguments and counter arguments of F the counsel for the parties, and also examined whether the present case is a fit one for this Court to exercise jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, albeit leave having been granted. 18. In our view, the dispute is within the following parameters. First, whether the writ petition filed by IPCL challenging Clauses 4.04 G and 10.01 of the contract was maintainable. Second, assuming such a 5(2004)3 SCC 553. 6 (supra). 7 (supra). 8(2021)10SCC401. H 336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A petition was maintainable, whether the High Court could have invalidated the aforementioned clauses on the ground of unequal bargaining power and arbitrariness / unfairness. Third, whether monetary relief in the form of refund could have been granted after the dated 19.09.2006 was passed. B 19. Although the dispute arises from a commercial contract, we find that the writ petition challenging the clauses was maintainable. It is not disputed that GAIL is a Public Sector Undertaking and thus qualifies under the definition of ‘State’ as per Article 12 of the Constitution. At the time of entering into contract, GAIL was enjoying a monopolistic position with respect to the supply of natural gas in the country. IPCL, C having incurred a significant expense in setting up the appropriate infrastructure, had no choice but to enter into agreement with GAIL. Thus, there was a clear public element involved in the dealings between the parties. Further, writ jurisdiction can be exercised when the State, even in its contractual dealings, fails to exercise a degree of fairness or D practices any discrimination. We are fortified in our view by this Court’s decision in ABL Enterprises9and Joshi Technologies10. In the present case, GAIL’s action in levying ‘loss of transportation charges’ was ex facie discriminatory, insofar as IPCL was mandated to build its own pipeline in terms of the allocation letter and was not using GAIL’s HBJ pipeline at all. Thus, it cannot be said that merely because an alternative E remedy was available, the Court should opt out of exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution and relegate the parties to a civil remedy.