21. The argument advanced on behalf of the appellant – Satnam Singh5 that both the courts below have erred in discarding the defence taken by him to the eff ect that it was Sonu8 who was the real culprit and was apprehended by the NCB offi cers with the contraband, but he was let off on bribing the NCB offi cers, does not meet the test of preponderance of probability and has rightly been disbelieved by both the courts in the absence of any corroboration through cogent evidence. (f) PLEA OF THE ACCUSED BEING IN THE CUSTODY OF THE NCB MUCH BEFORE THE NAKA WAS LAID 22. Another plea taken by the appellant – Satnam Singh5 is that he was in the custody of the NCB offi cers much before the point in time when the naka was laid on 11th December, 2005. The deposition of witness produced by him, Soravdeep Singh19 [DW-1] to substantiate that a call was made from his mobile number at 09.54 PM on 11th December, 2005 when he had already been detained by the NCB offi cers, to a landline number installed 120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. in the Offi ce of the Zonal Director at Chandigarh, was not of any assistance as the mobile phone bills summoned by the appellant were not proved in accordance with law. The trial Court observed that the bill in question46 was only a computer-generated one. The records pertaining to the bill were not produced by the witness summoned and the bill did not bear the signature of any authority even to prove that the mobile phone number asserted by the appellant – Satnam Singh5 as belonging to him, stood in his name. We see no reason to take a diff erent view. 23. Reliance placed by learned counsel on the decisions in Dudh Nath Pandey v. State of Uttar Pradesh47, State of Haryana v. Ram Singh48, Adambhai Sulemanbhai Ajmeri and Others v. State of Gujarat49 and Jumi and Others v. State of Haryana50 to urge that defence witnesses are entitled to equal treatment with those produced by the prosecution and diff erent yardsticks cannot be prescribed for prosecution witnesses as compared to defence witnesses is a well-settled principle of criminal jurisprudence, but cannot take the case of the appellant – Satnam Singh5 any further inasmuch as the trial Court has carefully analysed the testimonies of the defence witnesses before drawing an adverse presumption against the accused. The High Court has also taken pains to go through the entire testimonies of the defence witnesses and only thereafter endorsed the view taken by the trial Court. There has been no arbitrariness or undue favour shown to the prosecution witnesses from the appellant-Satnam Singh5 to claim any bias. (g) PLEA OF UNRELIABILITY OF THE TESTIMONY OF THE INDEPENDENT WITNESS, SONU 24. As for the contention of learned counsel for the appellant – Satnam Singh5 that the testimony of Sonu8 cannot be treated as that of an independent witness in view of the provisions under Section 100 (4) of the Cr.P.C., we are of the view that the said plea does not hold any water.