The legal position in this regard will stand explained accordingly.” 11.In view of the said legal position and on the basis of the pleadings and the material placed on record before the Claims Tribunal, it is required F to be analysed whether the findings of the Claims Tribunal and High Court are just or perverse. 12.As per the material placed, the FIR of the incident is registered by the Railway Police Station, Karur on 27.9.2014 at 10 A.M. As per the averments of the FIR, it revealed that on 27.9.2014, complainant G Manikandan (AW1) son of the deceased purchased a ticket of Erode Passenger Train from Lalapettai to Karur at Lalapettai Railway Station 3 1992 SCC OnLine MP 96 4 2014 SCC OnLine Del 101 5 2011 SCC OnLine AP 828 6 (2019) 12 SCC 391 H 406 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A and gave it to his father Muchamy @ Muthusamy, who was going to Government Hospital, Karur for his medical treatment. At about 9 a.m., he received information from his uncle Ayyappan that the deceased had fallen from the train at Mahadanapuram Railway Station with decapitation and amputation of right arm. The inquest report was prepared on the same day by the Inquest Officer specifying the circumstances under B which the accident took place, the relevant thereto is reproduced as under: “The deceased Muchamy @ Muthusamy age 50/14, s/o Mookkan, Kodikkal Street, Lalapettai, in to take medical treatment for the wound on his leg on 27.09.2014 morning 8¼ hours he came to Lalapettai Railway Station along with his son Manikandan and C his son purchased a train ticket for the deceased to travel from Lalapettai to Karur and he received the ticket and travelled to Trichy by Erode Passenger Train. While the train came to Mahadanapuram Railway Station the deceased adrift and fallen downfromthetraincompartmentandentangled withtrainresult D ofheaddecapitated,hand amputatedanddiedatthespot.” 13.The post-mortem was conducted by the Civil Assistant Surgeon, Government Head Quarters Hospital, Karur on the same day i.e. 27.9.2014 and the Doctor opined regarding cause of death as under: “The deceased would have appearance to have died of shock and E haemorrhage and injury to vital organs and decapitation of head about 4 to 8 hours prior to autopsy.” 14.The final report was prepared and findings are as under: “In this case I enquired the circumstantial witnesses. They deposed same thing what they deposed before the Sub-Inspector, hence I F am not recording any statement separately. As per the investigation made with occurrence place witness, inquest panchayatar witness, and as per enquiry with the doctor who done the post-mortem the deceased Muchamy @ Muthusamy, 50/14, s/o Mookkan, Kodikkal Street, Lalapettai, Krishnarayapuram-TK, Karur-Dt used to go to G Karur GH for the medical treatment of the wound on his leg on the date of occurrence came to station with his son by bicycle and his son purchased the ticket and sent him in the train Trichy to Karur and went to his job. The deceased Muchamy@Muthusamy travelling in thetrain came to Mahadanapuram railway station he fell down from the train, head was decapitated, right hand H KAMUKAYI & ORS.