In all these cases and also on all matters of public history, literature, science or art, the Court may resort for its aid to appropriate books or documents of reference. If the Court is called upon by any person to take judicial notice of any fact, it may refuse to do so unless and until such person produces any such book or document as it may consider necessary to enable it to do so. 442 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 58. Facts admitted need not be proved.––No fact need be proved in any proceeding which the parties thereto or their agents agree to admit at the hearing, or which, before the hearing, they agree to admit by any writing under their hands, or which by any rule of pleading in force at the time they are deemed to have admitted by their pleadings: Provided that the Court may, in its discretion, require the facts admitted to be proved otherwise than by such admissions.” 64. We are concerned with Section 56 of the Evidence Act, which deals with the authority of a Court to accept certain facts, which are either of common knowledge or from sources which guarantee the accuracy or are a matter of authoritative offi cial record or court record, without the need to establish such fact. The judicial notice of any fact is taken when the facts cannot reasonably be doubted. 65. This Court, in its various pronouncements, has taken support of Section 56 of the Evidence Act to do substantial justice in respective matters. Some of them are being reproduced hereinafter to get a better picture of how judicial notice is taken: a) In the case of State of Kerala v. Unni3, in paragraph 27 it has been held as follows: “27. Judicial notice can be taken of the fact that each village would not have a chemical laboratory where the process of analysis of ethyl alcohol can be carried out.” For example, if a sample is taken in a village, by the time sample is sent for and is analysed, the volume of ethyl alcohol may increase. Although we are informed that some chemical is mixed when a sample is taken, no material has been placed in that behalf. (Emphasis added) b) In the case of Prabhakara v. Basavaraj K.4, it was observed in paragraph no. 21 as follows: “21. A relief can only be on the basis of the pleadings alone. Evidence is also to be based on such pleadings. The only exception would be when the parties know each 3 (2007) 2 SCC 365 4 (2022) 1 SCC 115 HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 443 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] other’s case very well and such a pleading is implicit in an issue. Additionally, a Court can take judicial note of a fact when it is so apparent on the face of the record. (Emphasis added) c) In the case of Ved Mitter Gill v. UT, Chandigarh5, in paragraph 26, it was held as follows: “26.………………………………………...