(80) We are afraid that this argument cannot hold water as the need for making more inquiry in relation to geology cannot relieve the F bidder from the operation of other clauses. A just result in the matter of what a contract produces by way of a legal relationship must be viewed holistically on a harmonious survey of all the relevant clauses. In any other approach, the result would have the effect of rendering specific clauses dealing with the topic in question dead letter. In view of clause G 1.4 of the RFP, in other words, the bidder was duty bound if it felt advised to check the correctness of the report made by the WAPCOS. It could have undertaken its own study. What it did four months after it was granted the contract and entered into the PPA, it could have done before it decided to make the bid and enter into the PPA. At least we are not shown anything which stood in the way of the bidder conducting its own H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 55 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] study and being convinced by the correctness of the report. We say this A for the reason that what is involved is an international competitive bid. The bidding process is the foundation for the determination of the price in terms of section 63 of the Act. The Commission approves the rates on being convinced that the rates are fair and competitive and arrived at on the basis of a fair bidding process. The provisions of the RFP must, B therefore, be viewed from the perspective of it placing on alert the bidders about the imponderables which are inevitably involved in pricing process. This means that having regard to clause 1.4 of the RFP, no bidder could possibly come forward with the claim that the contents of the WAPCOS report must be treated as sacrosanct and infallible and that it should not be taken without a generous pinch of salt as it stands. At least this was C the message which is writ large in the said clause. He who acted disregarding the caveat about the report acted at his own peril. (81) Again, we do notice clause 2.7.2 of the RFP which we have indicated already. It contemplates the duty on the part of the bidder to make independent inquiry and to satisfy itself with regard to the required D information, inputs, conditions, circumstances, which may affect the bid. This is apart from the site as referred to in the PPA in clause 5.2 which we have already referred to. (82) With the wealth of disclaimer clauses which we have noticed, we are unable to subscribe to the reasoning adopted by the Tribunal. We E are of the view that the Tribunal was wrong in brushing aside the specific and unambiguous disclaimers under which the procurers stood exonerated from liability. (83) One argument which we must notice at this stage is the effect of Article 13.2.