3 While vacating the interim , this Court noted that the Annual General Meeting of Finolex Cables Limited was to take place on 29 September 2023 and specifi cally directed that “any action which is taken place on proposed resolution No 4 pertaining to the appointment of the Executive Chairperson shall be subject to the outcome of the appeal which is pending before the NCLAT.” 4 Subsequently on 13 October 2023, the proceedings were mentioned before this Court in the morning session in Contempt Petition No 1195 of 2023, when the Court was apprised of the fact that the declaration of the result of the AGM was being deferred till the declaration of the by the NCLAT. Taking note of the submission, this court observed : “We are prima facie of the view that the mandate of the cannot be defeated by deferring the declaration of the result till a is rendered by NCLAT.” 102 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 5 This Court specifi cally issued the following directions : “5 The scrutinizer shall, in compliance with the of this Court proceed to declare the result of the Annual General Meeting which was held on 29 September 2023 forthwith; 6 The NCLAT shall proceed to declare its in the pending appeal after it is duly apprised of the fact that the result of the Annual General Meeting has been declared.” 6 The above directions of this Court were in two parts. The fi rst part which applied to the Scrutiniser contained a specifi c direction to the eff ect that in compliance with the previous , the Scrutiniser shall proceed to declare the result of the AGM which was held on 29 September 2023. The second part, which was a direction to the NCLAT, was specifi cally to the eff ect that the NCLAT shall proceed to declare its in the pending appeal after it is duly apprised of the fact that the result of the AGM has been declared. 7 In the afternoon session on 13 October 2023, a grievance was made before this Court on behalf of the petitioners that though the NCLAT was apprised of the of this Court with a request that the should not be delivered until the report of the Scrutiniser is made available, the Bench of the NCLAT had proceeded to deliver the . 8 Consequently, this Court took note of the submission and required the Chairperson of the NCLAT to duly verify the position and report back to the Court. Paragraphs 3 to 9 of the are set out below : “3 Mr Neeraj Kishan Kaul and Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi, senior counsel and Mr Shikhil Suri, counsel joined in stating that counsel, Mr Ankur Saigal (who is personally present before this Court) produced the of this Court before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) at 2 pm with a request that the should not be delivered until report of the scrutinizer is made available. 4 The Court has been apprised of the fact that the Bench of the NCLAT consisting of Mr Rakesh Kumar and Dr Alok Srivastava proceeded to deliver the .