As observed hereinabove, the dead body was H exhumed from the place identified by A-1. Post-mortem of JOHN ANTHONISAMY @ JOHN v. STATE, REP. BY THE 283 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [M. R. SHAH, J.] the deceased was conducted. Several injuries were found. A On completion of the investigation, PW-30 filed the chargesheet against all the accused. The case was committed to the Sessions Court. The accused pleaded not guilty and therefore, all of them came to be tried for the offence under Section 302 and other offence of IPC. B 2.3 The prosecution examined a number of witnesses. PW-16 can be said to be the star witness from whom the car driven by the deceased was seized by the Police on the disclosure statement made by A-1. After conclusion of the prosecution evidence, further statements of the accused under Section C 313 CrPC were recorded. The accused denied the allegations against them. The accused examined DW-1 in their defence. On appreciation of evidence the learned Trial Court convicted A-1 – appellant herein. The and of conviction and sentence passed by the learned Trial Court has been confirmed by the High Court by the D impugned and . Hence, the present appeal at the instance of the appellant – original accused No. 1. 3. Ms. N.S. Nappinai, learned counsel has appeared on behalf of the appellant – accused and Dr. Joseph Aristotle S., learned counsel has appeared on behalf of the State. E 4. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused has vehemently submitted that in the present case the prosecution case is based solely on the circumstantial evidence. It is submitted that it is settled law that before convicting an accused each link in the chain ought to be established such that it leads to the irresistible conclusion of F guilt of the accused. 4.1 It is submitted that in the present case, the prosecution has not established that the death of the deceased was homicidal. It is submitted that as such the doctor who performed the post-mortem was not able to give any definite opinion as to G the cause of the death. 4.2 It is submitted that in the present case both, learned Trial Court as well as the High Court has convicted the accused based on the confessional statement/extra judicial confession. It is submitted that as per the settled proposition H 284 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A of law extra judicial confession is weak evidence. It is submitted that recovery pursuant to the confession of accused does not establish anything beyond possession of stolen goods and it does not implicate accused of committing murder. B 4.3 It is submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused that in the present case the recovery of the dead body from the place shown by A-1 and that recovery of car without engine and gear box from the place identified by A-1 and thereafter, recovery of gear box of the car from PW-16 cannot be believed as the same was on the basis of C the confessional statement/disclosure statement.