[2023] 1 S.C.R. 1 1 VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA A v. UNION OF INDIA (Writ Petition (Civil) No.906 of 2016) JANUARY 02, 2023 B [S. ABDUL NAZEER, B.R. GAVAI, A.S. BOPANNA, V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN AND B. V. NAGARATHNA, JJ.] Demonetisation – Notification No. 3407(E) dated 8th November 2016 by which Central Government declared that the bank notes of denominations of the existing series of the value of C five hundred rupees and one thousand rupees shall cease to be legal tender with effect from 9th November 2016 – Act or policy of ‘demonetisation’ – Interpretation of sub-section (2) of s.26 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 – Meaning of “any” series of “any” denomination – Power of the Central Government to initiate D and carry out demonetisation in absence of recommendation to this effect by the Central Board of the Reserve Bank of India – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ.) (majority )]: The power available to the Central Government under sub-section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act cannot be restricted to mean that it can be exercised only for E ‘one’ or ‘some’ series of bank notes and not for ‘all’ series of bank notes – The power can be exercised for all series of bank notes – Merely because on two earlier occasions, the demonetization exercise was by plenary legislation, it cannot be held that such a power would not be available to the Central Government under F sub-section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act – Sub-section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act does not provide for excessive delegation inasmuch as there is an inbuilt safeguard that such a power has to be exercised on the recommendation of the Central Board – As such, sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act is not liable to be struck down on the said ground – The impugned Notification dated 8th November G 2016 does not suffer from any flaws in the decision-making process; and satisfies the test of proportionality and, as such, cannot be struck down – The period provided for exchange of notes vide the impugned Notification dated 8th November 2016 cannot be said to be unreasonable – The RBI does not possess independent power H 1 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A under sub-section (2) of s.4 of the 2017 Act in isolation of the provisions of ss.3 and 4(1) thereof to accept the demonetized notes beyond the period specified in notifications issued under sub-section (1) of s.4 of the 2017 Act – Held [per B.V. Nagarathna, J. (minority )]: Sub-section (2) of s.26 of RBI Act applies only when a proposal for demonetisation is initiated by the Central Board of B RBI by way of a recommendation being made to the Central Government – The Central Government cannot demonetise bank notes by issuance of a gazette notification as if it is exercising power under sub-section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act – In such circumstances when the Central Government is initiating the process of C demonetisation, it would not be acting under sub-section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act but notwithstanding the said provision through a legislative process – When such power is exercised by the Central Government by means of a legislation, it is by virtue of Entry 36, List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India which deals with currency, coinage and legal tender; foreign exchange D which is a field of legislation – When the Central Government proposes demonetisation of any bank note, it must seek the opinion of the Central Board of the RBI – The opinion of the Central Board of RBI ought to be an independent and frank opinion – On receipt of a negative opinion from the Central Board of the Bank, the Central E Government which has initiated the demonetisation process may still intend to go ahead with the said process after weighing the pros and cons only by means of an Ordinance and/or Parliamentary legislation but not by issuance of a gazette notification – The Central Government in such circumstances cannot resort to exercise of power under sub-section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act by issuing a notification F in the Gazette of India as if it were exercising executive powers – Even if the Central Board of RBI concurs with the proposal of the Central Government, the Central Government would have to undertake a legislative process and not carry out the measure by simply issuing a gazette notification – The action of demonetisation G initiated by the Central Government by issuance of the impugned notification dated 8th November, 2016 was an exercise of power contrary to law and therefore unlawful – Consequently, the 2016 Ordinance and 2017 Act are also unlawful – But, having regard to the fact that the demonetisation process was given effect to from 8th November, 2016 onwards, the status quo ante cannot be restored H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 3 at this point of time – Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 – s.26 – A Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Ordinance, 2016 – Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Act, 2017 – – Constitution of India – Entry 36 of List I of the Seventh Schedule.