In Subrata Chattoraj v. Union of India, this Court directed transfer B of the Chit Fund Scam in the States of West Bengal and Orissa from the State Police to CBI keeping in view the involvement of several influential persons holding high positions of power and influence or political clout. 15. Suffice it to say that transfers have been ed in varied C situations but while doing so the test applied by the Court has always been whether a direction for transfer, was keeping in view the nature of allegations, necessary with a view to making the process of discovery of truth credible. What is important is that this Court has rarely, if ever, viewed at the threshold the prayer for transfer of investigation to CBI with suspicion. There is no D reluctance on the part of the Court to grant relief to the victims or their families in cases, where intervention is called for, nor is it necessary for the petitioner seeking a transfer to make out a cast-iron case of abuse or neglect on the part of the State Police, before ing a transfer. Transfer can be ed once the Court E is satisfied on the available material that such a course will promote the cause of justice, in a given case.” 18. The above-noted decisions are in fact cited by the learned Senior Counsel for the appellants to contend that this Court should exercise its extraordinary power to refer to the matter to CBI in the F instant facts. In that regard, it is also necessary to note that the High Court on the other hand has referred to the various decisions on the said aspect and has also taken into consideration the recent decision in the case of Arnab Ranjan Goswami vs. Union of India (2020) 14 SCC 12 wherein the entire aspect has been crystalized and this Court has held that the power to transfer an investigation must be used sparingly. The G relevant portion reads as hereunder:- “52. In assessing the contention for the transfer of the investigation to CBI, we have factored into the decision-making calculus the averments on the record and submissions urged on behalf of the petitioner. We are unable to find any reason that H 162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A warrants a transfer of the investigation to CBI. In holding thus, we have applied the tests spelt out in the consistent line of precedent of this Court. They have not been fulfilled. An individual under investigation has a legitimate expectation of a fair process which accords with law. The displeasure of an accused person about the manner in which the investigation proceeds or an B unsubstantiated allegation (as in the present case) of a conflict of interest against the police conducting the investigation must not derail the legitimate course of law and warrant the invocation of the extraordinary power of this Court to transfer an investigation to CBI. Courts assume the extraordinary jurisdiction to transfer C an investigation in exceptional situations to ensure that the sanctity of the administration of criminal justice is preserved.