Analysis and Findings: 22. The crucial issue to be decided is whether the respondents have committed negligence in not providing proper post-operative medical care to the patient and, accordingly, whether the Commission has committed any illegality while dismissing the complaint fi led by the appellant herein. 23. Concededly, the complainant has never questioned the diagnosis and recommended surgical treatment given to him by respondent no. 2-Dr. Bhatia. It is not the case of the complainant that Dr. Bhatia was negligent in performing the Neurosurgery. Thus, the entire case of the complainant was about lack of proper post-operative medical care. On this score, the allegation is that the patient should have been shifted to ICU instead of shifting him to a private room. The material available on the record demonstrates that as per the standard practice, all patients who show no signs of complications in the recovery room and have no post or pre-operative complications are sent to their rooms. According to the fi gures submitted by the respondents, during the months of September to November 1998, out of 166 neurosurgeries, only 68 patients were sent to the ICU from the recovery room in the hospital MRS. KALYANI RAJAN v. INDRAPRASTHA APOLLO 105 HOSPITAL & ORS. [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] of respondent no. 1. The rest were sent back to their wards in accordance with standard procedure. It is the stand of respondent no. 2 that there exists no link or interconnection between post-operative treatment/care and the cardiac arrest suff ered by the deceased. The symptoms, which emerged after the deceased was discharged from the Operation Theatre, were not the symptoms, which typically precede a cardiac arrest. Since, the deceased did not have any known or identifi able heart ailments, it was impossible for the respondents to have prior knowledge that the patient may develop cardiac problem after few hours of the successful surgery. The symptoms, including dizziness, sweating, and pain in the neck area, experienced by the deceased post-surgery, could not be treated as post-surgery reactions. The patient would have been shifted to the ICU immediately, if serious complications would have arisen after the surgery, therefore, in the absence of complications in the surgery or soon thereafter, the patient was not required to be shifted to ICU and there is no negligence on this count by either of the respondents. 24. On the issue as to when a medical offi cer may be held liable for negligence, this Court in Jacob Mathew v. State of Punjab and Another7 has observed thus: “A professional may be held liable for negligence on one of the two fi ndings: either he was not possessed of the requisite skill which he professed to have possessed, or, he did not exercise, with reasonable competence in the given case, the skill which he did possess. The standard to be applied for judging, whether the person charged has been negligent or not, would be that of an ordinary competent person exercising ordinary skill in that profession. It is not possible for every professional to possess the highest level of expertise or skills in that branch which he practices.