53 V S Rama Devi and S K Mendiratta, How India Votes (3rd edition, 2014), at 619 H 944 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A d. The potential for complications in the present case 144. In the present case, in late June 2022 and in the first week of July 2022, members of each faction filed petitions for the disqualification of members of the opposing faction under the Tenth Schedule. On 19 July 2022, Mr. Shinde filed a petition before the ECI under Paragraph 15 B of the Symbols , claiming that the faction led by him constituted the “real” Shiv Sena and that it should therefore be allotted the symbol of the Shiv Sena (the ‘bow and arrow’). 145. When the Tenth Schedule and the Symbols are invoked concurrently, complications may arise, including in cases such as the C present one. If the ECI applies the ‘test of majority,’ it will be required to consider (among other things) which of the two factions enjoys a majority in the Maharashtra State Legislature. Therefore, which faction has a majority in the House will have some bearing on the outcome of the proceedings before the ECI. Whether or not a particular faction has a majority in the legislature will depend on whether members from that D faction have incurred disqualification. For example, we may illustratively consider a case where Party X has a hundred seats in the Legislative Assembly of a state. Two factions, Group A and Group B, emerge. The former consists of sixty MLAs and the latter consists of the remaining forty. Members of each group file disqualification petitions against E members of the other group. The ECI is called upon to decide which group is Party X under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols . In terms of the law as it currently stands, there are two possible outcomes: a. The ECI renders its decision prior to the Speaker. It observes that Group A enjoys a majority in the legislature. This has a significant bearing on its decision although it is not the only F factor which is considered. Group A is adjudicated to be Party X and is awarded the symbol; or b. The Speaker renders their decision prior to the ECI. They disqualify some or all the members of Group A for violating the anti-defection law. While adjudicating the petition under G Paragraph 15 of the Symbols , the ECI (after taking into account the disqualification incurred by some or all of Group A) notes that Group A does not enjoy a majority in the legislature. Once again, this has a significant bearing on its decision although it is not the only factor which is H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 945 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] considered. Group B is adjudicated to be Party X and is A awarded the symbol. 146. The outcome of the dispute before the ECI may change depending on the outcome of the disqualification petitions. It is precisely this complication which the petitioners seek to guard against.