the provisions of the Standing s Act must prevail over Section 79(c) of the Electricity Supply Act, in regard to matters to which the Standing s Act applies.” 15. The NFC was established in the 1970s as a unit of department of Atomic Energy, Government of India. The management of NFC after its establishment, in the capacity of an employer submitted draft Standing s under Section 3 of the 1946 Act before the certifying offi cer which was duly certifi ed on 27th August, 1973, and thereafter notifi ed. These Standing s are applicable to all industrial employees of NFC Hyderabad who are workmen as defi ned under the 1946 Act. There is no doubt that the private respondents come under the defi nition of workman. Clauses 38 to 44 of the Standing s certifi ed for the NCF-Hyderabad in 1973 provided for misconduct, disciplinary action, penalties, procedure, appeal and review. It is, however, true that the Ministry of Labour, Government of India had issued an OM dated 29th July, 1977 where it had clarifi ed that wherever Section 13B of the 1946 Act was applicable for the establishments, the standing s need not be certifi ed any longer and in case they have already been certifi ed they would become invalid. All the same, the High Court of Andhra Pradesh in its impugned correctly makes a distinction here which is that whereas for the Madras Atomic Power Project (similarly constituted as NFC-Hyderabad) there is an exclusionary clause in terms of Section 13B of the 1946 Act in its Standing s but in the Standing s certifi ed for NFC-Hyderabad, there is no mention of Section 13-B of the 1946 Act. 16. It is also true that in the present case, both the private respondents when they were given employment, their appointment s clearly said that their service conditions, including disciplinary proceedings, if any, would be governed under the CCA Rules, 1965. Therefore, the case of the employer is that disciplinary proceedings also have to be initiated under the CCA Rules, 1965 and the standing s will have no applicability in the present case. The employer also relies upon Section 13B of the 1946 Act, which reads as follows: “13B. Act not to apply to certain industrial establishments.—Nothing in this Act shall apply to an industrial establishment in so far as the UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. K. SURI BABU 1061 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] workmen employed therein are persons to whom the Fundamental and Supplementary Rules, Civil Services (Classifi cation, Control and Appeal) Rules, Civil Services (Temporary Services) Rules, Revised Leave Rules, Civil Service Regulations, Civilians in Defence Service (Classifi cation, Control and Appeal) Rules or the Indian Railway Establishment Code or any other rules or regulations as may be notifi ed in this behalf by the appropriate Government in the Offi cial Gazette, apply.” Relying on the above provision, the argument of the employer is that the 1946 Act will not apply to an industrial establishment, if for the industrial establishment CCA Rules, 1965 have been made applicable, and since the CCA Rules, 1965 have been made applicable and it was specifi cally stated in the appointment s of the respondents, the standing s will have no application.