[paragraph 25 of the decision in the case of NTPC Ltd. (supra)]. The Secondary inquiry that may arise at the reference stage itself is with respect to the non-arbitrability of the dispute. Both are different and distinct. So far as the first issue with respect to the existence and the validity of an arbitration E agreement is concerned, as the same goes to the root of the matter, the same has to be to conclusively decided by the referral court at the referral stage itself. Now, so far as the non-arbitrability of the dispute is concerned, even as per the law laid-down by this Court in the case of Vidya Drolia (supra), the court at pre-referral stage and while examining the F jurisdiction under Section 11(6) of the Act may even consider prima facie examining the arbitrability of claims. As observed, the prima facie review at the reference stage is to cut the deadwood and trim off the side branches in straightforward cases where dismissal is barefaced and pellucid and when on the facts and law the litigation must stop at the first stage. However, so far as the dispute with respect to the existence G and validity of an arbitration agreement is concerned and when the same is raised at pre-referral stage, the referral court has to decide the said issue conclusively and finally and should not leave the said issue to be determined by the arbitral tribunal. The reason is that the issue with respect to the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement goes to H 408 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A the root of the matter. As observed by the Constitution Bench in the case of N.N. Global Mercantile Pvt. Ltd. (supra) Sans an agreement, there cannot be any reference to the arbitration. In the said decision this Court has also specifically observed and held that the intention behind the insertion of Section 11(6A) in the Act was to confine the Court, acting under Section 11, to examine and ascertain about the existence of B an arbitration agreement. We are of the opinion that therefore, if the dispute/issue with respect to the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement is not conclusively and finally decided by the referral court while exercising the pre-referral jurisdiction under Section 11(6) and it is left to the arbitral tribunal, it will be contrary to Section 11(6A) of the C Arbitration Act. It is the duty of the referral court to decide the said issue first conclusively to protect the parties from being forced to arbitrate when there does not exist any arbitration agreement and/or when there is no valid arbitration agreement at all. 6. From the impugned common passed by the referral court, D it appears from the observations made in paragraphs 11 to 13 that the referral court has not decided the said issue conclusively and finally and referral court has left it to be decided by the arbitral tribunal. The submission on behalf of the contesting respondent relying upon some observations made in paragraph 22 of the impugned that the referral court has in fact opined that the four agreements are indisputably E interconnected is concerned, it is required to be noted that the observations made in paragraph 22 are to be read along with the prayer of the appellant to appoint different arbitrator(s).