On the basis of the aforesaid assignment and the pattas, he claimed himself to be in possession of the “suit land” B ever since the date of assignment and contends that the muslims have never buried their dead bodies on the said land. 8. Simultaneously, A.Ramaswamy Chettiar claims to have purchased some portion of the suit land from one Ramaswami Pillai, Manickam Pillai, Subhu Pandaram and Vasudeva Chettiar for a sum of C Rs.5000/- some time in the year 1954. He asserted his claim on the basis of mortgage deeds (Exhibits B2 to B7) executed by him in respect of the “suit land” in favour of various parties. 9. The other claimant Govinda Pillai staked his claim over the suit land, on the basis of title of his predecessors-in-interest as told to him by D his father whereas the appellant Committee asserted that it is a burial ground, and it can’t be settled with any private person. 10. The ASO vide dated 31.03.1959 dismissed the claims of all parties observing that the “suit land” is communal in nature and that any assignment of the said land was not possible without the declaration E of the Collector under Section 20A of the Estate Act. The ASO further observed that there had been no burials on the “suit land” for the last 60 years and that there exist only 2 tombs on T.S. No.2253 and there is absolutely no sign of any burial on the “suit land” which in fact was never used as a burial ground. F 11. Both the claimants - Perumal Chettiar and A. Ramaswamy Chettiar filed separate revisions against the above of the ASO before the Settlement Officer, Salem. The revisions were dismissed by the Settlement Officer on the same reasoning as that of ASO vide dated 03.10.1959. It was held that the claimants are not entitled to ryotwari patta on the “suit land”. G 12. The s of the ASO and the Settlement Officer were taken up by means of revisions before the Director of Survey & Settlement by the above two claimants respondents, but even those revisions came to be dismissed on 31.01.1960. Subsequently, the revision petitions before the Board of Revenue were also dismissed. Aggrieved by the above H SALEM MUSLIM BURIAL GROUND PROTECTION 393 COMMITTEE v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU [PANKAJ MITHAL, J.] s starting from that of the ASO, Settlement Officer, Director of A Survey & Settlement and Board of Revenue, writ petitions were filed by different claimants in respect of the “suit land”, including writ petition Nos.903 and 1258 of 1960 by A.Ramaswamy Chettiar and Perumal Chettiar respectively and both of them claimed ryotwari patta under Section 11 of the Abolition Act in respect of the “suit land”. B 13. The writ court by means of a common and dated 03.05.1962 dismissed all the petitions holding that the character of the land once burial ground would not change only for the reason that it had not been used for burial purposes since 1900 or that no burial has taken place on the said land.