[Para 22][197-B-D; 198-A, D] 6. This Court, in view of settlement between the parties, has the discretion to dissolve the marriage by passing a decree of divorce by mutual consent, without being bound by the procedural requirement to move the second motion. This power G should be exercised with care and caution, keeping in mind the factors stated in Amardeep Singh and Amit Kumar. This Court can also, in exercise of power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, quash and set aside other proceedings and s, including criminal proceedings. [Para 42][213-C-D] H SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 171 Whether this Court can grant divorce in exercise of power A under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India when there is complete and irretrievable breakdown of marriage in spite of the other spouse opposing the prayer. 7. This Court would not read the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act, their underlying intent, and any fundamental specific B issue of public policy, as barring this Court from dissolving a broken and shattered marriage in exercise of the Constitutional power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India. If at all, the underlying fundamental issues of public policy, as explained in the s of V. Bhagat, Ashok Hurra, and Naveen Kohli, C support the view that it would be in the best interest of all, including the individuals involved, to give legality, in the form of formal divorce, to a dead marriage, otherwise the litigation(s), resultant sufferance, misery and torment shall continue. Therefore, apportioning blame and greater fault may not be the rule to resolve and adjudicate the dispute in rare and exceptional D matrimonial cases, as the rules of evidence under the Evidence Act are rules of procedure. When the life-like situation is known indubitably, the essence and objective behind section 13(1)(i-a) of the Hindu Marriage Act that no spouse should be subjected to mental cruelty and live in misery and pain is established. These E rules of procedure must give way to ‘complete justice’ in a ‘cause or matter’. Fault theory can be diluted by this Court to do ‘complete justice’ in a particular case, without breaching the self- imposed restraint applicable when this Court exercises power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India. [Para 30][205- C-F] F 8. It is clearly stated that grant of divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage by this Court is not a matter of right, but a discretion which is to be exercised with great care and caution, keeping in mind several factors ensuring that ‘complete justice’ is done to both parties. It is obvious that this G Court should be fully convinced and satisfied that the marriage is totally unworkable, emotionally dead and beyond salvation and, therefore, dissolution of marriage is the right solution and the only way forward. That the marriage has irretrievably broken down is to be factually determined and firmly established. For this, H 172 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A several factors are to be considered such as the period of time the parties had cohabited after marriage; when the parties had last cohabited; the nature of allegations made by the parties against each other and their family members; the s passed in the legal proceedings from time to time, cumulative impact on the personal relationship; whether, and how many attempts were B made to settle the disputes by intervention of the court or through mediation, and when the last attempt was made, etc.