could publish it. The question before the Court of Appeal (Civil Division) was whether there was violation of right to privacy, among others and whether it could be enforced against a private person. The Court said: B “49. It follows that the ECtHR has recognised an obligation on member states to protect one individual from an unjustified invasion of private life by another individual and an obligation on the courts of a member state to interpret legislation in a way which will achieve that result. C 50. Some, such as the late Professor Sir William Wade, in Wade & Forsyth Administrative Law (8th Ed.) p 983, and Jonathan Morgan, in Privacy, Confidence and Horizontal Effect:” Hello” Trouble (2003) CLJ 443, contend that the Human Rights Act should be given ‘full, direct, horizontal effect’. The courts D have not been prepared to go this far.… … 102. To summarise our conclusion at this stage: disregarding the effect of the OK! contract, we are satisfied that the Douglases’ claim for invasion of their privacy falls E to be determined according to the English law of confidence. That law, as extended to cover private and personal information, protected information about the Douglases’ wedding.” 68. In X vs. Y63, the Court of Appeals dealt with the case of an F employee X, who was cautioned by the Police for committing a sex offence with another man in a public bathroom. The offence occurred when X was off duty. On finding about the incident, the employer Y suspended X and dismissed him after a disciplinary hearing. The dismissal was challenged as violative of Convention Rights. An argument was raised that these rights are not enforceable against private parties. Though G on facts, the claim of the dismissed employee was dismissed, the legal issue was articulated by the Court thus: 63 [2004] EWCA Civ 662 H 662 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A “55. The applicant invoked articles 8 and 14 of the Convention in relation to his cause of action in private law. (1) As appears from the authorities cited in section C above, article 8 is not confined in its effect to relations between individuals and the state and public authorities. It has been interpreted by the Strasbourg court as imposing a positive obligation on the B state to secure the observance and enjoyment of the right between private individuals. (2) If the facts of the case fall within the ambit of article 8, the state is also under a positive obligation under article 14 to secure to private individuals the enjoyment of the right without C discrimination, including discrimination on the ground of sexual orientation. (3) A person’s sexual orientation and private sex life fall within the scope of the Convention right to respect for private life (see ADT v. UK [2000] 2 FLR 697) and the right to non-discrimination D in respect that right. Interference with the right within article 8.1 has to be justified under article 8.2.” 69. In Plattform “Ärzte Für Das Leben” vs. Austria64, a question arose as to the enforceability of the right to freedom of assembly against non-State actors, who obstructed the assembly.