In the case of Tholan v. State of Tamil Nadu, AIR 1984 SC 759,the accused stood in front of the house of the deceased and used E filthy language against some persons who were unconnected with the deceased. The deceased came out of his house and told the accused that he should not use vulgar and filthy language in front of ladies and asked him to go away. The accused questioned the authority of the deceased to ask him to leave the place. In the ensuing altercation, the F accused gave one blow with a knife which landed on the (right) chest of the deceased which proved to be fatal. This Court came to the conclusion that the accused could not be convicted under Section 302, but was guilty under Section 304 Part II. The circumstances which weighed with this Court were : (i) there was no connection between the accused and the deceased and the presence of the deceased at the time of the incident, G was wholly accidental; (ii) altercation with the deceased was on the spur of the moment and the accused gave a single blow being enraged by the deceased asking him to leave the place; (iii) the requisite intention could not be attributed to the accused as there was nothing to indicate that the accused intended the blow to land on the right side of the chest H which proved to be fatal. ANBAZHAGAN v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY THE 1125 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 55. In Chamru, Son of Budhwa v. State of Madhya Pradesh, A AIR 1954 SC 652, in somewhat similar circumstances, where there was exchange of abuses between the two parties both of whom were armed with lathis, they came to blows and in the course of the fight that ensued, the accused struck a lathi blow on the head of the deceased which caused a fracture of the skull resulting in the death. In view of the fact that the B accused had given only one blow in the heat of the moment, it was held that all that can be said was that he had given the blow with the knowledge that it was likely to cause death and, therefore, the offence fell under Section 304, Part II of the IPC. In Willie (William) Slaney v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, AIR 1956 SC 116, there was, as here, a sudden quarrel leading to an exchange of abuses and in the heat of the moment C a solitary blow with a hockey-stick had been given on the head. The Court held that the offence amounted to culpable homicide not amounting to murder punishable under Section 304, Part II. 56. In Kulwant Rai v. State of Punjab, (1981) 4 SCC 245, the accused, without any prior enmity or premeditation, on a short quarrel D gave a single blow with a dagger which later proved to be fatal. This Court observed that since there was no premeditation, Part 3 of Section 300 of the IPC could not be attracted because it cannot be said that the accused intended to inflict that particular injury which was ultimately found to have been inflicted.