(2) In case, the Committee or the Board has reasonable grounds for doubt regarding whether the person brought before it is a child or not, the Committee or the Board, as the case may be, shall undertake the process of age determination, by seeking evidence D by obtaining – (i) the date of birth certificate from the school, or the matriculation or equivalent certificate from the concerned examination Board, if available; and in the absence thereof; E (ii) the birth certificate given by a corporation or a municipal authority or a panchayat; (iii) and only in the absence of (i) and (ii) above, age shall be determined by an ossification test or any other latest medical age determination test conducted on the s of the Committee or F the Board: Provided such age determination test conducted on the of the Committee or the Board shall be completed within fifteen days from the date of such . (3) The age recorded by the Committee or the Board to be the G age of person so brought before it shall, for the purpose of this Act, be deemed to be the true age of that person.” 11. On a careful perusal of the above noted provision and the facts of the present case, the above argument of the learned counsel for the State is liable to be rejected for the following reasons: H KARAN @ FATIYA v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 597 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] a) firstly, that during the inquiry before the Trial Court, the State A did not take any objection whatsoever with regard to the documents filed on behalf of the appellant and the evidence led on behalf of the appellant so much so that the State did not even cross-examine the witnesses who were examined in the inquiry. Permitting the State to raise such an objection now once the B conclusive finding has been recorded by the Trial Court after an elaborate inquiry would be unjust and not warranted. The State had full opportunity to raise such a plea before the Trial Court in the inquiry and then it was for the Trial Court to take a call as to whether any ossification test was necessary or not; C b) Secondly, ossification test will only give a broad assessment of the age. It cannot give an exact age. There is also an element of margin of plus or minus 1 to 2 years. Even if we permit the said test, it does not lead us anywhere. It will have no bearing on the assessment made by the Trial Court after the inquiry; D c) Thirdly, the first preference for determination of age is the birth certificate issued by the school or a matriculation certificate. Although it has been submitted that no birth certificate of the school was submitted, learned counsel for the appellant has pointed out from the documents attached to the report that in addition to the mark sheets and the school leaving certificate, the birth E certificate was also filed which is Annexure I-3 to the report.