Secretary, Ministry of Law and Justice (2018) 10 SCC 1 : [2018] 7 SCR 379; K. S. B Puttaswamy & Anr. Vs. Union of India & Ors (2017) 10 SCC 1 : [2017] 10 SCR 569 – followed. Gujarat Mazdoor Sabha & Anr. Vs. State of Gujarat (2020) 10 SCC 459 – relied on. C Associated Provincial Picture Houses Limited v. Wednesbury Corporation [1948] 1 KB 223 – referred to. 3. Whether the classification made by the Full-Bench of the High Court between Pushtaini landowners and Gair-pushtaini landowners is in contravention to the law laid down by this Hon’ble D Court in the case of Nagpur Improvement Trust and another vs. Vithal Rao and others (1973) 1 SCC 500? The classification made by the GNOIDA authority for the purposes of awarding differential compensation is bad in law, and it is precisely this kind of classification that has been barred. E When the purpose of the acquisition of the land is for the benefit of the public at large, then the nature of the owner of the said land is inconsequential to the purpose. If such a classification on the basis of the nature of owner is allowed, then on the same grounds, there might be a possibility of future classifications where F powerholding members of the society may get away with a larger compensation, and the marginalized may get lesser compensation. This is precisely what this Court in the abovementioned predicted, and to preempt such arbitrary classification, clarified the position in law. The Land Acquisition Act does not distinguish between classes of owners, and uniformly provides compensation G to all class of landowners. The classification made between Pushtaini landowners and Gair-pushtaini landowners, on the basis of the reasoning mentioned above, is violative of the law laid down in the Nagpur Trust case and Article 14 of the Constitution. [Para 59, 60][468-B-F] H RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 427 PRADESH Nagpur Improvement Trust and Another Vs. Vithal Rao A and Ors. (1973) 1 SCC 500 : [1973] 3 SCR 39 – relied on. 4.1 The classification made by both the executive actions is bad in law, and is liable to be set aside. The Land Acquisition Act does not envisage any differential compensation on the basis B of such classification, and hence, this Court must infer the compensation to be provided by the executive actions within the confines of Section 23 of the Act. Section 23 of the Land Acquisition Act states out the grounds for granting compensation in cases of acquisition of land under the Act. One such reason for C the grant of compensation is rehabilitation, and it is this need for granting compensation for rehabilitation under the Act that is echoed by the impugned notification. A bare reading of both the executive actions in consonance with the Act would show that the need for giving compensation for rehabilitation is valid in law and is backed by the parent statute. The mischief then, is only D limited to the arbitrary classification made by such actions.