F 62. Chandrachud J. (as he then was) in the concurring opinion in A. Ayyasamy vs A. Paramasivam & Ors50 (for short “Ayyasamy”) noted, inter alia, that jurisprudence in India must strengthen institutional efficacy of arbitration with minimal intervention of Courts: “53. The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, should in my view G be interpreted so as to bring in line the principles underlying its interpretation in a manner that is consistent with prevailing approaches in the common law world. Jurisprudence in India must 49 Park, William. “Challenging Arbitral Jurisdiction: The Role of Institutional Rules”, Boston University School of Law, Public Law Research Paper (2015). H 50 (2016) 10 SCC 386 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 459 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] evolve towards strengthening the institutional efficacy of A arbitration. Deference to a forum chosen by parties as a complete remedy for resolving all their claims is but part of that evolution. Minimising the intervention of courts is again a recognition of the same principle.” [emphasis supplied] B 63. It upheld the one-stop arbitration principle propounded by the House of Lords in Fiona Trust and Holding Corporation v. Privalov51. “46. In Fiona Trust and Holding Corpn. v. Privalov [Fiona C Trust and Holding Corpn. v. Privalov, (2007) 1 All ER (Comm) 891 : 2007 Bus LR 686 (CA)] , the Court of Appeal emphasised the need to make a fresh start in imparting business efficacy to arbitral agreements. The Court of Appeal held that : (Bus LR pp. 695 H-696 B & F, paras 17 & 19) “17. … For our part we consider that the time has now D come for a line of some sort to be drawn and a fresh start made at any rate for cases arising in an international commercial context. Ordinary businessmen would be surprised at the nice distinctions drawn in the cases and the time taken up by argument in debating whether a particular case falls E within one set of words or another very similar set of words. If businessmen go to the trouble of agreeing that their disputes be heard in the courts of a particular country or by a tribunal of their choice they do not expect (at any rate when they are making the contract in the first place) that time and expense will be taken in lengthy argument about the nature of particular F causes of action and whether any particular cause of action comes within the meaning of the particular phrase they have chosen in their arbitration clause. If any businessman did want to exclude disputes about the validity of a contrAct, it would be comparatively simple to say so. G *** 19. One of the reasons given in the cases for a liberal construction of an arbitration clause is the presumption in favour 51 (2007) 1 All ER(Comm) 891(Paras 17-18) H 460 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A of one-stop arbitration. It is not to be expected that any commercial man would knowingly create a system which required that the court should first decide whether the contract should be rectified or avoided or rescinded (as the case might be) and then, if the contract is held to be valid, required the arbitrator to resolve the issues that have arisen.