Therefore, the CoC and Resolution Professional cannot justify their delay on one hand and then seek to erode the rights of the Appellants by relying on delay. 3.5 On merits learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants E have vehemently submitted that the decisions of this Court in the case of Anuj Jain Interim Resolution Professional for Jaypee Infratech Limited vs. Axis Bank Limited etc. etc.1 and Phoenix ARC Private Limited vs. Ketulbhai Ramubhai Patel,2 are distinguishable and shall not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand. 3.6 It is submitted that there is creditor-debtor relationship between F the appellants and the Amtek Auto Limited. It is submitted that WLD and Brassco took loans from the appellant nos.2 and 3 through appellant no.1 for the end use and ultimate benefit of the Corporate Debtor. In to establish a direct debtor-creditor relationship, reliance is placed on the Board Resolution of Amtek Auto dated 13.06.2016; no objection G certificate requested by Amtek Auto on 23.12.2015; no objection certificate requested by Amtek Auto on 26.03.2016 from IDBI; No objection certificate issued by IDBI Bank to Vistra ITCL etc. It is submitted that from the aforesaid it is clear that Amtek obtained monies from Appellant 1 (2020) 8 SCC 401. H 2 (2021) 2 SCC 799. M/S VISTRA ITCL (INDIA) LTD v. MR. DINKAR 817 VENKATASUBRAMANIAN [M. R. SHAH, J.] Nos.2 & 3 when it was in financial distress, which fact the banks were A aware of since the reason for obtaining these loans was to ‘standardize’ Amtek’s loan account with the banks. 3.7 It is vehemently submitted that the pledge of shares constituted as financial debt under the IBC is defined as Security Interest under Section 3(31) of the IBC. B 4. Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of respondent no.2 has vehemently submitted that the appellant had filed its claim with the Resolution Professional on 02.11.2017 which was rejected and the same was duly reflected in the list of creditors published on the website of the Corporate Debtor. It is submitted that the said C rejection has never been challenged by the appellant. It is submitted that even in various communications exchanged, the appellant no.1 raised no challenge to non-acceptance of its claim but rather put forth an absurd request to the Resolution Professional to ensure that the pledged shares are not to be dealt with in any manner without the prior written consent D of the appellant no.1. It is submitted that therefore the appellant on 11.02.2020 had filed an application before the NCLT that too not in challenge to its claim rejection but for seeking admission into the CoC. It is submitted that since the said application was filed belatedly the same is rightly rejected by the NCLT and is rightly confirmed by the NCLAT. E 4.1 Shri Mehta, learned Solicitor General has further submitted that the issue involved in the present appeal is squarely covered by this Court in the case of Anuj Jain (supra) and Phoenix ARC Private Limited (supra).