The combined reading of the relevant provisions referred to D hereinabove clearly indicates that the Act, 1954 will not cover such area as defined in the first instance which may or before the first day of November, 1956 be included in a Municipality. The ‘land’ which has been defined under Section 3(13) provides that except in sections 23 and 24, such of the land held or occupied for purpose connected with E agriculture, horticulture or animal husbandry including pisciculture and poultry farming and further includes other categories which are part of land but at the same time, it does not include land occupied by building in belts or areas adjacent to Delhi town. 26. ‘Delhi town’ has been defined under Section 3(5) of the Act which clearly defines that areas which immediately before the F establishment of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi were included in the limits of Delhi Municipality. There is complete exclusion of the land occupied by buildings adjacent to Delhi town which falls before the establishment of Municipal Corporation of Delhi and is not a land covered for the purpose by deciding rights of the parties under tenure holder G under Chapter II of the Act, 1954. 27. At the same time, Section 150(3), (4) and (5) of the Act indicate that if the Gaon Sabha area ceases to be included in rural areas as defined in the Act, 1957 by virtue of notification under Section 507 of the Act, the Gaon Sabha shall thereupon stand dissolved or if a portion of H Gaon Sabha area ceases to be included in rural areas as aforesaid, the MOHINDER SINGH(DEAD) THROUGH LRS AND ANOTHER 269 v. NARAIN SINGH AND OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] jurisdiction of the Gaon Sabha for that area ceases in respect of that A portion and for that portion stands dissolved or to that extent, the size of the Gaon Sabha stands reduced as a result of a portion ceasing to be included in rural area as aforesaid. 28. Let us take a view of relevant provisions of Act, 1957 for the present purpose which are as under:- B “2(52) “rural areas” means the areas of Delhi which immediately before the establishment of a Corporation are situated within the local limits of the District Board of Delhi established under the Punjab District Boards Act, 1883 (Punjab Act 20 of 1883), but shall not include such portion thereof as may, by virtue of a C notification under section 507, cease to be included in the rural areas as herein defined; 2(61) “urban areas” means the areas of Delhi which are not rural areas; 502. Other laws not to be disregarded— Save as provided in this D Act, nothing contained in this Act shall be construed as authorising the disregard by a Corporation or any municipal authority or any municipal officer or other municipal employee of any law for the time being in force. 507. Special provisions as to rural areas.— Notwithstanding E anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Act,— (a) a Corporation with the previous approval of the Government, may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that any portion of the rural areas shall cease to be included therein and upon the issue of such notification that portion shall be included F in and form part of the urban areas; (b) a Corporation with the previous approval of the Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,— (i) exempt the rural areas or any portion thereof from such G of the provisions of this Act as it deems fit, (ii) levy taxes, rates, fees and other charges in the rural areas or any portion thereof at rates lower than those at which such taxes, rates, fees and other charges are levied in the urban areas or exempt such areas or portion from H any such tax, rate, fee or other charge.” 270 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R.