C Denning, L.J. who stated the power in broad and general terms observed: “It will have been seen that throughout all the cases there is one governing rule: certiorari is only available to quash a decision for error of law if the error appears on the face of D the record.” The position was thus summed up by Morris, L.J. “It is plain that certiorari will not issue as the cloak of an appeal in disguise. It does not lie in to bring an or E decision for rehearing of the issue raised in the proceedings. It exists to correct error of law where revealed on the face of an or decision, or irregularity, or absence of, or excess of, jurisdiction where shown”. In Veerappa Pillai v. Raman & Raman Ltd. [(1952) SCR 583], F it was observed by this Court that under article 226 the writ should be issued “in grave cases where the subordinate tribunals or bodies or officers act wholly without jurisdiction, or in excess of it, or in violation of the principles of natural justice, or refuse to exercise a jurisdiction vested in them, or there is an error apparent on the face of the record”. In T.C. Basappa v. T. Nagappa [(1955) G SCR 250] the law was thus stated: “An error in the decision or determination itself may also be amenable to a writ of ‘certiorari’ but it must be a manifest error apparent on the face of the proceedings, e.g., when it is based on clear ignorance or disregard of the provisions of H M/S SOUTH INDIAN BANK LTD. & ORS. v. NAVEEN 27 MATHEW PHILIP & ANR. ETC. ETC. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] law. In other words, it is a patent error which can be corrected A by ‘certiorari’ but not a mere wrong decision.” 15. The object and reasons behind the Act 54 of 2002 are very clear as observed by this Court in Mardia Chemicals Ltd. v. Union of India, (2004) 4 SCC 311. While it facilitates a faster and smoother mode of recovery sans any interference from the Court, it does provide B a fair mechanism in the form of the Tribunal being manned by a legally trained mind. The Tribunal is clothed with a wide range of powers to set aside an illegal , and thereafter, grant consequential reliefs, including re-possession and payment of compensation and costs. Section 17(1) of the SARFAESI Act gives an expansive meaning to the expression “any C person”, who could approach the Tribunal. 16. Approaching the High Court for the consideration of an offer by the borrower is also frowned upon by this Court. A writ of mandamus is a prerogative writ. In the absence of any legal right, the Court cannot exercise the said power. More circumspection is required in a financial D transaction, particularly when one of the parties would not come within the purview of Article 12 of the Constitution of India. When a statute prescribes a particular mode, an attempt to circumvent shall not be encouraged by a writ court.