In regard to the liability and priority concerning post-liquidation expenses, reliance has been placed on a few English decisions, including G that In re Toshoku Finance UK plc: [2002] 1 WLR 671. 11.3. Learned Counsel for respondent No. 1 has placed strong reliance on Section 185 of the M.P. Act of 1956 to submit that the provision creates an obligation to pay municipal taxes as a first charge on the land and building as also the movable properties and the proviso H OFFICIAL LIQUIDATOR v. UJJAIN NAGAR PALIKA NIGAM 1099 & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] expressly provides that arrears of tax are not recoverable from any A occupier who is not the owner, if the arrears are of the period when such occupier was not in occupation. Therefore, in view of the proviso, arrears of tax for the period prior to confirmation of auction sale, cannot be recovered from the auction purchaser and have to be paid by the OL. 11.4. It has also been submitted that in terms of Section 520 of B the Companies Act, the municipal taxes as sought to be claimed by respondent No.1 would be costs of winding up; and the appellant being in possession of the assets, is obliged to pay the municipal taxes, which ought to have been paid to protect and preserve the property. 12. Learned counsel for respondent No. 3 – the auction purchaser C - has duly supported the s impugned with the submissions that the tax dues in the present case were “post-liquidation dues” amounting to “costs of liquidation” and were to be borne by the OL alone; and could not have been foisted on the auction purchaser. 12.1. It has been submitted on behalf of respondent No. 3 that D auction purchaser is liable towards property tax and water tax with effect from the date of confirmation of sale in his favour i.e., from 04.07.2003 and he has discharged all such claims but then, there is no liability on him towards taxes prior to the date of confirmation of sale when property of the company was custodia legis and was in the hands of OL. E 12.2. Furthermore, learned counsel has submitted that the Companies Act and the Rules of 1959 do not impose any obligation on purchaser to pay dues that relate to period between the date of of winding up and date of sale confirmation. The claims in the present case are post-liquidation charges or costs and are, therefore, expenses of winding up, liable to be borne out of proceeds of liquidation, if any; and F to the extent that they remain unpaid after exhausting the proceeds of liquidation, are to abate. In this regard, reliance has been placed on the said decision, In re Toshoku Finance UK plc. 12.3. Learned Counsel has referred to Section 100 of Transfer of Property Act, 18829 as also to the decisions of this Court in Ahmedabad G Municipal Corporation (supra) and AI Champdany Ltd. v. Official Liquidator and Anr.