[2023] 14 S.C.R. 492 : 2023 INSC 923 CASE DETAILS TOTTEMPUDI SALALITH v. STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 2348 of 2021) OCTOBER 18, 2023 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE AND VIKRAM NATH, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Issues arose as to whether the debts in connection with the recovery certifi cate issued in the year 2015, could form subject matter of an application u/s.7 IBC; whether the the banks having approached the DRT, were barred under the doctrine of election from approaching the NCLT for recovery of same set of debts; and whether the date of default should go back to the date on which the loan account of the corporate debtor was declared as non-performing asset. Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 – s. 7 – Debts in connection with the recovery certifi cate issued in the year 2015, if could form subject matter of an application u/s. 7 – Corporate debtor faced insolvency proceedings due to failure to repay loans to several banks – Issuance of recovery certifi cate by the tribunal in the year 2015 and 2017 respectively, against the corporate debtor in which the fi nancial creditor-Banks had stake – On basis thereof, fi nancial creditor initiated proceedings u/s. 7 seeking Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process- CIRP against the corporate debtor in the year 2019 – Tribunal admitted the application and declared moratorium on the ground of limitation – Appeal thereagainst, on the ground that the application u/s. 7 was not maintainable on the ground of limitation and doctrine of election – Dismissed by the appellate tribunal – Correctness: Held: Doctrine of election cannot be applied to prevent the fi nancial creditors from approaching the NCLT for initiation of CIRP – Date of recovery certifi cate was treated to be the date on which 492 TOTTEMPUDI SALALITH v. STATE BANK OF INDIA & 493 ORS. the time of limitation began to tick – Letter issued by the corporate debtor to the Banks, agreeing in principle to repay the amount due to the fi nancial creditors was a request to consider a one-time settlement – In absence of averments or pleading, after initiation of insolvency proceeding, any promise made to pay the debt cannot be treated to have cured the fault of limitation in a pre-existing action – It cannot by itself revive the debt though it could create an independent cause of action – Proceedings initiated before the tribunal is a composite application based on three recovery certifi cates, two of which were instituted within the three year limitation period, but the third recovery certifi cate was issued in 2015, beyond the limitation period – However, a recovery certifi cate under the 1993 Act is also clothed with the character of a deemed decree which has twelve years for enforcement as per Art. 136 – In the event a fi nancial creditor wants to pursue a recovery certifi cate as a deemed decree, he would get twelve years’ time – Application with respect to the two recovery certifi cates issued in 2017 is maintainable – As regards recovery certifi cate of 2015, in case the appellate tribunal is of opinion that CIRP could not lie, as the decree would be still alive, the claim based on the said recovery certifi cate could be segregated from the composite claim and the Committee of Creditors would treat the sum refl ected in the said recovery certifi cate as part of the claims made in pursuance of the public announcement – Limitation Act, 1963 – Art.