The challenge before the Court was whether Yuvraj Karan Singh had exceeded his powers under the Jammu & Kashmir Constitution Act, 1939, in enacting the said law. The petitioners therein, inter alia, pleaded that the Maharaja’s sovereignty was considerably aff ected by the Instrument of Accession, and, thus, he was no longer a sovereign ruler and could not have passed on any sovereignty to the Yuvraj. 47. The argument did not fi nd favor with the Court. It was noted that with the Indian Independence Act, 1947, the suzerainty of His Majesty over princely states lapsed, thereby restoring the Maharaja’s status of an ‘absolute monarch’. Later, with the signing of the IoA, it was opined that the Maharaja conceded to the authorities mentioned in Clause 1 of the IoA, his right to exercise certain functions subject to other terms of the Instrument. Clause 6 expressly recognized the continuance of the sovereignty of his Highness in and over the State. It is in this context that in paragraph 26 of the , the Court was constrained to “reject the argument that the execution of the Instrument of Accession aff ected in any manner the legislative, executive and the judicial powers in regard to the Government of the State when they vested in the Ruler of the State.” 48. The matter did not rest at this as the Court observed that the powers of Yuvraj Karan Singh (vested by the Maharaja on 20.06.1949) were not ‘substantially limited’ by his Proclamation dated 26.11.1949, whereby he 109 supra IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 347 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] declared that the Constitution of India would govern the constitutional relationship between the State and the Union. Thus, the Proclamation did not alter the Constitutional position established once the Maharaja had signed the IoA. 49. Even Article 370(1) was opined to not aff ect the plenary power of the Maharaja in the governance of the State, as these powers had been recognized and provided by the Constitution of the State itself. It is through the Constituent Assembly that the State was free to choose its own form of Government. 50. The Coordinate Constitution Bench of this Court is thus clear in its fi nding that the State did not lose all semblance of its internal sovereignty – which included deciding upon the form of government of the State - upon signing the IoA. The distinguishing feature, as compared to some of the other States, was that a slightly diff erent path was followed for the accession of the State of Jammu & Kashmir by recognizing the Constituent Assembly to be formed for the State. The route of assimilation of the State of Jammu and Kashmir was through Article 370. 51. The Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, which resulted from the deliberations of the State Constituent Assembly, was thus the repository of the sovereignty of the State of Jammu and Kashmir. B. Article 370 of the Constitution as a temporary provision. 52. The nature of Article 370 itself – whether temporary or permanent – is the key to assessing the validity of the impugned actions.