Doctrines / Principles – Principle of Collective Responsibility E – Can a statement made by a Minister, traceable to any affairs of State or for protecting the Government, be attributed vicariously to the Government itself, especially in view of the principle of Collective Responsibility – Held (per V. Ramasubramanian, J.) (for S. Abdul Nazeer, B.R. Gavai and A.S. Bopanna, JJ., and himself) : A statement F made by a Minister even if traceable to any affairs of the State or for protecting the Government, cannot be attributed vicariously to the Government by invoking the principle of collective responsibility – Held (per B.V. Nagarathna, J. ): A statement made by a Minister if traceable to any affairs of the State or for protecting the Government, can be attributed vicariously to the Government by G invoking the principle of collective responsibility, so long as such statement represents the view of the Government also – If such a statement is not consistent with the view of the Government, then it is attributable to the Minister personally. H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 583 Tort – Constitutional Tort – Whether a statement by a Minister, A inconsistent with the rights of a citizen under Part III of the Constitution, constitutes a violation of such constitutional rights and is actionable as ‘Constitutional Tort” – Held (per V. Ramasubramanian, J.) (for S. Abdul Nazeer, B.R. Gavai and A.S. Bopanna, JJ., and himself) : A mere statement made by a Minister, B inconsistent with the rights of a citizen under Part III of the Constitution, may not constitute a violation of the constitutional rights and become actionable as Constitutional tort – But if as a consequence of such a statement, any act of omission or commission is done by the officers resulting in harm or loss to a person/citizen, then the same may be actionable as a constitutional tort – Held C (Per B.V. Nagarathna, J. ): A proper legal framework is necessary to define the acts or omissions which would amount to constitutional tort and the manner in which the same would be redressed or remedied on the basis of judicial precedent. Answering the Reference, the Court D Per V. Ramasubramanian, J. (For S. Abdul Nazeer, B.R. Gavai, and A.S. Bopanna, JJ. and himself) (Majority opinion) HELD: 1. The restrictions under clause (2) of Article 19 are comprehensive enough to cover all possible attacks on the E individual, groups/classes of people, the society, the court, the country and the State. This is why this Court repeatedly held that any restriction which does not fall within the four corners of Article 19(2) will be unconstitutional. [Para 28][635-E-F] 2. That the Executive cannot transgress its limits by imposing an additional restriction in the form of Executive or F Departmental instruction was emphasised by this Court in Bijoe Emmanuel vs. State of Kerala. The Court made it clear that the reasonable restrictions sought to be imposed must be through “a law” having statutory force and not a mere Executive or Departmental instruction.