It was also averred E that the petition did not fall under Section 14(1)(e) read with Section 25- B of the Delhi Rent Control Act, 19584, particularly when the appellant did not disclose all the facts concerning possession of other properties bearing No. 588, Gali No. 12, Majlis Park; No. C-603, Gali No. 13, Majlis Park; and No. E-591, Gali No. 12, Majlis Park. F 4.5. In evidence, the appellant asserted the facts stated in her petition. She was cross-examined extensively with questions pertaining to the properties belonging to herself, her brother-in-law (husband’s brother) and wife of her brother-in-law, particularly concerning the property bearing No. C-587 as also those pertaining to the accommodation available in the suit property. The relevant parts of the statement made G by her in cross- examination could be usefully extracted as under: - “xxx xxx xxx The building in which the suit property is situated is consisting H 4 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the Act of 1958’. KUSUM LATA SHARMA v. ARVIND SINGH 499 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] of ground, first and second floor. It is correct that I reside on the A ground floor. It is correct that my brother in law Prem Kumar Sharma was the owner of property no. C-588, Gali No.12, Majlis Park, Azadpur, Delhi. It is also correct that my brother in law Prem Kumar Sharma sold the said property to Smt. Sudesh Rani on B 23.06.2010 for Rs.16 Lakhs. It is correct that said property was sold vide sale deed Ex.PW1/R1. (objected by counsel for petitioner stating the same is photocopy. Heard. The objection shall be decided at the stage of final arguments) C It is correct that Smt. Geeta Sharma is wife of my brother in law Prem Kumar Sharma. It is correct that Smt. Geeta Sharma is owner of property bearing No. C-587, Gali No.12, Majlis Park, Azadpur, Delhi. Smt. Geeta Sharma herself is residing in property bearing No.C-587, Gali No.12, Majlis Park, Azadpur, Delhi. Voltd. D One building is constructed on the plot No. 586 and 587 and me and my sister in law Geeta Sharma are residing in the said one building as one family. It is also correct that Smt. Geeta Sharma was also the owner of property bearing No. C-600, Gali No.12, Majlis Park, Azadpur, E Delhi. It is correct that in the year 2008 a tenant namely Ashok Kumar was in the said property No. C-600. It is correct to suggest that the said property was sold by Geeta Sharma after getting the same evicted. Voltd. The half of the plot in the house constructed on the said plot No.C-600 was demolished due to widening of the road and therefore we got the same evicted and sold the same. F xxx xxx xxx The building, in which the suit property is situated having three rooms, two stores, two kitchens, one pooja room and WC & Bath alongwith verandah on the ground floor; the first floor also G consists of three rooms constructed on back portion of the first floor; and second floor also consists of three rooms constructed on back portion of the second floor.