14. The scheme of Section 99 is that the resolution professional is required to examine the application which has been preferred by the debtor or the creditor within ten days of appointment and to submit a report to the adjudicating authority “recommending for approval or rejection of the application”. In other words, the resolution professional under sub-section (1) of Section 99 performs a three-fold function: (i) The duty to examine the application submitted by the debtor or the creditor; (ii) The submission of a report; and (iii) The incorporation of recommendations in the report either for the approval or the rejection of the application which has been submitted by the debtor or the creditor. (a) evidence of electronic transfer of the unpaid amount from the bank account of the debtor; (b) evidence of encashment of a cheque issued by the debtor; or (c) a signed acknowledgment by the creditor accepting receipt of dues. (3) Where the debt for which an application has been fi led by a creditor is registered with the information utility, the debtor shall not be entitled to dispute the validity of such debt. (4) For the purposes of examining an application, the resolution professional may seek such further information or explanation in connection with the application as may be required from the debtor or the creditor or any other person who, in the opinion of the resolution professional, may provide such information. (5) The person from whom information or explanation is sought under sub-section (4) shall furnish such information or explanation within seven days of receipt of the request. (6) The resolution professional shall examine the application and ascertain that— (a) the application satisfi es the requirements set out in section 94 or 95; (b) the applicant has provided information and given explanation sought by the resolution professional under sub-section (4). (7) After examination of the application under sub-section (6), he may recommend acceptance or rejection of the application in his report. (8) Where the resolution professional fi nds that the debtor is eligible for a fresh start under Chapter II, the resolution professional shall submit a report recommending that the application by the debtor under section 94 be treated as an application under section 81 by the Adjudicating Authority. (9) The resolution professional shall record the reasons for recommending the acceptance or rejection of the application in the report under sub-section (7). (10) The resolution professional shall give a copy of the report under sub-section (7) to the debtor or the creditor, as the case may be.” (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 580 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 15. Where an application has been fi led by the creditor, the resolution professional, as sub-section (2) indicates, “may require the debtor to prove repayment of the debt claimed as unpaid by the creditor”. The debtor may be required to furnish: (i) Evidence of the electronic transfer from the bank account of the debtor repaying the unpaid amount; (ii) Evidence of the encashment of a cheque issued by the debtor; or (iii) An acknowledgement signed by the creditor accepting receipt of dues.