Clause 7.2 is in the following terms: “The members of bidding Consortium should have entered into a Memorandum of Association (MOA) between themselves. One of the members of Consortium, holding at least 51% of the equity/ownership stake shall be authorized and nominated as the ‘Lead member’ (Lead Member) to act and represent all the members of the Consortium for bidding and implementation of the Project.” BTL EPC LTD. v. MACAWBER BEEKAY PVT LTD AND 165 OTHERS [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 23. The agreement between the appellant and the Chinese company, it is common ground, did not involve an equity, stake, or ownership of the Chinese company. This aspect has not been disputed. The issue which fell for determination before the High Court was whether the bid submitted by the appellant was liable to be rejected on the ground that the Chinese company with whom it had entered into a consortium agreement was not registered with the competent authority in terms of the Public Procurement dated 23 July 2020. 24. At this stage, it would be material to note that the Procurement dated 23 July 2020 has been clarifi ed by an OM dated 8 February 2021. The OM stipulates that in terms of paragraph 11 of the dated 23 July 2020, in the case of a works contract including a turnkey contract, the contractor shall not be allowed to sub-contract the work to any contractor from a country that shares a land boundary with India unless the contractor is registered with the competent authority. The OM clarifi es the earlier by stipulating that: “However, no such restriction is stipulated in the regarding other procurements i.e. procurement of Goods, Services, etc.” 25. The High Court went on to decide whether the registration requirement applied even after the clarifi cation and whether the absence of such registration vitiated the bid and the decision to award the contract to the appellant. 26. The submissions which have been urged on behalf of the appellant are that: (i) The appellant was at all material times the sole bidder to whom a LoI was awarded by BHEL on 29 September 2022; (ii) There was no bidding consortium within the meaning of clause 7.2 of the pre-qualifi cation requirements; (iii) The Chinese company with whom a consortium agreement was entered into by the appellant had no equity in the project which was being contracted for by the appellant; (iv) The Procurement dated 23 July 2020 with the clarifi cation which was issued thereafter on 8 February 2021 requires only a registration and does not impose a disqualifi cation; and 166 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (v) As a matter of public interest, the High Court ought not to have interfered consistently with settled legal principles since a large part of the work has already been completed. 27. These submissions have been opposed on behalf of the respondents who have urged that: (i) The appellant did not qualify under clause 01.01.01 and could bid for the project only in pursuance of the experience of the Chinese entity with whom a collaboration agreement was entered into; (ii) The consortium agreement with the Chinese company specifi cally stated that the appellant did not qualify in terms of clause 01.01.01; (iii) The defi nition of the expression ‘bidder’ in the OM dated 23 July 2020 is broad enough so as to encompass a consortium agreement; (iv) The above position would be amplifi ed by the responses submitted by the appellant in the course of the queries that were raised in the tendering process; (v) Clause 52 of the Special Conditions of Contract specifi cally emphasizes the conditions that were set out in the OM; (vi) The responses which were furnished by the appellant to the pre-qualifi cation requirements contain a specifi c statement that the appellant had entered into a consortium agreement with the Chinese company; and (vii) Likewise, the Chinese company in its letter dated 18 July 2023 clarifi ed that it had entered into a consortium agreement in pursuance of which it was undertaking joint and several liability towards BHEL.