F 87. Our attention was also drawn to the provisions of XLIII of Rule 1-A (2) of the CPC. The same reads as under: “1A. Right to challenge non-appealable s in appeal against decrees.— G Xxx xxx xxx (2) In an appeal against a decree passed in a suit after recording a compromise or refusing to record a compromise, it shall be open to the appellant to contest the decree on the ground that the compromise should, or should not, have been H recorded.” 70 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 88. We are of the view that the cross-appeal objector is entitled under XLI Rule 22 of the CPC read with XLIII Rule 1-A (2) of the CPC as referred to above, to make good the submission that she was entitled in law to question the legality and validity of the settlement agreement recorded under XXIII Rule 3 of the CPC by way of a cross-appeal. B 89. In the aforesaid context, we may refer to the decision of this Court in the case of Banwari Lal v. Chando Devi (Smt) and Another reported in (1993) 1 SCC 581, more particularly, paras 9 to 13 resply therein: C “9. Section 96(3) of the Code says that no appeal shall lie from a decree passed by the Court with the consent of the parties. Rule 1-A(2) has been introduced saying that against a decree passed in a suit after recording a compromise, it shall be open to the appellant to contest the decree on the ground that the compromise should not have been recorded. D When Section 96(3) bars an appeal against decree passed with the consent of parties, it implies that such decree is valid and binding on the parties unless set aside by the procedure prescribed or available to the parties. One such remedy available was by filing the appeal under 43, Rule 1(m). E If the recording the compromise was set aside, there was no necessity or occasion to file an appeal against the decree. Similarly a suit used to be filed for setting aside such decree on the ground that the decree is based on an invalid and illegal compromise not binding on the plaintiff of the second suit. But after the amendments which have been F introduced, neither an appeal against the recording the compromise nor remedy by way of filing a suit is available in cases covered by Rule 3-A of 23. As such a right has been given under Rule 1-A(2) of 43 to a party, who challenges the recording of the compromise, to question the G validity thereof while preferring an appeal against the decree. Section 96(3) of the Code shall not be a bar to such an appeal because Section 96(3) is applicable to cases where the factum of compromise or agreement is not in dispute. 10. The learned counsel appearing for the respondent took a stand that the High Court was justified in taking the view H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS.