A as permissible under the Constitution.” He stated that whether the right to vote is a statutory right or not does not have any implication on the right to know antecedents, which is a part of fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a). He however also held that democracy based on adult franchise is part of the basic structure of the Constitution, and that the right of adults to take part in the election process either as a voter or a B candidate could only be restricted by a valid law which does not offend constitutional provisions. 54. Justice Venkatarama Reddi emphasized on the right to vote, and held: C “The right to vote for the candidate of one’s choice is of the essence of democratic polity. This right is recognized by our Constitution and it is given effect to in specific form by the Representation of the People Act. The Constituent Assembly debates reveal that the idea to treat the voting right as a fundamental right was dropped; nevertheless, it was decided to provide for it elsewhere in the D Constitution. This move found its expression in Article 326…” 55. He disagreed with the views expressed in N.P. Ponnuswamiand Jyoti Basu, and held: “the right to vote, if not a fundamental right, is certainly a constitutional right. The right originates from the Constitution and E in accordance with the constitutional mandate contained in Article 326, the right has been shaped by the statute, namely, R.P. Act. That, in my understanding, is the correct legal position as regards the nature of the right to vote in elections to the House of people and Legislative Assemblies. It is not very accurate to describe it F as a statutory right, pure and simple.” 56. Justice Venkatarama Reddi then distinguished the constitutional right to vote with the act of giving vote/freedom of voting. He held: “a distinction has to be drawn between the conferment of the right to vote on fulfillment of requisite criteria and the culmination G of that right in the final act of expressing choice towards a particular candidate by means of ballot. Though the initial right cannot be placed on the pedestal of a fundamental right, but, at the stage when the voter goes to the polling booth and casts his vote, his freedom to express arises. The casting of vote in favour of one or H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 201 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] the other candidate tantamounts to expression of his opinion and A preference and that final stage in the exercise of voting right marks the accomplishment of freedom of expression of the voter. That is where Article 19(1)(a) is attracted. Freedom of voting as distinct from right to vote is thus a species of freedom of expression and therefore carries with it the auxiliary and complementary rights B such as right to secure information about the candidate which are conducive to the freedom. None of the decisions of this Court wherein the proposition that the right to vote is a pure and simple statutory right was declared and reiterated, considered the question whether the citizen’s freedom of expression is or is not involved when a citizen entitled to vote casts his vote in favour of one or C the other candidate…” In his conclusions, he noted: “The right to vote at the elections to the House of people or Legislative Assembly is a constitutional right but not merely a D statutory right; freedom of voting as distinct from right to vote is a facet of the fundamental right enshrined in Article 19(1)(a).