HIND OFFSHORE PVT. LTD. v. IFFCO – TOKIO GENERAL 973 INSURANCE CO. LTD. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] (10 August 2004) Classifi cation may be suspended, in which case the Certifi cate of Classifi cation will become invalid, upon failure to submit any damage, failure, deterioration or repairs for examination upon the fi rst opportunity or, if proposed repairs, as referred to in 7-1-1/7, have not been submitted to the Bureau and agreed upon prior to commencement, as referred to in 7-1-1/7.” 16. From a perusal of the provisions as contained in the Marine Insurance Act 1963 relating to warranties, if the requirement is not complied with, then the insurer is discharged from liability as from the date of breach of warranty but without prejudice to any liability incurred before that date. In that background, in a time policy, there is no implied warranty that the ship shall be seaworthy at any stage but where with the privity of the assured, the ship is sent to sea in an unseaworthy state, the insurer is not liable for any loss attributable to unseaworthiness. It is in that light, the Classifi cation Certifi cate assumes relevance with reference to the manner in which it was obtained. In view of the warranty requirement, the assured is expected to bring to the notice of the Classifi cation Society the shortcomings or the defects if any, before the issue of such Class Certifi cate since the insurance coverage to be provided by the insurer is based on such Class Certifi cate which is assumed to have been issued by the Classifi cation Society after keeping in view all aspects including the defects if any brought to their notice. It is in that light the provisions extracted above becomes relevant as to the circumstance under which the Class will be suspended and the Certifi cate of Classifi cation will become invalid in the circumstances stated therein, which also refers to such suspension and invalidation, if any damage, failure or deterioration repair has not been completed as recommended. 17. Hence if these aspects are kept in perspective, the entire issue in the instant case would hinge on the aspect as to whether the appellant had brought any material on record, either when the claim was lodged or before the NCDRC to indicate that the damage to the engine crank shaft which was required to be replaced and on account of which payment had been obtained, had been factually replaced, or if it had not been replaced, whether it was reported to ABS so that the Classifi cation Society would have thereafter assessed as to whether even in that circumstance where the replacement had 974 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. not been made, whether the repairs carried out were suffi cient to certify the seaworthiness of the vessel. On being aware, an informed decision was to be taken to issue the Class Certifi cate. In the instant case, no such material was brought on record. 18. The learned senior counsel for the appellant would however seek to rely at the outset on a decision rendered by the NCDRC in the case of Ceyaki Shipping Pvt.