The time elapsed must be taken into consideration by the Court, and we may stress on that, only after taking due note of and taking steps to abide by the warning issued by this Court in Abhai Raj Singh (supra), as was correctly done in Sita Ram (supra). G Conclusions 35.Protection of the rights under Article 21 entails protection of liberty from any restriction thereupon in the absence of fair legal procedure. Fair legal procedure includes the opportunity for the person filing an appeal to question the conclusions drawn by the trial court. The H 528 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A same can only be done when the record is available with the Court of Appeal. That is the mandate of Section 385 of the CrPC. Therefore, in the considered view of this Court, it is not within prudence to lay down a straightjacket formula, we hold that non-compliance with the mandate of the section, in certain cases contingent upon specific facts and circumstances of the case, would result in a violation of Article 21 of the B Constitution of India, which we find it to be so in the instant case. 36.The language of Section 385 shows that the Court sitting in appeal governed thereby is required to call for the records of the case from the concerned Court below. The same is an obligation, power coupled with a duty, and only after the perusal of such records would an appeal C be decided. 37.In the view of the aforesaid, the appeal is allowed. The impugned and the conviction dated 07.12.1999 passed by Special Judge (Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988), Lucknow, in Case No.7/1996 is set aside, subject thereof, is set aside. D 38.The impugned had directed the accused to pay, by way of an enhanced fine, Rupees 25,000. Given the above, the fine, be it of whatever amount, if deposited, is liable to be returned to the Appellant. 39.Before parting with the present leave petition another important issue must be dealt with, i.e. the digitization of records. Technology has, E in the present time become increasingly enmeshed with the systems of dispute resolution and adjudication with the trends pointing leading to all the more interplay, both supplementary and complimentary between technology and law. 40.On 24.9.2021, the learned E-committee of the Supreme Court F of India issued an SOP for digital preservation. Step by step implementation of the digitization process involves eighteen steps therein. Primarily, it requires all High Courts to establish Judicial Digital Repositories (JDR) as well as the standardized system therefor; A digitisation cell at each of the High Courts is to be established to monitor G the progress on day to day basis; It is the work of the cell to manage contracts with vendors for specialized services; an online data tracking system to keep track of the data transferred to the High Courts and to facilitate the receipts for each set of transferred records to the District Courts as well; District Courts to have back-ups of all data transferred H JITENDRA KUMAR RODE v. UNION OF INDIA 529 [SANJAY KAROL, J.]