The sentence of imprisonment for a term of 14 years, that goes under the D euphemism of life imprisonment is equally, if not more, unacceptable. As a matter of fact, Mr. Hegde informed us that the appellant was taken in custody on 28-3-1994 and submitted that by virtue of the provisions relating to remission, the sentence of life imprisonment, without any qualification or further direction E would, in all likelihood, lead to his release from jail in the first quarter of 2009 since he has already completed more than 14 years of incarceration. This eventuality is simply not acceptable to this Court. What then is the answer? The answer lies in breaking this standardisation that, in practice, renders the sentence of life imprisonment equal to imprisonment for a period of no more than F 14 years; in making it clear that the sentence of life imprisonment when awarded as a substitute for death penalty would be carried out strictly as directed by the Court. This Court, therefore, must lay down a good and sound legal basis for putting the punishment of imprisonment for life, awarded G as substitute for death penalty, beyond any remission and to be carried out as directed by the Court so that it may be followed, in appropriate cases as a uniform policy not only by this Court but also by the High Courts, being the superior courts in their respective States. A suggestion to this effect was made by this Court nearly thirty years ago in Dalbir H SHIVA KUMAR @ SHIVA @ SHIVAMURTHY v. STATE OF 675 KARNATAKA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] Singh v. State of Punjab [(1979) 3 SCC 745 : 1979 SCC (Cri) A 848] . In para 14 of the this Court held and observed as follows: (SCC p. 753) “14. The sentences of death in the present appeal are liable to be reduced to life imprisonment. We may add a footnote to the ruling in Rajendra Prasad case [Rajendra Prasad v. State B of U.P., (1979) 3 SCC 646 : 1979 SCC (Cri) 749] . Taking the cue from the English legislation on abolition, we may suggest that life imprisonment which strictly means imprisonment for the whole of the men’s life but in practice amounts to incarceration for a period between 10 and 14 years C may, at the option of the convicting court, be subject to the condition that the sentence of imprisonment shall last as long as life lasts, where there are exceptional indications of murderous recidivism and the community cannot run the risk of the convict being at large. This takes care of judicial D apprehensions that unless physically liquidated the culprit may at some remote time repeat murder.” We think that it is time that the course suggested in Dalbir Singh [(1979) 3 SCC 745 :1979 SCC (Cri) 848] should receive a formal recognition by the Court.” E (emphasis added) 9. In the case of V. Sriharan1, the Constitution Bench was dealing with the question which is quoted in paragraph 50, which reads thus: “50.