…” (iv) This Court in S. Karthik (supra) further noted that Section 13(8) supports the right of redemption at any time before the date fi xed for sale or transfer. This is clearly in reference to the old Section 13(8) as interpreted by Mathew Varghese (supra) and as rightly made applicable in the said case as the facts therein arose prior to the amendment in Section 13(8). The said Section 13(8) now stands amended and provides a cut-off for the date of publication of the auction notice. Thus, now after the amendment the support of right of redemption is limited till the date of publication of the auction notice. The relevant Para is quoted for reference: “53. It could thus be seen that this Court in Mathew Varghese [Mathew Varghese v. M. Amritha Kumar, (2014) 5 SCC 610 : (2014) 3 SCC (Civ) 254] observed that the equity of redemption is not extinguished by mere contract for sale and that the mortgagor’s right to redeem will survive until there has been completion of sale by the mortgagee by a registered deed. This Court further observed that applying the principles stated with reference to Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act in respect of a secured interest in a secured asset in favour of the secured creditor under the provisions of the SARFAESI Act and the relevant Rules applicable, a free hand is given to a secured creditor to resort to a sale without the intervention of the court or tribunal. It has, however, been held that under Section 13(8), it is clearly stipulated that the mortgagor i.e. the borrower, who is otherwise called as a debtor, retains his full right to redeem the property by tendering all the dues to the secured creditor at any time before the date fi xed for sale or transfer.” (Emphasis supplied) (v) S. Karthik (supra) also noted Shakeena’s case but it seems the attention of the court was not drawn to the amendment in Section 13(8) and the observation by this Court in Shakeena on the said amendment. The para 118 of S. Karthik (supra) may be noted as below:- CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 131 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “118. It is further relevant to note that this Court in Dwarika Prasad [Dwarika Prasad v. State of U.P., (2018) 5 SCC 491] and in Shakeena [Shakeena v. Bank of India, (2021) 12 SCC 761] held that the right to redemption stands extinguished on the sale certifi cate getting registered. (Emphasis supplied) (vi) Thus, the verdict of this Court in S. Karthik (supra) is wrongly interpreted & understood in Amme Srisailam (supra) by the High Court. b. The reliance on Concern Readymix (supra) of the earlier Division Bench judgement of the High Court is misplaced because: (i) It has failed to consider that the Securitisation Act, 2002 is a special enactment and the Act 1882 is a general enactment. (ii) It has failed to take note of the overriding clause under Section 35 of the Securitisation Act, 2002.