76. The Explanation to Article 170 of the Constitution, which deals with the composition of legislative assemblies prescribes that the “population” means population as determined at the last preceding census of which fi gures have been published. The proviso appended to it further states that the last preceding census would mean the 2001 census, until the fi rst post-2026 census is carried out. Section 8 of the Delimitation Act, states that the power to readjust the number of seats will be exercised having due regard inter alia to Article 170. Further clauses (a) and (b) state that the Commission shall determine the number of seats to be reserved in the House of People as well as the Legislative Assemblies, in accordance with the census fi gures of the 2001 census. 77. The Delimitation Commission, under Section 8, is supposed to act according to the 2001 census in determining the number of seats to be reserved. Their non-inclusion cannot be termed as an “error arising out of an inadvertent slip” within the meaning of Section 9(1)(a) of the RP Act. 78. The non-inclusion cannot also be termed as an “omission” either. The principle of statutory interpretation, noscitur a sociis, states that the meaning of a word is judged by the company it keeps19. The general term “omission” in the above clauses derives its fl avour from the more specifi c preceding phrase “inadvertent slip” and also, “printing mistakes” as specifi ed in the same clause. The term “omission” does not cover the situation of the Scheduled Tribes designated as such after the 2001 census, and thereby excluded from consideration in a subsequent delimitation exercise. 19 GP Singh (supra) pg 391 para 5.8.2. 110 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 79. Therefore, this non-inclusion arises due to a lack of an enabling statutory provision which would accommodate post-census changes to the delimitation exercise. The omission envisaged by Section 9 of the RP Act and Section 11of the Delimitation Act refers to errors or omissions of a ministerial nature. The entirety of the ambit of clause (a) is to allow the Election Commission to correct printing mistakes and inadvertent slips or omissions that result in error. This, evidently, would not extend to making substantial modifi cations in the delimitation which has been made by the Delimitation Commission in the exercise of its statu tory power. Proportional Representation 80. As regards the State of Sikkim, Section 7(1A) of the RP Act was inserted by Act 8 of 1980 with eff ect from 1 September 1979. Section 7(1A) provides that out of a total of thirty two seats in the Legislative Assembly, twelve seats are reserved for persons of a Sikkimese Bhutia-Lepcha origin and one seat for the Sanghas referred to in Section 25A (apart from two seats for the Scheduled Castes). 81. The provisions of sub-section (1A) of Section 7 need to be contrasted with those of sub-sections (1B)20 and (1C) which provide for reservation for the “Scheduled Tribes” in the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura.