In the exercise of such inherent power, the courts have applied the principles of restitution to myriad situations not strictly falling within the terms of Section 144. 904 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 28. That no one shall suff er by an act of the court is not a rule confi ned to an erroneous act of the court; the “act of the court” embraces within its sweep all such acts as to which the court may form an opinion in any legal proceedings that the court would not have so acted had it been correctly apprised of the facts and the law. … the concept of restitution is excluded from application to interim s, then the litigant would stand to gain by swallowing the benefi ts yielding out of the interim even though the battle has been lost at the end. This cannot be countenanced. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the successful party fi nally held entitled to a relief assessable in terms of money at the end of the litigation, is entitled to be compensated by award of interest at a suitable reasonable rate for the period for which the interim of the court withholding the release of money had remained in operation.” (emphasis supplied) 62. Under proviso (a) of Section 167(2) of the CrPC, 1973, a Magistrate may authorize the detention beyond a period of 15 days, other than in the custody of the police. This period of 15 days has to be reckoned, qua either a police custody or a custody in favour of the investigating offi cer, spanning over the entire period of investigation. 63. It is too well settled that a proviso has to be understood from the language used in the main provision and not vice versa. Proviso to Section 167(2) of the CrPC, 1973 speaks of authorisation of detention of an accused person otherwise than in police custody beyond the period of 15 days, subject to his satisfaction. It further goes on to state that in any case the total period of custody, either police or judicial, shall not exceed 60 or 90 days, as the case may be. To understand this proviso one has to go back to the main provision particularly the words “from time to time, authorize the detention of the accused in such custody as such Magistrate thinks fi t”, “for a term not exceeding 15 days in the whole”. The interpretation given by us to the main provision would give ample clarity to the proviso. Therefore, the period of 15 days being the maximum period that can be granted in favour of the police would span from time to time with the total period of 60 or 90 days as the case may be. Any other interpretation would V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 905 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] seriously impair the power of investigation. We may also hasten to add that the proviso merely reiterates the maximum period of 15 days, qua a custody in favour of the police while there is absolutely no mention of the fi rst 15 days alone for the police custody.