31. That apart, Rule 6 of the Prevention of Money Laundering (The Forms and the Manner of Forwarding a Copy of of Arrest of a Person along with the Material to the Adjudicating Authority and its Period of Retention) Rules, 2005, titled ‘Forms of records’, provides to the eff ect that the arresting offi cer while exercising powers under Section 19(1) of the Act of 2002, shall sign the Arrest in Form III appended to those Rules. Form III, being the prescribed format of the Arrest , reads as under: - ‘ARREST Whereas, I………. Director/Deputy Director/Assistant Director/ Offi cer authorized in this behalf by the Central Government, have reason to believe that ….. [name of the person arrested] resident of ….. has been guilty of an off ence punishable under the provisions of the Prevention of Money-laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003);\ Now, Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred on me under sub-section (1) of section 19 of the Prevention of Money-laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003), I hereby arrest the said ….. [name of the person arrested] at ….. hours on ….. and he has been informed of the grounds for such arrest. PANKAJ BANSAL v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 737 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] Dated at ….. on this ….. day of ….. Two thousand ….. Arresting Offi cer Signature with Seal To …………………….. …………………….. [Name and complete address of the person arrested]’ Needless to state, this format would be followed all over the country by the authorized offi cers who exercise the power of arrest under Section 19(1) of the Act of 2002 but, in certain parts of the country, the authorized offi cer would inform the arrested person of the grounds of arrest by furnishing the same in writing, while in other parts of the country, on the basis of the very same prescribed format, the authorized offi cer would only read out or permit reading of the contents of the grounds of arrest. This dual and disparate procedure to convey the grounds of arrest to the arrested person cannot be countenanced on the strength of the very same arrest , in the aforestated prescribed format. 32. That being so, there is no valid reason as to why a copy of such written grounds of arrest should not be furnished to the arrested person as a matter of course and without exception. There are two primary reasons as to why this would be the advisable course of action to be followed as a matter of principle. Firstly, in the event such grounds of arrest are orally read out to the arrested person or read by such person with nothing further and this fact is disputed in a given case, it may boil down to the word of the arrested person against the word of the authorized offi cer as to whether or not there is due and proper compliance in this regard. In the case on hand, that is the situation insofar as Basant Bansal is concerned.