50. What we have expressed above is best exemplified by the observations of the Commissioner in the Detention under challenge, which are considered appropriate to be quoted. Therein, the Commissioner inter alia stated as follows: “The proposed detenu and his associate are notorious off enders and rowdy sheeters. … AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 993 & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] The proposed detenu was surrendered before the Hon’ble Court in Cr.No.35/2023 of Falaknuma PS and the Hon’ble Magistrate remanded him to judicial custody, he moved bail petitions in Cr.Nos. 18/2023 of GolcondaPS and 35/2023 of Falaknuma PS. The prosecution has fi led suitable counters strongly opposing the grant of bail to him, but the Hon’ble Magistrate granted bail to him in both the cases and ed for his release. Subsequently, he was released from judicial remand on bail. As seen from his past criminal history, background and antecedents and also his habitual nature of committing crimes one after the other and his eff orts to come out of the prison, I strongly believe that if such a habitual criminal is set free, his activities would not be safe to the society and there is an imminent possibility of his committing similar off ences by violating the bail conditions in one of the cases, which would be detrimental to public , unless he is preventively detained from doing so by an appropriate of detention.” With respect to the stage of proceedings in the off ences which form its basis, the Detention states that despite being contested by the State, bail has been granted to the Detenu in Crimes No. 4 and 5. Insofar as grant of bail to the Detenu is concerned, the Commissioner states that: “I strongly believe that if such a habitual criminal is set free his activities would not be safe to the society and there is an imminent possibility of his committing similar offences by violating the bail conditions in one of the cases, which would be detrimental to public , unless he is preventively detained from doing so by an appropriate of detention.” 51. We are of the opinion that the aforesaid excerpts from the Detention lay bare the Commissioner’s attempt to transgress his jurisdiction and to pass an of detention, which cannot be construed as an validly made under the Act. The quoted observations are refl ective of the intention to detain the Detenu at any cost without resorting to due procedure. It is neither the case of the respondents that the Detenu had not complied with the terms of the notice issued under section 41-A of the Cr. PC, nor has it been alleged that the conditions of bail had been violated by the Detenu. It 994 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. is pertinent to note that in the three criminal proceedings where the Detenu had been released on bail, no applications for cancellation of bail had been moved by the State. In the light of the same, the provisions of the Act, which is an extraordinary statute, should not have been resorted to when ordinary criminal law provided suffi cient means to address the apprehensions leading to the impugned Detention .