However, dismissal of the appeal would not operate as res judicata in the case of the respondents against the appellant as they were not parties to the said case, and the proceedings initiated by Pawan Gupta were fact specifi c and not in a representative capacity. 32. The dismissal of the appeal in the case of Pawan Gupta(supra) without any reasons being recorded would not attract Article 141 of the Constitution of India as no law was declared by the Supreme Court, which will have a binding eff ect on all courts and tribunals in India. There is a clear distinction between the binding law of precedents in terms of Article 141 of the Constitution of India and the doctrine of merger and res judicata. To merge, as held in Kunhayammed (supra), and Khoday Distilleries Ltd. (supra) means to sink or disappear in something else, to become absorbed or extinguished. The logic behind the doctrine of merger is that there cannot be more than one decree or operative s governing the same subject matter at a given point of time. When a decree or passed by an inferior court, tribunal or authority is subjected to a remedy available under law before a superior forum, then the decree or under challenge continues to be eff ective and binding; nevertheless, its fi nality is put in jeopardy. Once the superior court disposes the dispute before it in any manner, either by affi rming the decree or , by setting aside or modifying the same, it is the decree of the superior court, tribunal or authority, which is the fi nal binding and operative decree. The decree and of the inferior court, tribunal or authority gets merged into the passed by the superior forum. However, as has been clarifi ed in both decisions, this doctrine is not of universal or unlimited application. The nature of jurisdiction exercised by the superior court and the content or subject matter of challenge laid or could have been laid will have to be kept in view. EXPERION DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. v. HIMANSHU 1141 DEWAN AND SONALI DEWAN [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 33. What is important is the distinction drawn by this Court between the law of precedents and res judicata. In State of Rajasthan v. Nemi Chand Mahela and Others14, it is held: “11. The learned counsel for the petitioners had drawn our attention to para 22 of the decision in Manmohan Sharma case, (2014) 5 SCC 782 which refers to the case of one Danveer Singh whose writ petition had been allowed and the had attained fi nality as it was not challenged before the Division Bench or before the Supreme Court. Termination of services in the case of Danveer Singh, it was accordingly held, was not justifi ed and in accordance with law. The reasoning given in paras 22 and 23 in Manmohan Sharma case relating to the case of Danveer Singh would refl ect the diff erence between the doctrine of res judicata and law of precedent.