That the High Court has enlarged the respondents-accused on bail, contrary to the settled principles of law and s of this Court. B 14.1. It was further submitted that the High Court has not assigned the reasons for grant of bail in the instant case whereas the respondents- accused have allegedly committed heinous crimes which could result in life imprisonment or even death penalty. According to the learned counsel for the appellant, the High Court in a very cryptic , de hors any C reasoning, has granted bail to the respondents-accused. 14.2. It was contended that the High Court failed to consider the overwhelming material that would point towards the guilt of the accused. Instead, the High Court referred only to the testimony of one hostile witness and on the basis thereof exercised its discretion to grant bail in D an erroneous and perverse manner. 14.3. Sri Pradeep Chhindra next contended that while considering an application for grant of bail, the Court’s exercise of discretion must be guided by reasons to be recorded in the granting bail. That the Court must have due regard to the seriousness of the allegations and the E nature of punishment that would follow conviction for the offences alleged. In support of his submission, reliance has been placed on the decisions of this Court in Brijmani Devi vs. Pappu Kumar- [(2022) 4 SCC 497] and Deepak Yadav vs. State of Uttar Pradesh- [(2022) 8 SCC 559]. 15. Of the same tenor were the submissions of Sri B.S. Rajesh F Agrajit, learned counsel appearing for the State. It was submitted that the investigating officers had collected overwhelming evidence in the form of statements of eye-witnesses and other witnesses who identified the accused in pictures and in the CCTV footage wherein they were seen escaping the crime scene. That the police also recovered murder G weapons, phones on which information was transmitted, reconnaissance was done, call tower records, bikes on which the escape was planned etc. That the chargesheet includes pictorial evidence of the respondents- accused escaping from the scene of the crime. That the High Court overlooked such clear and cogent evidence collected during the course H 510 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A of investigation, which, in the very least would prima-facie point towards the guilt of the accused and erroneously proceeded to grant bail. 15.1. It was urged that discretion in matters concerning grant of bail must be exercised judiciously, taking into account the particular circumstances of each case. That a decision as to whether or not to B grant bail must be taken having due regard to factors such as the nature and gravity of the allegations, the strength of the evidence against the accused, the potential severity of the punishment that would follow conviction, the character of the accused, the likelihood of the accused absconding, the possibility of the accused influencing witnesses, the broader public interest and other relevant factors. That where the C prosecution has been able to produce prima-facie evidence in support of the charge(s) against the accused, it would not be a fit case for grant of bail.