1/2020. It is submitted that this Court as such directed in the subsequent s that those convicts who were released on emergency B parole earlier pursuant to the decision of the High-Powered Committee shall not be asked to surrender until further s. It is submitted that therefore, the petitioner was released pursuant to the decision of the High-Powered Committee and not on any application made by the petitioner and/or under Section 3(3) of the Haryana Good Conduct Prisoners (Temporary Release) Act, 1988 (hereinafter referred to as C the Act, 1988). It is submitted that therefore, subsequently in its meeting held on 09.05.2021, the High-Powered Committee could not have taken the decision that the period of release on interim/special parole shall not be counted towards the total period of the sentence of the prisoner/ convict. D 2.1 It is submitted that so far as some of other States are concerned, the period of release on interim parole has been directed to be counted towards the total period of sentence of the convict/prisoner. 2.2 It is further submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner that if the petitioner would not have been released on E interim parole and would have undergone the sentence in that case after certain period of sentence he would have been entitled to the remission. It is further submitted that as the petitioner was released on interim parole and if the said period is not counted towards the total period of sentence in that case his right to claim the remission would further be F extended which may be detrimental to the interest of the petitioner. 2.3 Making the above submissions, it is prayed to issue the writ for which it is prayed for. 3. Present writ petition is vehemently opposed by Ms. Bansuri Swaraj, learned AAG appearing on behalf of the State. G 3.1 It is vehemently submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State that in the present case the petitioner – convict has been convicted for the offences under Sections 302/34 of IPC and sentenced to undergo life imprisonment. It is submitted that the conviction and sentence awarded by the learned Trial Court has been upheld up to H 670 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A this Court and the SLP has been dismissed. It is submitted that therefore, the petitioner has to undergo the life imprisonment in accordance with law and the sentence imposed by the learned Trial Court. 3.2 It is submitted that thereafter, the petitioner has been released on emergency parole/temporary parole pursuant to the decision of the High-Powered Committee constituted as per the directions issued by B this Court in SWM (C) No. 1/2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It is submitted that while granting the temporary parole/emergency parole initially the High-Powered Committee in the minutes of the meeting held on 12.11.2020 specifically observed in paragraph 4 that no specific directions for not counting period of special parole towards sentence are C required to be made in view of statutory provisions and authorities are directed to decide the said issue in accordance with statutory provisions.