[2023] 1 S.C.R. 293 293 CENTRAL BOARD OF DAWOODI BOHRA COMMUNITY A & ANR. V. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA &ANR. B (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 740 of 1986) FEBRUARY 10, 2023 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, SANJIV KHANNA, ABHAY S. OKA, VIKRAM NATH AND C J. K. MAHESHWARI, JJ.] Bombay Protection of Ex-communication Act, 1949 – The Act, 1949 provided that ex-communication of a member of any community shall be invalid and shall be of no effect – Head of the Dawoodi Bohra community challenged the Act on grounds that it infringed D on fundamental rights guaranteed u/Arts.25 and 26 of the Constitution – A Constitution Bench of Supreme Court (of five Judges) in the case of Sardar Syedna, by majority, held that ex- communication amongst the Dawoodi Bohras forms an integral part of the management of the community and therefore, interference E with the right to ex-communicate amounts to interference with the right of the community to manage its own affairs in matters of religion – The Supreme Court held that as the Ex-communication Act invalidates excommunication on any ground whatsoever including religious grounds, it must be held to be in clear violation F of the right of the Dawoodi Bohra community guaranteed u/Art.26(b) of the Constitution – Present writ petition filed seeking reconsideration and overruling of that decision and for issuing a writ of mandamus directing the respondent-State to give effect to the provisions of the Act, 1949 – Meanwhile, the Maharashtra G Protection of People from Social Boycott Act repealed the Ex- communication Act – Whether the view taken by Constitution Bench in the case of Sardar Syedna requires reconsideration – Held: The exercise of balancing the rights under Art.26(b) with other rights under Part III and in particular Art.21 was not undertaken by the H 293 294 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Constitution Bench in the case of Sardar Syedna – This question is substantially in issue before the Bench of nine Judges in Sabrimala Temple Review -9JJ – Moreover, the question of whether protection can be given by Art.26(b) to the practice of ex-communication also is to be tested on the touchstone of the concept of Constitutional B morality as the said right is subject to morality – Thus, these questions are the two main grounds on which the said decision may need reconsideration by a larger Bench – The Bench of nine-Judges (Sabrimala Temple Review –9 JJ) framed seven questions of law, out of which questions 3 and 4 also arise for consideration in the C present writ petition – Present writ petition, thus, deserves to be tagged with Review Petition pending before the Bench of nine Hon’ble Judges – Registry to seek appropriate directions in this behalf from Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India – Constitution of India – Arts. 25 and 26 – Maharashtra Protection of People from Social Boycott (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2016. D Constitution of India – Interpretation of Constitutional provisions – Approach to be adopted – Held: Constitution is a living instrument – The originalist interpretation rendered to provisions of the Constitution decades back, cannot continue to be valid for E all times to come if the Constitution is to continue as a living instrument with continued relevance – Interpretation of law must keep pace with changing needs of society.