In such a situation, delay in fi ling of the FIR cannot be said to be fatal to the case of the prosecution more so in view of the injuries sustained by him; the place of occurrence being a remote village area and that the version of events was dictated to the police by this witness only upon their reaching his place of shelter. To us it does not appear to be a case of prior consultation; discussion; deliberation or improvements. 15. Relevant portion of the testimony of PW-3 reads as under:- “After 2 hours someone opened the door and I came out from the place where I was hiding. Public had assembled there. But I cannot tell the names of those persons who had assembled. Because I was badly injured and I was feeling immense pain. My left eye which was perfectly alright before this incident, was completely damaged in this incident. Thereafter I dictated report of this incident to the station House Offi cer at the house of Baisakhu. First information report was read over to witness and he stated that this is the same report which I had dictated. First information report marked Ex. P15.” 16. Signifi cantly, this part of his testimony goes unrefuted. Even a suggestion of such statement being false was not given by any one of the 5 2023 SCC OnLine 1059 KAMAL PRASAD & ORS. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 817 (NOW STATE OF CHHATTISGARH) [SANJAY KAROL, J.] accused in cross-examination. Having perused the same and also the cross- examination forming part of the record, we do not fi nd anything emanating therefrom which would credibly suggest that the time gap between the occurrence of incidence and registration of the FIR is unjustifi ed. 17. Resultantly, the fi rst contention of the convict appellants must necessarily be answered in the negative. 18. Another defence taken by the convict-appellants is that of the plea of alibi. This Court in Binay Kumar Singh v. State of Bihar6 has noted the principle as: “23. The Latin word alibi means “elsewhere” and that word is used for convenience when an accused takes recourse to a defence line that when the occurrence took place he was so far away from the place of occurrence that it is extremely improbable that he would have participated in the crime.” 19. The principles regarding the plea of alibi, as can be appreciated from the various decisions7 of this Court, are: 19.1 It is not part of the General Exceptions under the IPC and is instead a rule of evidence under Section 11 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. 19.2 This plea being taken does not lessen the burden of the prosecution to prove that the accused was present at the scene of the crime and had participated therein. 19.3 Such plea is only to be considered subsequent to the prosecution having discharged, satisfactorily, its burden. 19.4 The burden to establish the plea is on the person taking such a plea.