17. If we now turn to the applicable precedent, this Court in Zelia M. Xavier’s case had distinguished the applicability of Gulam Yasin’s7 case. It was opined that in Gulam Yasin, this Court had held that to invite disqualification, any interest or share had to be in the contract G itself, and a mere relationship between the electoral candidate and an employee of the Municipal Committee would not suffice to invite disqualification. 5 (supra). 6 (supra) 7 (supra). H 800 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 18. In our opinion, both of these cases stand on a different footing as compared to the factual scenario before us. Gulam Yasin8 was concerned with the interpretation of the Section 15(1) of the Central Provinces and Berar Municipalities Act, 1922, which disqualified a candidate from standing for election if he had ‘an interest’ in the Municipal Committee. Moreover, another factor that weighed with the Court was B that the appellant in that case was subject to Mohammedan law, and thus he and his son could not be said to be members of an undivided family having common ‘financial interests’. On the other hand, in Zelia M. Xavier9, this Court was examining a situation where the appellant was a Panchayat member who was disqualified as her husband had C entered into a contract with the said Panchayat for the collection of market fee. The Court’s decision ultimately took note of the fact that the money affairs of the husband and appellant-wife were regulated by the Portuguese Civil Code, 1860, whereby the property of the spouses got merged upon marriage. Thus, it was held that the appellant-wife had a financial interest in the Panchayat’s contract with her husband. D 19. Despite these factual differences, we find that the common principle that can be culled out from the aforementioned cases is that this Court had cautioned against interpreting disqualification provisions in an overly restrictive or narrow manner. In both cases, this Court had noted that the salutary purpose of such provisions was to ensure the E purity of administration in Municipal Committees. 20. On turning to the factual scenario of the present case, it may be noticed that this was not even a situation where the appellant’s son was carrying on any existing contractual work. It was only soon after the election of the appellant that his son was registered as a contractor. F He had no other contracts in that area or otherwise. The only contract awarded to him was the one where the funds flowed to the Gram Panchayat from the Zilla Parishad of which the appellant was a member. The appellant had attempted to justify this situation by claiming that his son was registered as a contractor soon after the appellant’s election as he had just completed his studies. In our view, this fact raises further G suspicions about the appellant’s interest in his son’s business. 21. The Zilla Parishad, Dhule issued a work to the Aarave Gram Panchayat for the repair of roads on 09.06.2020.