that may be existing or imposed by any Central, State or local authorities or any other person claiming through them in whatever manner, on the said properties sold.” C 251. After taking possession of the property, the respondent addressed a letter dated 7 January 2004 to the appellant for grant of an electricity connection. However, the appellant declined to grant supply of electricity unless the respondent paid the pending dues of the erstwhile owner. The respondent filed a writ petition before the High Court of D Gujarat challenging the appellant’s refusal to grant an electricity connection. Through a common , the Single Judge held that respondent, being an auction purchaser, cannot be called upon to clear the past arrears of the previous owners in the absence of any statutory provision. Further, it was observed that there was no condition between E the parties by which the respondents were made liable to pay the arrears of electricity dues of the previous owners. It was also observed that the state government had not incorporated any condition similar to Condition 2(j) of the Conditions of Supply in respect of the Petitioners. The Division Bench in the impugned dated 1 May 2006 upheld the decision of the Single Judge. F 252. The respondent has submitted that the Gujarat Electricity Supply Code relied upon by the distribution licensee has no application to the facts of the present case. According to the auction purchaser, the Gujarat Electricity Supply Code came into force with effect from 31 March 2005, whereas the respondent auction purchaser applied for G electricity on 13 August 2004, that is, much prior to the Electricity Supply Code having come into effect. 253. In the impugned , the High Court considered the purport of the Regulation 4.1.11 of the Gujarat Electricity Supply Code and held that it was not applicable to the respondent. According to the H 754 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A High Court, the sole reason that Regulation 4.1.11 of the Gujarat Electricity Supply Code was inapplicable was because the said regulations only applied to the electricity dues of the applicant, and did not make the applicant liable to clear the dues of the previous owner. 254. The High Court omitted to notice that the Gujarat Electricity B Supply Code came into force with effect from 31 March 2005 while the respondent applied for electricity connection on 13 August 2004. Hence, the respondent had applied for a connection before the coming into force of the Gujarat Electricity Supply Code. Thus, the said regulations will not be applicable to the facts of the present case. C 255. Since the respondent applied for electricity connection on 13 August 2004, the 2003 Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder are inapplicable in the instant case. It has been admitted by the appellant that there was no statutory condition requiring the respondents to pay the outstanding electricity dues of the previous owner at the point of time when they applied for electricity connection.