Thirdly, it is F ex facie evident that all through the prayer had been for amendment of Regulation 52 and not of declaring the same in its existing frame as being invalid. A prayer for amendment of the Regulation cannot be equated with a prayer to declare the same as invalid. As noticed hereinbefore, the State Government’s denial G of the proposed alteration was essentially based on its disagreement to alter the service conditions with effect from 01.04.1976. Viewed from any angle, invocation of the principles forbidding hostile discrimination remains baseless and the contentions urged on that basis are required to be rejected. [Para 16.2][1077-D-H; 1078-A] H 1052 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 3. The other factor indicated on behalf of the respondents that a small number of affected employees may not bring about much financial burden on the State hardly make out a case for issuing a mandamus to the State to amend the Regulations. Whether to amend the Regulations or not, in the scheme of Act of 1955 as also the Regulations of 1960, is required to be left to B the State and for that matter, the number of employees to be affected/benefitted is not of much relevance. In this regard too, as noticed hereinbefore, apparently the objections of the State were against retrospective amendment of the Regulations and thereby allowing pension with effect from 01.04.1976. Moreover, C the indications in the referred communications that such a prescription is likely to bring about a huge amount of administrative trouble to the Government cannot be dubbed as mere pretence or a bogus alibi. This Court would hasten to observe that irrespective of these observations and irrespective of the result of this litigation, nothing would prevent the State D Government to carry out the amendment in the form suggested or in any other modified form, if the State Government would be willing to do so. The only question in the present appeal is as to whether a mandamus could have been issued to the State to carry out amendment. As noticed, the answer could only be in the E negative. [Para 19][1079-D-H] 4. For what has been discussed hereinabove, this Court is clearly of the view that the direction issued in the impugned dated 25.10.2010 by the Single Judge could not have been approved. The Division Bench of the High Court was conscious F of the fact that such a mandamus cannot be issued so as to direct the State Government to carry out a particular amendment and, therefore, in the impugned and dated 20.12.2012, termed such a direction as being “advisory” in nature. However, the Division Bench went miles ahead in the very next proposition while observing that the State Government “shall” carry out this G direction. Converting an advice to the State Government into a mandate in this manner, with great respect, is neither permissible nor countenanced by law. [Para 21][1080-B-D] H STATE OF ORISSA v. ORISSA KHADI AND VILLAGE INDUSTRIES 1053 BOARD KARAMCHARI SANGH 5.