K.B. TEA PRODUCT PVT. LTD. v. COMMERCIAL TAX 849 OFFICER, SILIGURI [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] agreement should not be exercised by the State. It has been A rightly contended by Dr Singhvi that the respondents legitimately expect that the renewal clause should be given effect to in usual manner and according to past practice unless there is any special reason not to adhere to such practice. The doctrine of “legitimate expectation” has been judicially B recognised by this Court in a number of decisions. The doctrine of “legitimate expectation” operates in the domain of public law and in an appropriate case, constitutes a substantive and enforceable right.” 25. While the abovementioned s discuss the breadth of applicability of the doctrine of legitimate expectations, however, such a C right is not all encompassing, and as such has limitations placed on it. It is on these restrictions, as has been discussed in detail below, the respondent places their reliance on. 26. In the case of MRF Ltd. Kottayam vs. Assistant Commissioner Sales Tax & Ors.13, while analyzing the doctrine of D legitimate expectation, this Court held that legitimate expectation, as a ground for challenge, can be done away with in circumstances wherein it has been demonstrated by the public authority that the withdrawal of the said expectation has been done on grounds of public interest. In simpler terms, this Court clarified that public interest takes precedence E over a created legitimate expectation. “The principle underlying legitimate expectation which is based on Article 14 and the rule of fairness has been re-stated by this Court in Bannari Amman Sugars Ltd. Vs. Commercial Tax Officer & Ors.14,. It was observed in paras 8 & 9: F “A person may have a ‘legitimate expectation’ of being treated in a certain way by an administrative authority even though he has no legal right in private law to receive such treatment. The expectation may arise either from a representation or promise made by the authority, including an implied representation, or from consistent past practice. The doctrine G of legitimate expectation has an important place in the developing law of judicial review. It is, however, not necessary to explore the doctrine in this case, it is enough merely to 13 (2006) 8 SCC 702 14 (2005) 1 SCC 625 H 850 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A note that a legitimate expectation can provide a sufficient interest to enable one who cannot point to the existence of a substantive right to obtain the leave of the Court to apply for judicial review. It is generally agreed that ‘legitimate expectation’ gives the applicant sufficient locus standi for judicial review and that the doctrine of legitimate expectation B to be confined mostly to right of a fair hearing before a decision which results in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking is taken. The doctrine does not give scope to claim relief straightway from the administrative authorities as no crystallized right as such is involved. The protection of C such legitimate expectation does not require the fulfilment of the expectation where an overriding public interest requires otherwise.