A middle ground has, therefore, necessarily to be taken. According to us, the two apparently confl icting sections can best be harmonised by giving meaning to both. This can only be done by limiting the scope of the expression “or any other law for the time being in force” contained in Section 37. This expression will, therefore, have to be held to mean other laws having relation to the securities market only, as the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 is the only other special law, apart from the Securitisation and Reconstruction of CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 133 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, dealing with recovery of debts due to banks and fi nancial institutions. On this interpretation also, the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 will not be included for the obvious reason that its primary objective is to rehabilitate sick industrial companies and not to deal with the securities market.” (Emphasis supplied) (ii) The court applied the Latin Expression “ejusdem generis” which has been held to be a facet of “Noscitur a sociis”. The decision hereunder is of relevance: Maharashtra University of Health Sciences v. Satchikitsa Prasarak Mandal, (2010) 3 SCC 786: “27. The Latin expression “ejusdem generis” which means “of the same kind or nature” is a principle of construction, meaning thereby when general words in a statutory text are flanked by restricted words, the meaning of the general words are taken to be restricted by implication with the meaning of the restricted words. This is a principle which arises “from the linguistic implication by which words having literally a wide meaning (when taken in isolation) are treated as reduced in scope by the verbal context”. It may be regarded as an instance of ellipsis, or reliance on implication. This principle is presumed to apply unless there is some contrary indication [see Glanville Williams, The Origins and Logical Implications of the Ejusdem Generis Rule, 7 Conv (NS) 119]. 28. This ejusdem generis principle is a facet of the principle of noscitur a sociis. The Latin maxim noscitur a sociis contemplates that a statutory term is recognised by its associated words. The Latin word “sociis” means “society”. Therefore, when general words are juxtaposed with specific words, general words cannot be read in isolation. Their colour and their contents are to be derived from their context. (See similar observations of Viscount Simonds in Attorney General v. Prince Ernest Augustus of Hanover [1957 AC 436 : (1957) 2 WLR 1 : (1957) 1 All ER 49 (HL)], AC at p. 461. )” 134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. d. The argument of Right to property being a constitutional right and the High Court’s interpretation subserving the same is irrelevant in light of the following:- (i) Because once it is established that Section 60 of the Transfer of Property, 1882 has no application under the Securitisation Act, 2002, nothing survives on the said count.