59. As already discussed hereinabove, the ESZs are required to be notified after following the procedure as prescribed under the 1986 Rules and the said Guidelines. Such notifications cannot be issued unless a close scrutiny at various levels including the scrutiny by Expert G Committee consisting of experts from 13 organizations. As such, we find that the direction as contained in paragraph 56.6 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) also needs to be modified. 60. Insofar as the restriction on mining is concerned, we are of the considered view that it has been the consistent view of this Court H that the mining activities within an area of one kilometre of the boundary IN RE: T.N. GODAVARMAN THIRUMULPAD v. UNION OF 633 INDIA AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] of the Protected Areas will be hazardous for the wildlife. Though in the A case of Goa Foundation (supra), the said directions were issued in respect of State of Goa, we find that such directions need to be issued on Pan-India basis. 61. We are therefore inclined to allow the present I.A. The direction in paragraph 56.1 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) is modified B and clarified that the directions contained therein would not be applicable to the ESZs in respect of which a draft and final notification has been issued by the MoEF & CC and in respect of the proposals which have been received by the Ministry. 62. We, however, direct the Central Government that wide publicity C should be given to the draft notification which is required to be published under the provisions of clause (a) of sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules. We further direct that the final notification to be published under clause (d) of sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules shall not be given effect for a period of 30 days from the date of issuance thereof. D 63. It is further directed that any person who is aggrieved with such a final notification would be entitled to approach this Court directly by filing an application in the present proceedings. 64. We further clarify that the direction contained in paragraph 56.1 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) would not be applicable E where the National Parks and Sanctuaries are located on inter-State bs and/or share common boundaries. 65. We also modify the direction contained in paragraph 56.4 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) and direct that mining within the National Park and Wildlife Sanctuary and within an area of one kilometre F from the boundary of such National Park and Wildlife Sanctuary shall not be permissible. 66. We also modify the directions contained in paragraph 56.5 of the dated 3rd June 2022 (supra) and replace the same as under: (i) The MoEF & CC and all the State/Union Territory G Governments shall strictly follow the provisions in the said Guidelines dated 9th February 2011 and so also the provisions contained in the ESZs notifications pertaining to the respective Protected Areas with regard to prohibited activities, regulated activities and permissible activities; H 634 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R.