The claims were allowed with rate of interest which we need not notice at this stage. The petition filed by the appellant under Section 34 of the Act came to be allowed by the District Judge. It is this passed by the H 810 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A District Judge under Section 34 which stands overturned by the impugned in an appeal under Section 37 of the Act. 2. We have heard Col. R. Balasubramanium, learned senior counsel for the appellants, and Ms. Praveena Gautam, learned counsel for the respondent. B 3. The only controversy which we are called upon to resolve is whether the impugned is sustainable having regard to clauses 65 and 65A of the Contract. 4. The contention of the learned senior counsel for the appellants is that the impugned is in the teeth of law laid down by this Court C in Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. vs. Annapurna Construction (2003) 8 SCC 154. He also points out that the said view has been followed in PSA SI CAL Terminate (P) Ltd. v. Board of Trustees of V.O. Chidambranar Port Trust Tuticorin 2021 SCC Online SC 508. In a nutshell, the argument is as follows: D 5. He contends that the Arbitrator cannot travel outside the boundaries of the contact. In fact, he is fully bound by the terms of the contract. In the terms of the contract which are apposite in the context of the dispute before us, there is a prohibition against the Contractor supplementing the claims in the final bill by including claims which are not found in the final bill. In the facts of this case, he would submit that E this is precisely what has happened by pointing out the final bill which was submitted on 13.02.2002 and the claims allowed are later raised. He would submit that the High Court was clearly in error in tiding over this insuperable barrier in law and granting relief. The reasoning which has weighed with the High court is sought to be brought under a cloud as F being unsustainable in the teeth of the s rendered by this Court referred to hereinbefore. 6. Per contra, Ms. Praveena Gautam, learned counsel for the respondent, lays store by the law laid down by this Court in Union of India and Others v. Master Construction Company (2011) 12 SCC G 349 and the in Union of India v. Parmar Construction Company (2019) 15 SCC 682. She would point out that there was a long delay in signing the final bill and the Arbitrator has only awarded the amounts which were found due. It is further contended that an attempt made under Section 16(2) of the Act to shake the premise of the Arbitrator’s jurisdiction failed. It is pointed out that the said decision has H UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. M/S. BHARAT ENTERPRISE 811 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] not been challenged under Section 37 of the Act. It is also pointed out A that in the facts of this case, at any rate, the Court may not exercise its jurisdiction based on an appeal generated by the State filed under Article 136 of the Constitution.