In F short the carrying on or supervision of the general administration of the affairs of Union of India which includes political activity and carrying on all trading activities, the acquisition, holding and disposal of property and the making of contracts for any purpose. In short the primary function of the Cabinet is to formulate the policies of the Government in conformity with the directive G principles of the Constitution for the governance of the nation; place the same before the Parliament for acceptance and to carry on the executive function of the State as per the provisions of the Constitution and the laws. H 109 (1993) 4 SCC 119 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 697 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 30. Collective responsibility under Article 75(3) of the A Constitution inheres maintenance of confidentiality as enjoined in oaths of office and of secrecy set forth in Schedule III of the Constitution that the Minister will not directly or indirectly communicate or reveal to any person or persons any matter which shall be brought under his/her B consideration or shall become known to him/her as Minister except as may be required for the “due discharge of his/her duty as Minister”. The base and basic postulate of its significance is unexceptionable. But the need for and effect of confidentiality has to be nurtured not merely from political imperatives of collective responsibility envisaged by Article 75(3) but also from its C pragmatism.” 118. In paragraph 33 of the report in R.K. Jain, this Court indicated that the Cabinet as a whole is collectively responsible for the advice tendered to the President and for the conduct of business of each of his/ her department. The question as to what happens when an individual D Minister is in total disagreement with the collective decision of the Cabinet was also spelt out in R.K. Jain in the following words: “33. ...Each member of the Cabinet has personal responsibility to his conscience and also responsibility to the Government. Discussion and persuasion may diminish disagreement, E reach unanimity, or leave it unaltered. Despite persistence of disagreement, it is a decision, though some members like it less than others. Both practical politics and good government require that those who like it less must still publicly support it. If such support is too great a strain on a F Minister’s conscience or incompatible to his/her perceptions of commitment and he/she finds it difficult to support the decision, it would be open to him/her to resign. So the price of the acceptance of Cabinet office is the assumption of the responsibility to support Cabinet decisions. The burden of that responsibility is shared by all.” G 119. In Secretary, Jaipur Development Authority, Jaipur (supra), the abuse of official position by the Minister of Urban Development and Housing Department and the officers working in the Jaipur Development Authority in the matter of allotment of plots became the subject matter. While dealing with the question of individual and H 698 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.