14. The biological family is often the fi rst site of violence and oppression for the queer community. It begins with family members rejecting the gender identities of their transgender children or consenting to “gender normalizing surgeries” for their intersex children (that is, those who have reproductive or sexual anatomy that does not fi t into an exclusive male or female sex classifi cation) without giving the child an opportunity to choose for themselves16. At a very young age, they face familial rejection. Instead of being nurtured with love and aff ection, they face contempt because of their identity which in turn makes them vulnerable and inexpressive. The natal families of some homosexual persons force them to marry a person of the opposite sex once they come to know about their sexual orientation.17 A woman also recounted that she was wary of communicating the truth about her sexual orientation to her family because she was worried that they would stop her from going to school.18 Another woman recounted that after she disclosed her sexual orientation to her family, her movements were constantly monitored and even if she went away from home for an hour, her phone would be traced with the assistance of the Station House Offi cer.19 Families also consider a queer person’s desire of gender expression to be a mental illness which requires cure. A person from the queer community recounted being forced to undergo ‘conversion therapy’ where they were given electroconvulsive shocks.20 Another queer person recounts the harrowing experience that they underwent at a rehabilitation centre: “It was only later that I realised that I had been shifted to another rehabilitation centre [...]. Here, I was undressed and checked by a female warden. Afterward, I went to sleep for the night. There was one bathroom in this rehabilitation centre, which everyone used together. There was no door, and there was no question of privacy. I have never been to jail in my life, but I’ve heard that it’s better than this.” 16 Also see Arunkumar v. Inspector General of Registration, AIR 2019 Mad 265 17 Shakthi Shalini, “The Unspoken: A qualitative research on natal family violence” 23 18 Ibid. 19 ibid 20 Ibid,110. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1245 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 15. The transgender community is also discriminated against in other ways. The members of the community are not treated in a dignifi ed manner in the healthcare sector for reasons which range from administrative formalities which are not gender-inclusive to a lack of knowledge about gender-related diseases.21 Similarly, the community also faces discrimination in the housing sector. Studies have shown that it is very diffi cult for members of the queer community to rent a house.22 Some members of the queer community recounted that they have shifted houses twice in four years because of neighbours who assumed that they had parties and caused disturbances.23 16. Often, instruments of the State which are tasked with protecting human rights, perpetuate violence.