66. We are of the view that the High Court completely failed to advert itself to the principles laid down by this Court as aforesaid, and mechanically proceeded to set-aside the of punishment imposed by the disciplinary authority on the ground that there was nothing to indicate that the respondent was asked whether he pleaded guilty to the charges imputed in the second complaint without applying the principle of “test of prejudice”. E.3 Whether the Central Complaints Committee could have put questions to the witnesses in a departmental inquiry? i) “Fact Finding” Authority in Disciplinary Proceedings 67. The High Court observed that the Central Complaints Committee in the course of the inquiry had put questions to the prosecution witnesses, and even the examination-in-chief was recorded by it, and as such it played the role of a prosecutor which it could not have, thereby vitiating the inquiry proceedings. 68. Ordinarily, in a disciplinary proceeding conducted under Rule 14 of the 1965 CCS Rules, the disciplinary authority as per Rule 14 sub-rule 2 read with sub-rule 5(c) may either conduct the inquiry itself or appoint an UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 555 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] inquiry committee to conduct the inquiry. The inquiry committee may further appoint a presenting offi cer to present the case on its behalf in support of the articles of charge. It is worthwhile to note that it is the Inquiry Authority and the Disciplinary Authority who are the fact fi nding authorities in a disciplinary proceeding. Rule 14 is reproduced below: “14. Procedure for imposing major penalties. (2) Whenever the disciplinary authority is of the opinion that there are grounds for inquiring into the truth of any imputation of misconduct or misbehaviour against a Government servant, it may itself inquire into, or appoint under this rule or under the provisions of the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850, as the case may be, an authority to inquire into the truth thereof. xxx xxx xxx (5)(c) Where the disciplinary authority itself inquires into any article of charge or appoints an inquiring authority for holding an inquiry into such charge, it may, by an , appoint a Government servant or a legal practitioner, to be known as the “Presenting Offi cer” to present on its behalf the case in support of the articles of charge.” 69. A perusal of the aforesaid makes it clear that, where a ‘Presenting Offi cer’ has been appointed by the Disciplinary Authority, such Offi cer shall present the case in support of the articles of charge. Conversely, what logically transpires from the aforesaid is that, where no presenting offi cer has been appointed, the duty or role to present the case in support of the articles of charge falls back on the Disciplinary Authority or the Inquiry Authority as the case may be. 70. This Court in Medha Kotwal Lele and Others v. Union of India and Others reported in (2013) 1 SCC 311, held that the complaints committee under the Vishaka Guidelines shall be deemed to be the Inquiry Authority.