The significance of the investigative component cannot be emphasised enough, and the views of this Court on such aspect have been brought to the fore in Sidhartha Vashist v State (NCT of Delhi), (2010) 6 SCC 1 and Manoj v State of Madhya Pradesh, (2023) 2 SCC 353. C 23. In this connection, on a slightly different but connected context, it would be apposite to refer to the in State of Gujarat v Kishanbhai, (2014) 5 SCC 108, wherein the Court opined and directed as under: D “22. Every acquittal should be understood as a failure of the justice delivery system, in serving the cause of justice. Likewise, every acquittal should ordinarily lead to the inference, that an innocent person was wrongfully prosecuted. It is therefore, essential that every State should put in place a procedural mechanism which would ensure that the cause of E justice is served, which would simultaneously ensure the safeguard of interest of those who are innocent. In furtherance of the above purpose, it is considered essential to direct the Home Department of every State, to examine all s of acquittal and to record reasons for the failure of each F prosecution case. A standing committee of senior officers of the police and prosecution departments, should be vested with the aforesaid responsibility. The consideration at the hands of the above Committee, should be utilized for crystallising mistakes committed during investigation, and/or prosecution, or both. The Home Department of every State Government G will incorporate in its existing training programmes for junior investigation/prosecution officials course-content drawn from the above consideration. The same should also constitute course-content of refresher training programmes for senior investigating/prosecuting officials. The above responsibility H 948 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A for preparing training programmes for officials, should be vested in the same Committee of senior officers referred to above. s like the one in hand (depicting more than 10 glaring lapses in the investigation/prosecution of the case), and similar other s, may also be added to the training programmes. The course content will be reviewed by the above B Committee annually, on the basis of fresh inputs, including emerging scientific tools of investigation, s of courts, and on the basis of experiences gained by the Standing Committee while examining failures, in unsuccessful prosecution of cases. We further direct, that the above training C programme be put in place within 6 months. This would ensure that those persons who handle sensitive matters concerning investigation/prosecution are fully trained to handle the same. Thereupon, if any lapses are committed by them, they would not be able to feign innocence, when they are made liable to suffer departmental action, for their lapses.” D (emphasis supplied) 24. While respectfully reiterating the above, drawing an analogy therefrom, as the lapses are grave, and additionally, but importantly, the factum that the authority viz. the Superintendent of Police, Katni, itself realised lapses had crept into the investigation, and decided to initiate E proceedings against the appellant (and others), the operative portion of the impugned by the High Court, becomes, merely reiterative, perhaps in more direct terms, of what had been stated before it.