B. PARDIWALA, J.] where the strong and well-resourced will always prevail over the weak. Or, as Frederick Wilmot-Smith puts it, “[l]egal structures that make enforcement of the law practically impossible will leave weaker members of society open to exploitation at the hands of, for example, unscrupulous employers or spouses.” (Equal Justice : Fair Legal Systems in an Unfair World (2019), at pp. 1-2). 113. The reference to making enforcement of the law practically impossible leads to a further, related point : there is no good reason to distinguish between a clause that expressly blocks access to a legally determined resolution and one that has the ultimate eff ect of doing so. That this is so is illustrated by the of Drummond J. in Novamaze Pty Ltd. v. Cut Price Deli Pty Ltd., (1995) 128 ALR 540 (F.C.A.). In Novamaze, the terms of a franchise agreement permitted the franchisor to take control of the franchisee›s business if either party threatened to commence, or commenced, legal proceedings against the other. This clause, Drummond J. explained, was “capable of operating as a powerful disincentive to the franchisee to take proceedings of any kind against [the franchisor], no matter how strong a case the franchisee may have that it has suff ered wrong” (p. 548). Summarizing the relevant principle, Drummond J. continued: … the citizen is entitled to have recourse to the court for an adjudication on his legal rights. A contractual agreement to deny a person that “inalienable right” contravenes this public policy and is void. A disincentive to a person to exercise this right of recourse to the court can, depending upon how powerfully it operates to discourage litigation, amount to a denial of this right just as complete as an express contractual prohibition against litigation. [pp. 548-49] xxx xxx xxx 117. Uber›s position requires this Court to accept that the change in judicial posture following the enactment of modern arbitration legislation leaves no room for the operation of public policy. But curial respect for arbitration, and for parties› choices to refer disputes to arbitration, is premised upon two considerations. First, the purpose of arbitration is to ensure that contracting parties have access to “a 102 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. ‘good and accessible method of seeking resolution for many kinds of disputes’ that ‘can be more expedient and less costly than going to court’” (Wellman, at para. 83, quoting Legislative Assembly of Ontario, March 27, 1991, at p. 245). Second, courts have accepted arbitration as an acceptable alternative to civil litigation because it can provide a resolution according to law. As this Court observed in Sport Maska Inc. v. Zittrer, [1988] 1 SCR 564, at p. 581: The legislator left … various procedures for settling disputes to be resolved freely by litigants when recourse to the courts was still possible. If judicial intervention was ruled out, however, the legislator had to ensure that the process would guarantee litigants the same measure of justice as that provided by the courts, and for this reason, rules of procedure were developed to ensure that the arbitrator is impartial and that the rules of fundamental justice … are observed.