OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 635 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] (7) Number of packing machines out of (5), which the manufacturer intends to operate in his factory for production of pouches of notifi ed goods with lime tube and without lime tube, respectively : (8) Number of multiple track or multiple line packing machine available in the factory : (9) Number of multiple track or multiple line packing machines out of (8), which are installed in the factory : (10) Number of multiple track or multiple line packing machines out of (8), which the manufacturer intends to operate in his factory for production of pouches of notifi ed goods with lime tube and without lime tube, respectively : (11) Name of the manufacturer of each of the packing machine, its identifi cation number, date of its purchase and the maximum packing speed at which the machines can be operated for packing of notifi ed goods, with lime tube and without lime tube, of various retail sale prices : (12) Description of goods to be manufactured including whether unmanufactured tobacco or chewing tobacco or both, their brand names, whether pouches shall contain lime tube or not, and other concerned details : (13) Denomination of retail sale prices of the pouches to be manufactured during the fi nancial year : (14) The ground plan and details of the part or section of the factory premises intended to be used by him for manufacture of notifi ed goods of diff erent denomination of retail sale prices and the number of machines intended to be used by him in each of such part or section : (15) Declaration (a) I/We further declare that the particulars furnished above are true and correct in all respects. In case any particulars are found to be untrue/ incorrect, I/We undertake to pay any additional amount of excise duty on notifi ed goods manufactured by me/us as per provisions of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944) or the rules made or notifi cations issued thereunder. 636 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (b) I/We further undertake that any addition or removal of the packing machine would be done under the physical supervision of the Central Excise Offi cer as per the procedure provided in the Chewing Tobacco and unmanufactured Tobacco Packing Machines (Capacity Determination and Collection of Duty) Rules, 2010. (c) I/We hereby agree to abide by the provisions and conditions of the Chewing Tobacco and unmanufactured Tobacco Packing Machines (Capacity Determination and Collection of Duty) Rules, 2010. Place: Date: Name, residential address and signature of manufacturer/authorised agent” 103. ‘Chewing tobacco’ and preparations containing ‘chewing tobacco’ was found in Entry CETH 2404.41 by virtue of Notifi cation No.13 of 2006 dated 01.03.2002 and it was covered under MRP-based assessment under Section 4A of CE Act. On the advent of 8 (eight) digit tariff regime ‘zarda/ jarda scented tobacco’ was introduced under a separate head under ‘CET SH 2403 9930’ and ‘chewing tobacco’ under the head ‘CET SH 2403 9910’ with eff ect from 28.02.2005.