At that time he was at his in-law’s place at Shobhapur. When Munna Pandey declined to hand over the keys, everybody became suspicious that Pritam Tiwary was not there and it was very much possible that he (Pritam Tiwary) did some occurrence with her daughter. On 01- 06-2015, Naval Kishore Ojha @ Fucchan Pandey came with his wife and children and opened the locks of the grill at about 12:00 noon. MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1039 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] When lock was opened, all the villagers entered the verandah and when looked through the window in the room of Fucchan Pandey, found Pritam Tiwary sleeping on the palang (wooden cot) in the room. When Fucchan Pandey opened the lock of his room, Pritam Tiwary started hiding himself under the wooden bed. The villagers took him out from the bed and started to ask the whereabouts of X. Initially he refused to give any information. But when all the people asked him strictly, he said that X (deceased) was in the house of Munna Pandey. And when all the people looked inside the room after breaking the locks of the doors of Munna Pandey, they found the dead body of eleven year old daughter X lying below the palang (wooden cot) in the room. When I looked at my daughter, she was already dead. We found her face extremely swollen, both the lips swollen, blood stained wound was seen on her right cheek. Her clothes were in (illegible) manner. The private parts of deceased X were swollen and blood stained wound and anus swollen with stool sticking to it, were found. He further informed that both the accused persons named in the FIR - (1) Pritam Tiwary, S/o - Dilip Tiwary, R/o - Shobhapur, PS - Raj Mahal, District - Sahebganj, State - Jharkhand, present address Naval Kishore Ojha, Thatheri Toal - Sabour, PS - Sabour, District - Bhagalpur, (2) Munna Pandey, S/o Late Bir Bahadur Pandey, R/o - Thatheri, Toal - Sabour, PS - Sabour, District - Bhagalpur raped her eleven year daughter X (deceased) and with a view to remove the evidence. strangled her and killed her and had hid the dead body below the palang (wooden cot). The villagers informed the police station. On receiving the information police came and began their investigation. Besides this, she did not tell any other important facts.” (Emphasis supplied) 37. The police statement of PW 1 Babloo Saw reads thus:- “In further investigation of this case recorded the witness statement of Babloo Sah, s/o Satish Sah, r/o Jamunia, PS - Parvatta, District - Khagaria, with complete support to the occurrence in his statement informed that deceased X is his aunt’s (her mother’s sister) daughter. On date 31.05.15 mother of the deceased came to his house. Priya, the elder sister of the deceased X, informed her mother over telephone 1040 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. that Pritam Tiwary, brother-in-law (wife’s brother) of her neighbor Naval Kishore Ojha called X to watch television at his house and that she had not returned home.