The Madras High Court H 116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A in Senthikumara Nadar & Sons v. Commissioner of Income- tax (1957) 32 ITR 138] held that payments of penalty for an infraction of the law fell outside the scope of permissible deductions under s. 10(2)(xv). In that case the assessee had to pay liquidated damages which was akin to penalty incurred for an act opposed to public policy a policy underlying the Coffee Market Expansion B Act, 1942, and which was left to the Coffee Board to enforce. Reference was also made during the course of arguments to Commissioner of Income-tax v. Hirjee [(1953) SCR 714]. In that case the assessee was prosecuted under the Hoarding and Profiteering Ordinance but was finally acquitted and claimed the C amount spent in defending himself under s. 10(2)(xv) in his assessment. It was held that the distinction between the legal expenses on a successful and unsuccessful defence was not sound and that the deductibility of such expenses under s. 10(2)(xv) must depend on the nature and purpose of the legal proceedings D in relation to the business whose profits are in computation and are unaffected by the final outcome of the proceedings. A review of these cases shows that expenses which are permitted as deductions are such as are made for the purpose of carrying on the business i.e. to enable a person to carry on and E earn profit in that business. It is not enough that the disbursements are made in the course of or arise out of or are concerned with or made out of the profits of the business but they must also be for the purpose of earning the profits of the business. As was pointed out in Von Glehn’s case [(1920) 2 KB 553] an expenditure is not deductible unless it is a commercial loss in trade and a penalty F imposed for breach of the law during the course of trade cannot be described as such. If a sum is paid by an assessee conducting his business, because in conducting it he has acted in a manner, which has rendered him liable to penalty it cannot be claimed as a deductible expense. It must be a commercial loss and in its nature G must be contemplable as such. Such penalties which are incurred by an assessee in proceedings launched against him for an infraction of the law cannot be called commercial losses incurred by an assessee in carrying on his business. Infraction of the law is not a normal incident of business and therefore only such disbursements can be deducted as are really incidental to the H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 117 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] business itself. They cannot be deducted if they fall on the assessee A in some character other than that of a trader. Therefore where a penalty is incurred for the contravention of any specific statutory provision, it cannot be said to be a commercial loss falling on the assessee as a trader the test being that the expenses which are for the purpose of enabling a person to carry on trade for making B profits in the business are permitted but not if they are merely connected with the business.