What has been stated hereinabove in relation to the question of ineligibility of the resolution applicant in terms of Section 164(2)(b) of the Companies Act, however, does not apply in relation to the other material objection as regards Section 88 of the Trusts Act. 44.1. It is not in dispute that the trust “Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth” of G which the appellant-resolution applicant is the Managing Trustee, was one of the disqualified resolution applicants on the ground that the said entity was a charitable trust. It has been argued on behalf of the appellant that his status as Managing Trustee of the said trust does not render him ineligible while submitting the resolution plan in his individual capacity. It has also been argued that even if the trust may be disqualified, the appellant H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 901 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] cannot be disqualified because his financial capability was independent A of the trust money. In our view, this part of the matter cannot be examined by a broad and generalised reference to the separate status of the two entities, i.e., the trust on one hand and the resolution applicant as an individual on the other. 44.2. Noticeable it is that the said trust was held ineligible on the B ground that it was a charitable trust and cannot run a profit-making entity. The EOIs in the first place were submitted by the present appellant- resolution applicant for himself as also on behalf of the trust. The Appellate Tribunal has rightly noticed that this filing of two EOIs by the resolution applicant, one for himself and another one on behalf of the ineligible C trust has a material bearing on the competence of the resolution plan of the appellant, for being directly hit by Section 88 of the Trusts Act. The Appellate Tribunal has rightly held that the applicant-Mr. M.K. Rajagopalan, being the Managing Trustee of the said trust, cannot be permitted to act as its alter ego in implementing the resolution plan to gain financial advantage for himself. By virtue of the operation and impact D of Section 88 of the Trusts Act, submission of individual resolution plan by the appellant cannot be countenanced for any implementation of the said individual resolution plan would nevertheless be hit by the provisions contained in the Trusts Act. We may elaborate a little. 44.3. The suggestion on the part of the resolution applicant to E assert his independent standing detached from the said ineligible applicant Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth carries its own shortcoming when examined in the context of the assertions made by him in clauses 3.5 and 3.10 of his resolution plan which have been extracted by the Appellate Tribunal and we are impelled to re-extract them for ready reference as under: - F “3.5. Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth: Mr. M.K. Rajagopalan is the founder and managing trustee of Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth……… 3.10. Financial Snapshot “The entities under the leadership of Mr. M.K. Rajagopalan have been growing rapidly while ensuring quality of service to nation and public at large…….. G There entities have achieved turnover of Rs.