If Issue No.14(a) is answered in the affirmative, all the properties in Item Nos. 37 to 40 are Maktas and Inam properties and the Civil Court has no jurisdiction. This is the conundrum presented by the preliminary decree. Therefore, the holders of the preliminary decree and their assignees and purchasers cannot claim that the Government D had already become a persona non grata. 139. Therefore, in fine, we hold on Issue No. (i)that the and preliminary decree dated 28.06.1963, though may not be vitiated by fraud, are certainly not binding upon third parties like the claim petitioners as well as the Government who have set E up independent claims and that whatever was done in pursuance of the preliminary decree was an abuse of the process of law. We also hold on Issue No. (iv) that in an enquiry under XXI, Rules 97 to 101, CPC, the Executing Court cannot decide questions of title set up by third parties (not claiming through or under the parties to the suit or their family members), who assert independent F title in themselves. All that can be done in such cases at the stage of execution, is to find out prima facie whether the obstructionists/claim petitioners have a bona fide claim to title, independent of the rights of the parties to the partition suit. If they are found to have an independent claim to title, then the holder of the decree for partition cannot be allowed G to defeat the rights of third parties in these proceedings. Issue Nos. (ii) and (iii) (ii) Whether the concurrent findings of the single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court that Khurshid Jah did not leave behind any Mathruka property, goes contrary to the H M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 349 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] finding recorded in the and preliminary decree that A has attained finality? and (iii)Whether the finding recorded in the and preliminary decree that the lands in Hydernagar are Mathruka property are binding upon third parties? B 140. The answer to Issue No. (iii) is not very difficult to be found. While dealing with Issue Nos. (i) and (iv), we have already held that any finding relating to title to a property, recorded in a simple suit for partition cannot be binding on third parties. The same would hold good even in relation to the finding in the preliminary decree that most of the suit schedule properties were Mathruka properties. Making this clear let us C go back to Issue No.(ii). 141. Issue No. (ii) arising before us is as to whether the finding recorded by the learned Single Judge in Application No.994 of 1995 and the finding recorded by the Division Bench in the impugned that Khurshid Jah did not leave behind any Mathruka property is contrary D to the finding recorded in the preliminary decree that has attained finality? 142. For finding an answer to this question, let us first go back to the in support of the preliminary decree and see if at all the Trial Judge came to the conclusion that most of the suit properties left behind by Khurshid Jah were Mathruka properties.