A active service, fails, without sufficient cause, to rejoin without delay; or (d) without sufficient cause fails to appear at the time fixed at the parade or place appointed for exercise or duty; or (e) when on parade, or on the line of march, without sufficient B cause or without leave from his superior officer, quits the parade or line of march; or (f) when in camp or garrison or elsewhere, is found beyond any limits fixed, or in any place prohibited, by any general, local or other , without a pass or written leave from his C superior officer; or (g) without leave from his superior officer or without due cause, absents himself from any school when duly ed to attend there; shall, on conviction by court- martial, be liable to suffer D imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned.” 12. It is apparent from a bare reading of the aforesaid provision which deals with offences relating to absence without leave, that in case of an offence of overstaying leave without sufficient cause, on a conviction E by a Court Martial, punishment by way of imprisonment for a term that may extend to three years or such less punishment as contemplated in the Act can be imposed on the delinquent person. Section 71 that falls under Chapter VII of the Act deals with punishments that may be inflicted for offences on conviction by the Court Martial, listed in a sliding scale. F The punishment of imprisonment finds mention at sub-clause (c) whereas that of dismissal from service is mentioned down below, in sub-clause (e). In other words, the punishment of dismissal from service on conviction by Court Martial has been treated as a lesser punishment vis-à-vis the punishment of imprisonment for any period below 14 years. That being the position, the appellant cannot be heard to state that the punishment G inflicted on him is graver than the one contemplated under the Act. 13. In a case of proportionality of the punishment imposed for unauthorised absence in Union of India and Others v. Ex. No. 6492086 Sep/Ash Kulbeer Singh10, this Court had turned down the contention H 10 (2019) 13 SCC 20 EX SEPOY MADAN PRASAD v. UNION OF INDIA AND 1207 OTHERS [HIMA KOHLI, J.] made on behalf of the respondent therein that instead of subjecting him A to a term of imprisonment under Section 39, he had been dismissed from the service, which was disproportionate to the offence, it was held thus: “6. We do not find any merit in the first submission. Section 39 of the Army Act, 1950 is comprised in Chapter VI which deals with “offences”. Section 39 provides that on a conviction by the Court B Martial for an offence involving absence without leave, a sentence of imprisonment which may extend up to three years may be imposed. Chapter VII which deals with “punishments” contains Section 71. Clause (e) of Section 71 specifically contemplates the punishment of dismissal from service on conviction by Court C Martials.