Section 11 application to be listed along with the curative petition in view of the wider legal ramifi cations fl owing from N N Global 2 (supra). Therefore, the respondent’s argument is misplaced because Seka Dobric (supra), which is a live cause or matter, is also listed along with the curative petition. 26. The respondent has also argued that it was improper for the Constitution Bench to exercise its curative jurisdiction to refer the matter to this Bench of seven Judges. VI Rule 2 of the Supreme Court Rules 2013 provide that if a Bench in the course of hearing any cause, appeal or “other proceedings” considers that the matter be dealt with by a larger bench, it shall refer the matter to the Chief Justice, who shall thereupon constitute such a Bench for the hearing of the matter. In Kantaru Rajeevaru v. Indian Young Lawyers Association,19 a nine-Judge Bench of this Court held that the term “other proceeding” used in VI Rule 2 of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 is a comprehensive term giving widest freedom to a court of law to do justice to the parties in the case. Accordingly, it was held that review petitions also fall within the purview of the expression “other proceeding.” In view of the decision in Kantaru Rajeevaru (supra), the term “other proceeding” under VI Rule 2 of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 will also include curative petitions. Therefore, we fi nd no impropriety in the reference made to this Bench. 27. Moreover, the reference raises important issues on points of law, which require immediate consideration. In Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community (supra), this Court laid down two exceptions to the rules mentioned above: “12. (3) The above rules are subject to two exceptions: (i) the abovesaid rules do not bind the discretion of the Chief Justice in whom vests the power of framing the roster and who can direct any particular matter to be placed for hearing before any particular Bench of any strength; and (ii) in spite of the rules laid down hereinabove, if the matter has already come up for hearing before a Bench of larger quorum and that Bench itself feels that the view of the law taken by a Bench of lesser quorum, which view is in doubt, needs correction or reconsideration then by way of exception (and not as a rule) and for reasons given by 19 (2020) 9 SCC 121 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1109 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] it, it may proceed to hear the case and examine the correctness of the previous decision in question dispensing with the need of a specifi c reference or the of the Chief Justice constituting the Bench and such listing. Such was the situation in Raghubir Singh [(1989) 2 SCC 754] and Hansoli Devi [(2002) 7 SCC 273].” 28. The two exceptional situations laid down in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra community (supra) have to be invoked cautiously, and in situations involving wide ramifi cations for the law.