The reasoning, which permeates 19 (supra) 20 (supra) 21 (supra) H 362 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the s in V. Sudeer22is that if statutorily the power of the State Bar Councils has been taken away in respect of a particular aspect i.e. either for providing training or for holding examination, the endeavour of the Bar Council of India to introduce a pre-enrolment examination could not be sustained as it would go contrary to the intent of the 1973 Amendment. B 26. The third question framed for reference refers to Section 49(1)(ah) of the said Act for providing a post-enrolment examination if the answers to the first two questions are in negative. Section 49 deals with the general powers of Bar Council of India to make rules and Sub- Clause (ah) specifically deals with the conditions subject to which an C Advocate shall have the right to practise and the circumstances under which a person can be deemed to practise as an Advocate in a Court. 27. We now turn to the submissions of Mr. K.V. Vishwanathan, learned Senior Counsel, who assisted this Court as an Amicus as he pleaded about what he perceived as the fallacies of the earlier D of V. Sudeer23. He contended in this behalf that the powers of the State Bar Councils and the Bar Council of India encompass different fields and that of the Bar Council of India are much wider. He also submitted that when the legislature ousted the power of the State Bar Councils in this behalf, it did not per se amount to whittling down the powers of the E Bar Council of India under the existing provisions, which do not stand modified or deleted. The functions of the State Bar Councils, on a plain reading of Section 6 deal with their powers relating to preparing and maintaining the rolls and admissions of persons as advocates on their rolls. However, the power of the Bar Council of India under Section 49(1)(ag) of the said Act empowers the Bar Council of India to prescribe F Rules that would specify a class or category of persons, who are entitled to be enrolled as advocates. Section 49(1)(ag) reads as under: “49. General power of the Bar Council of India to make rules – [(1)] The Bar Council of India may make rules for discharging its funtions under this Act, and, in particular, such rules G may prescribe- …. …. …. …. …. …. 22 (supra) 21 (supra) H 23 (supra) BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA v. BONNIE FOI LAW COLLEGE 363 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] (ag) the class or category of persons entitled to be enrolled as A advocates;” 28. Thus, he contended that the meaning of entitlement, would indicate that the Bar Council of India could prescribe such conditions, which would give the right or claim to a person to be enrolled as an advocate and the power of Bar Council of India prior to enrolment cannot B be ousted. Further, the significance of Section 24(1) has to be read with other provisions of the said Act and the Rules made thereunder including the “notwithstanding clause” at the beginning of Sub-Section (3) of Section 24.