I am of the further opinion that the enactment of the amendment of Take Over Regulation of Amending provisions of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Take Over) Second Amendment (Regulation 2002) w.e.f. 9.9.2002 by providing for the remedy under sub clause (c) and (d) of the Regulation D 44 the board has been empowered to give effective relief of Rectification of Share Register by declaring cancellation of the Allotment and/or by directing the company not to give an effect to the transfer if they are found to be in contrary to the Take Over Regulation.” E 23. Zandu Pharmaceutical Works Ltd. v. Devkumarvaidya & Ors.19, is another instance where it has been held that in a case of violation of the SEBI Regulations, the CLB cannot exercise rectificatory jurisdiction unless and until the SEBI, in the very first instance, decides if there has been a violation or not. The CLB held that: F “11. Most of the allegations made by the petitioner are yet to be investigated and to be crystallised/confirmed as violations of the law. The allegations of violation of Takeover Code and Insider Trading is to be decided by the SEBI and similarly the allegations of investment beyond the limit under section G 372A of the Act and acquisition of shares creating thereby a dominant undertaking under section 108A of the Act are to be investigated and crystallised/confirmed as violations by the Central Government. Unless it is confirmed as a violation of law, the CLB has no power to issue s for rectification 19 (2009) 89 CLA 65 H IFB AGRO INDUSTRIES LTD. v. SICGIL INDIA LTD. AND 547 OTHERS [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] of register of members and further this Bench has no power A to declare these allegations as violations of law.” 24. The principle enunciated in Ammonia’s case relating to the jurisdiction of a Tribunal with respect to the rectification of the register is well-recognized and consistently followed. Sub-section (3) of Section 59 recognizes the overarching right to hold and transfer securities with B the concomitant entitlement of voting. This is a precious right, and that is the reason why the Parliament found it necessary to caution that the provision of this Section shall not restrict the right of a holder of securities, to transfer such securities. This is another feature which is indicative of the limited scope and extent of the power of rectification of the register. C 25. For the reason stated above, we are of the opinion that the company petition under Section 111A of the 1956 Act for a declaration that the acquisition of shares by the Respondents as null and void is misconceived. The Tribunal should have directed the Appellant to seek such a declaration before the appropriate forum. The Appellate Tribunal D is, therefore, justified in allowing the appeal and setting aside the of the Tribunal. Re: appropriate forum for enquiry and adjudication of violations of the SEBI Regulations: 26. There is another perspective in which the legality and propriety E of the company petition under Section 111A for declaring the acquisition of shares as null and void for violation of SEBI Regulations could be judged - Which is the appropriate forum for adjudication and determination of violations and consequent actions under the SEBI (SAST) Regulations and the SEBI (PIT) Regulations?