It is submitted that invocation of insolvency legislations are E usually involuntary. It is submitted that the Parliaments of different countries recognized the need to have separate insolvency legislations as the fallout of insolvency and eventual winding up leading to dissolution of companies was having serious economic and social implications for the society at large; F (vii) It is further submitted that the commercial laws have two types of laws, one, mandatory laws and second, permissive opting out laws. Insolvency/bankruptcy laws are mandatory laws and not permissive opting out laws. Insolvency/ bankruptcy laws provides a mandatory system wherein G creditors’ bargain take place within a common collection pool; (viii) It is further submitted that a sanctioned scheme whether under Companies Act or under specific insolvency laws like SICA or IBC, 2013 is to operate as a discharge of debt H MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1039 LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] / liability owed by the insolvent company to all creditors A including decree holders / arbitration award holders / industrial award holders. All creditors are entitled to collect the amount of debt as provided in the scheme and not the full amount of debt. It is submitted that a decree or an award does not confer any superior right to a creditor holding such B a decree or an award. Decree holders or award holders do not form a separate class; (ix) On the scheme of SICA, more particularly, the rehabilitation scheme, it is submitted as under :- a) Section 18(1) deals with the measures that a scheme C with respect to a sick industrial company can provide for. The scheme under section 18(1)(a) and 18(2)(h) can provide for “financial reconstruction of the sick industrial company” Section 18(1)(e) enable a scheme to provide for such other preventive, D ameliorative and remedial measures as may be appropriate”. Financial reconstruction would normally entail reduction / sacrifice of portion of debts as otherwise, no financial reconstruction of a financially distressed company would be possible. Section 18(1)(f) is the residuary clause dealing with incidental, E consequential or supplemental measures that may be necessary or expedient in connection with or for the purposes of the measures specified in clauses (a) to (e) of Section 18(1). Section 18(2) delineates various aspects that the scheme may provide for to fully and F effectively carry out reconstruction, amalgamation or other measures mentioned therein. b) The words financial reconstruction provided in section 18(1) (a) are of widest amplitude. Under this sub- section the BIFR can reorganize, modify, vary, reduce, defer the dues of creditors. G c) Section 18(3)(a) provides for publication of draft scheme in daily newspapers for suggestions and objections. Section 18(3)(b) specifically provides that BIFR may modify draft scheme in the light of H 1040 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A suggestions and objections received from creditors, amongst others, of sick company. d) Section 18(8) of SICA provides that a sanctioned scheme shall be binding on the sick industrial company, shareholders, creditors, guarantors and B employees of the company.