3.6 The appeal preferred by the appellant came to be dismissed. A The second appeal before the Tribunal also came to be dismissed. It was specifically held that the nature of goods being produced under the modern technology is not different than the goods produced by the unit earlier, as both the produced material are used in packing the bottles of cold drinks and therefore, as the goods manufactured are not different B but the same and used for the same purpose, the appeals came to be dismissed. Against the passed by the Tribunal, the revision application before the High Court has been dismissed by the impugned and , and, hence the present appeal. 4. Shri Atul Yeshwant Chitale, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellant has submitted that the issue involved in the C present appeal is with respect to the interpretation of Explanation 5 to Section 4-A(5) of the Act, which grants exemption from payment of trade tax to units, which had undertaken ‘diversification’ in their units on or after 31.03.1995. 4.1 It is submitted that the appellant is a manufacturer of crown D corks used for sealing glass bottles. Initially, it was producing “Spun Line Crown Corks”. However, subsequently, it diversified the manufacturing activity to manufacture “Double Lip Dry Blend Crowns” for which it imported new plant and machinery and invested a fixed capital cost of Rs. 4.5 crores. 4.2 It is submitted that the new product being manufactured by E the appellant is an eco-friendly product using PVC granules as raw materials. The new product is different from the “Spun Line Crown Corks” manufactured earlier. 4.3 It is submitted that the new product is an entirely different product from what was manufactured earlier and the use of the product F was also different. It is submitted that the new product was an entirely different product in commercial parlance. It is submitted that the mere fact that both the products are commonly known as “Corks” would have no relevance. It is submitted that similarly the fact that both the products are used for sealing glass bottles would also not be a relevant criterion. The test which was to be applied is whether the goods were different G from those manufactured earlier. It is submitted that the appellant was entitled to claim exemption from trade tax since it has undertaken diversification and the goods i.e., “Double Lip Dry Blend Crowns” now being manufactured are of a nature different from those manufactured earlier by the appellant being a different commercial commodity. H 1040 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 4.4 It is submitted that the Trade Tax Tribunal as well as the High Court have misconstrued the Explanation 5 to Section 4-A(5) of the Act and the notification dated 31.03.1995 on the basis of which the appellant had sought eligibility certificate on the ground of diversification. 4.5 It is submitted that in to be entitled to claim exemption from trade tax on the ground of diversification, the goods had to be of a B nature different from those manufactured earlier.