Both these are positive mental attitudes, however, of different degrees. The mental element in ‘culpable homicide’, that is, the mental attitude towards the consequences of conduct is one of intention and knowledge. Once an offence is caused in any of the three stated manners noted-above, it would be ‘culpable homicide’. Section 300 of the IPC, however, deals with ‘murder’, although there is no clear F definition of ‘murder’ in Section 300 of the IPC. As has been repeatedly held by this Court, ‘culpable homicide’ is the genus and ‘murder’ is its species and all ‘murders’ are ‘culpable homicides’ but all ‘culpable homicides’ are not ‘murders’. (see Rampal Singh v. State of U.P., (2012) 8 SCC 289) G 34. In the case of State of Andhra Pradesh v. Rayavarapu Punnayya, (1976) 4 SCC 382, this Court, while clarifying the distinction between these two terms and their consequences, held as under:- “12. In the scheme of the Penal Code, ‘culpable homicide’ is genus and ‘murder’ is species. All ‘murder’ is ‘culpable H ANBAZHAGAN v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY THE 1111 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] homicide’ but not vice-versa. Speaking generally, ‘culpable A homicide not amounting to murder’. For the purpose of fixing punishment, proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence, the Code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide. The first is what may be called ‘culpable homicide of the first degree’. This is the greatest form of B culpable homicide, which is defined in Section 300 as ‘murder’. The second may be termed as ‘culpable homicide of the second degree’. This is punishable under the first part of Section 304. Then, there is ‘culpable homicide of the third degree’. This is the lowest type of culpable homicide C and the punishment provided for it is, also, the lowest among the punishments provided for the three grades. Culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of Section 304.” (Emphasis supplied) D 35. Section 300 of the IPC proceeds with reference to Section 299 of the IPC. ‘Culpable homicide’ may or may not amount to ‘murder’, in terms of Section 300 of the IPC. When a ‘culpable homicide is murder’, the punitive consequences shall follow in terms of Section 302 of the IPC, while in other cases, that is, where an offence is ‘culpable homicide E not amounting to murder’, punishment would be dealt with under Section 304 of the IPC. Various s of this Court have dealt with the cases which fall in various classes of firstly, secondly, thirdly and fourthly, respectively, stated under Section 300 of the IPC. It would not be necessary for us to deal with that aspect of the case in any further detail. F 36. The principles stated in the case of Virsa Singh v. State of Punjab, AIR 1958 SC 465, are the broad guidelines for the courts to exercise their judicial discretion while considering the cases to determine as to which particular clause of Section 300 of the IPC they fall in.