There are a number of ways in which this is permissible and none of them entail the degradation of a state into a Union Territory.88 Article 3 has to be read in a manner that is consistent with the principles of federalism. It cannot be invoked in to fulfil the political objectives of the party in power at the Centre89; f. The 2019 Act is unrelated to the nature of powers prescribed by Article 3 of the Constitution. Article 3 does not deal with the reorganization of a State into a Union Territory. Unlike the other elements of Article 3 (clauses a-e), the reorganization of a state into Union Territories involves a drastic transfer of legislative and executive power. The Constituent Assembly would have not intended that such a transfer be affected by Parliamentary legislation90; 87 Written Submissions of Mr. Chander Uday Singh, Senior Counsel. 88 Written Submissions of Mr. Chander Uday Singh, Senior Counsel; Submissions On Behalf Of The Petitioners, Mr Shekhar Naphade, Senior Advocate. 89 D.C. Wadhwa Vs State of Bihar (1987) 1 SCC 378. Written Submissions Of Mr. Dushyant Dave, Senior Advocate. 90 Written Submissions of Mr. Chander Uday Singh, Senior Counsel. 48 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. g. The Reorganisation Act has the eff ect of bringing the following changes: Article 73 of the Constitution of India on the State, erasing the executive powers under Article 162; depriving the entire territory of Ladakh of its rights under Article 54 and 55, altering the representation of the territory in the Council of States; excluding the territory from the electoral college of the Rajya Sabha – all of these changes fall squarely under the clauses (a) to (e) of the proviso to Article 368 (2). Thus, these changes could have been aff ected only by recourse to Article 368(2), subject to procedural safeguards such as ratifi cation by states.91 A law that, inter alia, denudes the state of its legislative assembly such as the impugned Act cannot be brought under Article 392 ; h. There is a qualitative diff erence between the reduction of a state into a Union Territory as opposed to the situations envisaged in Article 3 – each of the sub-clauses of Article 3 refers to a situation where as a result of a law, citizens may fi nd themselves living in an existing or a new state. The federal representative democracy enjoyed by the citizens under these provisions is either constant or enhanced. As opposed to this, the degradation of a State into a Union Territory causes a diminishment or a loss of representative democracy93; i. The purpose of Article 3 must be read in accordance with the State Reorganisation Report 1955. The Report suggested that the demarcation of Indian States into Part A, B, C and D states was not feasible. Thus, the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act 195694 removed these distinctions and introduced the concept of Union Territories. From 1955 onwards, through various legislations under Article 3 the present states of Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur etc.