It is submitted that therefore same would be against the of this Court in the case of Grah Rakshak (supra). 3.4 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State that the High Court has also failed to appreciate that D presently 16894 numbers of Home Guards are working in the State and therefore if the Home Guards working in the State are paid salary as per the directions issued by the learned Single Judge modified by the Division Bench, in that case, a huge financial burden would be fastened upon the State. E 3.5 With above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeals preferred by the State. 4. While opposing the present appeals preferred by the State, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective Home Guards/ original writ petitioners / applicants have vehemently submitted that the F direction issued by the learned Single Judge affirmed by the Division Bench of the High Court directing the State to pay DCA at Rs.533/- per day is absolutely in consonance with the of this Court in the case of Grah Rakshak (supra) and the subsequent clarificatory . 4.1 It is submitted that this Court in the case of Grah Rakshak G (supra) though rejected the prayer of the Home Guards for regularization of their services or for grant of regular appointments, however, directed all the State Governments to pay them the DCA at such rate total of 30 days (one month) comes to minimum of the pay to which the Police personnel of the State are entitled. It is further submitted that thereafter H 496 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A dispute arose whether same includes DA or not and therefore this Court clarified that the payment of minimum of the pay would mean basic pay + grade pay + dearness allowance + washing allowance. It is submitted that this Court also further clarified that the pay that is given to the Home Guards will not be on a monthly basis but will be calculated with reference to each day of work put in by the Home Guards. B 4.2 It is submitted that thereafter the Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs as early as on 16.09.2016 requested all the Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories to issue necessary directions for compliance of the aforesaid . It is submitted that thereafter many States have complied with the directions issued by this C Court in the case of Grah Rakshak (supra) and the clarificatory except the State of Orissa. It is submitted that even so far as the State of Orissa is concerned, the Director General in the year 2016 itself recommended to pay a minimum of Rs.533/- per day to the Home Guards in the State of Orissa from 10.11.2016 in light of the of this D Court in the case of Grah Rakshak (supra) and the clarificatory . 4.3 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective Home Guards have prayed to consider the following facts: (i) This Hon’ble Court had in the dated 11.03.2015 passed in the matter of Grah Rakshak, Home Guards E Welfare Association vs. State of Himachal Pradesh directed payment of such DCA preferably within three months; (ii) The Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs as early as on 16.09.2016 had requested the Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories to issue necessary directions F for compliance of the aforesaid ; (iii) The Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs wrote letter dated 5.10.2016 to the Secretary, Home Department, Government of Orissa for taking appropriate action regarding the complaint of Petitioner No.1 about disobedience of the G passed by this Hon’ble Court regarding payment of salary to Home Guards; (iv) the Directorate General (Fire Service, Home Guards, Civil Defence) Odisha, in light of the dated 11.03.2015 passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the matter of Grah H PRAKASH KUMAR JENA & ORS.