The Court observed in para 85 as under: “85. The right to claim partition is a significant basic feature F of the coparcenary, and a coparcener is one who can claim partition. The daughter has now become entitled to claim partition of coparcenary w.e.f. 9-9-2005, which is a vital change brought about by the statute. A coparcener enjoys the right to seek severance of status. Under Sections 6(1) G and 6(2), the rights of a daughter are pari passu with a son. In the eventuality of a partition, apart from sons and daughters, the wife of the coparcener is also entitled to an equal share. The right of the wife of a coparcener to claim her right in property is in no way taken away.” H (Emphasis supplied) PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 61 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (B) As noted earlier, under the law pertaining to partition as existing A prior to the Amendment Act, 2005, if there would be a partition of coparcenary property between father (F) and sons (S1 and S2) then the wife (W) of father (F) as well as widowed mother (M) of father (F) would get one share equal share to that of a son (S1 or S2). This position continues to exist as is evident from the B observation made in the last portion of the above-quoted paragraph 85 of this Court’s decision. Hence, if there is a partition of coparcenary property between father and sons (and now also daughters), then wife of father as well as widowed mother of father would get one share equal share to that of a son (or a daughter). C (C) Under Mitakshara School of Hindu Law, a member of a joint Hindu Family can bring about his separation in status by a definite, unequivocal and unilateral declaration of his intention to separate himself from the family and enjoy his share in severalty. Thus, the institution of a suit for partition by a member of a joint family is a D clear intimation of his intention to separate, and there was consequential severance of the status of jointness. Question before this Court in Vineeta Sharma (supra) was: in case during the pendency of partition suit or during the period between the passing of preliminary decree and final decree in the partition suit, any E legislative amendment or any subsequent event takes place which results in enlargement or diminution of the shares of the parties or alteration of their rights, whether such legislative amendment or subsequent event can be into consideration and given effect to while passing final decree in the partition suit. The Court held that even though filing of partition suit brings about severance of status F of jointness, such legislative amendment or subsequent event will have to be taken into consideration and given effect to in passing the final decree in the partition suit. This is because, the partition suit can be regarded as fully and completely decided only when the final decree is passed.