The procedures which are considered inherent in the exercise of a judicial power are merely to facilitate if not ensure a just and fair decision. In recent years the concept of quasi-judicial power has been 20 (1968) 2 SCR 186. 21 (1969) 2 SCC 262. H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 295 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] undergoing a radical change. What was considered as an A administrative power some years back is now being considered as a quasi-judicial power…” 74. In this context, it may be true that the Principles of Natural Justice entailed giving Respondent No. 1 an opportunity to defend its rights. However, the most decisive and crucial factor is whether any B legally vested ‘right’ ever accrued in favour of Respondent No. 1, which the State Government could not have despoiled behind its back. It has already been held by us categorically that RIICO had no authority whatsoever to accord permission for conversion and sub-division of the industrial land allotted to Respondent No. 1. We have further opined that C the State Government has always retained its authority as lessor and was the only competent authority to grant such permissions to Respondent No. 1 within the framework of the 1959 Rules. The irresistible conclusion would be that the self-styled power exercised by RIICO, was without any sanction in law; it lacked inherent competence and RIICO acted beyond its jurisdiction in respect of LIA, Kota. The permissions accorded D by RIICO in favour of Respondent No. 1 did not confer any rights whatsoever, much less any enforceable right in the eyes of law. RIICO usurped the powers vested in the State Government and passed palpably illegal s in favour of Respondent No.1. The agreements between RIICO and Respondent No. 1 are nothing but brutum fulmen. E 75. On the face of these findings, the question that arises is whether Respondent No. 1, which actively participated in RIICO’s decision making process and secured benefits without any authority in law, can be permitted to complain of a deprivation of the opportunity of being heard. We are of the considered opinion that the principle of audi altrempartem F should not be an empty formality nor a compulsory ritual that must always be performed. The principal issue that arose for consideration before the Cabinet Committee pertained to the legitimacy of the power assumed by RIICO in respect of LIA, Kota, and not whether the permissions granted to Respondent No. 1 suffered from any propriety or legality. It is true that the issue was raked up with a political flavour, but eventually G the final resolution centred around the RIICO’s lack of authority. We do not think that Respondent No. 1 could render any assistance to the Cabinet Committee in the formation of their views. In any case, we have carried out an in-depth analysis of the entire gamut of documents and statutory rules, and have come to a firm conclusion that it was the State Government H 296 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.