[2023] 13 S.C.R. 943 : 2023 INSC 976 CASE DETAILS LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LIMITED v. UTTARAKHAND JAL VIDYUT NIGAM LIMITED (Arbitration Petition No. 43 of 2022) NOVEMBER 6, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI, J.B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the dictum as laid down in ICOMM Tele Limited’s case can bem ade applicable to the instant case, when Clause 55 of the General Conditions of Contract provides for a pre-deposit of 7% of the total claim for the purpose of invoking the arbitration clause; whether there is any direct confl ict between the decisions of this Court in S.K. Jain’s case and ICOMM Tele Limited ’s case; whether this Court while deciding a petition fi led u/s. 11(6) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 for appointment of a sole arbitrator can hold that the condition of pre-deposit stipulated in the arbitration clause as provided in the Contract is violative of the Article 14 of the Constitution; and whether the arbitration Clause No. 55 of the Contract empowering the Principal Secretary/Secretary (Irrigation) to appoint an arbitrator of his choice is in confl ict with the decision of this Court in Perkins Eastman’s case. Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Arbitration agreement – Arbitration clause – Invocation of – Clause 55 of the General Conditions of Contract providing for a pre-deposit of 7% of the total claim – Validity of: Held: As regards 7% pre-deposit condition, nothing has been provided as to how this amount of 7% is to be ultimately adjusted at the end of the arbitral proceedings – Clauses 3 and 4 respectively relating to security deposit for performance and refund of the same, has no nexus at all with the pre-deposit amount of 7% as stipulated in Clause 55 of the GCC – Such 943 944 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. vague and ambiguous condition of 7% pre-deposit of the total claim makes the same more vulnerable to arbitrariness thereby violating Article 14 of the Constitution – Thus, the Conditions contained in Clause 55 of the GCC, relating to 7% deposit of the total amount claimed should be ignored. [Para 66, 68] Arbitration and C onciliation Act, 1996 – Arbitration agreement – Pre-deposit clause – S.K. Jain’s case and ICOMM Tele Limited ’s case where substantive challenges made to the pre-deposit clause , if any direct confl ict between the said decisions of this Court: Held: There is no confl ict between S.K. Jain’s case and ICOMM Tele Limited’s case, as the relevant arbitration clauses that fell for the consideration of this Court in both the cases stood completely on a diff erent footing. [Para 61] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s. 11(6) – Petition under, for appointment of arbitrator – Validity of the pre-deposit condition as contained in the arbitration clause – If it could be looked into and decided on the anvil of Article 14 of the Constitution in the petition: Held: It cannot be said that this Court while considering an application u/s.