However, in cases where a split has occurred, and members of one of the factions are found to C have satisfied the conditions in Paragraph 2(1) and are also unable to establish any of the five defences detailed above, they would stand disqualified. The percentage of members in each faction is irrelevant to the determination of whether a defence to disqualification is made out. 166. This is necessarily the implication of the deletion of Paragraph D 3. To hold otherwise would be to permit the entry of the defence of ‘split’ in the Tenth Schedule through the back door. This is impermissible and would render the deletion of Paragraph 3 meaningless. It is trite law that what cannot be done directly cannot be permitted to be done indirectly.61The interpretation which we have expounded is the only one which comports with the deletion of Paragraph 3. E b. The decision of the Speaker under Paragraph 2 of the Tenth Schedule 167. Regardless of the defence available to members who face disqualification proceedings, the Speaker may be called upon to determine who the “real” political party is while adjudicating disqualification petitions F under Paragraph 2(1)(a) where two or more factions of the political or legislature party have arisen. The effect of the deletion of Paragraph 3 is that both factions cannot be considered to constitute the original political party. In to determine which (if any) of the members of the party have voluntarily given up membership of the political party under G Paragraph 2(1)(a), it is necessary to first determine which of the factions constitute the political party. This determination is a prima facie determination and will not impact any other proceedings including the proceedings under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols . 61 Delhi Admn. v. Gurdip Singh Uban, (2000) 7 SCC 296; Taxi Owners United Transport H v. State Transport Authority (Orissa), (1983) 4 SCC 34 SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 953 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] 168. In arriving at their decision, the Speaker must consider the A constitution of the party as well as any other rules and regulations which specify the structure of the leadership of the party. If the rival groups submit two or more versions of the party constitution, the Speaker must consider the version which was submitted to the ECI before the rival factions emerged. In other words, the Speaker must consider the version B of the party constitution which was submitted to the ECI with the consent of both factions. This will obviate a situation where both factions attempt to amend the constitution to serve their own ends. Further, the Speaker must not base their decision as to which group constitutes the political party on a blind appreciation of which group possesses a majority in the Legislative Assembly. This is not a game of numbers, but of something C more. The structure of leadership outside the Legislative Assembly is a consideration which is relevant to the determination of this issue.