It referred the following issue to a Bench of fi ve Judges: “58. […] Whether the statutory bar contained in Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp duty under Section 3 read with the Schedule to the Act, would also render the arbitration agreement contained in such an instrument, which is not chargeable to payment of stamp duty, as being non-existent, IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1099 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] unenforceable, or invalid, pending payment of stamp duty on the substantive contract/ instrument?” 4. The Constitution Bench in N N Global Mercantile (P) Ltd. v. Indo Unique Flame Ltd.8 (hereinafter referred as “N N Global 2”) answered the reference. By a majority of 3:2, it was held that NN Global 1 (supra) does not represent the correct position of law. The majority (authored by Justice K. M. Joseph for himself and Justice Aniruddha Bose with a concurring by Justice C. T. Ravikumar) upheld the view taken by this Court in SMS Tea Estates (supra) and Garware Wall Ropes (supra). Justice Ajay Rastogi and Justice Hrishikesh Roy delivered separate dissenting s. The conclusions of the majority can be summarized in the following terms: a. An unstamped instrument containing an arbitration agreement is void under Section 2(g) of the Contract Act; b. An unstamped instrument, not being a contract and not enforceable in law, cannot exist in law. The arbitration agreement in such an instrument can be acted upon only after it is duly stamped; c. The “existence” of an arbitration agreement contemplated under Section 11(6A) of the Arbitration Act is not merely a facial existence or existence in fact, but also “existence in law”; d. The Court acting under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act cannot disregard the mandate of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act requiring it to examine and impound an unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped instrument; and e. The certifi ed copy of an arbitration agreement must clearly indicate the stamp duty paid. 5. The minority adopted a diff erent legal approach. Justice Ajay Rastogi noted that the scope of the referral court under Section 11 is limited to the examination of the “existence” of an arbitration agreement. He held that all the other debatable issues, including the issue of stamping, 8 (2023) 7 SCC 1 110 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. must be left for the arbitral tribunal to decide in view of Section 16 of the Arbitration Act. 6. Justice Hrishikesh Roy relied on the scheme of the Stamp Act to hold that an unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped document is not rendered invalid or void ab initio because the failure to stamp an instrument is a curable defect. Further, Justice Roy traced the evolution of the Arbitration Act to observe that it promotes minimum judicial interference in the arbitral process. He held that Section 11 of the Arbitration Act should be harmonized with Section 35 of the Stamp Act by deferring the issue of stamping to the arbitrator.