A any stage that what is the requirement and since there is no reference made either in the Scheme of Rules, 2010 or in the advertisement dated 22nd July, 2021 to the certificate of category to which the appellant claim has to be furnished is of which date or year. Each of them had bona fidely pleaded that the certificate of the category which is being obtained is issued by the competent authority after due compliance for all practical B purposes and in the given facts and circumstances, the rigor which has been put by the Division Bench of the High Court under the impugned taking 31st August, 2021 as a sacrosanct date for furnishing the certificate relating to category is nowhere prescribed either under the Rules of 2010 or in the advertisement to which we are concerned C hence, the premise on which the High Court has proceeded is completely misconceived. 17. Learned counsel further submits that the on which reliance has been placed is not at all applicable on the facts of the instant case for the reason that the s relied upon are related to the D minimum academic qualification and in the cases where rules are silent or there is no administrative instruction issued by the competent authority/ recruiting authority before the selection process being initiated are in place, this Court has stepped in and laid down a principle that in the absence of rules indicating the requirement of holding academic qualification, the last date of filling application is considered to be a E benchmark for the applicant to possess the minimum academic qualification. 18. But we are not dealing in this case with minimum academic qualification or the date of birth which is defined under the Scheme of Rules, 2010. In the given facts and circumstances, the premise on which F the claim of the present appellants has been non-suited by the High Court that they failed to furnish the certificate of category on or before 31st August, 2021 is completely without basis/foundation having no nexus and they all have been put to surprise while it was notified to them demanding to furnish the certificate relating to category on or before G 31st August, 2021, which was the last date of submission of application but it was, for the first time, notified when the provisional list of candidates calling for interview was published on 04th August, 2022. 19. Learned counsel further submits that they all are coming from rural background and belonging to a poor strata in society, having no means to know the advanced technology which is available in the urban H SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 601 OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] cities and with the minimal facilities available at their end, still they are A able to crack the competitive examination and when this is not the case of the respondents that either of the appellant is not a member of a category which was indicated by him/her in application form originally filed to non-suite them at the stage when they finally qualified the competitive test and as informed that vacancies are available because B of non-joining by the candidates, they can easily be adjusted against the unfilled advertised vacancies without disturbing or taking away the rights of the persons/candidates who have been appointed on being declared successful by this authority.