In the interregnum, the assessee challenged the capacity determination No.24 of 2015 dated 18.12.2015 before the Commissioner (Appeal-I) who dismissed the appeal on the ground that it was premature as the issue relating to the classifi cation was pending since the show cause notice dated 01.07.2016 had already been issued and it was yet to be decided vide dated 06.12.2016. Aggrieved by the same an appeal was fi led before the tribunal and tribunal held that issue of classifi cation was open and it was to be decided by the adjudicating authority. Subsequently, OIO came to be passed on 18.03.2021, confi rming the duty demand and further ed for appropriation of the amount specifi ed thereunder, apart from imposing of penalty. Being aggrieved by the same, appeal was fi led before the tribunal which came to be allowed and the dated 18.03.2021 was set aside. Hence, this appeal by the Revenue. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES 117. Ms. Nisha Bagchi, the learned counsel for the Revenue, criticized the tribunal’s decision, arguing that it did not examine the defi nitions in the IS glossary and ignored the CRCL report dated 14.12.2015. She argued that adding scent to Zarda would change the product’s character to ‘zarda/ jarda scented tobacco’. Ms. Bagchi also cited the assessee’s representative’s statements and the fact that the product was previously classifi ed as ‘Mahapasand zarda/jarda scented tobaccot’ for March and April 2015 but was later changed to ‘Mahapasand chewing tobacco (without lime tube)’ for May 2015 to December 2015. Ms. Bagchi argued that the assessee’s dual stand at diff erent times depending on the rate of duty the product attracted was evident in Notifi cation No.25 of 2015, which fi xed the duty per packing machine/per month. In reply, Mr. S.K. Bagaria, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant-assessee has not only relied upon the communication dated 27.04.2015 (Annexure A-7) but also the CRCL Report dated 23.03.2015 which would indicate that the consistent stand of the Department itself was that the product manufactured by the assessee is ‘chewing tobacco’ and as such the impugned of the tribunal would not warrant interference. COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 645 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] 118. The assessee argued that the Revenue’s assumption that adding certain fl avours to ‘zarda scented tobacco’ is incorrect, as these additives only enhance the taste and assessment of the product as a ‘chewing tobacco’, and do not change the basic characteristics. It was also contended that ‘chewing tobacco’ and ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ having not been defi ned under the statute, the principles of trade parlance must be resorted to, which is its popular meaning and understanding by those people using the product and not scientifi c and technical. The assessee also harped upon the contention that the last report dated 14.12.2015 of the CRCL is an ‘induced opinion’. It was further contended that the Revenue had failed to establish or demonstrate that the product is not ‘chewing tobacco’ and the cross-examination of the Chemical Examiner refl ected that she had failed to substantiate her report as to the basis on which she opined that the product is ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’.