To the extent there can be no dispute between the parties, in view of the settled legal proposition dealing with sections 260A of the Act and section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. F 3.7 It is submitted that in all the appeals filed by the Revenue before the High Court, the primary issues raised pertained to inclusion and exclusion of a few comparables and selection of filters, which are essentially questions of fact and there is a consensus ad idem to this extent between the parties. In none of the appeals has the Revenue G pleaded, argued, or placed any material to demonstrate perversity in the of the Tribunal. Therefore, the High Court after noting the questions raised, findings rendered by the Tribunal and noting that perversity is neither pleaded/argued nor demonstrated by placing any material, dismissed the appeals, by relying on principles laid down in Softbrands India (P) Ltd. (supra). Therefore, no error can be attributed to the H SAP LABS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED v. INCOME TAX 437 OFFICER, CIRCLE 6, BANGALORE [M. R. SHAH, J.] s passed by the High Court dismissing the appeals, in such A circumstances. 3.8 It is next submitted that the submission of the Revenue that in each case the High Court should examine whether the guidelines laid down in the IT Act and the Rules are followed to determine the arm’s length price is not correct and moreover is too farfetched, as the High B Court can only decide substantial questions of law raised and arising before it. 3.9 It is further submitted that the Revenue’s submission that the in Softbrands India (P) Ltd. (supra) indicates that there will be no interference even where inconsistent views are taken by the C Tribunal is misconceived, because, it is quite possible that in view of the particular set of facts in one case, one Bench excludes a company and in another case includes the same in view of different set of facts, or similarly applies a filter in one and not in another. This is what is in fact held in Softbrands India (P) Ltd. (supra) (please see para 45). In D almost all cases it is the Revenue which uses the same set of comparables for determining an arm’s length price, thus, painting all assessees with the same brush. These are questions of facts, which would require determination on a case by case basis, and unless perversity is demonstrated in the of the Tribunal, no interference is called for by the High Court. E 3.10 It is further submitted that Transfer Pricing analysis involves benchmarking of controlled transactions with uncontrolled transactions (terms specifically defined in the IT Act and the Rules) is largely a statistical exercise using database of companies in public domain as specifically defined in the IT Act and the Rules, referred hereinabove. F In the specific facts of batch of cases wherein department has approached this Court, the exercise of application of detailed guidelines set out in the IT Act and the Rules was indeed carried out and ironed out by Tribunal with assistance of tax payers representatives and department officers by looking a publicly available information mostly in the form of audited financials etc., of companies as prescribed in the IT Act and the G Rules.