96. Section 8 of the Delimitation Commission Act, as we have observed above, mandates that the exercise of the Delimitation Commission’s powers in determining reserved seats be in accordance with the 2001 census. In this the Commission must have due regard to the provisions of Articles 81, 170, 330 and 332 of the Constitution. 97. The Delimitation Act or the RP Act do not require consideration of subsequent changes to the composition of the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes s in determining the reserved seats for Scheduled Tribes. This is precisely why the Ordinances promulgated after this Court’s directions in Virendra Pratap (supra) created certain provisions expressly enabling readjustment of seats by factoring in inclusions/exclusions to the Scheduled Tribe lists.22 Such an enabling direction was made in the specifi c factual context of that case in Virendra Pratap (supra), as we have noted above. 98. However, legislative eff orts in the form of the Ordinances and Bills, did not eventually result in the creation of a legislative framework creating a power to enable the Delimitation Commission and/or the Election Commission to incorporate changes dehors the 2001 census to the Delimitation s. The Delimitation Act and the Representation of the People Act, as they exist presently, do not create such a legislative 21 (2007) 7 SCC 234. 22 Preamble to the Readjustment of Representation of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies (Second) Ordinance 2013 – “AN ORDINANCE to provide for the readjustment of seats in the House of the People and in the Legislative Assemblies of the States and for the readjustment of territorial . constituencies therefore, insofar as such readjustment is necessitated by inclusion in or exclusion from the lists of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1115 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] framework. Absent a statutory duty, this Court is unable to issue a writ of mandamus against the respondents. 99. This court has held in respect of the relief of mandamus, that: “11. The writ of Mandamus is only granted to compel performance of a public duty or to enforce private rights when duties of a public nature, aff ect public rights or when private rights are breached by or in collusion with public offi cers. 12. The legal duty that may be enjoined by Mandamus can be one imposed by the Constitution, a statute, any law or by rules or s having the force of law, which are capable of being judicially enforced. 13. The writ of Mandamus is liable to be refused when there is no legal or constitutional obligation of the authority concerned, which is capable of being enforced by Mandamus.23 100. For the Court to direct that in addition to the reservation which has been made in Section 7(1A), Parliament must necessarily legislate in a particular manner to provide proportional representation to all the other communities forming a part of the Scheduled Tribes, would be to trench into the legislative domain.