In Raghu Nath Gupta (supra),64 this Court held that a successful auction purchaser of commercial plots sold with a superimposed condition of “as is where is” basis is estopped from later contending that 64 (2012) 8 SCC 197 H 712 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A he is not bound by the terms and conditions of the auction notice or that the seller had not provided basic amenities. The Court relied on the terms and conditions, specifically Clause 25, stipulated in the auction notice published by Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority in reaching its conclusion and held that the auction notice would have considerable bearing in resolving the dispute. Clause 25 of the auction B notice provided that the site was offered on “as is where is” basis and the Authority would not be responsible for levelling the site or removing structures, if any, thereon. The phrase “as is where is” was explained by this Court in the following terms: “14. We notice that the respondents had accepted the C commercial plots with the open eyes, subject to the above mentioned conditions. Evidently, the commercial plots were allotted on “as is where is” basis. The allottees would have ascertained the facilities available at the time of auction and after having accepted the commercial plots on “as is D where is” basis, they cannot be heard to contend that PUDA had not provided the basic amenities like parking, lights, roads, water, sewerage etc. If the allottees were not interested in taking the commercial plots on “as is where is” basis, they should not have accepted the allotment and after having accepted the allotment on “as is where is” basis, they are estopped from E contending that the basic amenities like parking, lights, roads, water, sewerage etc. were not provided by PUDA when the plots were allotted….” (emphasis supplied) 136. In Kenneth Builders and Developers (supra), in the F circumstances arising in that particular case, this Court refused to accept the seller’s reliance on the “as is where is” condition and held that refusal of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee,65 to grant permission to the auction purchaser, frustrated the Development Agreement which was entered into between the seller, Delhi Development Authority,66 and the G builder. DDA had held an auction on an “as is where is” basis for involving the private sector for the development of a project land. The bid was accepted and a Development Agreement was entered between DDA and the builder. However, when the builder attempted to carry out 65 “DPCC” H 66 “DDA” K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 713 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] construction activity, it was prohibited by DPCC leading to an impasse A in the development activity. The terms and conditions of auction specifically mentioned that there was a presumption that the intending purchaser had inspected the site and had familiarised himself with prevalent conditions in all respects including the status of infrastructural facilities available before giving its bid.