For the same off ence and for the same kind of involvement, responsibility and complicity, capital punishment on one and life imprisonment on the other would never have been just. I also feel that had the petitioner in his mercy petition to the President of India made any mention of this fact of commutation of death sentence to one of life imprisonment on his co-accused in respect of the very same off ence, the President might have been inclined to take a diff erent view on his petition.” (emphasis added) 19. We have found that the case of accused no 2 stands on the same footing as accused nos. 1,5 and 13 acquitted by this Court. The accused no.2 must get the benefi t of parity. The principles laid down in the case of Harbans Singh4 will apply. If we fail to grant relief to accused no 2, the rights guaranteed to accused no. 2 under Article 21 of the Constitution of India will be violated. It will amount to doing manifest injustice. In fact, as a Constitutional Court entrusted with the duty of upholding fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution, it is our duty and obligation to extend the same relief to accused no.2. Therefore, we will have to recall the passed in the special leave petition fi led by accused no.2. 20. Before we part with the , we must record our appreciation of the service rendered by Mr. M. Shoeb Alam, Advocate as Amicus Curiae. 21. Accordingly, the appeal succeeds and we pass the following : a. The appellant, accused no.6–Javed Shaukat Ali Qureshi, is acquitted of the off ences alleged against him by setting aside the of the Trial Court dated 17th March 2006 and of the High Court dated 11th February 2016 to the extent. He is on bail. His bail bonds stand cancelled; 234 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. b. We set aside the of conviction of accused no.3 Mehboobkhan Allarakha and accused no.4 Saidkhan @ Anna Ikbalhusain by setting aside the same s to that extent and acquit them of the off ences alleged against them. They shall be forthwith set at liberty if they are not required to be detained in connection with any other case; c. We recall the dated 11th May 2018 in SLP (Crl.) Diary No.13063 of 2018 and grant leave. For the reasons set out above, accused no. 2 Amjadkhan Nasirkhan Pathan stands acquitted by setting aside the impugned of the Trial Court and the High Court to that extent. He shall be forthwith set at liberty unless he is required to be detained in connection with any other off ence; and d. The appeal is allowed on the above terms. Headnote prepared by: Appeal allowed. Ankit Gyan