No. 34595 of 2019, wherein the High Court of Punjab & Haryana, at Chandigarh, vide its dated 27.11.2019 passed an directing the Registrar General, Haryana to decide the interim applications expeditiously. B 7. Before the Registrar General, Haryana the respondent raised a contention placing reliance upon a copy of the notice dated 04.10.2019, by which the Department expressed its intention to cancel the registration. Accordingly, the Registrar General, Haryana passed an restraining any cancellation of registration. C 8. Under the aforesaid factual backdrop, the appellant filed an application before the National Commission to place on record the amended byelaws with the of stay granted by the Registrar General, Haryana seeking a consequential prayer for the revival of the proceedings. The interlocutory application was allowed by taking on record the documents filed. The aforesaid was sought to be recalled D by the respondent through a review application in R.A. No. 52 of 2020. 9. Subsequently, the District Registrar, Gurugram by an dated 17.06.2020 put on hold the amendments, as certified earlier, on the premise that the period of six months granted got expired. The Registrar General, E Haryana in turn dismissed the Appeal No. 320 of 2019, finding no error in the of the State Registrar, Haryana, though the appellant’s registration was not cancelled. 10. The s passed by the State Registrar and the Registrar General, Haryana were challenged before the High Court of Punjab & F Haryana, at Chandigarh, in C.W.P. No. 19666 of 2021 together with an application for stay. Though, the matter is still pending adjudication there is no interim as of now. 11. Before the National Commission, an additional affidavit was filed by the respondent in the review application, placing reliance upon G the dated 07.09.2021 of the Registrar General, Haryana which is pending adjudication before the High Court. Similarly, the appellant also filed an application bringing to the notice of the National Commission, the pendency of the writ petition and the stay application. By the impugned s, all the matters along with the interlocutory applications were adjourned awaiting appropriate s in the writ petition. Seeking to set H ALPHA G184 OWNERS ASSOCIATION v. MAGNUM INTERNATIONAL 865 TRADING COMPANY PVT. LTD. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] aside the aforesaid s passed by the National Commission, the present A appeals are filed before us. SUBMISSIONS 12. Heard Shri Narendra Hooda, learned senior counsel, on behalf of the appellant, and Shri Debesh Panda, learned counsel, on behalf of B the respondent. 13. Learned counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the respondent is bent upon preventing the appellant from seeking recourse to legal remedy. Complaints filed in the year 2017 are yet to be adjudicated on merits. The pendency of the writ petition has got no C connection with the proceedings before the National Commission. It is not as if the interest of the public in general is sought to be espoused as against the members of the appellant. In any case, affidavits having been filed by the individual allottees, the National Commission has erred in adjourning the matters sine die.