It is submitted that the SHR is the boiler and turbine characteristic of a thermal power station and, therefore, indicative of the quality and efficiency of the C machine. It is submitted that the quantum of coal requirement is less with lower SHR and increases with higher SHR, inasmuch as it relates to the ability and efficiency of the machines to extract heat energy from coal to produce per unit of electricity. D (xv) It is submitted that in Case 2 bidding, the net SHR is a bidding parameter as coal linkage is arranged by the entity inviting bids, and actual cost of coal is allowed as a pass- through in the tariff as per the formula specified. It is their submission that there are no quoted energy charges in Case 2 bidding but only quoted fixed charges. It is submitted that, E whereas, in Case 1 bidding, SHR may not, as such, be the criteria for selection but is a necessary requirement/ condition to be given for identifying the quantum of coal required to generate electricity over the length of the PPA. While submitting his/its bid and quoting energy charges, the F bidder/generator was required to take into consideration the quantum of coal requirement which, in turn, is based on the SHR and auxiliary consumption parameters to be given by the bidder/generator. It is submitted that the coal Supply Agreement for quantum of coal is signed by CIL only for the quantum as determined above, based on the SHR and G operating parameters provided by the bidder/generator. It is submitted that the view taken by the learned APTEL is contrary to the view taken by it between the same parties in its dated 13th April 2018 in Appeal No. 210 of 2017. H 102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (xvi) It is submitted that if the SHR which is higher than the one quoted by the bidder/generator is to be taken into consideration, then it will amount to granting premium to the Generator for its inefficiency. It is submitted that if the coal consumption increases on account of highest SHR, the excess expenditure on quantum of coal is to be borne B by the Generator. (xvii) It is submitted that if the bid assumed SHR is 2200 kcal/kg and actual SHR is 2300 kcal/kg, when the quoted tariff is based on the SHR of 2200 kcal/kg, for Change in Law impact, SHR of 2300 kcal/kg cannot be permitted to be C used for computation of compensation for Change in Law. (xviii) It is submitted that the impugned permitting the actual SHR or the SHR given in Tariff Regulations, whichever is lower, if upheld, would amount to converting the scope of Section 63 tariff determination into a Section D 62 cost plus tariff determination. It is submitted that this is impermissible in a competitive bid based PPA. (xix) It is further submitted that the MERC Tariff Regulations expressly provides that the Tariff Regulations will have no application to Section 63 tariff determination and the same E is governed by the guidelines of the Central Government under Section 63 of the Electricity Act.