The scope of activities of the E assessee vis-a-vis passengers who bear the burden of development fee needs a closer look. Passengers in an airport intend to travel by an airline which has the said airport as a scheduled port of call. The contractual nature of this relationship is enshrined in the ticket which provides access to the airport, process through check-in and security, space for waiting F and necessary amenities and provision for boarding an aircraft. There is nothing to show that passengers have to make payments for any of these activities. These facilities were available without any additional charge before the imposition of ‘development fee’. Such services continue to be available after its quashing. No additional benefit accrues to the passenger during the period of levy of ‘development fee.’ All facilities G are basic facilities inherent in the civil aviation sector in which the appellant, a non-public sector entity, is a recent entrant. 7 2009 (16) STR 401 (Ker.) 8 in 2010 (17) S.T.R. J79 (S.C.) H 334 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 20. It was emphasized that moving away from state control, airports entered the phase of regulatory control with the advent of the AAI Act. This transition also had to factor in the larger public interest in safety and security, which meant that some level of control, de-regulation was limited and confined to the financial aspects of airport management. Having created a statutory authority, the statute should have been specific B to contain the scope of functions of the AAI. Despite granting financial autonomy, the need for dependence on the State exchequer could not be eliminated and hence appropriate types of levies as well as restrictions on their utilization were incorporated in the statute. It was contended that Sections 22 and 22A of the AAI Actare in the context of substitution C of the constitutional funds of the Union of India, for deposit and drawing with that of the accounts of AAI. 21. The assesses urge that Section 22 of the AAI Act enables AAI to charge for the facilities it provides. However, the levy under Section 22A [of the AAI Act] is compulsorily charged from passengers; D it is placed in an escrow account owing to the restricted purpose for which such fee collected can be used. Hence, there is a substantive difference between a charge under Section 22 and levy under Section 22A. The charge under Section 22, paid by any passenger, may be a consideration for a service and subjected to service tax. However, the E same principles are not applicable to a levy under Section 22A, which is independent of Section 22 and is not for any service rendered. 22. Counsel underlines that this court in Consumer Online Foundation (Supra) has declared the law and has interpreted both Section 22 and Section 22A of the AAI Act. This court has held that F charges collected under Section 22 are for different services and facilities provided to the third parties by the lessee of AAI.