In interpreting the provisions of Article 239-AA, this Court cannot adopt a blinkered view, which ignores legislative F and constitutional history. While adopting some of the provisions of the Acts of 1963 and 1966, Parliament in its constituent capacity omitted some of the other provisions of the legislative enactments which preceded the Sixty-ninth Amendment […]” 14. Having imparted a purposive interpretation to Article 239AA, G the underscores that the governance structure which Parliament adopted for NCTD is unique and different from that of other Union Territories. It was held that the constituent power of Parliament was exercised “to treat the Government of NCT of Delhi as a representative form of Government”. The of the majority held: H 514 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “213… Article 239-A gives discretion to Parliament to create by law for the Union Territory of Puducherry a Council of Ministers and/or a body which may either be wholly elected or partly elected and partly nominated to perform the functions of a legislature for the Union Territory of Puducherry. B 214. On the other hand, Article 239-AA clause (2), by using the word “shall”, makes it mandatory for Parliament to create by law a Legislative Assembly for the National Capital Territory of Delhi. Further, sub-clause (a) of clause (2) declares very categorically that the Members of the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi shall be chosen by direct C election from the territorial constituencies in the National Capital Territory of Delhi. Unlike Article 239-A clause (1) wherein the body created by Parliament by law to perform the functions of a legislature for the Union Territory of Puducherry may either be wholly elected or partly elected D and partly nominated, there is no such provision in the context of the Legislative Assembly of NCT of Delhi as per which Members can be nominated to the Legislative Assembly. This was a deliberate design by Parliament. 215. We have highlighted this difference to underscore and E emphasise the intention of Parliament, while inserting Article 239-AA in the exercise of its constituent power, to treat the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi as a set of elected representatives of the voters of NCT of Delhi and to treat the Government of NCT F of Delhi as a representative form of Government. 216. The Legislative Assembly is wholly comprised of elected representatives who are chosen by direct elections and are sent to Delhi’s Legislative Assembly by the voters of Delhi. None of the Members of Delhi’s Legislative G Assembly are nominated. The elected representatives and the Council of Ministers of Delhi, being accountable to the voters of Delhi, must have the appropriate powers so as to perform their functions effectively and efficiently…” (emphasis supplied) H GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 515 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 15. In his concurring opinion, Justice Chandrachud also held that A NCTD is “special class among Union Territories”. It was held: “384. All Union territories are grouped together in Part VIII of the Constitution.