[2023] 15 S.C.R. 866 : 2023 INSC 1075 CASE DETAILS MOHAMMED ABDUL WAHID v. NILOFER & ANR (Civil Appeal No. 8146 of 2023) DECEMBER 14, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether under the Code of Civil Procedure, there is envisaged a diff erence between a party to a suit and a witness in a suit, does the phrase plaintiff ’s/ defendant’s witness exclude the plaintiff or defendant themselves, when they appear as witnesses in their own cause; and whether Ord. VII r. 14, Ord VIII r. 1-A and Ord. XIII r. 1 CPC, enjoin the party under-taking cross examination of a party to a suit from producing documents, for the purposes thereof, by virtue of the use of the phrase(s) plaintiff /defendant’s witness or witnesses of the other party, when cross examining the opposite party. Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Party to a suit and a witness in a suit – Diff erence between – Phrase plaintiff ’s/ defendant’s witness, if exclude the plaintiff or defendant themselves, when they appear as witnesses in their own cause: Held: There is no diff erence between a party to a suit as a witness and a witness simpliciter – Witnesses and parties to a suit, for the purposes of adducing evidence, either documentary or oral are on the same footing – Function performed by either a witness or a party to a suit when in the witness box is the same – Phrase “so far as it is applicable” in XVI Rule 21 does not suggest a diff erence in the function performed – Provisions of the Code as also the Evidence Act do not diff erentiate between a party to the suit acting as a witness and a witness otherwise called by such a party to testify. [Paras 32, 14, 20, 17] 866 MOHAMMED ABDUL WAHID v. NILOFER & ANR. 867 Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Ord. VII r. 14, Ord. VIII r. 1-A and Ord.r XIII r. 1 – Provisions if enjoins the party under-taking cross examination of a party to a suit from producing documents, for the purposes thereof, by virtue of the use of the phrase plaintiff /defendant’s witness or witnesses of the other party, when cross examining the opposite party: Held: Production of documents for both a party to the suit and a witness as the case may be, at the stage of cross-examination, is permissible within law – Freedom to produce documents for either of the two purposes-cross examination of witnesses and/or refreshing the memory would serve its purposes for parties to the suit as well – Being precluded from eff ectively putting questions to and receiving answers from either party to a suit, with the aid of these documents would put the other at risk of not being able to put forth the complete veracity of their claim, thereby fatally compromising the said proceedings – Thus, in reference to the production of documents, so long as the document is produced for the limited purpose of eff ective cross-examination or to jog the memory of the witness at the stand is not completely divorced from or foreign to the pleadings made, the same cannot be said to fl y in the face of the established proposition.