46. What is important for us to note is that in the directions/ guidelines issued by the CPCB dated 30.04.2020 and 07.03.2016 resply the automobile fuel outlets have been classified as “green” which may be exempted from consent management. The learned Solicitor General B submitted that it is only after due consideration and deliberations that the CPCB issued the said directions. The NGT itself in para 66 of its impugned has noted that the oil industry is characterized as “green category” and the CTE and CTO was not required. It appears to us that the apprehension on the part of the NGT that the installation of VRS C may not be strictly monitored by the State Pollution Control Boards, led the NGT to issue directions to the CPCB & State Pollution Control Boards to issue a circular making it mandatory for obtaining the CTE and CTO as a condition precedent for establishing new petroleum outlets. What has been argued before us and also on the basis of the materials on record, we are convinced that it is not necessary to make obtaining of D CTE and CTO mandatory. We would like to impress upon the CPCB to ensure that its guidelines referred to above are scrupulously followed and once the guidelines are scrupulously adhered to, no direction to obtain CTE and CTO for starting/operating a RO is warranted. We are at one with the learned counsel appearing for the respective appellants that E asking the existing ROs to obtain CTO is something very unreasonable and may lead to various difficulties. Even directing the ROs that may come up in future to obtain the CTE and CTO would be cumbersome and time consuming and thus we do not find it reasonable. 47. In such circumstances, while holding that the National Green F Tribunal has the power to direct the CPCB that it should exercise its powers under Section 5 of the Act 1986 for the purpose of protecting the environment, we are inclined to modify the impugned directions issued by the NGT, Chennai as contained in para 69(iii) and 69(iv) resply of the impugned . 48. In view of the aforesaid, we dispose of the Civil Appeal No. G 2039 of 2022 in the following terms:- (a) The CPCB shall ensure that all the retail petroleum outlets located in different cities having population of more than 10 lakh and having turn over of more than 300 KL/Month shall install the H 242 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A VRS mechanism within the fresh timeline as prescribed in its Circular dated 04.06.2021. To put it in other words, the CPCB shall ensure that the directions issued by the NGT as contained in para 69(i) and (ii) of the impugned is fully complied with. It shall be the legal obligation of all the State Pollution Control Boards to ensure that the directions issued by the NGT in regard to the B installation of the VRS mechanism is complied with within the fresh timeline as prescribed by the CPCB.