This would, in our view, be travelling into the area of such construction of the terms of contract which were not H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 431 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] forming the part of the material propositions of fact on which the parties A were at variance. As noticed, the core of variance of the parties had only been as to whether the claimant was to supply energy on a fixed rate of fuel and fixed rate of foreign currency after the parties had agreed to the use of alternate fuel. 16.6. We have only broadly referred to the salient features of the B dealings between the parties. In fact, not much dilation and dissection of the record is required because the Arbitral Tribunal has indeed examined all the relevant aspects of the matter in necessary details. 16.7. In any case, all documents which showed the cost at which alternate fuel was procured and the prevailing dollar rate were supported C by price certificates forwarded to Government of Goa with each and every invoice, and such certificates had been from Public Sector Undertakings. There is nothing on record to show nor has Government of Goa demonstrated that it had either contemporaneously asked for any documents or had disputed or denied the correctness of such D certificates. 16.8. The Arbitral Tribunal has noticed that the decision of the cabinet was produced before it by Government of Goa itself. There is also a finding of fact in the award that the communication dated 23.05.2013 to purchase power at a fluctuating rate of fuel and exchange E rate of dollar, conveyed to the claimant by Government of Goa, was pursuant to the cabinet decision taken on 22.05.2013. This has been a particular view taken by the Arbitral Tribunal of the evidence on record. We are unable to appreciate as to how such a view on evidence could have been substituted by another view on the same evidence by the High Court. In an overall view of the record, we are unable to agree that F the Arbitral Tribunal had approached the case from an altogether wrong angle or it had asked wrong questions. In our view, the Arbitral Tribunal had squarely answered the issue, which was raised jointly by the parties before it. 17. True it is that consideration of any adjudicatory forum would G be vitiated by asking wrong questions but then, in our view, this flaw operates against the consideration of the High Court rather than against the consideration of the Arbitral Tribunal. 17.1. As noticed, the High Court has reproduced all the said clauses of the contract under the heading “Fuel Supply” and then, H 432 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A elaborately discussed the features related with their operation, particularly clauses 12.1.4 to 12.1.7. The High Court has found this aspect to be a vital issue and non-consideration thereof has been taken to be a patent illegality. It was observed and held, inter alia, as under: “88.