There cannot be two different yardsticks, one relating to the money received by the partnership firm and another relating to the money realized by BHEL. As a matter of fact, mobilization advance is intended to be used for the purchase of materials. The DGM (EMS), BHEL, examined D as PW-34 stated even in chief examination that in the initial stages, the contract had gone very well and that up to the stage of water quality testing, the contractor was doing well. Therefore, the mobilization advance was necessarily to be spent. A suspicion cannot be thrown, solely on the basis of the person to whom the payments were made. If what was paid by BHEL to A-5 had been shared by A-6 and A-7, what was realized E from A-5 through the invocation of the bank guarantee, cannot be taken advantage of to contend that A-6 and A-7 did not repay the money. The logic adopted by Trial Court in this regard was completely flawed. 101. Both the Trial Court and the High Court considered the oral evidence of PW-2 (a Chartered Accountant), PW-3 (an officer of the F Chennai Telephones) and a few others to come to the conclusion that the names of four other firms included in Exhibit P-26 chit were bogus. But both the Trial Court and the High Court overlooked the admissions made by PW-16 that he held negotiations at least with two out of those four firms and that the representatives of those two firms even attended G the meetings. 102. The Trial Court and the High Court came to the conclusion that the names of two big companies were included in Exhibit P-26 chit only to lend credibility to the process adopted. But it was on record through the statement of PW-4, Manager of L&T Company that a tender enquiry was received by them from BHEL. If the inclusion of the names H A. SRINIVASULU v. THE STATE REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF 65 POLICE [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] of those two companies were intended to be a make belief affair, A-1 A would not have taken the risk of sending the letter and that too to a company like L&T. Therefore, we are of the view, (i) that the evidence of PW-16 was not worthy of credit; (ii) that even assuming that it has some credibility, his statement that “he recommended the contract to be given to A-5 not because of A-1’s interest”, made the B whole edifice upon which the case of the prosecution was built, collapse; and (iii)that there was no other evidence to connect A-1 with the commission of these offences. 103. In fact, the only person found by both the Courts to be guilty of the offence under Section 120B was A-1. Therefore, an argument C was advanced that a single person cannot be held guilty of criminal conspiracy. But this contention was repelled by the Courts on the ground that PW-16 was the second person with whom A-1 had entered into a conspiracy.