6981 of 2008 which was filed by the PIL writ petitioner. 4.5 It is further submitted by the learned senior counsel appearing C on behalf of the appellants that as observed hereinabove except few, none of the said land losers submitted any objections under Section 5A. It is submitted that as observed and held by this Court in the case of Delhi Administration Vs. Gurdip Singh Uban and Ors., (2000) 7 SCC 296, all personal nature objections are deemed to be waived. D 4.6 Relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of V. Chandrasekaran and Anr. Vs. Administrative Officer and Ors., (2012) 12 SCC 133, it is further submitted that if the acquisition is challenged by one land loser, other cannot take advantage of it if he has not filed objection under Section 5A of the Act, 1894. E 4.7 It is further submitted by the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respective appellants that in the present case the acquisition proceedings have attained finality, inasmuch as, after the declaration under Section 6 of the Act, 1894 and after holding inquiry under Section 11, the awards were declared and most of the landowners were paid the compensation and even the possession to the extent of F 3342 acres was handed over to the beneficiary. It is submitted that therefore, when the acquisition has attained finality, awards have been made, possession taken and compensation disbursed then setting aside the entire acquisition proceedings is not desirable. 4.8 It is further submitted by the learned senior counsel appearing G on behalf of the beneficiary that though initially the lands were sought to be acquired by a private company, however, thereafter the company was converted into a public limited company after following due procedure under the provisions of the Companies Act. He has taken us to the various correspondences and the s passed converting the beneficiary company to public limited company. H 982 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 4.9 Relying upon those documents, it is vehemently submitted that therefore at the time when the Section 4 notifications were issued, the beneficiary company was already converted to a public company. Therefore, the acquisition in favour of the beneficiary company was absolutely in consonance with the provisions of the Act, 1894. It is further submitted that the acquisition of the lands in question in favour of the B beneficiary trust/ company was after a detailed consultation and taking into consideration the object and purpose of the trust / company in the field of education etc. It is submitted that the beneficiary company / trust wants and/or desirous of establishing a very renowned university in the State of Orissa. C 4.10 It is further submitted by the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the beneficiary company that if the impugned and passed by the High Court is not interfered with by this Court, there shall be serious and adverse impact in implementing the appellant’s project. 4.11 It is submitted that the appellant – beneficiary has drawn up D a Vision Plan for over 3837 acres of land, which is currently in their possession.