PW-9 stated that, thereafter, the accused took meals in the Lungar there and went out. 18. The cross-examination of PW-9 shows that, though the incident occurred on 3rd September 1998, his statement was recorded on 10th September 1998. His evidence is full of contradictions and omissions. C The admission in the cross-examination itself speaks volumes of his high credentials. He has admitted that he, along with other accused, had been convicted for the offence under Section 307 of the IPC and had been sentenced to life imprisonment by the trial court, but had, however, been acquitted by the High Court. He has further admitted that he had remained D in jail for about 4 years in the murder case of one Gursewak Singh. 19. Though PW-9 has stated that on 3rd September 1998, accused Manjit Kaur had exhorted co-accused Pritinder Singh that Ravinder Singh was alone and he should be done away with, when the death of the deceased had occurred on the very next day, he did not find it necessary E to inform anyone about it, including the police, till he was summoned to the Police Station on 10th September 1998. 20. It is to be noted that though the dead body of the deceased was found on 4th September 1998, the statement of Mal Singh (PW-2) to whom the alleged extra-judicial confession was made, was recorded F on 9th September 1998. SI Amritpal Singh (PW-11) has admitted in his examination that Mal Singh (PW-2) was known to him. He has further stated that he did not know in how many cases of his Police Station Mal Singh was cited as witness. It is further to be noted that the statement of Jagtar Singh (PW-9), as already stated hereinabove, was recorded on 10th September 1998. G 21. Amritpal Singh (PW-11) has also admitted in his evidence that though the father of Ravinder Singh was alive in those days, he did not record his statement by visiting his village. PW-11 further admitted that he also did not visit the house of the deceased Ravinder Singh to collect any evidence of motive or him leaving his house before the occurrence. H PRITINDER SINGH @ LOVELY v. THE STATE OF PUNJAB 1047 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 22. We find that the conviction on the basis of such evidence A cannot be sustained. Apart from that, it is to be noted that even according to PW-11, the gun which was recovered from the car had two empty cartridges (Ex. P10 and P11). Furthermore, the evidence of Dr. Rakesh Kumar Goel (PW-5), who had conducted the post-mortem of the deceased, would show that there was no external exit wound, and wad B and pellets were preserved and sealed. It is to be noted that apart from not collecting any evidence as to whether the said gun belonged to the appellant Manjit Kaur, even the Ballistic Expert has not been examined to show that the wad and pellets were fired from the empty cartridges (Ex.