Aggrieved by the reduction of his share, Derha fi led the present appeal by special leave. 7. By dated 09.10.2009, this Court directed status quo obtaining as on that date to be maintained by both parties. 8. A feeble attempt was made by the learned counsel for the appellant to contend that the suit properties were not coparcenary properties but were joint properties held by Phannuram and his brothers. However, this argument cannot be countenanced as the original plaintiff , Kesar Bai, had approached the Trial Court contending that the suit properties were ancestral properties. Her son and heir cannot be permitted to take a diff erent stand now, contrary to her pleadings. Further, the argument that Manbat Bai, Phannuram’s sister- in-law, would not have been allotted a share in the partition on 12.03.1964 had the properties been coparcenary properties, needs mention only to be rejected. The said partition was never subjected to challenge and without details as to when Manbat Bai’s husband died, this Court cannot venture an opinion on whether allotment of a share to her in that partition was lawful. In any event, allotment of a share to her would not have the eff ect of branding the properties in question as being other than coparcenary properties. More so, as Kesar Bai herself fi led a suit claiming that the properties in which she wanted a share were ancestral properties. 9. Once it is held that the properties which were the subject matter of the partition suit were coparcenary properties, the only issue that remains is as to how the said properties were to be divided amongst the legal heirs of Phannuram upon his death in 1959, i.e., after the advent of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 (for brevity, ‘the Act of 1956’). Section 6 of the Act of 1956 would govern the situation, as rightly observed by the Chhattisgarh High Court. Section 6 of the Act of 1956, as it then stood, states that when a DERHA v. VISHAL & ANR. 941 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] male Hindu died after the commencement of the Act of 1956, having at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property, his interest in that property shall devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary. However, the proviso thereto states that, if the deceased left behind him a surviving female relative specifi ed in Class I of the Schedule or a male relative specifi ed in that class who claimed through such female relative, the interest of the deceased in the Mitakshara coparcenary property shall devolve by testamentary or intestate succession, as the case may be, under the Act of 1956 and not by survivorship. Explanation 1 clarifi ed that, for the purposes of Section 6, the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death, irrespective of whether he was entitled to claim such partition or not.