He said that he knew Pydi Appala Suranna, one of the attestors thereto, but he was no more. He stated that he did not know the other attestor. He claimed that he had known Venkubayamma for about 5 or 6 years. He admitted that Ex. C1 was in his handwriting and bore his signature. He also admitted that Ex. C2 was in his handwriting and claimed that Pydi MOTURU NALINI KANTH v. GAINEDI KALIPRASAD (DEAD, 651 THROUGH LRS.) [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] Appala Suranna had signed therein. He said that he was not present when Venkubayamma signed Ex. A10 Will. Thereupon, he was cross-examined by the plaintiff ’s counsel. In the course of such cross-examination, he stated that he wrote Ex. C1 affi davit at the dictation of the plaintiff ’s counsel at his house. He further stated that he did not see who exactly signed in Ex. A10 Will Deed. A woman was stated to be sitting at a distance but he did not know if she was Venkubayamma and whether she signed the document. He stated that the prior Will of Venkubayamma dated 26.05.1981 (Ex. A19) was also written by him and Venkubayamma had signed the same in his presence. He further stated that he told the plaintiff ’s counsel that, as he did not see Venkubayamma signing the Will, he would not sign the affi davit. However, the plaintiff ’s counsel persuaded him to sign it, saying that he need not worry about it and that there would be no consequences. He claimed that some lady from Berhampur who was a relation of Venkubayamma brought the earlier Will to him and he mentioned the date of the said Will in Ex. A10 Will. In his cross-examination by the defence, PW 6 stated that while he was in the Registrar’s offi ce attending to some work, a lady from Berhampur came to him and on that day, the document was written. He further stated that he knew Venkubayamma but she did not come to him on that day. The woman who came from Berhampur gave all the information to write the document and the recital in the Will that the plaintiff ’s adoption took place in the house of his natural parents in Chandramanipeta of Berhampur town was made only on the instructions given by the woman. The other particulars mentioned in the Will were also stated to have been given by the same woman. After the writing of the document, according to PW 6, Venkubayamma and the witnesses did not come to him and he did not go to them. He stated that they took the written Will saying that Venkubayamma could herself read the document. He further stated that Pydi Appala Suranna, one of the attestors, also did not sign before him. He also said that he could not say whether the signature in Ex. A10 was that of Pydi Appala Suranna. In his further cross-examination by the plaintiff ’s counsel, PW 6 denied the suggestion that he was told that the adoption took place at Raghunadha Swamy Temple and the other formal ceremonies were performed at the natural parents’ house but he omitted to write that the adoption took place at the temple.