It is evident from the CCTV footage that even copies of the were with the respective counsel. Hence, it is only to be expected from a judicial body that the should have been allowed to be tendered or, in the alternative, if the Bench felt that it should be produced in a proper format on affi davit, suffi cient time ought to be given to do so. The transcript, however, reveals that Bench went on to deliver the ignoring the substantive direction which had been issued by this Court earlier on 13 October 2023. ORBIT ELECTRICALS PRIVATE LIMITED v. 1043 DEEPAK KISHAN CHHABRIA & ORS. 21 We have, therefore, no manner of doubt that the Bench of the NCLAT has acted in willful defi ance of the despite the fact that its attention was drawn to the of this Court. 22 The Member (Technical) has tendered an unconditional apology stating that control over the procedure of the Court, particularly on matters which are mentioned rests with the Member (Judicial) who has training and experience in judicial matters. 23 Bearing in mind the unconditional apology which has been tendered before this Court we do not wish to take this matter to a further stage having held that there was a breach of the of this Court. We are of the considered view that the matter should be allowed to rest there by accepting the apology of the Member (Technical). 24 As regards the Member (Judicial) we have already noted in the previous of this Court that what has been stated is contrary to the record. We fi nd that this has been compounded by what has been stated in the affi davit fi led tendered before this Court in pursuance of the previous . Paragraph 10 of the affi davit of the Member (Judicial) takes note of the fact that when some counsel tried to mention the matter, neither any of the Supreme Court was fi led with the Registry or with the Court Master nor was any handed over to the Bench by the parties before assembling of the Bench. The affi davit further states that following the practice of the NCLAT, the deponent did not entertain any attempt at mentioning by the counsel and that the of this Court dated 13 October 2023 was not on the record before the Bench presided by the deponent on 13 October 2023. What the affi davit does not state is that a conscious eff ort was made by the Bench to prevent the of this Court being placed on the record despite the fact that the court was apprised of the passing of the by this Court in the morning session. We censure the conduct of the Member (Judicial). We would rest the matter at that level. 25 As regards, the Scrutiniser, it is evident that in the of this Court dated 26 September 2023, there was a clear direction that the interim passed by the NCLAT on 21 September 2023 would stand vacated.