E 63. The Constitution Bench of this Court while examining the pre 2015 amendment regime in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engineering Ltd. and Another18 held that all the preliminary or threshold issues pertaining to jurisdiction of the Arbitrator/Arbitral Tribunal should be examined by the Court under Section 11 of the Act, 1996. This position of law was sought to be changed by the Law Commission in its 246th Report, which states F as follows: “In so far as the nature of intervention is concerned, it is recommended that in the event the Court/Judicial Authority is prima facie satisfied against the argument challenging the arbitration agreement, it shall appoint the arbitrator and/or refer the parties G to arbitration, as the case may be. The amendment envisages that 16 Law Commission of India, 76th Report on Arbitration Act, 1940 17 Paragraph No. 4(v), Statement of Objects and Reasons, Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. 18 (2005) 8 SCC 618 H 408 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the judicial authority shall not refer the parties to arbitration only if it finds that there does not exist an arbitration agreement or that it is null and void. If the judicial authority is of the opinion that prima facie the arbitration agreement exists, then it shall refer the dispute to arbitration, and leave the existence of the arbitration agreement to be finally determined by the B arbitral tribunal. However, if the judicial authority concludes that the agreement does not exist, then the conclusion will be final and not prima facie. The amendment also envisages that there shall be a conclusive determination as to whether the arbitration agreement is null and void.”19 C (Emphasis added) 64. In the said report, the Law Commission of India concluded that the judicial intervention in arbitration proceedings adds significantly to the delay in the arbitration process and ultimately negates the benefit of arbitration. At paragraph 24, the Law Commission noted as follows: D “…[I]t is observed that a lot of time is spent for appointment of arbitrators at the very threshold of arbitration proceedings.”20 65. The Law Commission suggested the insertion of sub-Section (6A) to Section 11 in the Act, 1996 which was accepted by the Legislature by way of the 2015 amendment to the Act, 1996. Section 11(6A) E unambiguously by its intention manifests that “[the] Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while examining an application under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or sub-section (6), shall, notwithstanding any , decree or of any Court, confine to examine only to the “existence of an arbitration agreement”. 66. The 2015 amendment, including Section 11(6A), and the later F amendments are in line with this evolution of arbitration jurisprudence. With the series of amendments to the principal Act,1996, it is quite evident that the legislature is continuously engaging with the rapidly evolving arbitration regimein India and the various challenges allied it with the object to reduce the scope of intervention by the courts in the arbitration G processes.