This includes the power to dissolve the Legislative Assembly of a State; and e. A resolution by both Houses of Parliament approving the Proclamation is not a condition precedent for the dissolution of the Legislative Assembly of a State. Even if such a resolution is not passed, the Proclamation has a minimum shelf life of two months because immediate actions are required to be taken in urgent situations.185 Irrevocable actions taken in those two months such as dissolving the assembly and holding fresh elections cannot be remedied even if the Proclamation is declared unconstitutional186 In fact, the power to dissolve the State legislature is implicit in Article 356(1)(b).187 185. In State of Rajasthan (supra), the seven-Judge Bench of this Court read Article 356 widely to grant untrammelled executive power to the Union Government without Parliamentary oversight. In essence, the Union Government (acting through the President) could unilaterally remove the Government of the State and dissolve the legislative assembly of the State completely abrogating the federal interests and the democratic rights of the residents of the State. Though this Court held that the exercise of power to issue a Proclamation under Article 356 is open to judicial review, the grounds for review were limited to mala fi de or extraneous considerations. 186. The decision of this Court in SR Bommai (supra) changed the position of law signifi cantly. In this case, a nine-Judge Bench of this Court placed restraints on the exercise of power by the President under Article 356 by emphasising the signifi cance of Parliamentary control over the Proclamation and expanding the scope of judicial review of the ‘subjective satisfaction’ of the President under Article 356. 187. In SR Bommai (supra), this Court extensively dealt with the scope of the Presidential power under Article 356. On numerous questions of law, 184 Justice Bhagwati (paragraph 146) 185 Chief Justice Beg (paragraph 89); Justice Bhagwati (paragraph 146) 186 Justice YV Chandrachud (paragraphs 125 and 126) 187 Justice Fazl Ali (paragraph 218) 112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the Bench disagreed with the reasoning in State of Rajasthan (supra). One of the chief reasons which lead to the tectonic shift in the Court’s approach to the scope of the President’s powers under Article 356 was the abuse of the power under Article 356. When the Constituent Assembly was discussing the draft of Article 356 in the present form, Dr. BR Ambedkar observed that he hoped that the power under Article 356 would never be called into operation and that it would remain a dead letter.188 However, by the time this Court decided SR Bommai (supra), the President had exercised the power under Article 356 more than ninety times.189 While the members of the Constituent Assembly hoped that the power under Article 356 would only be used in extraordinary situations, history indicated that the power has been misused frequently to achieve political ends. In the Constituent Assembly Debates, Mr. Santhanam observed that it is only strong conventions that will prevent the misuse of power under Article 356.190 This Court in SR Bommai (supra) placed limitations on the power of the President to issue a Proclamation under Article 356 and expanded the scope of judicial review of a Presidential Proclamation.