[Paras 50, 52 and Para 58][284-H; 287-E-H; 285-F-G] D 2.2. RIICO is not a statutory body. The Company was brought into being under the Companies Act, 1956 by the State of Rajasthan, which holds 100% shares in it. RIICO does not owe its existence to a statute, but is rather created under the Companies Act and is subject to its provisions. It is only governed by the provisions of the Companies Act and not created by it. E Rule 12 of the 1959 Rules merely states that lands allotted to RIICO will be further dealt with by the Corporation as per its 1979 Rules. At best, this imposes an obligation upon RIICO to abide by its own guidelines, which it had issued under Article 93 of its AoA. The obligation for RIICO to abide by the 1979 Rules F stems from its own AoA under which those Rules came into being. By no stretch, does this make the 1979 Rules statutory in nature. [Paras 61, and 67][288-E-F; 291-F-G] Whether failure to observe Principles of Natural Justice by the State Government vitiated its decision to annul the G permissions/approvals granted by RIICO in favour of Respondent No.1? 3. The Principles of Natural Justice entailed giving Respondent No.1 an opportunity to defend its rights. However, the most decisive and crucial factor is whether any legally vested ‘right’ ever accrued in favour of Respondent No. 1, which the H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 235 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. State Government could not have despoiled behind its back. A RIICO had no authority whatsoever to accord permission for conversion and sub – division of the industrial land allotted to Respondent No. 1. State Government has always retained its authority as lessor and was the only competent authority to grant such permissions to Respondent No. 1 within the framework of B the 1959 Rules. The irresistible conclusion would be that the self – styled power exercised by RIICO, was without any sanction in law; it lacked inherent competence and RIICO acted beyond its jurisdiction in respect of LIA, Kota. The permissions accorded by RIICO in favour of Respondent No. 1 did not confer any rights whatsoever, much less any enforceable right in the eyes of law. C RIICO usurped the powers vested in the State Government and passed palpably illegal s in favour of Respondent No.1. The agreements between RIICO and Respondent No. 1 are nothing but brutum fulmen. Steps taken which are themselves vitiated, cannot form the basis for principles of natural justice to be applied. D The supplementary lease deeds were signed by RIICO without any authority to do so. It similarly lacked the capacity to grant the permission for conversion of use for the land to commercial, and the allowance to sub – divide the plot. Thus, no legally vested right of Respondent No.1 has been infringed and it has no legitimate ground to seek an opportunity to be heard in a matter E strictly between RIICO and State Government.