Even otherwise, if we see the provisions of the Gratuity Act, gratuity can be withheld in case of damages 212 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. or loss so caused or destruction of property belonging to the employer or otherwise where the termination of service is due to riotous or disly conduct or due to criminal case involving moral turpitude. 23. The facts of the case at hand are not a case of riotous behaviour of appellant or his involvement in any criminal case. As discussed hereinabove, while dealing with the issue of forfeiture of employers’ contribution of provident fund in the enquiry report, no fi nding regarding causing loss to the bank or on quantifi cation of the amount of loss has been recorded. 24. While passing an of withholding of gratuity, opportunity of hearing has not been aff orded to the appellant. In this regard, the of the Full Bench of Punjab & Haryana High Court in UCO Bank (supra) is relevant, wherein the Full Bench has duly considered the issue of forfeiture of gratuity and the relevant paras of the said judgement are reproduced as under: “22. ……. No doubt, in the charge-sheet as many as 24 accounts are mentioned where the respondent had given loans or other fi nancial accommodation either beyond her powers or without obtaining proper securities. That would show that certain accounts were overdrawn. Even the operation of these accounts was not satisfactory. However, whether the appellant-Bank ultimately suff ered loss and what was the actual loss is not refl ected. No doubt, the irregularities committed by the respondent may have exposed the Bank to such losses. However, that is entirely diff erent from loss having been actually suff ered by the bank. Even if some accounts became bad and the Bank had to fi le suits for recovery concerning those accounts against the defaulting parties, that would not automatically lead to the conclusion that the loss/damage has been suff ered. It is possible that Bank is able to recover full money in those proceedings. Whether that happened in fact or not and whether loss is actually suff ered or not is not discernible from either the charge-sheet or the enquiry report. 23. It is for this reason that it was incumbent upon the appellant-Bank to mention specifi cally about the actual loss having been suff ered, if it suff ered, in the show cause notice itself with particulars of that loss in to enable the respondent to meet the same. That has not been done even in the fi nal . Though the fi gure of 4 crores is given, JYOTIRMAY RAY V. THE FIELD GENERAL MANAGER, 213 PUNJAB NATIONAL BANK [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] in the fi nal , even that is not substantiated by giving particulars thereof. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the show cause notice or the fi nal s passed, forfeiting the gratuity, do not meet the legal requirements and have to be set aside.” 25.