According to the B writ petitioner, the gang snatched away cash and jewelry in the possession of the petitioner and his family members and they also gang raped the wife and minor daughter of the petitioner. Though an FIR was registered on 30.7.2016 for various offences and newspapers and the television channels reported this ghastly incident, the then Minister for Urban Development of the Government of U.P. called for a press conference C and termed the incident as a political conspiracy. Therefore, the petitioner apprehended that there may not be a fair investigation. The petitioner claims that he was also offended by the irresponsible statement made by the Minister and hence he was compelled to file the said writ petition for the reliefs stated supra. D 6. Insofar as Special Leave Petition (Diary) No.34629 of 2017 is concerned, the same arose out of a of the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court dismissing two writ petitions. The writ petitions were filed in public interest on the ground that the then Minister for Electricity in the State of Kerala issued certain statements in February E 2016, 7.4.2017 and 22.4.2017. These statements were highly derogatory of women. Though according to the petitioners in the public interest litigation, the political party to which the Minister belonged, issued a public censure, no action was taken officially against the Minister. Therefore, the petitioner in one writ petition prayed among other things for a direction to the Chief Minister to frame a Code of Conduct for the F Ministers who have subscribed to the oath of office as prescribed by the Constitution with a further direction to the Chief Minister to take suitable action if any of the Ministers failed to live upto the oath. The prayer in the second writ petition was for a direction to the concerned Authorities to take action against the Minister for his utterances. G 7. Both the writ petitions were dismissed by a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court, on the ground that the prayer of the public interest writ petitioners were in the realm of moral values and that the question whether the Chief Minister should frame a code of conduct for the Ministers of his cabinet or not, is not within the domain of the Court to H 612 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A decide. Therefore, challenging the said common , the petitioner in one of those public interest writ petitions has come up with Special Leave Petition (Diary) No.34629 of 2017. Since the questions raised by the petitioner in the Special Leave Petition overlapped with the questions raised in the Writ Petition, they have been tagged together. B III. Contentions 8. We have heard Shri R. Venkataramani, learned Attorney General for India, Ms. Aparajita Singh, learned senior counsel who assisted us as amicus curiae, Shri Kaleeswaram Raj, learned counsel for the petitioner in the special leave petition and Shri Ranjith B. Marar, C learned counsel appearing for the person who sought to intervene/implead.