On the contrary, the Act deals with levy on vehicles. They are conceptually different. Whatever has been stated above in the G background of Article 73 is equally applicable to Articles 256 and 257 of the Constitution. Article 256 provides that the executive power of every State shall be so exercised as to ensure compliance with the laws made by Parliament and any existing laws which apply in that State and the executive power of the Union shall extend to the giving of such directions to a H THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. GOEL BUS SERVICE 913 KULLU ETC. ETC. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] State as may appear to the Government of India to be A necessary for that purpose. This article has application only when any law has been made by Parliament and the executive power of the State is made subservient to it by requiring it to ensure compliance with such laws. B Where it appears to the Government of India that it is so necessary to do, directions can be issued. Article 257 provides that the executive power of every State shall be so exercised as not to impede or prejudice the exercise of the executive power of the Union. Where the Government of India feels it C so necessary to do so, it can issue a direction. At the cost of repetition it may be noted that there is no law specifying the principles of taxation on the subject-matter of controversy so as to bring in application of either Article 256 or Article 257 of the Constitution. 11. Power to levy taxes on vehicles, whether mechanically D propelled or not vests solely in the State Legislature, though it may be open to Parliament to lay down the principles on which the taxes may be levied on mechanically propelled vehicles in the background of Entry 35 of List III. To put it differently, Parliament may lay down the guidelines for the levy of taxes E on such vehicles, but the right to levy such taxes vests solely in the State Legislature. No principles admittedly have been formulated by Parliament. In that sense, the Government of India’s communication dated 30-8-1993 does not in any sense violate the power of the State Legislature or its delegate to levy or exempt taxes from time to time.” F 39. Mr. Mukerji, learned counsel for the appellants, has referred to a number of s of this Court relating to levy of tax being compensatory and regulatory in nature. The same are not being discussed in detail to unnecessary burden the . However, a reference has already been made to the said s quoted earlier. G 40. In the above backdrop of the legal position, the validity of Section 3A(3) of the 1972 Act introduced vide Amending Act of 1999 is being discussed hereunder. H 914 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 41. Section 3 of the 1972 Act provided for levy of taxes on all motor vehicles kept or used in the State of Himachal Pradesh as per the schedules appended to the said Act.