a. The bar under Article 212: justiciability of legislative proceedings 95. Article 212(1) stipulates that the Court shall not inquire into B the validity of the proceedings of the Legislature of a State on the ground of any alleged irregularity of procedure: “212. Courts not to inquire into proceedings of the Legislature.- (1) The validity of any proceedings in the Legislature of a State shall not be called in question on the ground of any alleged C irregularity of procedure.” 96. This Court has on earlier occasions construed the scope of the restriction on judicial review of proceedings of the Legislature under Article 212 (and the corresponding provision for Parliament, Article 122). In Special Reference No. 1 of 1964 (Powers, Privileges and Immunities of State Legislatures),29 a seven-Judge Bench observed D that Article 212 only restricts judicial review on the ground of ‘irregularity of procedure’ and that proceedings of the legislature can still be challenged if the ‘procedure is illegal and unconstitutional.’ In Raja Ram Pal (supra), a Constitution Bench held that legislative proceedings can be challenged on the grounds of ‘substantive illegality or E unconstitutionality’. In Justice KS Puttaswamy v. Union of India (Aadhar 5J),30 one of the issues before this Court was whether Article 212 precluded judicial review of the Speaker’s authorization of a Money Bill. Sikri, J. writing for the majority observed that Article 212 only limited challenges on the ground of ‘irregularity of procedure’ and not ‘substantive illegality’. One of us (D Y Chandrachud, J.) observed in his dissenting F opinion that Article 212 does not preclude judicial review of proceedings of a Legislature if the decision of the Speaker suffers from “illegality or a violation of constitutional provisions.” In Rojer Mathew v. South Indian Bank Ltd.,31 this Court observed that a “gross violation of the constitutional scheme” cannot be considered a procedural irregularity. G This Court has consistently held that a substantive illegality or a violation of a constitutional provision is distinct from a mere irregularity of procedure and is amenable to judicial review. 29 AIR 1965 SC 745 30 (2019) 1 SCC 1 H 31 (2020) 6 SCC 1 922 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 97. Similar provisions barring Courts from interfering on the ground of irregularity of procedure occur in the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973.32 Section 465 of the CrPC provides that a finding or a sentence cannot be reversed solely on the ground of irregularity of proceedings unless, in the opinion of the Court, there has been a failure of justice.33 The concept of irregularity of procedure is also common in service B jurisprudence. In the context of regularisation of employment, this Court has held that while employees who were irregularly appointed can be regularised, those appointed illegally cannot. In State of UP v. Desh Raj,34 this Court held that “an appointment which was made throwing all constitutional obligations and statutory rules to the winds would render C the same illegal whereas irregularity presupposes substantial compliance with the rules.” Thus, the issue of whether the action violating a procedure would render the proceedings irregular or illegal is specific to context of each case.