The land losers being aggrieved by the same are before this Court in these appeals seeking enhancement of the market value in respect of the acquired lands. 6. In the above background, we have heard all the learned counsel for the appellants as also the learned counsel for the respondent-HSIIDC C and perused the appeal papers. 7. The gist of the contention on behalf of the land losers is that the lands which are the subject matter of these appeals are situated in Sultanpur which is within the urban agglomeration. As such, though the lands were depicted as agricultural lands, in fact, the said lands have D non-agricultural potential, more particularly the lands are urbanized lands being located within the urban area. In that view, it is contended that the market value cannot be determined by either considering the land as agricultural land or by applying the yardstick which is applicable to large tracts of agricultural land. It is contended that though the composite notification to acquire the lands consists of 798 Kanals 2 Marlas of land, E insofar as the appellants are concerned, they are land owners of small extent of lands which were to be used as urban land for purposes other than agriculture, and therefore, the market value as determined by the High Court on applying the floor rates fixed by the Government, would not be justified. It is their further contention that on the matter being F remanded to the Reference Court, evidence had been adduced wherein sale exemplars were relied on. It is contended that the Reference Court having taken into consideration all aspects of the matter had in fact rightly relied on the sale deed dated 07.12.2004 which was marked as Ex.PX. Having done so, the only error committed by the Reference Court is to deduct 35 per cent of the value towards development charges G inasmuch as in the instant case, the question of deducting development charges would not be justified as the entire acquired land has been utilized for the purpose of constructing roads. Hence it is contended that the entire amount, being the sale consideration in the said sale deed dated 07.12.2004 is to be reckoned and the same be determined as the market value to quantify the compensation. H 922 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 8. The gist of the contention put forth by the learned counsel for the beneficiary of the acquisition, namely HSIIDC is that the Reference Court was not justified in placing reliance on the document at Ex.PX, dated 07.12.2004. The said document related to the purchase of a small extent as compared to the vast extent of 798 Kanals 2 Marlas of land which was acquired. Hence it does not represent the true value of the B acquired lands. It is the further contention that on the other hand, the HSIIDC had relied on, as many as nine sale exemplars between the period 23.07.2004 and 25.11.2005 wherein the larger extent of agricultural land had been sold and the value per acre in all the said instances is lesser than the floor rate which had been taken into consideration.