scheme and if no such step is taken within three years the scheme A will lapse. If substantial steps have been taken within three years though the scheme is not fully implemented within that period the scheme would not lapse and proceedings for acquisition of land under the scheme is a substantial step towards its implementation. We are in respectful agreement with the aforesaid view taken by B a Division Bench of this Court and hold that the word ‘implement’ occurring in S. 54 of the Adhiniyam cannot be construed to mean that even if a substantial step has been taken by the authority towards the implementation of the scheme then also the scheme shall lapse after the expiry of three years because of its non- completion within that period.” C We are in complete agreement with the view taken by the Madhya Pradesh in the aforesaid case. 10. At this stage, Rule 19 of the M.P. Nagar Tatha Gran Nivesh Niyam, 1975 r/w Section 56 of the Adhiniyam are required to be referred D to. As per section 56 of the Adhiniyam r/w Rule 19 and for the purposes of land acquisition under section 56 of the Adhiniyam, within three years from the date of publication of the final town development scheme under section 50, the Town and Country Development Authority shall proceed to acquire the land required for the implementation of the scheme. The words used are “ proceed to acquire” and not “actual acquisition”. The E intention of the legislature thus seems to be very clear and unambiguous. Therefore, when the Statute provides certain things to be done within the stipulated time mentioned in the Act, the Authority is to be given such time, more particularly while dealing with the scheme which has been framed for the entire area and for the public purpose. In the present F case, Scheme No. 97 has been framed and the lands have been acquired for residential, park and industrial purposes. Any other meaning may frustrate the purpose of framing of the scheme for residential, part and industrial purposes. 11. In view of the above and when within three years various G steps were taken for implementation of the scheme including the steps to acquire the land by negotiations and even thereafter on failure to acquire the land by negotiations approaching the State Government to acquire the land under the Land Acquisition Act, the High Court has erred in declaring that the scheme has lapsed under section 54 of the H 114 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Adhiniyam. The High Court has adopted too narrow a meaning while interpreting and/or considering section 54 of the Adhiniyam. 12. So far as quashing and setting aside the entire acquisition proceedings including sections 4 & 6 notifications issued under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act with respect to the lands in question B on the ground that there was no proper delegation of power to the Collector with regard to Section 5A of the Act, is concerned, it is required to be noted that in the present case, the State Government vide its letter dated 22.3.1985 delegated its power to the District Collector as Deputy Secretary of the Revenue Department and to the Commissioner of the division to act as Secretary of the Revenue Department and to adjudicate C matters related to land acquisition by exercising powers given under Sections 4, 5, 6 and 17 of the Act, 1894.