2. The facts leading to the present appeal in a nutshell are as B under: That one Braja Mohan Dey was the owner and in possession of ‘Schedule A’ property. He was alleged to have taken a loan of Rs. 10,000/ - from his tenant, namely, Dhirendra Chandra Saha, original plaintiff No.2. The original owner, Braja Mohan Dey went to East Pakistan. It C was alleged that he had executed a Power of Attorney (PoA) in East Pakistan, ostensibly in favour of original plaintiff No.2 to enable repayment of the alleged loan amount by sale of the subject land to himself (original plaintiff No.2) as his PoA holder. That original plaintiff No.2, on the basis of the alleged loan amount and PoA alleged to have D been executed by the original owner, executed in his favour sale deed dated 3.9.1968 as PoA holder of the original owner. Thereafter original plaintiff No.2, by virtue of the said PoA, transferred ‘Schedule A’ property to his wife Gita Rani Saha (original plaintiff No.1) (now deceased) vide sale deed dated 29.09.1968, allegedly for repayment of a sum of Rs. 20,000/- taken by him from his wife, out of which a sum of Rs. 10,000/ E - was alleged to have been handed over to the original owner Braja Mohan Dey. 2.1 That original plaintiff No.2 allegedly constructed a godown at the rear end of the grocery shop in another part of ‘Schedule A’ property (‘Schedule C’ property). It was the case on behalf of the plaintiffs that F one Sarat Chandra Majumdar (original defendant No.1) tried to dispossess the plaintiffs from the said ‘Schedule C’ property. However, on the other hand, it was the case on behalf of the defendants that their predecessor- in-interest held out that Sarat Chandra Majumdar was in possession of the suit land for more than thirty years and was running a business from the said property, while denying that the plaintiffs had acquired any right, G title or interest as claimed over the suit land. The original defendants also claimed to be in peaceful possession of the property for over forty years and it was their case that they were paying the municipal taxes and land revenue and other statutory dues. The plaintiffs alleged that the defendants had started a pucca construction on ‘Schedule C’ property H 150 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A and forcibly dispossessed them from the said property. Therefore, the plaintiffs filed a Civil Suit being T.S. No. 201/1985 before the learned trial Court for a declaration of title over the suit land and recovery of khas possession from the defendants (appellants herein). 2.2 The said suit was resisted by the defendants by filing a written B statement denying all the allegations as well as their right of possession in respect of the disputed suit property. At this stage, it is required to be noted that though the original plaintiff No.2 claimed the ownership on the basis of the sale deed dated 3.9.1968 executed by plaintiff No.1 in his own favour on the basis of the alleged PoA executed by the original owner, however, the same was not produced before the learned trial C Court and in the suit.