Thereafter, it proceeds to deal with meetings, processions, polling day conduct. In regard to the party in power, we find the following as part of the Model Code of Conduct. Part VII of the Model Code of H Conduct, inter alia, reads as follows: ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 141 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “VII. Party in Power A The party in power whether at the Centre or in the State or States concerned, shall ensure that no cause is given for any complaint that it has used its official position for the purposes of its election campaign and in particular – B XXXX XXXX XXXX 1. (b) Government transport including official air-crafts, vehicles, machinery and personnel shall not be used for furtherance of the interest of the party in power; XXXX XXXX XXXX C 3. Rest houses, dak bungalows or other Government accommodation shall not be monopolized by the party in power or its candidates and such accommodation shall be allowed to be used by other parties and candidates in a fair manner but no party or candidate shall use or be allowed to use such accommodation D (including premises appertaining thereto) as a campaign office or for holding any public meeting for the purposes of election propaganda; 4. Issue of advertisement at the cost of public exchequer in the newspapers and other media and the misuse of official mass media E during the election period for partisan coverage of political news and publicity regarding achievements with a view to furthering the prospects of the party in power shall be scrupulously avoided. 5. Ministers and other authorities shall not sanction grants/ payments out of discretionary funds from the time elections are F announced by the Commission; and” There are other aspects relating to Election Manifestos. There is a clear need for a fearless and independent Election Commission of India to give full effect to these salutary principles. 170. Paragraph-16A of the Symbols inserted by Notification G dated 18.02.1994, reads as follows: “16A. Power of Commission to suspend or withdraw recognition of a recognised political party for its failure to observe Model Code of Conduct or follow lawful directions and instructions of the Commission- H 142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Notwithstanding anything in this , if the Commission is satisfied on information in its possession that a political party, recognised either as a National party or as a State party under the provisions of this , has failed or has refused or is refusing or has shown or is showing defiance by its conduct or otherwise (a) to observe the provisions of the ‘Model Code of Conduct for B Guidance of Political Parties and Candidates’ as issued by the Commission in January, 1991 or as amended by it from time to time, or (b) to follow or carryout the lawful directions and instructions of the Commission given from time to time with a view to furthering the conduct of free, fair and peaceful elections C or safeguarding the interests of the general public and the electorate in particular, the Commission may, after taking into account all the available facts and circumstances of the case and after giving the party reasonable opportunity of showing cause in relation to the action proposed to be taken against it, either suspend, subject to such terms as the Commission may deem appropriate, D or withdraw the recognition of such party as the National Party or, as the case may be, the State Party.” (Emphasis supplied) 171.