A rigorous imprisonment for one year. Both the appellant and the accused no. 1 Devender alias Vikki preferred appeal before the High Court which has been dismissed by the impugned . 2. First Information Report was registered on the basis of the statement of PW-1, Ajay who was 11 years old at the relevant time. He B is the youngest of three sons of the deceased Bhanmati and Satpal. According to the prosecution’s case, on 30th December 2002, Ajay and his mother (deceased) were sleeping in their house by locking their house from inside. Ajay’s elder brother was staying in Ghaziabad for education and his second brother had gone to stay with his maternal uncle. Ajay’s father Satpal was working as Mahant of a temple, and he was residing C near the temple. He was not residing with the deceased. According to the prosecution’s case, at about 1 am, PW-1 Ajay heard the noise of his mother. When he woke up, he saw that accused nos. 1 and 2 were grappling with his mother. Accused no.1 Vikki by knife inflicted 6 to 7 blows on the stomach and chest of the deceased. At that time, appellant- D accused no.2 was holding the hands of his mother. When Ajay tried to rescue his mother, accused no.1 inflicted injuries on him with the same knife. Thereafter, both the accused fled away. They had entered the house through a window and they went back through the same window. According to Ajay, he was hiding in the house due to fear. At about 5 am, when one Surender, milkman, who is described as Golu by PW-6, E came to the house, Ajay came out and disclosed to the said milkman that the accused had murdered his mother with a knife. The said milkman reported the incident to Ajay’s uncle Rajinder Singh (PW-6) who came to the site. Thereafter, Ajay’s father Satpal also came. Injured Ajay was taken to hospital where his statement was recorded. Based on his F statement, First Information Report was registered. 3. In his complaint, Ajay stated that on the earlier day, the accused had come to his house and untied the buffalo. When the deceased complained, both tried to assault the deceased. Ajay also stated that six to seven months prior to the incident, both the accused had entered the G field of his family and they cut “daul” of their field. As the appellant’s father tendered an apology to Satpal, a complaint was not filed. 4. Apart from PW-1 Ajay, the prosecution examined PW-6-Rajinder (Ajay’s uncle), and PW-10 Dr Varsha, who had examined Ajay. The prosecution also examined PW-12 Dr Arun Garg, who conducted post- mortem on the body of the deceased. H PRADEEP v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 1027 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] SUBMISSIONS A 5. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant has taken us through the evidence of the material prosecution witnesses. He submitted that evidence of Ajay will have to be tested very carefully, as he is a minor witness.