The proviso inserted by Act No. 45 of 1978, comes into operation where G the Magistrate thinks fit that further detention beyond the period of fifteen days is necessary and it lays down that, the Magistrate may authorise the detention of the accused person otherwise than in the custody of police beyond period of 15 days. The proviso to Section 167(2) clearly state that the total H 934 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A period of detention should not exceed Ninety days in cases where the investigation relates to serious offences mentioned therein and sixty days in other cases and if by that time charge-sheet is not filed on the expiry of said periods the accused shall be released on bail.” B 20. The precedents referred to in the impugned , and the coordinate Bench in Deepak Satyavan (supra), show that the Court confers power on the prosecution to arrest a suspect and the investigation contemplated under the Code would cover all the steps including proceedings for collection of evidence and on conclusion of the investigation a report is required to be furnished under Section 173 of C the CrPC. The aim of Chapter XII is that investigation should be completed without unnecessary delay, although there is no express outer limit for completion of investigation. The CrPC prescribes, under Section 173(2), for filing the final report, which empowers the Court, to take cognizance of an offence. It also allows for further investigation under D sub-Section (8) of Section 173. Further, as per Section 173(4), upon the final report being filed, if an accused has been released on bail, his bail bond maybe cancelled by the Magistrate based on merits of the investigation. Thus, the protection extended to an accused in lieu of proviso (a) of Section 167(2) CrPC is only with respect to the prescribed 60/90 day period, beyond which an accused’s custody cannot be sought, even E if the investigation is incomplete. 21. Unless a special from a Magistrate is obtained under Section 167 of the CrPC, a person arrested cannot be detained for more than 24 hours as stipulated under Section 57 of the CrPC. The time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the Magistrate’s F Court can however be excluded, for computing the 24 hours permitted to the Police to keep an accused in their custody prior to a Magistrate’s authorization, as mandated under Section 167 CrPC. 22. After the accused is arrested and police is unable to complete the investigation within the mandated 24 hours period, the police officer G making the investigation is duty bound to transmit the accused to the Magistrate under Section 167 of the CrPC. Sub-section (2) of Section 167 then sets out the action to be taken by the Magistrate to whom the accused person is forwarded and the Magistrate may then authorize the detention of the accused to further custody. In terms of sub-section (2), the Magistrate may authorize the detention of the accused in such custody H ENFORCEMENT DIRECTORATE, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA v. 935 KAPIL WADHAWAN & ANR.