Doctrines/Principles: Principle of Res Gestae – Rule of – Held: Rule embodied in s. 6 is usually known as the rule of res E gestae – It means that a fact which, though not in issue, is so connected with the fact in issue “as to form part of the same transaction” becomes relevant by itself – Evidence Act, 1872 – ss.6 and 7. Dismissing the appeal, the Court F HELD: 1.1 The appreciation of ocular evidence is a hard task. There is no fixed or straight-jacket formula for appreciation of the ocular evidence. [Para 25][865-E] 1.2 In assessing the value of the evidence of the eyewitnesses, two principal considerations are whether, in the G circumstances of the case, it is possible to believe their presence at the scene of occurrence or in such situations as would make it possible for them to witness the facts deposed to by them and secondly, whether there is anything inherently improbable or unreliable in their evidence. In respect of both these H BALU SUDAM KHALDE & ANR. v. THE STATE OF 853 MAHARASHTRA considerations, circumstances either elicited from those A witnesses themselves or established by other evidence tending to improbabilise their presence or to discredit the veracity of their statements, will have a bearing upon the value which a Court would attach to their evidence. Although in cases where the plea of the accused is a mere denial, the evidence of the prosecution B witnesses has to be examined on its own merits, where the accused raise a definite plea or put forward a positive case which is inconsistent with that of the prosecution, the nature of such plea or case and the probabilities in respect of it will also have to be taken into account while assessing the value of the prosecution evidence. [Para 27][868-C-E] C 1.3 The oral evidence of all the three eyewitnesses PW 1, 2, 3 is consistent and there is no good reason for the Court to disbelieve the ocular version as narrated by the three eyewitnesses. The trial court as well as the High Court looked into the oral evidence of all the three eyewitnesses closely and D have recorded a concurrent finding that they are reliable witnesses. [Para 28][868-F-G] 1.4 In the exercise of the power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, this Court, normally would not interfere with the concurrent findings of fact, except in very special E circumstances or in the case of a gross error committed by the courts below. Only where the High Court ignores or overlooks “crying circumstances” and “proven facts” or “violates and misapplies well established principles of criminal jurisprudence” or refuses to give benefit of doubt to the accused persons, etc., F would this Court step in to correct the legally erroneous decisions. Interferance is not only for the reason that this Court may arrive at a different conclusion, unless, there are compelling circumstances to tinker with conclusions drawn and that the accused were innocent/guilty. There are limitations in interfering with the findings of conviction, concurrent in nature.