It is clarifi ed that this compliance shall henceforth apply prospectively. [Paras 62, 63] RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 293 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – s.50 – Rights of the accused – Right to be informed about the search to be conducted in presence of Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate – Manner of communication of such right when multiple persons are to be searched. Held: In case of multiple persons to be searched, each of them has to be individually communicated of their right, and each must exercise or waive the same in their own capacity – Any joint or common communication of this right would be in violation of Section 50. [Para 64] Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – s.50 – Recovery of contraband under NDPS Act during search under statute other than NDPS Act – Whether provisions relating to NDPS Act would apply. Held: Where during a search under any statute other than the NDPS Act, a contraband under the NDPS Act also happens to be recovered, the provisions relating to the NDPS Act shall forthwith start applying, although in such a situation Section 50 may not be required to be complied for the reason that search had already been conducted. [Para 64] Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – s.50 – Burden of proof – Defi ned. Held: The burden is on the prosecution to establish that the obligation imposed by Section 50 was duly complied with before the search was conducted. [Para 64] Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – Recovery in violation of s.50 – Consequences of – Whether non-compliance of s.50 would vitiate the trial. Held: Any incriminating contraband, possession of which is punishable under the NDPS Act and recovered in violation of Section 50 would be inadmissible and cannot be relied upon in the trial by the prosecution, however, it will not vitiate the trial in respect of the same – Any other article that has been recovered may be relied upon in any other independent proceedings. [Para 64] Interpretation of Statutes – Literal rule of interpretation – Explained. 294 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Held: It is a well-settled principle in law that the Court should not read anything into a statutory provision which is plain and unambiguous – A statute is an edict of the legislature – The language employed in a statute is the determinative factor of the legislative intent – The fi rst and primary rule of construction is that the intention of the legislation must be found in the words used by the legislature itself – The question is not of what may be supposed and has been intended but what has been said. [Para 115] Interpretation of Statutes – Principle of Construction – Casus omissus. Held: A casus omissus cannot be supplied by the Court except in the case of clear necessity and when reason for it is found in the four corners of the statute itself but at the same time a casus omissus should not be readily inferred and for that purpose all the parts of a statute or section must be construed together and every clause of a section should be construed with reference to the context and other clauses thereof so that the construction to be put on a particular provision makes a consistent enactment of the whole statute – This would be more so if literal construction of a particular clause leads to manifestly absurd or anomalous results which could not have been intended by the legislature.