10. The learned ASG pointed out to the treaty practice between India and each of the three countries (France, Netherlands and Switzerland). He also referred to the fact that after Slovenia had entered OECD (in 2010) a Protocol has been signed between India and France. This Protocol was 9 1984 [2] SCR 664 10 2003 (Supp 4) SCR 222 115 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. notifi ed sometime in 2012. This, it was argued, is a clear pointer to the fact that entering into membership of OECD per se does not result in automatic grants of benefi ts to a country which had entered into DTAA with India because the later Protocol with France and the consequent notifi cation omitted to extend any benefi t on the basis that Slovenia had entered OECD membership in 2010. 11. The learned ASG likewise pointed out that the Protocol executed between India and Netherlands was notifi ed on 30.08.1999. The plain reading of that notifi cation shows that the Protocol itself was triggered by the benefi t granted to the United States - with which India entered into a DTAA in 1990; Germany with which India entered into a DTAA in 1996; Sweden with which India entered into a DTAA in 1997 and the U.K. with which India entered into a DTAA in 1993. The notifi cation issued on 30.08.1999 (notifying the Protocol between India and Netherlands), conferred benefi ts based upon the concessions given to diff erent countries, with eff ect from diff erent dates depending on the nature of the benefi ts, rate of tax withholding, defi nition etc. ; this too, it is argued, showed that the triggering event itself (here, mere entering into DTAA with a country which was or became a member of the OECD) did not result in grant of any benefi t or advantage to Netherlands. It was after bilateral negotiations that the Protocol was entered into, and yet later a notifi cation under Section 90 was issued, bringing it into eff ect. 12. These practices were in consonance with the mandate and requirements of Section 90. The learned ASG also submitted that without the benefi t of any notifi cation, any tax administrator, an Assessing Offi cer or revenue authority would fi nd it hard to verify the claim of any assessee. The learned ASG argued that the impugned is erroneous in as much as it relied upon executive s and decrees issued by the Swiss, Dutch and French authorities; such executive decrees or s could not possibly bind Indian Revenue Authorities and had in fact been issued unilaterally. They were bound to be implemented by the concerned revenue authorities in Netherlands, Switzerland and France, which in fact was done. The in Concentrix relied heavily upon such s or decrees, and to the extent is unsustainable. 13. The learned ASG also highlighted that if the impugned is left undisturbed the interpretation by it as well as the s which ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1153 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.]