(2) Before publishing a notice under sub-section (1), the State Government shall by another notice call upon the owner of the land and any other person who in the opinion of the State Government may be interested therein to show cause, within such time as may be specifi ed in the notice, why the land should not be acquired. (3) After considering the cause, if any, shown by the owner of the land and by any other person interested therein and after giving such owner and person an opportunity of being heard, the State Government may pass such s as it deems fi t. 22 (1974) 2 SCC 121 23 (2018) 6 SCC 162 URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 559 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] (4) When a notice under sub-section (1) is published in the offi cial Gazette, the land shall, on and from the date of such publication, vest absolutely in the State Government free from all encumbrances. (5) Where any land is vested in the State Government under sub-section (4), the State Government may, by notice in writing, any person who may be in possession of the land to surrender or deliver possession thereof to the State Government or any person duly authorized by it in this behalf within thirty days of the service of the notice. (6) If any person refuses or fails to comply with an made under sub-section (5), the State Government may take possession of the land and may for that purpose use such force as may be necessary. (7) Where the land has been acquired for the Trust, the State Government shall, after it has taken possession of the land and on payment by the Trust of the amount of compensation determined under Section 53, on the amount of interest thereon, and of the other charges incurred by the State Government in connection with the acquisition, transfer the land to the Trust for the purpose for which the land has been acquired.” 27. Section 53 of the 1959 Act is regarding payment of compensation for compulsory acquisition of land. Sub-section (3) of Section 53 provides that where the amount of compensation can be determined by agreement between the State Government and the person to be compensated, it shall be determined in accordance with such agreement. Sub section (4) of Section 53 provides that where no such agreement is reached, the State Government shall refer the case to the Collector for determination of the person to whom the amount of compensation is to be paid and the amount of compensation to be paid for such acquisition. 28. Section 54 of the 1959 Act provides that any party aggrieved by the decision of the Collector determining the amount of compensation may, within sixty days from the date of such decision, appeal to the court of the District Judge having jurisdiction. 29. Section 55 of the 1959 Act provides for reference of disputes regarding apportionment of compensation to the Court of the District Judge.