The respondent filed a writ petition, with an interim prayer seeking a direction to grant a new electric connection. The main prayer in the writ petition sought a declaration that the demand made by the Electricity Board to pay arrears was unfounded in law. The Bombay High Court by its impugned C dated 24 September 2004 disposed of the writ petition with a direction to the appellant to grant an electricity connection to the premises within one month, without insisting on clearance of past dues of the previous consumer. The High Court placed reliance on the decisions of this Court in Isha Marbles (supra)and Gujarat Inns (supra). D 208. The appellant preferred the present Special Leave petition. This Court issued notice on 6 January 2005. 209. As already stated before, this Court in both Isha Marbles (supra)and Gujarat Inns (supra)did not hold the auction purchaser liable to clear the electricity arrears incurred by the previous owners because E there was no specific statutory provision in that regard, or any clause dealing with the issue of electricity dues. In the present case, the MSEB placed specific reliance on Condition 23 of MSEB Conditions of Supply to hold the auction purchasers liable. The MSEB Conditions of Supply were incorporated in the individual contracts entered between the Electricity Board and the consumers. Clause 14 in the standard F agreements entered between the MSEB and consumers provides that the Conditions of Supply, as amended from time to time, shall be deemed to be part of the agreement. The erstwhile consumers were aware of the statutory MSEB Conditions of Supply. The relevant clause is extracted below: G “Clause 14(a): Condition and Miscellaneous Charges for supply of electrical energy of the Maharashtra State Electricity Board for the time being in force and as amended by supplier from time to time shall be deemed to be part of the Agreement and shall govern the parties hereto in so far as applicable. A copy of the H 740 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A current Conditions and Miscellaneous Charges for supply is set out in the second schedule hereto.” 210. We are of the considered view that the impugned cannot be sustained and is accordingly set aside. Item 101.11: Maharashtra State Electricity Board v. Ecto B Spinners; Civil Appeal No. 6587 of 2005 211. In 1999, the unit of M/s Prabhavati Spinning Mill, a co- operative spinning mill, was closed down. The electricity supplied to M/ s Prabhavati Spinning Mill had earlier been disconnected by the appellant in default of payment of consumption charges. In 2004, the first respondent C purchased M/s Prabhavati Spinning Mill, which was liquidated by the authorities under the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Act 1960. The agreement of sale was executed in favour of the first respondent on 26 July 2004 and since then, the first respondent had the possession of the property. The final deed of assignment was yet to be executed. The first respondent incurred an expenditure of Rs 4 crores to overhaul the plant D and machinery at the premises, and thereafter applied for a fresh electricity connection as a High Tension Consumer for the premises.