An employee was to be compulsory retired after attaining the age of 58 years, subject to certain provisions. This Court held that essentially the Regulations, made under the Electricity Supply Act are of a general nature, and the Standing s are the special rules. Therefore, the special rules would override the general. Nevertheless, since there is also an exclusion clause under Section 13B of the 1946 Act and there was indeed a notifi cation under the said Act which we have already referred above, it will be the regulations made under the 1948 Act which will be applicable, but only so far as it relates to compulsory retirement, since the notifi cation dated, 28th May, 1970 was only limited to compulsory retirement. It has been held as under: “17. … In our view the only reasonable construction that we can put upon the language of Section 13-B is that a rule or regulation, if notifi ed by the Government, will exclude the applicability of the Act to the extent that the rule or regulation covers the fi eld. To that extent and to that UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. K. SURI BABU 1063 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] extent only ‘nothing in the Act shall apply’. To understand Section 13-B in any other manner will lead to unjust and uncontemplated results. For instance, most of the Service Rules and Regulations expressly mentioned in Section 13-B do not deal with a large number of the matters enumerated in the schedule such as ‘Manner of intimating to workmen periods and hour of work, holidays, pay-days and wage rates’, ‘shift working’, ‘Attendance and late coming”, ‘conditions of, procedure in applying for, and the authority which may grant leave and holidays’, ‘Closing and reopening of sections of the industrial establishments and temporary stoppages of work and the rights and liabilities of the employer and workmen arising therefrom, etc. To exclude the applicability of Standing s relating to all these matters became the Fundamental Rules, the Civil Service Rules or the Civil Services Control, Classifi cation and Appeal Rules provide for a few matters like ‘Classifi cation of workmen’ or ‘suspension or dismissal for misconduct’ would be to reverse the processes of history, apart from leading to unjust and untoward results. It will place workmen once again at the mercy of the employer be he ever so benign and it will certainly promote industrial strife. We have indicated what according to us is the proper construction of Section 13-B. That is the only construction which gives meaning and sense to Section 13-B and that is a construction which can legitimately be said to conform to the Directive Principles of State Policy proclaimed in Articles 42 and 43 of the Constitution.” It, then, went on to hold as further: “18. We, therefore, hold that the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Act is a special law in regard to the matters enumerated in the schedule and the regulations made by the Electricity Board with respect to any of those matters are of no eff ect unless such regulations are either notifi ed by the Government under Section 13-B or certifi ed by the Certifying Offi cer under Section 5 of the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Act.