In the appointment of the Vice-Chancellor or the Pro-Vice-Chancellor, the Chancellor is not required to consult the Council of Ministers. Though by 432 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. virtue of his offi ce as Governor, he becomes the Chancellor of the University, but while discharging the functions of his offi ce, he does not perform any duty or exercise any power of the offi ce of the Governor individually. However, while discharging the functions as a Chancellor, he does every act in his discretion as Chancellor and he does not act on the aid and advice of his Council of Ministers. The performance of the functions and duties under the Constitution with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers is distinct and diff erent from his discharge of the powers and duties of his offi ce as Chancellor of the University. Under the Act and the statute, the Chancellor has independent existence and exercises his powers without any interference from any quarter. Therefore, the offi ce as a Chancellor held by the Governor is a statutory offi ce quite distinct from the offi ce of the Governor. Same view was taken by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Kiran Babu case [AIR 1986 AP 275 : (1986) 1 An LT 36].”. 78. Bearing the aforesaid principles of law in mind, we proceed to consider whether there was any independent application of mind or satisfaction on the part of the Chancellor in reappointing the respondent No. 4 as Vice-Chancellor. The facts narrated by us in the earlier part of our speak for themselves. The Chancellor had already initiated the steps for appointment of a new Vice-Chancellor and this is evident by the fact that a selection committee was also constituted vide Notifi cation dated 27.10.2021. It appears that at that point of time reappointment of the respondent No. 4 as Vice-Chancellor in accordance with sub-section (10) of Section 10 of the Act 1996 was not in the mind of the Chancellor. 79. The State of Kerala issued Notifi cation dated 01.11.2021 inviting applications from eligible candidates. All of a sudden, the Minister for Higher Education and Social Justice in his capacity as the Pro-Chancellor addressed a letter to the Chancellor dated 22.11.2021 recommending reappointment of the respondent No. 4 herein for a second term as Vice-Chancellor. It is also pertinent to note that on 22.11.2021 itself the notifi cation inviting application from the eligible candidates was withdrawn. On the same date, the Minister addressed one another letter to the Chancellor stating that the respondent No. 4 be reappointed as Vice-Chancellor of Kannur University. On the very same day i.e., on 23.11.2021, the notifi cation reappointing the respondent No. 4 as Vice-Chancellor was issued. DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 433 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 80. It appears from the press release issued by the Kerala Raj Bhavan dated 03.02.2022 that the opinion of the Advocate General was also sought for in connection with reappointment of the respondent No.