The said mortgage deeds were redeemed by the appellant (plaintiff ) on 24.06.1963. Ultimately, the appellant purchased the suit property from Puliyankaladi and his family members namely, Irulan, Balakrishnan and Balakrishnan’s minor children Senthilkumaran and Backialakshmi on 15.07.1963 as per sale deed No.1759/1963 of SRO, Andipatti. Since then, he has been in its possession and enjoyment. After mutating it in his name in the revenue records he obtained patta and has been paying kist to the government. The defendants are strangers having lands on the southern and northern sides of the suit property. They demanded him to sell the property to them and on being refused they turned inimical to him and started disturbing his peaceful possession and enjoyment of the suit property. On 05.06.1994, the defendants along with some others attempted to trespass into his property, but it was thwarted with the help of co-villagers. 3. The fi rst and the third defendants fi led written statement in the suit mainly refuting the averment that the entire suit property belonged to Puliyankaladi and contending that it is incorrect and false and therefore, the plaintiff may be put to strict proof. The further case of the defendants was that out of the total extent of the property in Survey No.845/1, 75 cents belonged to Thavasi Andi Thevar, Veluthai Ammal and the fi rst defendant, and son of Thavasi Andi Thevar, Veluthai Ammal and the fi rst defendant executed a registered mortgage deed on 14.09.1961 in favour of Pomminayakkanpatti Palaniammal for Rs. 1000/-. Further, as per sale deed No.2178/1974 of Andipatti Sub-Registry the third defendant purchased 30 cents in Survey No.845/1 and its well, 1/5th Kamalaivari channel and ½ of the Kamalaivari channel on the western side and since then she has been in possession and enjoyment of the said extent. In short, according to them suit was instituted with an ulterior intention to grab the entire property comprised the Survey No.845/1. 4. Based on the pleadings the trial court framed the following issues:- “1. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to permanent injunction? 2. Whether the sale of the plaintiff is a forged one? 3. Whether the mortgage deed dated 14.9.198 is genuine? 4. Whether the sale deed dated 13.9.1974 is genuine? APPAIYA v. ANDIMUTHU @ THANGAPANDI & ORS. 529 [C.T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] 5. Whether the entire suit property is not under the possession of the plaintiff ? 6. What relief the plaintiff is entitled to?” 5. Thereafter, an additional issue was framed as under:- “1. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to declaration to the suit property?” 6. On the side of the appellant/plaintiff , he got himself examined as PW-1 and Exts.A1 to A8 were marked and on the side of the defendants three witnesses were examined and Exts.B1 to B14 were marked. Exts. C1 to C8 were marked as Court documents. After evaluating the oral and documentary evidence adduced, the trial Court held that the plaintiff is entitled to get declaration that the entire suit property belonged to him and as a consequence, the defendants and their men are to be restrained from interfering with the peaceful possession and enjoyment of the plaintiff over the suit property and decreed the suit accordingly.