v.685 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] provides for a tiered-model for its functioning, and in turn for monitoring of its implementation. 7. Each employer is legally mandated to constitute an ICC under Section 4. To address the gaps where there is no ICC (i.e., for those working in a workplace that employs less than 10 workers or where the employer themselves are the respondent), the Act provides for an LC in each district, which is to be constituted by the District Offi cer under Section 6. The District Offi cer is also tasked with designating a nodal offi cer in each block, taluka, and tehsil in rural or tribal area, and ward or municipality in the urban area, to receive complaints and forward the same to the concerned LC6. These nodal offi cers are meant to be the fi rst point of contact in that sense, especially in situations where there is no ICC constituted. The ICC or LC after conducting inquiry (or recording settlement7 if such is the case), has to in its inquiry report recommend to the employer, or District Offi cer, respectively, what action is to be taken against the respondent (or in the situation of a false/malicious case8, against the complainant), in each case9. 8. The Petitioner has pointed out that there is a lack of clarity as to the District Offi cer’s role in relation to the annual reports contemplated under Section 21 and 22. A reading of these provisions together off ers some clarity: both the ICC and LC prepare annual reports and submit it either directly (in the case of the LC) or through the employer (here, the ICC), to the District Offi cer10. While Section 21(1) does not mention the ICC report being forwarded to the District Offi cer, Section 22 right after, states that the employer is mandated to mention in its report the number of cases lodged and disposed (if any), and even in the absence of a report it must intimate the numbers to the District Offi cer11. Further, it is the District Offi cer, in turn, who submits a brief report to the State Government12. 6 Section 6(2) of the POSH Act. 7 Section 10 of the POSH Act. 8 Section 14 of the POSH Act and Rule 10 of the Rules. 9 Section 13 of the POSH Act and Rule 9 of the Rules. 10 Section 21(1) of the POSH Act. 11 Section 22 of the POSH Act. 12 Section 21(2) of the POSH Act. 686 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 9. The appropriate government [defi ned under Section 2(b)], is responsible at the last level, to monitor the implementation of this Act and maintain data on the number of cases fi led and disposed of in respect of all cases of sexual harassment at workplace13. It is also obligated to take measures to publicise the Act14. Another built-in safeguard in the framework is that the appropriate government is empowered to call for information and inspection of records15 - wherein it may call upon an employer or District Offi cer to furnish in writing any information relating to sexual harassment it may require, or produce any record required by an offi cer authorised to carry out an inspection.