Thirdly, there must be “proportionality” between F the effects of the measures and the objective. See also Ross v. Brunswick School Dishut No. 15 [(1996) 1 SCR 825] (SCR at p. 872) referring to proportionality. English Courts had no occasion to apply this principle to legislation. The aggrieved parties had to go to the European Court at Strasbourg for a declaration. G 34. In U.S.A., in City of Boerne v. Flores [(1997) 521 US 507] the principle of proportionality has been applied to legislation by stating that “there must be congruence and proportionality between the injury to be prevented or remedied H and the means adopted to that end”. 462 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 35. Thus, the principle that legislation relating to restrictions on fundamental freedoms could be tested on the anvil of “proportionality” has never been doubted in India. This is called “primary” review by the Courts of the validity of legislation which offended fundamental freedoms. B xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 45. Under Article 3(1) of the Human Rights Act, 1998 the English Court can now declare the legislative action as incompatible with the rights and freedoms referred to in the schedule. The Minister is then to move Parliament for C necessary amendment to remove the incompatibility. While doing so, the English Court, can now apply strict scrutiny or proportionality to legislative and administrative action. The principle is now treated as central to English law (See Human Rights Law and Practice by Lord Lester of Herne Hill, Q.C. D & David Pannick QC, 1999, para 3.16). The more the threshold of Wednesbury irrationality is lowered when fundamental human rights are on play, the easier it will become to establish judicial review as an effective remedy with Article 13 of the 1998 Act (see, ibid, Supplement August, 2000, para 4.13.12). E 48. This test of proportionality has been developed by the Indian Courts throughout the years and has now attained the form of a five- pronged test, as stated in the K. S. Puttaswamy & Anr. Vs. Union of India & Ors.12 , and more recently, in the Gujarat Mazdoor F Sabha & Anr. Vs. State of Gujarat13. 49. In K.S.Puttaswamy (Supra), a nine-Judge Bench of this Court while deciding the question as to whether the Constitution of India guarantees to each individual a fundamental right to privacy, expounded the ‘principle of proportionality and legitimacy’ in relation to infringement G of rights as a result of State measures. It was held that proportionality is essential for protection from arbitrary State action as it ensures that the nature and quality of the encroachment on the right is in proportion to 12 (2017) 10 SCC 1 13 (2020) 10 SCC 459 H RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 463 PRADESH [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] the purpose of law. While summarizing the aforementioned principle A into a four-pronged test, the Bench held: “…The action must be sanctioned by law; The proposed action must be necessary in a democratic society for a legitimate aim; B The extent of such interference must be proportionate to the need for such interference; There must be procedural guarantees against abuse of such interference.” C 50.