433-A in this case—rudely refuses to consider the subsequent conduct of the prisoner and forces all convicts, good, bad and indiff erent, to serve a fi xed and arbitrary minimum it is an angry fl at untouched by the proven criteria of reform.” 20. Another aspect of note in this case, is the report submitted by the Superintendent of Police in the second round (which is diametrically diff erent from that which was submitted in the fi rst round), was adverse. Without casting aspersions on the veracity of it, or questioning it on merits, it is appropriate to fl ag another concern in such a context. In each case, the appropriate government has to be cognizant of the latent (not always) prejudices of the crime, that the police as well as the investigating agency, may be citing – especially in a case such as the present one, where the slain victims were police personnel themselves, i.e., members of the police force. These biases may inform the report, and cannot be given determinative value. Doing so will potentially defl ect the appropriate government from the facts 18 [1981] 1 SCR 1196 RAJO @ RAJWA @ RAJENDRA MANDAL v. THE STATE 503 OF BIHAR & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] relevant for consideration for premature release, and instead, focus almost entirely upon facts which evoke a retributive response. 21. Apart from the other considerations (on the nature of the crime, whether it aff ected the society at large, the chance of its recurrence, etc. ), the appropriate government should while considering the potential of the convict to commit crimes in the future, whether there remains any fruitful purpose of continued incarceration, and the socio-economic conditions, review: the convict’s age, state of heath, familial relationships and possibility of reintegration, extent of earned remission, and the post-conviction conduct including, but not limited to – whether the convict has attained any educational qualifi cation whilst in custody, volunteer services off ered, job/ work done, jail conduct, whether they were engaged in any socially aimed or productive activity, and the overall development as a human being. The Board thus should not entirely rely either on the presiding judge, or the report prepared by the police. In this court’s considered view, it would also serve the ends of justice if the appropriate government had the benefi t of a report contemporaneously prepared by a qualifi ed psychologist after interacting/ interviewing the convict that has applied for premature release. The Bihar Prison Manual, 2012 enables a convict to earn remissions, which are limited to one third of the total sentence imposed. Special remission for good conduct, in addition, is granted by the rules.19 If a stereotypical approach in denying the benefi t of remission, which ultimately results in premature release, is repeatedly adopted, the entire idea of limiting incarceration for long periods (sometimes spanning a third or more of a convict’s lifetime and in others, result in an indefi nite sentence), would be defeated. This could result in a sense of despair and frustration among inmates, who might consider themselves reformed– but continue to be condemned in prison.