We once again, reiterate what this Court said in Suresh Kumar Bhikamchand Jain (supra) that grant of sanction is nowhere contemplated under Section 167 of the CrPC. E Issue No. 2 64. We now proceed to discuss the second limb of the submission canvassed on behalf of the appellants that filing of the chargesheet in the Court of SDJM, Ajnala instead of the Special Court as notified under Section 22 of the NIA Act and the Magistrate thereafter, committing the F case to the Court of Sessions under the provisions of Section 209 of the CrPC vitiated all further proceedings rendering the custody or further detention of the appellants from the date of filing of the chargesheet in the Court of Magistrate absolutely unlawful. To put it in other words, we need to consider the submission that since the chargesheet was filed in G the Court of Magistrate on 15.11.2019, i.e., on the 161st day from the arrest of two of the appellants before us, the further detention thereafter, of the appellants could be termed as unlawful and the appellants were entitled to be released on statutory/default bail under the provisions of Section 167(2) of CrPC. H 48 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 65. Section 2(1)(d) of the UAPA reads as follows: “2(1)(d). court means a criminal court having jurisdiction, under the Code, to try offences under this Act and includes a Special Court constituted under section 11 or under section 22 of the National Investigation Agency Act, 2008;” B 66. The plain reading of the definition of “court” referred to above indicates that it includes the Special Court, constituted under Section 11 or Section 22 of the NIA Act. Section 11 of the NIA Act confers power upon the Central Government to designate the Court of Sessions as the Special Courts. Section 22 of the NIA Act confers power upon the State C Government to designate the Court of Sessions, as the Special Courts. 67. A perusal of Section 6 of the NIA Act enumerates about the investigation of the scheduled offences. The scheduled offences under the UAPA are included at Sr. No. 2 in the Schedule of the NIA Act. Thereafter, Section 10 of the NIA Act prescribes about the power of the State Government to investigate the scheduled offences. Section 11 of D the NIA Act prescribes about the power of Central Government for constituting the Special Court, whereas Section 22 of the NIA Act prescribes the power of the State Govt. for constituting the Special Court for trial of the scheduled offence. Section 13 of the NIA Act contains the details of the jurisdiction of the Special Court. A conjoint reading of E these provisions of both the Acts reveals the legislative mandate that the offences under the UAPA Act fall under the scheduled offences having been included in the Schedule of NIA Act. However, the scheme of NIA Act prescribes the procedure for investigating the same either by the NIA or by the concerned State Government, after following the statutory provisions meticulously.