[DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI] cadre offi cers to various cadres. In terms of Rule 5(1), the allocation of cadre offi cers to the various cadres shall be made by the Central Government in consultation with the State Government or the State Government concerned. Rule 7 stipulates that all appointments to cadre posts shall be made “on the recommendation of the Civil Services Board” — by the State Government “in the case of a State cadre”, and by the State Government concerned, as defi ned in Rule 2(d), “in the case of a joint cadre”. Under Rule 11-A, the “Government of that State” is provided with powers to take decisions under Rule 7 (and other mentioned rules) in relation to the members of the Joint Cadre Service “serving in connection with the aff airs of any of the Constituent States”. A combined reading of Rules 2, 7 and 11-A indicates that the postings within the State Cadre as well as Joint Cadre of a Constituent State shall be made by the “Government of that State”, that is, by the duly elected Government. In our case, it shall be the Government of NCTD. We accordingly hold that references to “State Government” in relevant Rules of All-India Services or Joint Cadre Services, of which NCTD is a part or which are in relation to NCTD, shall mean the Government of NCTD.” (emphasis supplied) 17. However, the scope of Rule 55(2)(b) of the Transaction of Business Rules must also be noticed. Rule 55(2)(b) requires the Lieutenant Governor, subject to any instructions which may be issued by the Central Government, to make a prior reference to the Central Government of proposals for the appointment of Chief Secretary and Commissioner of Police, Secretary (Home) and Secretary (Lands). Rule 56 provides that when a matter has been referred by the Lieutenant Governor to the Central Government under Rule 55, further action shall not be taken except in accordance with the decision of the Central Government. Though the Government of NCTD is the appointing authority for all posts in NCTD in terms of the 1954 Rules, the Transaction of Business Rules places the appointments to the posts of Chief Secretary and Commissioners of Police, Secretary (Home) and Secretary (Lands) outside the competence of the GNCTD. 18. The reason for this provision would emerge from the three excluded subjects of Entries 1, 2 and 18 of List 2 of the State List which fall outside 478 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the purview of the GNCTD. The excluded subjects being ‘Police’, ‘Public ’ and ‘Land’, the Commissioner of Police and the Secretaries In-charge of the Home and Land Departments are specifi cally brought within the purview of those matters where the Lieutenant Governor has to make a prior reference to the Union Government. The Chief Secretary has, in addition, been brought within the purview of Rule 55(2)(d) for the reason that the Chief Secretary of the GNCTD exercises overall supervision and control over all the departments including the departments which are relatable to the excluded subjects.