143. Based on the pleadings of the parties, it appears that a settlement offer was made, and a 12 A application was to be H submitted after getting the consent of 90% members of the COC. M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 833 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] In the circumstances, the appellant requested to consider the A settlement proposal in the COC. However, COC was never called to consider the settlement offer. The Resolution Professional has contended that the COC has rejected the settlement offer in its 9th meeting. This statement is also not as per the minutes of the 9th COC meeting. It appears from the minutes of the 9th COC B that only a Resolution Plan was discussed in that meeting. After that, the Resolution Plan was sent back to the resolution applicant by CoC for reconsideration and revision. In the 9 COC meetings, no discussion about the settlement offer occurred. It is essential to mention that after admission of the petition and formation of the Committee of Creditors, Section 12A application for withdrawal C could only be accepted if the CoC approves the proposal with a 90% vote share. It is undisputed that COC, under its commercial wisdom, had full liberty to either accept or reject the settlement offer. But consideration of the settlement offer is essential. At this juncture, this tribunal “Worth recalls and recollects” the D judgement of Hon’ble 3 Member Bench of this Tribunal in Company Appeal (AT) (Ins) No.91 of 2019 dated 6 September 2019 between Shaji Purusothaman v Union Bank of India and others (reported in MANU/NL/0438/2019) whereby and whereunder at paragraph 9 it is observed that; E “if an application u/s 12 A is filed by the Appellant, the Committee of Creditors may decide as to whether the proposal given by the appellant for settlement in terms of Section 12 A is better than the resolution plan as approved by it, and may pass appropriate . However, as such decision is required to be taken by the “Committee of Creditors”, we are not F expressing any opinion on the same.” 144. In this case, CoC never considered the settlement proposal submitted by the Appellant. Although, after getting the settlement proposal, it was incumbent upon the resolution professional to call the COC meeting to consider the settlement proposal. It is essential G to mention that the settlement offer could not have been rejected without consideration by the COC.” 19.7. As regards the question of discrimination between the claims of related party and unrelated party, the Appellate Tribunal, while placing reliance on the decision of this Court in Phoenix ARC (P) Ltd v. Spade H 834 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Financial Services Ltd. and Ors. : (2021) 3 SCC 475 observed that ‘related party’ was specifically treated as a class unto itself and was restricted from any involvement in the CIRP in any capacity (under Section 21 IBC) and disqualified from being a resolution applicant (under Section 29-A IBC), the underlying object being that involvement of a related party in the CIRP is seen as giving unfair benefit to the corporate B debtor and in fact, the related party is treated in the same class as the corporate debtor itself.