The appellant had accepted that and the rejection decision was taken within the parameters set by the High Court in the passed on 20th March 2014. The only reason as to why the respondent’s request for withdrawal H THE GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI & ORS. v. KAMLESH 685 RANI BHATLA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] of resignation was rejected was that a memorandum of charges had A been issued against her. The authorities, in the of rejection, did not take the stand that once accepted, a resignation cannot be withdrawn. At no stage of this case, which underwent two rounds of litigations, the authorities had raised the point which formed the basis of the in the case of Manisha Sharma (supra). The appellants also did not B reason their rejection with the ground that there was no compelling reason for the respondent to tender her resignation. In the second round of proceedings from which this appeal arises, the Tribunal did not find justification for rejection of the respondent’s plea for withdrawal of resignation to be acceptable. We have reproduced earlier in this the reasoning given by the Tribunal in sustaining the respondent’s case. C Before the Tribunal, as also the High Court, the controversy remained confined to issue of memorandum of charges against the respondent. Both the fora opined that the respondent’s case could not be distinguished from the ratio of the case of Nirmal Verma (supra) merely on the strength of issue of memorandum of charges against her. D 13.After the High Court sustained the Tribunal’s verdict which went in favour of the respondent, on 28th November 2019, the Division Bench in the case of Manisha Sharma (supra) was delivered. In this , the Division Bench, on analysing the conditions specified in Rule 26(4) found that having resigned to contest the election, the E respondent therein could not be heard to say that she was under compulsion. It was also held that once the resignation has been accepted and acted upon, then there is no question of permitting a person to withdraw such a resignation. In the facts of the present case, however, that ground was not invoked to reject the respondent’s withdrawal request herein. Moreover, the parameter based on which the authorities were F asked to take decision on the request for withdrawal of resignation was laid down by the High Court itself. The boundary within which the authorities were to examine the incumbent’s plea was not questioned by the authorities before any forum. On the other hand, they accepted the said parameter and rejected the plea thereby confining their consideration G within the boundary demarcated by the High Court. 14.In our opinion, in the context of this case, the ratio of Manisha Sharma (supra) cannot be made applicable. We accept, as a proposition of law, the interpretation given to the Rule 26(4) by the Division Bench in the said . But in the case of the respondent herein, her H 686 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A withdrawal plea was required to be examined within a given parameter and since the employer never challenged the direction laying down the scope within which they were to consider the withdrawal plea of the respondent, the right of the respondent to be considered within that parameter had crystallised.