83. As rightly contended by Shri Huzefa Ahmadi, learned senior counsel, this Court has laid down two tests in Sarwan Singh vs. State of Punjab21, to be satisfied before accepting the evidence of an approver. B The first is that the approver is a reliable witness and the second is that his statement should be corroborated with sufficient evidence. Again, in Ravinder Singh vs. State of Haryana22 this Court pointed out that, “an approver is a most unworthy friend” and that he having bargained for his immunity, must prove his worthiness for credibility in court. The test C to be fulfilled was pithily put in paragraph 12 of the Report by this Court as follows:- “12. … This test is fulfilled, firstly, if the story he relates involves him in the crime and appears intrinsically to be a natural and probable catalogue of events that had taken place. The story if D given of minute details according with reality is likely to save it from being rejected brevi manu. Secondly, once that hurdle is crossed, the story given by an approver so far as the accused on trial is concerned, must implicate him in such a manner as to give rise to a conclusion of guilt beyond reasonable doubt. In a rare case taking into consideration all the factors, circumstances and E situations governing a particular case, conviction based on the uncorroborated evidence of an approver confidently held to be true and reliable by the Court may be permissible. Ordinarily, however, an approver’s statement has to be corroborated in material particulars bridging closely the distance between the crime F and the criminal. Certain clinching features of involvement disclosed by an approver appertaining directly to an accused, if reliable, by the touchstone of other independent credible evidence, would give the needed assurance for acceptance of his testimony on which a conviction may be based.” 84. Section 133 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 declares an G accomplice to be a competent witness and that a conviction is not illegal merely because it proceeds upon the uncorroborated testimony of an 21 1957 SCR 953 22 (1975) 3 SCC 742 H 60 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A accomplice. However, while considering the import of Section 133. this Court held in M.O. Shamsudhin vs. State of Kerala23 that the court is bound to take note of a precautionary provision contained in Illustration (b) to Section 114 of the Evidence Act, which provides that an accomplice is unworthy of credit unless he is corroborated in material particulars. B 85. Keeping the above principles in mind, if we turn our attention to the evidence of PW-16, it will be seen that he was trying to shift the burden on A-1, to save his own skin. The following admissions made by him during the cross-examination showed that he was unworthy of credit:- (i) There was no approved list of contractors maintained at C BHEL, Trichy, till 1994; (ii) It is not correct to say that open tender system was not at all resorted to by Civil Engineering Department in BHEL, Trichy till 1994.