We find the expression ‘validation’ used in the decision of this Court in Hariom Agrawal v. Prakash Chand Malviya30which we shall refer to in greater F detail later. This necessarily means that the court would not view it as enforceable, and therefore, existing in law. In the sense explained, it would not be found as ‘not void’ and therefore ‘not invalid’. Thus, in the context of the Act, the Stamp Act and the Contract Act, we are of the view that the opinion of this Court in SMS Tea Estates (supra), in this G regard as reiterated in Garware (supra) and approved in Vidya Drolia (supra) is correct. 75. Section 11(6A) cannot be understood as merely predicating for an Arbitration Agreement existing literally. This means that the mere 30 (2007) 8 SCC 514 H 354 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A existence of the arbitration agreement for all intents and purposes on the exterior purporting to project a contract duly executed, may in certain situations, be insufficient under Section 11. If for reasons such as it being unstamped when it is clearly required to be stamped, then it cannot be said to be a case where the agreement exists for it would be no existence in law. While we agree, the Court must be careful in selecting B contracts where an arbitration agreement which is produced is not to be acted upon for the reason that it does not exist in law, all we hold is that an Arbitration Agreement, which is unstamped, does not exist and an unstamped contract, containing an Arbitration Agreement, would not exist as it has no existence in law. C L. SECTION 7 OF THE ACT – ITS IMPACT 76. Our learned Brother, Justice Hrishikesh Roy, is right in noticing that Section 7 of the Act provides for what an Arbitration Agreement means for the purpose of Part I. However, with great respect, we express our inability to agree that a plain reading of Section 7 of the Act, would D make it clear that an Arbitration Agreement can be even non-contractual. For the purpose of clarity, we may reproduce Section 7(1) of the Act at this juncture: “7(1) Arbitration agreement. (1) In this Part, “arbitration agreement” means an agreement by the parties to submit to E arbitration all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not.” (Emphasis supplied) 77. We are inclined to hold that what Section 7(1) contemplates is F an Arbitration Agreement. We are also inclined to think that what the Law-Giver has intended to convey is that under the Arbitration Agreement, the parties must submit disputes, which have arisen or which may arise between them. The disputes may have arisen or may arise in respect of a defined legal relationship. The defined legal relationship, in G turn, can be either contractual or otherwise. Therefore, what can give rise to disputes can be a legal relationship, which is non-contractual.