Because we are in a majority we can have anything passed only theoretically. So the need for confirmation will invariably ensure a proper choice.” G (Emphasis Supplied) 20. On 16th June 1949, we notice that Shri H.V. Pataskar stated as follows: “As I said, so far as I can see, article 289(2) is quite enough for the purpose. Even under article 289(2) we can appoint not merely H 46 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A some officials of the Government as Election Commissioners, but people of the position of High Court Judges; we can make them permanent; we can make them as Independent as we are trying to make them in the case of the Central Commission.” (Emphasis Supplied) B 21. Pandit Hirday Nath Kunzru addressed the following concerns and suggested as follows: “Here two things are noticeable: the first is that it is only the Chief Election Commissioner that can feel that he can discharge his duties without the slightest fear of incurring the displeasure of the C executive, and the second is that the removal of the other Election Commissioners will depend on the recommendations of one man only, namely the Chief Election Commissioner. However responsible he may be, it seems to me very undesirable that the removal of his colleagues who will occupy positions as responsible D as those of judges of the Supreme Court should depend on the opinion of one man. We are anxious, Sir, that the preparation of the electoral rolls and the conduct of elections should be entrusted to people who are free from political bias and whose impartially can be relied upon in all circumstances. But, by leaving a great deal of power in the hands of the President we have given room E for the exercise of political influence in the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the other Election Commissioners and officers by the Central Government. The Chief Election Commissioners will have to be appointed on the advice of the Prime Minister, and, if the Prime Minister suggests the F appointment of a party-man the President will have no option but to accept the Prime Minister’s nominee, however unsuitable he may be on public grounds. (Interruption). Somebody asked me suitable why it should be so.” xxx xxx xxx G “My remedy for the defects that I have pointed out is that Parliament should be authorised to make provision for these matters by law. Again, Sir, this article does not lay down the qualifications of persons who are chosen as Chief Election Commissioners or as Election Commissioners. And, as I have already pointed out, in H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 47 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] the matter of removal, the Election Commissioners are not on the A same footing as the Chief Election Commissioner.” (Emphasis Supplied) 22. Shri K.M. Munshi expressed the following views: “Between two elections, normally there would be a period of five B years. We cannot have an Election Commission sitting all the time during those five years doing nothing.