v. SUBHASIS MITRA 307 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] decision taken by the Government in preparation of the A seniority list in the light of the law laid down by three Benches, the learned Judge cannot come to a conclusion whether or not the respondent had wilfully or deliberately disobeyed the s of the Court as defined under Section 2(b) of the Act. Therefore, the learned Single Judge of the High Court B necessarily has to go into the merits of that question. We do not find that the contention is well founded. It is seen that, admittedly, the respondents had prepared the seniority list on 2-7-1991. Subsequently promotions came to be made. The question is whether seniority list is open to review in the C contempt proceedings to find out whether it is in conformity with the directions issued by the earlier Benches. It is seen that once there is an passed by the Government on the basis of the directions issued by the court, there arises a fresh cause of action to seek redressal in an appropriate forum. The preparation of the seniority list may be wrong or may be D right or may or may not be in conformity with the directions. But that would be a fresh cause of action for the aggrieved party to avail of the opportunity of judicial review. But that cannot be considered to be the wilful violation of the . After re-exercising the judicial review in contempt E proceedings, a fresh direction by the learned Single Judge cannot be given to redraw the seniority list. In other words, the learned Judge was exercising the jurisdiction to consider the matter on merits in the contempt proceedings. It would not be permissible under Section 12 of the Act. Therefore, the F Division Bench has exercised the power under Section 18 of the Rajasthan High Court Ordinance being a or of the Single Judge; the Division Bench corrected the mistake committed by the learned Single Judge. Therefore, it may not be necessary for the State to file an appeal in this Court against the of the learned Single Judge when G the matter was already seized of the Division Bench.” 12. In a later decision, Midnapore Peoples’ Coop. Bank Ltd. v. Chunilal Nanda4this court explained the limitations of a court exercising contempt jurisdiction: H 4 (2006) 5 SCC 399 308 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A “11. The position emerging from these decisions, in regard to appeals against s in contempt proceedings may be summarised thus: I. An appeal under Section 19 is maintainable only against an or decision of the High Court passed in exercise of B its jurisdiction to punish for contempt, that is, an imposing punishment for contempt. II. Neither an declining to initiate proceedings for contempt, nor an initiating proceedings for contempt nor an dropping the proceedings for contempt nor an C acquitting or exonerating the contemnor, is appealable under Section 19 of the CC Act. In special circumstances, they may be open to challenge under Article 136 of the Constitution.