If the Court adjudges that no further sum is due, or if the cultivat- B ing tenant deposits within the time allowed such further sum as is ed by the Court, the cultivating tenant shall be deemed to have paid the rent within the period specified in the last foregoing sub-section. If, having to deposit a further sum, the cultivating tenant fails to do so within the time allowed by the Court, the landlord may evict the cultivating tenant as provided in sub-sec- C tion (4). (c) The expression “Court” in this sub-section means the Court which passed the decree or for eviction, or where there is no such decree or , the Revenue Divisional Officer. D Explanation I. - In relation to the Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli district, the expression ‘commencement of this Act’ wherever it occurs in clause (a) of this sub-section shall be con- strued as referring to the date on which the Tamil Nadu Cultivat- ing Tenants Protection and Payment of Fair Rent (Amendment) E Act, 1961, is first published in the Fort St. George Gazette. Explanation II. - In relation to the added territories, the ex- pression ‘rent accrued due subsequent to the 31st March 1954’ occurring in sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of this sub-section shall be construed as referring to rent accrued due during a period of one F month before the date on which the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Ten- ants Protection and Payment of Fair Rent (Extension to Added Territories) Act, 1963 is first published in the Fort St. George Ga- zette. Explanation III. - In relation to the Kanyakumari district, G the expression rent accrued due subject to the 31st March 1954' occurring in sub-clause . (i) of clause (a) of this of this sub-section shall be construed as referring to rent accrued due during a period of one month before the date on which the [Tamil Nadu] Cultivat- ing Tenants, Protection and Payment of Fair Rent (Extension to H 842 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Kanyakumari district) Act, 1972, is first published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette. (4) (a) Every landlord seeking to evict a cultivating tenant falling under subsection (2) shall, whether or not there is an or decree of a Court for the eviction of such cultivating tenant, make B an application to the Revenue Divisional Officer and such appli- cation shall bear a Court-fee stamp of one rupee. (b) On receipt of such application, the Revenue Divisional Officer shall, alter giving a reasonable opportunity to the landlord and the cultivating tenant to make their representations, hold a C summary enquiry into the matter and pass an either allowing the application or dismissing it and in a case falling under clause (a) or clause (aa) of sub-section (2) in which the tenant had not availed oi the provisions contained in sub-section (3), the Revenue Divisional Officer may allow the cultivating tenant such time as he considers just and reasonable having regard to the relative cir- D cumstances of the landlord and the cultivating tenant for deposit- ing the arrears of rent payable under this Act inclusive of such costs as he may direct.