viii. The authority also reserved the right to revoke the licence in the interest of public by giving 60 days’ notice. ix. Under 1999 policy, the licencee had to forego the right of operating in the regime of limited number of operators and agreed to multiparty regime competition where additional licences could be issued without limit. x. There was lock in period on the present shareholding for a period of 5 years from the date of licence agreement i.e. the eff ective date and even transfer of shareholding directly or indirectly through subsidiary or holding company, was not permitted during this period. This had the eff ect of ‘modifying’ or clarifying the 1994 agreement, which was silent. xi. Licence fee calculated as a percentage of gross revenue was payable w.e.f. 1 August, 1999. This was provisionally fi xed at 15% of the gross revenue of the licensee but was subject to fi nal decision of the Government about the quantum of revenue share to be charged as licence fee after obtaining recommendation of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI). xii. At least 35% of the outstanding dues including interest payable as on 31 July, 1999 and liquidated damages in full, had to be paid on or before 15 August, 1999. Dates for payments of arrears were specifi ed. xiii. Past dues upto 31 July, 1999 along with liquidated damages had to be paid as stipulated in the 1999 policy, on or before 31 January, 2000 or earlier date as stated. 384 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. xiv. The period of licences under 1999 policy was extended to 20 years starting from the eff ective date. xv. Failure to pay the licence fee on yearly basis would result in cancellation of licences. Therefore, to this extent licence fee was/ is payable for operating and continuing operations as cellular telephone operator.” v. On a consideration of the aforesaid aspects, the Delhi High Court held that the payment of licence fee was capital in part and revenue in part and that it would not be correct to hold that the whole fee was capital or revenue in nature in its entirety. It was further observed that the licencees/assessees in question required a licence in to start or commence business as cellular telephone operators; that payment of a licence fee was a precondition for the assessees to commence or set up the business. That it was a privilege granted to the assessee subject to payment and compliance with the terms and conditions. For immediate reference, paragraph Nos.31 to 36 of the said are extracted as under: “31. Licence fee under the 1994 agreement ensured that there would be only two private operators in a circle and thus their limited monopoly would be protected and competition by way of third-party private players was warded off . Restricted monopoly of the licencees was ensured. The licence fee fi xed included an element towards the said right of the licencees. 1994 agreement, for fi rst three years postulated a lump-sum payment irrespective of number of subscribers.