The Division Bench has also not appreciated the fact and/or considered the fact that the respondents were initially appointed for a period of eleven months and on a fixed salary and that too, in a temporary unit — “Project Implementation Unit”, which was F created only for the purpose of rehabilitation pursuant to the earthquake for “Post-Earthquake Redevelopment Programme”. Therefore, the unit in which the respondents were appointed was itself a temporary unit and not a regular establishment. The posts on which the respondents were appointed and working were not the sanctioned posts in any regular establishment of the G Government. 11. Therefore, when the respondents were appointed on a fixed term and on a fixed salary in a temporary unit which was created for a particular project, no such direction could have been issued by the Division Bench of the High Court to absorb them in H THE GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU v. TAMIL NADU 411 MAKKAL NALA PANIYALARGAL [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] Government service and to regularise their services. The High A Court has observed that even while absorbing and/or regularising the services of the respondents, the State Government may create supernumerary posts. Such a direction to create supernumerary posts is unsustainable. Such a direction is wholly without jurisdiction. No such direction can be issued by the High Court for absorption/ B regularisation of the employees who were appointed in a temporary unit which was created for a particular project and that too, by creating supernumerary posts.” 59. The justification has been tendered that such persons who have not been re-engaged by the State Government under its present C policy dated 7th June, 2022 are entitled for their honorarium for the period from 1st December, 2011 to 31st May, 2012, we make it clear that such of the employees who have not joined pursuant to the scheme introduced by Government dated 7th June, 2022, they are always at liberty to accept their honorarium for the period of 6 months but as the Government has D already offered them honorarium earlier, they are not entitled to any interest on the said principal amount. We are informed that the total amount as per the honorarium of MNP fixed at that time comes to Rs.25,851/-(1st December, 2011 to 31st May, 2012). If an application is filed, the State Government may at least remit the money into the bank account of the individual. E 60. We make it clear that such persons who have joined pursuant to the scheme introduced by the Government dated 7th June, 2022 in fulfilment of the object of the Act, 2005 shall remain co-terminus with the scheme and be allowed to continue as long as the scheme remain in F force. At the same time, such persons who have not joined pursuant to the scheme dated 7th June, 2022, they are at liberty to accept their payments for the intervening period of 6 months from 1st December, 2011 to 31st May, 2012 of the principal amount of Rs.25,851/- to the MNP.