The relevant observations of this Court have been F extracted as under: “10. Now, so far as the finding recorded by the High Court and the observations made by the High court on Section 20 of the Act and the observation that even if the agreement is found to be duly executed and the plaintiff is found to be ready and willing to perform his part of the Agreement, grant of decree of specific G performance is not automatic and it is a discretionary relief is concerned, the same cannot be accepted and/or approved. In such a case, many a times it would be giving a premium to the dishonest conduct on the part of the defendant/executant of the agreement to sell. Even the discretion under Section 20 of the Act is required H 270 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A to be exercised judiciously, soundly and reasonably. The plaintiff cannot be punished by refusing the relief of specific performance despite the fact that the execution of the agreement to sell in his favour has been established and proved and that he is found to be always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract. Not to grant the decree of specific performance despite the execution B of the agreement to sell is proved; part sale consideration is proved and the plaintiff is always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract would encourage the dishonesty. In such a situation, the balance should tilt in favour of the plaintiff rather than in favour of the defendant – executant of the agreement to sell, while C exercising the discretion judiciously. For the aforesaid, even amendment to the Specific Relief Act, 1963 by which section 10(a) has been inserted, though may not be applicable retrospectively but can be a guide on the discretionary relief. Now the legislature has also thought it to insert D Section 10(a) and now the specific performance is no longer a discretionary relief. As such the question whether the said provision would be applicable retrospectively or not and/or should be made applicable to all pending proceedings including appeals is kept open. However, at the same time, as observed hereinabove, the same can be a guide.” E (emphasis by me) 17. In B. Santoshamma vs. D. Sarala and Anr., (2020) 19 SCC 80 this Court, while examining the amendment made to Section 10 of the Act observed that after the amendment to Section 10, the words “specific performance of any contract may, in the discretion of the F Court, be enforced” have been substituted with the words “specific performance of a contract shall be enforced subject to the provisions contained in sub-section (2) of Section 11, Section 14 and Section 16”. It was concluded that although the relief of specific performance of a contract is no longer discretionary, after the amendment, the same G would still be subject to Section 11, Section 14 and Section 16 of the Act. 18. Applying the law discussed above to the facts of the present dispute, I am of the view that even in the absence of discretionary power under Section 20 to deny the relief of specific performance, the plaintiff was not entitled to claim such relief as a matter of right.