Let us assume a case where a contract, which contains an Arbitration Clause, is registered. As we have noticed, if the contract, in which the Arbitration Clause is contained, is exigible to stamp duty, G then, registration cannot be done without the instrument being duly stamped. It is keeping the same in mind that in SMS Tea Estates (supra), this Court held that, ‘if what is produced is a certified copy of the agreement/contract/instrument, containing the Arbitration Clause, it should disclose that the stamp duty has been paid on the original’. This again is for the reason that a certified copy is a true copy of the document. The H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 367 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Officer, who certifies the document, must be the person having the A custody of the public document. The public document in the case of public records of private documents, in the case of a registered document, would necessarily involve the document being stamped before registration. The Scheme framed by the Chief Justice, permits the production of a duly certified copy to relieve the party of the burden of B producing the original but what is contemplated is only the production of the certified copy, which duly discloses the fact of payment of stamp duty. It is worthwhile to also notice paragraph-5 of the Scheme. It reads: “5. Seeking further information. -The Chief Justice or the person or the institution designated by him under paragraph 3 may seek C further information or clarification from the party making the request under this Scheme.” 102. Therefore, it is not as if the Judge dealing with an Application under Section 11 of the Act, is bereft of authority to seek information or clarification so as to be satisfied that the certified copy satisfies the D requirement as laid down in SMS Tea Estates (supra) that stamp duty payable has been paid. 103. We have already indicated the scheme of the Evidence Act in so far as it relates to the admission of secondary evidence. We have also found that the Scheme contemplates, without anything more, the E production of a form of secondary evidence, viz., a certified copy of the Arbitration Agreement. Even if an Arbitration Agreement between the two parties becomes a public document under Section 74(c) of the Evidence Act on the basis that it is a public record, other than as being a registered document and on the basis that, it was produced before any public office and it became a public record of a private document,in F keeping with the mandate of Section 33 of the Stamp Act and other connected provisions, such a document again would have been impounded, unless it was originally stamped as per law. In other words, if a certified copy is produced, along with a request under Section 11 of the Act, to be treated as a document, on which the Application under Section 11 could G be maintained, it must necessarily comply with the requirement that it declares the stamp, which has been paid in regard to the original.