In my opinion, on the facts and circumstances of the instant case, the above said decisions are of no help to the petitioner. C In the aforesaid decisions, the well settled principle is restated that Section 173(8) of Cr.P.C enables an officer in charge of a Police Station/CBI to carry on further investigation even after a report under Section 173(2) of Cr.P.C is submitted to the court. The power to further investigation, after filing of D final report in court and even after the Magistrate has taken cognizance, is available to the Police in view of the Section 173(8) of Cr.P.C. Further investigation, therefore, is the continuation of the earlier investigation and not a fresh investigation or reinvestigation to be started ab initio wiping out the earlier investigation altogether. This is well settled in E the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court reported in 2013- 5-SCC-762 (Tyagi Vs. Irshad Ali). The only rider is provided is that it would be desirable that the Police should inform the Court and seek formal permission to make further investigation as observed in Bhagwan Samardha Sreepada F Vallabha Venkata Vishwadaha Maharaj Vs. State of AP (AIR- 1999-SC-2332). 6. Although sub section (8) of Section 173 of Cr.P.C does not, in specific terms, mention about the powers of the court to further investigation, the power of the police to conduct G further investigation envisaged therein can be triggered into motion at the instance of the court. Therefore, acceptance of final report by Magistrate does not debar him from taking cognizance of the offence if no further investigation fresh materials come to light. In such a situation, the power of the court to direct the police to conduct further investigation H STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 173 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] cannot have any inhibition. There is nothing in Section 173(8) A of Cr.P.C to suggest that the court is obliged to hear the accused before any such direction is made. 7. In the instant case, in the counter filed by the Respondent/ CBI, it is specifically stated that in the year 2013, CBI received certain information/materials warranting reopening of the B investigation. Accordingly, the Inspector of Police, CBI/ ACB has filed a petition in Crl. M.P.No.3833/2013 in respect of the same First Information Report, stating that the prosecution is in possession of new evidence to substantiate the allegation of possession of disproportionate assets to the known sources C of income against the accused persons. The said petition has been allowed by the learned Principal Special Judge for CBI Cases, permitting further investigation. 8. In so far as the power of the Magistrate to direct further investigation is concerned, I may point out her that the power D of the Magistrate under Section 156(3) of the code to direct further investigation is clearly an independent power and does not stand in conflict with the power of the Police Officer. The power conferred upon the Magistrate under Section 156(3) of the code can be exercised by the Magistrate even after submission of a report by the Investigating Officer, which E would mean that it would be open to the Magistrate not to accept the conclusion of the Investigating Officer and direct further investigation.