It was kept open- ended to extend benefit to the importers, who followed those two conditions, even in respect of the AAs issued to them earlier. A cut-off date would have made exporters ineligible for the benefit. Therefore, F policy makers, in their own wisdom, kept the door open for the eligible importers, to enjoy the benefit, irrespective of the date / period of issuance of AA, subject to compliance with the conditions imposed. 10. The Revenue further stated that paragraph 4.13 of the FTP had been in existence under different paragraphs in different policy periods G for years. Since 2003, all drug companies had been importing their raw materials sourced from unregistered sources, under the ‘pre-import 10 Which provides shared IT infrastructure and service to both central and state governments including taxpayers and other stakeholders. The registration front end services, returns, and payments to all taxpayers were provided by GSTN. H 198 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A condition’. Silk in any form, raw sugars, natural rubbers, tea, spices and precious metals etc., were allowed to be imported under ‘pre-import condition’ only. The ‘pre-import condition’ was in-built within the AA scheme itself under paragraph 4.03 of the policy. 11. Additionally, the AA scheme was not a replenishment scheme. Were it so, the DGFT would not have launched other schemes like ‘Duty- B Free Incentive Scheme’, which allowed exports prior to import, and transferable licences under the FTP. To prevent cash blockage of exporters due to upfront payment of IGST and compensation cess on imports of inputs, the exemption from their payment was granted, subject to ‘pre-import condition’. In case of replenishment imports after exports, C the issue of cash blockage did not arise. Since exports had already taken place and GST legislation provided for complete zero-rating, extending IGST exemption on replenishment imports would imply double benefit to the authorisation holder. Therefore, the AA holders were not adversely affected and not prejudiced by the impugned notifications. The IGST paid on replenishment material could be availed as input tax credit for D payment of GST. III. Findings of the High Court 12. The High Court, after considering the notifications and taking into account the exporters’ submissions, held that paragraph 4.27 of the FTP envisaged exports in anticipation of authorisation, in terms of the E cycle of import-manufacture-export carried out, including delivery time of 3-4 months allowed normally by overseas buyers, within minimum six months’ time for completion of the cycle. The court considered this to be an unfeasible condition: “Considering the above interpretation of the condition of F physical export and pre-import put forth by the DRI, it is more or less impossible to make any exports under an Advance Authorisation without violating the condition of pre-import. In effect and substance, what is given by one hand is taken away by the other. In other words, in the light of the condition G of pre-import, the benefit of exemption from levy of integrated tax and GST compensation cess becomes more or less illusory.”11 13.