175. Since the State of Telangana has come up with appeals, the H appellants (decree holders) as well as the claim petitioners have taken M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 359 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] advantage of the same to launch an attack on the State on the ground A that the State has lost its claim at least in three earlier rounds and that therefore they cannot be given one more life. It was pointed out that the State moved an application way back in 1982 for amendment of the preliminary decree and for the deletion of Item Nos. 35-38 and 40 of Plaint Schedule IV, but the same was dismissed by the High Court by an B dated 18.12.1982. The appeal filed by the State in OSANo.1 of 1985 was dismissed on 24.12.1999. The special leave petition filed against the same was withdrawn on 05.05.2000 with liberty to file a regular appeal against the preliminary decree. But the appeal so filed in the year 2000 against the preliminary decree was dismissed on the ground of C delay of 38 years. The said was confirmed by this Court. Therefore, it is contended that the fate of the claim of the State should be sealed at least now. 176. But we must remember that what is sauce for the goose must be a sauce for the gander. If in a suit for partition, the title to a D property cannot be decided in favour of the parties claiming partition qua strangers, the same logic would apply even to the claim petitioners qua the State Government. As rightly contended by Shri C.S. Vaidyanathan, learned senior counsel for the State, lot of issues remain unresolved in this regard. There was no occasion for the Court so far, to consider the effect of the 1955 Act. Assuming that the claim petitioners E had title to a portion of the land in Survey No.172 of Hydernagar (roughly working out to about 11 acres out of a total of acres 196.20), the question as to who holds title to the remaining part of the land will still remain at large, if the assignees of the decree go out. If the appellants have no title to the rest of the lands on account of the Jagir Abolition Regulations and F if the claim petitioners have title only to one portion of the land on account of the pattas granted prior to 1948, there must be somebody who owns the remaining extent of land. Assuming that somebody else owns the land, the effect of agricultural land reforms and urban land ceiling enactments were still there to be considered. G 177. But as we have stated earlier, we are not deciding the title to land in these proceedings. Therefore, all that we would hold in answer to Issue No. (vi) is that the finding recorded in paragraph 244 and the conclusion reached in paragraph 414(d) of the impugned , is not binding on the State Government.