He would also argue that the application under Section 12-A styled as ‘withdrawal’ also calls into play the principle that the creditors are dominus litis in an insolvency proceeding and they have the right to withdraw a proceeding subject to approval by the C Adjudicating Authority. 31.7. Learned counsel for promoter would also contend that the resolution applicant has no vested right to have his plan accepted and implemented under the provisions of the Code. In response to the argument of the resolution applicant that resolution applicant had deposited D Rs. 150 crore which has not been returned, learned counsel for the promoter has submitted that during the eleventh CoC meeting, on the question of the promoter, the resolution professional replied that the process was between him and the resolution applicant and some procedural issues were to be addressed whereafter, the deposited money would be returned. E 32. Learned senior counsel Mr. K.V. Vishwanathan, also appearing for the promoter, has re-emphasised that the revised plan was never put to vote and that there was duty of valuers to physically valuate the assets which they did not carry out. This apart, it has also been argued that the shareholders would not have the requisite locus to intervene in the CIRP F process, by placing reliance on the decision of this Court in Jaypee Kensington (supra). 33. Mr. Dhruv Mehta, learned senior counsel appearing for the other promoter and erstwhile director Dr. V. Janakiraman has made largely the similar submissions, relying on the minutes of the ninth CoC G meeting that there was a violation of Section 30(4) and 30(6) of IBC. Learned senior counsel has further referred to the in Essar Steel (supra) to emphasise on the point that the revised resolution plan was never placed before the CoC and hence, the entire process stands vitiated. H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 855 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 34. Learned counsel for Dharani Finance, Ms. Haripriya A Padmanabhan has primarily argued against the treatment of related parties as a separate class for payment of dues under the resolution plan. It has been submitted that Dharani Finance is a non-banking financial institution, listed in Bombay Stock Exchange. In this case, it is a financial creditor and an operational creditor of the corporate debtor and even B though its claims of Rs. 1,94,14,024 and Rs. 4,81,62,175, of operational debt and financial debt respectively, were duly admitted, it was not paid anything under the resolution plan for being a related party. While placing reliance on the in Phoenix ARC (supra), it has been argued that this Court has laid down the reasons for treating related parties as a separate class, and held that related parties should be excluded from the C CoC so that they do not interfere with the resolution process. The rationale behind this has been achieved by not allowing related parties to present the resolution plans or to become a part of the CoC. However, there is no reason for them to be treated as a separate class when it comes to payment of dues under the approved resolution plan.