A under Section 33(2), the concerned authority shall impound the said instrument. 38. Section 34 of the Act, 1899 provides a discretion to the concerned officer that if any receipt chargeable with a duty not exceeding “ten naye paise” is tendered to or produced before them unstamped in B the course of the audit of any public account, such officer may in their discretion, “instead of impounding the instrument, require a duly stamped receipt to be substituted therefore.” 39. A plain reading of Section 35 of the Act, 1899 suggests that an inadmissible instrument because of being unstamped or insufficiently C stamped may be made admissible if the relevant stamp duty and a penalty is paid later. This shows that the requirement under Section 35 is not rigid, and can be rectified even at a later stage. An unstamped or insufficiently stamped instrument is not completely invalid, and it can be made valid and admissible in evidence after fulfilling the conditions prescribed in the proviso to Section 35. D 40. Section 37 of the Act, 1899 deals with admission of improperly stamped instruments. It provides that the State Government may make rules providing that, where an instrument bears a stamp of sufficient amount but of improper description, it may, on payment of the duty with which the same is chargeable, be certified to be duly stamped, and any E instrument so certified shall then be deemed to have been duly stamped as from the date of its execution. 41. Section 38 of the Act, 1899 provides for the procedure for how the instruments impounded are to be dealt with. Sub-Section (1) of Section 38 provides that when the person impounding an instrument under F Section 33 admits such instrument in evidence upon payment of a penalty as provided by Section 35 or of duty as provided by Section 37, he shall send to the Collector an authenticated copy of such instrument, together with a certificate in writing, stating the amount of duty and penalty levied in respect thereof, and shall send such amount to the Collector, or to such person as he may appoint in this behalf. G 42. Sections 39 and 40 of the Act, 1899 provide a procedure of exercising discretion by the Collector to either refund, certify the instrument as duly stamped, or collect the stamp duty. 43. A plain reading of Sections 33, 35 and 2(14) of the Act, 1899 H clearly demonstrates that the instrument which is not duly stamped M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 401 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] can be impounded and when the required fee and penalty has been A paid, the said instrument can be taken as an evidence under Section 35 of the Act, 1899. But, at the same time, Sections 33 and 35 are not concerned with any copy of the instrument and party can be allowed to rely on the document which is an instrument within the meaning of Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899.