Since the Original Application is pending before the Tribunal, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, we dispose of this Writ Petition with an observation that since the Doctors who are similarly after continuing the age of 65 years after attaining the age of 60 years, let the Petitioner continue in the service and let the notice of superannuation under Annexure-3 shall remain stayed till disposal of the Original Application. Mr. Bose, learned Assistant Solicitor General submitted that the central government will fi le their counter within a period of two weeks from today before the Tribunal, in such event the Tribunal may dispose of the Original Application at the earliest, preferably by end of June, 2018. Accordingly, we request the Tribunal may dispose of the Original Application at the earliest/as per its schedule. However, the petitioner shall not claim any equity. Sd.- S. Panda, J. Sd.-K.R. Mohapatra” 12. Thus, from the aforesaid, it appears that the High Court protected the respondent No. 1 till the disposal of the original application by the CAT. By virtue of the aforesaid , the respondent No. 1 continued in service beyond 30.04.2018. 13. CAT ultimately adjudicated the original application fi led by the respondent No. 1 herein and vide its dated 02.11.2020 rejected the same holding that the respondent no. 1 is not entitled to seek parity with AYUSH doctors in regard to the age of superannuation. 14. The sum and substance of the fi ndings recorded by the CAT may be summarised as under: (i) The Fundamental Rules notifi ed under Article 309 of the Constitution of India are applicable to the employees working directly under the Government of India. Its applicability to the employees of the Council is on account of Clauses 34 and 35 respectively of the Bye-Laws. This CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 745 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] issue was considered by the Hyderabad Bench of the CAT vide dated 04.09.2020, wherein it was observed that- “Clause 34 of the bye-law makes it crystal clear that the Governing Body has to take a decision in regard to the enhancement of the retirement age. The Governing body has no necessity to take a decision in the context of the Ministry of AYUSH, Govt. of India having made it clear that enhancement of retirement age is not applicable to an autonomous body like CCRAS. Therefore, the G.O.I. rule of not extending the enhancement of retirement age to CCRAS compliments the clauses 35 & 47 of the byelaws. We do not fi nd any error in the decision taken by the respondents in terms of the bye laws.” (Emphasis supplied) (ii) CAT did not accept the respondent No. 1’s argument of Clause 35 and application of the Fundamental Rules mutatis mutandis to the employees of the Council saying that the clause relates to the general applicability of FRs, Supplementary Rule (SRs) and General Financial Rules (GFRs) to the Council employees; the same is subject to the provision specifi c to Clause 34 governing superannuation of the employees of the Council.