In the instant case the trial Court, in its held thus: - “However, the off ence under Section 364/34 is not made out against the accused as the prosecution has not led any evidence qua this off ence. Hence, the accused are acquitted for the off ence under Section 364/34, IPC.” (Emphasis added) 18. It is a fact discernible from the of the trial Court as also that of the High Court whereunder the trial Court’s was confi rmed that no consideration was spared about this aspect. It is evident from the aforementioned recital from the trial Court’s in this case though a specifi c charge was framed under Section 364 read with Section 34, IPC the prosecution had not chosen to adduce evidence and virtually abandoned such a case. Relying on the evidence of PWs 7 to 10 a totally diff erent case was developed and attempted to be proved by relying on evidence of last seen, recovery of weapon viz., chunni, motive and extra judicial confession. As a result, a case carrying accusation of a pre-arranged plan based on common intention to kidnap/abduct for committing murder was turned into a case of commission of murder based on motive occurred at the spur of the moment upon the alleged sight of the appellants’ sister with deceased Devinder in a compromising position. In short, the prosecution had not cared to establish the charge framed against the appellants under Section 364/34, IPC and despite that it went on to put forth another case, as above. 19. Despite the aforesaid very infi rmity, the courts have not taken due care and caution to analyse and appreciate the evidence of the prosecution. KRISHAN KUMAR AND ANR. v. THE STATE OF 873 HARYANA [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] The raison d’etre for our remark would come to the fore on a bare perusal of the appreciation of evidence undertaken in the instant case. We have already found that evenafter fi nding that none had seen the deceased lastly in the company of the accused the trial Court held that the materials discussed viz., the evidence of PW-7, PW-8 and PW-10 would be suffi cient to show the presence of the deceased with the accused just prior to his murder. 20. Before appreciating the oral testimonies of PW-10, PW-8 and PW-7 and the manner of their appreciation by the courts below we think it apposite to consider the question whether the ‘last seen theory’, in its application, could brook presumption as to the presence of the deceased along with the accused just prior to the occurrence, as drawn by the trial Court, in the absence of positive ocular evidence of prosecution witnesses of having seen the deceased in the company of the accused together and alive at a time proximate to the occurrence. 21. We have absolutely no hesitation to answer it in the negative as otherwise the application of the theory of ‘last seen’ in the absence of any other positive evidence to conclude that the accused and the deceased were last seen together would be hazardous, as held in Satish’ case (supra).