448 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 38.3. The employer shall take into consideration the government s/instructions/rules, applicable to the employee, at the time of taking the decision. 38.4. In case there is suppression or false information of involvement in a criminal case where conviction or acquittal had already been recorded before fi lling of the application/verifi cation form and such fact later comes to knowledge of employer, any of the following recourses appropriate to the case may be adopted: 38.4.1. In a case trivial in nature in which conviction had been recorded, such as shouting slogans at young age or for a petty off ence which if disclosed would not have rendered an incumbent unfi t for post in question, the employer may, in its discretion, ignore such suppression of fact or false information by condoning the lapse. 38.4.2. Where conviction has been recorded in case which is not trivial in nature, employer may cancel candidature or terminate services of the employee. 38.4.3. If acquittal had already been recorded in a case involving moral turpitude or off ence of heinous/serious nature, on technical ground and it is not a case of clean acquittal, or benefi t of reasonable doubt has been given, the employer may consider all relevant facts available as to antecedents, and may take appropriate decision as to the continuance of the employee. 38.5. In a case where the employee has made declaration truthfully of a concluded criminal case, the employer still has the right to consider antecedents, and cannot be compelled to appoint the candidate. 38.6. In case when fact has been truthfully declared in character verifi cation form regarding pendency of a criminal case of trivial nature, employer, in facts and circumstances of the case, in its discretion, may appoint the candidate subject to decision of such case. 38.7. In a case of deliberate suppression of fact with respect to multiple pending cases such false information by itself will assume signifi cance THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND OTHERS v. 449 BHUPENDRA YADAV [HIMA KOHLI, J.] and an employer may pass appropriate cancelling candidature or terminating services as appointment of a person against whom multiple criminal cases were pending may not be proper. 38.8. If criminal case was pending but not known to the candidate at the time of fi lling the form, still it may have adverse impact and the appointing authority would take decision after considering the seriousness of the crime. 38.9. In case the employee is confi rmed in service, holding departmental enquiry would be necessary before passing of termination/ removal or dismissal on the ground of suppression or submitting false information in verifi cation form. 38.10. For determining suppression or false information attestation/ verifi cation form has to be specifi c, not vague. Only such information which was required to be specifi cally mentioned has to be disclosed. If information not asked for but is relevant comes to knowledge of the employer the same can be considered in an objective manner while addressing the question of fi tness.