Section 28 of the Contract Act states that agreements that restrict a party to a contract absolutely from enforcing their rights under or in respect of any contract by way of usual legal proceedings are void. However, the provision expressly saves contracts by which two or more persons agree to refer to arbitration any dispute which may arise between them in respect of any subject or class of subjects. By choosing to settle their disputes through arbitration, parties surrender their right to litigate before the national courts in favour of the arbitral tribunal. By surrendering their right to litigate in national courts, parties also surrender their right to be bound by national procedural laws in favour of expedition, informality, and effi ciency of the arbitral process. The arbitral tribunal is not subject to the procedural laws of a country. For instance, Section 19 of the Arbitration Act expressly provides that the arbitral tribunal shall not be bound by the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 or the Indian Evidence Act 1872. Moreover, it stipulates that an arbitral tribunal may conduct the proceedings in any manner it deems appropriate if the parties fail to agree on the procedure to be followed by the tribunal. Although arbitral tribunals have autonomy in the procedural and substantive sense, they are not completely independent of the law of the country in which the arbitral tribunal has its juridical seat, as discussed in the following segments. ii. Principle of minimum judicial interference 69. The principle of judicial non-interference in arbitral proceedings is fundamental to both domestic as well as international commercial arbitration. The principle entails that the arbitral proceedings are carried out pursuant to the agreement of the parties or under the direction of the IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1129 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] tribunal without unnecessary interference by the national courts.61 This principle serves to proscribe judicial interference in arbitral proceedings, which would undermine the objective of the parties in agreeing to arbitrate their disputes, their desire for less formal and more fl exible procedures, and their desire for neutral and expert arbitral procedures.62 The principle of judicial non-interference in arbitral proceedings respects the autonomy of the parties to determine the arbitral procedures. This principle has also been incorporated in international instruments, including the New York Convention63 and the Model Law. 70. Article 5 of the Model Law deals with the extent of court intervention. It states that “[i]n matters governed by this Law, no court shall intervene except where so provided in this Law.” The drafters of the Model Law deemed it important to incorporate this article to provide “certainty to the parties and the arbitrators about the instances in which court supervision or assistance was to be expected.”64 By including the introductory words “in matters governed by this law”, the scope of the provision was limited only to matters which were governed by or regulated in the Model Law.