However, this rule is not applicable in every case. The nature of the advantage acquired has to be considered in the commercial sense and only when the advantage is in the capital fi eld, deduction on the said expenditure could be disallowed by applying the enduring benefi t test. If the advantage consists merely of facilitating trading operations or enabling the management or conduct of business more eff ectively or profi tably, while leaving the fi xed capital untouched, the said expenditure would be on revenue account, though the advantage may endure for an indefi nite period, vide Empire Jute Co. Ltd. Therefore, the enduring benefi t test is not conclusive and cannot be mechanically applied without considering the commercial aspect of the transaction involving the expenditure in question. ii. Where the expenditure is made for the initial outlay or for extension of a business, or a substantial replacement of the equipment, it is capital expenditure. If the expenditure is for running the business or working it with a view to produce profi ts, it is revenue expenditure, vide Assam Bengal Cement Co. Ltd. What also follows from this test is that expenditure which relates 456 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. to the very framework or structure or edifi ce of the taxpayer’s business is capital expenditure. iii. The fi xed and circulating capital test provides that where the expenditure is to bring into the hands of the assessee a necessary ingredient of their existing business, which is important but still ancillary to the business, the expenditure is to be debited to the circulating capital (revenue account) rather than to the fi xed capital (capital account). iv. Where there is no enlargement of the permanent structure or of capital assets and the expenditure essentially relates to the operation or working of the existing apparatus, such an expenditure would be on revenue account, videEmpire Jute Co. Ltd. v. The question as to whether an expenditure is capital or revenue in nature is to be judged in every case in the context of business necessity or expediency. The fi rst aspect to be considered is whether, the expenditure is a part of the assessee’s working expenditure or a part of profit earning. Further, an inquiry must be made as to, whether, the expenditure was necessary to acquire a right of permanent character, the possession of which is a condition precedent for carrying on a particular trade. In the event that the answer to the fi rst question is in the negative and the second question is in the affi rmative, the expenditure is inarguably capital in nature. In this context, we are of the view that the decision of this Court in Alembic Chemical Works Co. Ltd. must turn on its own peculiar facts. vi. Thus, the aspect to be considered is whether the expenditure is incurred for the purpose of the existing day-to-day business of the assessee, or with a view to commence an entirely new venture. Where the expenditure incurred is merely to enhance the productivity or profi tability of an existing business, without making signifi cant changes to the structure of the assessee’s profi t making apparatus, the same is revenue in nature.