It is submitted that the royalty is for the extraction of the E minerals/coal from the lands in question. He has taken us to the Statements of Objects and Reasons for inserting Section 18(a) in the Act, 1957. 4.2 Making the above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal by submitting that the High Court has rightly interpreted Section 2(d) of the Act, 1957 and has rightly observed that the State being person interested in the land shall be entitled to the compensation/ F rental over and above the amount of royalty leviable/payable under Section 18(a) of the Act, 1957. 5. We have heard learned ASG on behalf of the appellant and learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State. It cannot be disputed that as per Sections 4 to 10, on the declaration being issued under Section 9 of the acquisition, the land/rights in or over the land, as the case may G be, shall be vested absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances. However, as per Section 11 of the Act, notwithstanding anything contained in Section 10, the Central Government may, if it is satisfied that a Government company is willing to comply, or has complied with such terms and conditions as the Central Government may think fit to impose, direct, by in writing, that the land or the rights in or over H MAHANADI COALFIELDS LTD. v. STATE OF ODISHA & ORS. 1059 [M. R. SHAH, J.] the land, as the case may be, shall, instead of vesting in the Central A Government under Section 10 or continuing to so vest, vest in the Government company either on the date of publication of the declaration or on such other date as may be specified in the direction. As per Sub- section (2) of Section 11, where the rights under any mining lease acquired under this Act vest in a Government company under Sub-section (1), the Government company shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be B deemed to have become lessee of the State Government as if a mining lease under the Mineral Concession Rules had been granted by the State Government to the Government company, the period thereof being the entire period for which such a lease could have been granted by the State Government under those rules; and all the rights and liabilities of the Central Government in relation to the lease or the land covered by it C shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to have become the rights and liabilities of the Government company. Section 13 provides for compensation for prospecting licences ceasing to have effect, rights under mining leases being acquired. Thus, as per Section 11, the Government company in whose favour the has been issued by the D Central Government shall be deemed to be the lessee and shall be liable to pay the compensation/rental, etc., to the State Government being ‘person interested’. ‘Person interested’ is defined under Section 2(d) of the Act.