Section). 2 340. Procedure in cases mentioned in Section 195.—(1) When, upon an application made to it in this behalf or otherwise, any Court is of opinion that it is expedient in the interests of justice that an inquiry should be made into any off ence referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 195, which appears to have been committed in or in relation to a proceeding in that Court or, as the case may be, in respect of a document produced or given in evidence in a proceeding in that Court, such Court may, after such preliminary inquiry, if any, as it thinks necessary,— (a) record a fi nding to that eff ect; (b) make a complaint thereof in writing; (c) send it to a Magistrate of the fi rst class having jurisdiction; (d) take suffi cient security for the appearance of the accused before such Magistrate, or if the alleged off ence is non-bailable and the Court thinks it necessary so to do, send the accused in custody to such Magistrate; and VISHNU KUMAR SHUKLA & ANR. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 1075 PRADESH & ANR. [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the “CrPC”) before the concerned Court. 6. It was further submitted that the FIR lodged by R2 on 01.07.2011 was for alleged off ences under Sections 4483, 4544 and 3805 of the IPC. However, it was contended that though no case was made out, still the police in collusion with R2 submitted Charge Sheet No.189 of 2011 dated 07.08.2011 under Section 448, IPC against the appellants upon which the appellants were summoned and were put on trial. It was submitted that R2 also fi led an application under Section 1446, CrPC before the Additional (e) bind over any person to appear and give evidence before such Magistrate. (2) The power conferred on a Court by sub-section (1) in respect of an off ence may, in any case where that Court has neither made a complaint under sub-section (1) in respect of that off ence nor rejected an application for the making of such complaint, be exercised by the Court to which such former Court is subordinate within the meaning of sub-section (4) of Section 195. (3) A complaint made under this section shall be signed,— (a) where the Court making the complaint is a High Court, by such offi cer of the Court as the Court may appoint; (b) in any other case, by the presiding offi cer of the Court or by such offi cer of the Court as the Court may authorise in writing in this behalf. (4) In this section, “Court” has the same meaning as in Section 195. 3 448. Punishment for house-trespass.—Whoever commits house-trespass shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fi ne which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both. 4 454. Lurking house-trespass or house-breaking in to commit off ence punishable with imprisonment.—Whoever commits lurking house-trespass or house- breaking, in to the committing of any off ence punishable with imprisonment, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fi ne; and if the off ence intended to be committed is theft, the term of the imprisonment may be extended to ten years.