A close and careful interpretation of the extracted section leaves no room for doubt that the legislature intended that a sentence of fi ne alone should be imposed in normal circumstances. The statute, however, confers special power on the Court to pass a sentence of imprisonment if it thinks that ends of justice so require. Thus before a Court passes the extreme sentence of imprisonment, it must give special reasons after a proper application of its mind that a sentence of imprisonment alone is called for in a particular situation. Thus, the sentence of imprisonment is an exception while sentence of fi ne is the rule.” ××× ××× ××× 34. The object of punishment being both curative and corrective, these coercions are meant to assist an individual complainant to enforce his remedy and there is also an element of public policy for punishing civil contempt, since the administration of justice would be undermined if the of any court of law is to be disregarded with impunity. Under some circumstances, compliance of the may be secured without resort to coercion, through the contempt power. For example, disobedience of an to pay a sum of money may be eff ectively countered by attaching the earnings of the contemner. In the same manner, committing the person of the defaulter to prison for failure to comply with an of specifi c performance of conveyance of property, may be met also by the court directing that the conveyance be completed by an appointed person. Disobedience of an undertaking may in the like manner be enforced through process other than committal to prison as for example where the breach of undertaking is to deliver possession of property in a landlord-tenant dispute. Apart BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1097 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] from punishing the contemner, the court to maintain the majesty of law may direct the police force to be utilised for recovery of possession and burden the contemner with costs, exemplary or otherwise. ××× ××× ××× 36. In deciding whether a contempt is serious enough to merit imprisonment, the court will take into account the likelihood of interference with the administration of justice and the culpability of the off ender. The intention with which the act complained of is done is a material factor in determining what punishment, in a given case, would be appropriate. ××× ××× ××× 42. The contempt of court is a special jurisdiction to be exercised sparingly and with caution whenever an act adversely aff ects the administration of justice or which tends to impede its course or tends to shake public confi dence in the judicial institutions. This jurisdiction may also be exercised when the act complained of adversely aff ects the majesty of law or dignity of the courts. The purpose of contempt jurisdiction is to uphold the majesty and dignity of the courts of law. It is an unusual type of jurisdiction combining “the jury, the judge and the hangman” and it is so because the court is not adjudicating upon any claim between litigating parties.