Thereafter, the Appellant F deposited a further amount of Rs. 94 crores in this Court in terms of our dated 8.11.2019. The Respondent was permitted to withdraw both these amounts by furnishing bank guarantees of a Nationalized Bank. The Respondent was directed to keep alive such bank guarantees until the disposal of this Commercial Appeal G and for 15 days thereafter. 198. Though we have partly allowed this appeal, it is unlikely that the Respondent might have to bring back any portion of the amounts withdrawn by it. The Respondent to, therefore, assess this position and deposit such amount, if any, in this Court within 14 days from H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 401 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] today. Only if no amount is to be brought back, the Respondent A need not keep the bank guarantees alive beyond 15 days from today. 199. Further, if despite our partly allowing this appeal, the Appellant is still due and payable to the Respondent the amounts over and above those which the Respondent has already withdrawn B against bank guarantees, then, obviously, the Respondent need not keep the bank guarantees alive for more than 15 days from today. The Appellant to then deposit the balance amount in this Court within four weeks from today. The Respondent will have the liberty to withdraw such amount, once the same is deposited. C 200. The appeal is partly allowed in the aforesaid terms. There shall be no for costs.” Rival Submissions 8. In view of the above, the claimant has approached this Court challenging the and of the High Court to the extent it D sets aside the award partially. The State of Goa, on the other hand, has laid a limited challenge to the of the High Court. We may briefly summarise the principal contentions urged on behalf of the parties. 9. Mr. Parag P. Tripathi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the claimant, has made a variety of submissions in challenge to the E part of the impugned and dated 08.03.2021 whereby, substantial part of the award in question has been upturned by the High Court. 9.1. At the outset, learned senior counsel has submitted that the scope of interference under Section 37 of the Act of 1996 is limited and F is restricted to the grounds mentioned in Section 34 thereof; and if the view of the Arbitrator is a plausible view, the Court will not interfere or substitute its own view with that of the Arbitrator. Further, re-appreciation of evidence or review on merits is not permissible under the provisions of the Act unless the award is shown to be in conflict with the ‘public G policy of India’ or vitiated by ‘patent illegality appearing on the face of the award’. 9.2. With respect to the submission that the application of the State for appointment of expert under Section 26 of the Arbitration Act had not been decided by the Arbitral Tribunal, learned senior counsel H 402 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.