57. In view of the finding in paras 146 and 147 of the in Vidya Drolia [Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn., (2021) D 2 SCC 1 : (2021) 1 SCC (Civ) 549] by a coordinate Bench, which has affirmed the in Garware [Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. v. Coastal Marine Constructions & Engg. Ltd., (2019) 9 SCC 209 : (2019) 4 SCC (Civ) 324], the aforesaid issue is required to be authoritatively settled by a Constitution Bench of this Court. 58. We consider it appropriate to refer the following issue, to be E authoritatively settled by a Constitution Bench of five Judges of this Court: “Whether the statutory bar contained in Section 35 of the Stamp Act, 1899 applicable to instruments chargeable to stamp duty under Section 3 read with the Schedule to the Act, would also render F the arbitration agreement contained in such an instrument, which is not chargeable to payment of stamp duty, as being non-existent, unenforceable, or invalid, pending payment of stamp duty on the substantive contract/instrument?” B. A BIRD’S OVERVIEW OF THE FACTS IN N.N. G GLOBAL 3. The first respondent, who was awarded the Work , entered into a sub-contract with the appellant. Clause 10 of the Work , constituting the sub-contract, provided for an Arbitration Clause. The 1 (2021) 4 SCC 379 H 304 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A appellant had furnished a bank guarantee in terms of Clause 9. The invocation of the said guarantee led to a Suit by the appellant against the encashment of the bank guarantee. The first respondent applied under Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as, ‘the Act’, for short) seeking Reference. A Writ Petition was filed by the first respondent challenging the of the Commercial B Court rejecting the Application under Section 8 of the Act. One of the contentions raised was that the Arbitration Agreement became unenforceable as the Work was unstamped. The High Court, however, allowed the Writ Petition filed by the first respondent. The issue relevant to this Bench was, whether the Arbitration Agreement C would be enforceable and acted upon, even if the Work is unstamped and unenforceable under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (hereinafter referred to as, ‘the Stamp Act’, for short). C. THE FINDINGS IN N.N. GLOBAL IN REGARD TO THE QUESTION UNDER THE CAPTION ‘VALIDITY OF AN D ARBITRATION AGREEMENT IN AN UNSTAMPED AGREEMENT’ 4. The Court found that an Arbitration Agreement is a distinct and separate agreement, which is independent from the substantive commercial contract in which it is embedded. Under the Doctrine of E Kompetenz–Kompetenz, the Arbitral Tribunal had competence to rule on its own jurisdiction, including objections with regard to the existence, validity and scope of the Arbitration Agreement. Section 16(1) of the Act was relied upon. The Court made a copious reference to case law in support of the Doctrine of Kompetenz-Kompetenz. Section 5 of the Act contemplated minimal judicial interference. The Court referred to F the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958.