This Corrigendum corrects arithmetical mistakes made in the original report. Therefore, the fitment table must be construed B in accordance with the corrected table on fitment. The multiplier which applies to pay must also apply to pension. Consequently, the pensioners must be therefore fitted into the same scheme in the pay matrix. The recommendation is thus accepted. [Paras 88-90][76-E-F, G-H; 77-A] C IV. Consequential Re-fixation of Judicial Officers who Retired Prior to 01.01.1996 The Commission noted that due to a discrepancy in the report of the One-Person Commission, the pension granted to judicial officers who retired after 2006 was not being given in D parity to those who retired before 2006. The recommendation of the Commission is only in furtherance of parity. State Governments have, in the past, been directed to undertake the consequential re-fixation before. However, if such consequential re-fixation has not been undertaken, the officers who had retired E prior to 1996, and who would have aged significantly would be discriminated against. Such a situation ought to be avoided and thus the recommendation merits acceptance. This recommendation is directed to be implemented immediately and without delay. [Paras 91, 92][77-B-C, E-F] V. Benefit of Years of Practice at the Bar while calculating F pension The recommendation, being the implementation of the of this Court, merits acceptance. [Para 93][78-B] Government of NCT Delhi v All India Young Lawyers G Association (2009) 14 SCC 49 : [2009] 3 SCR 555 – relied on. VI. Recommendations on Family Pension As regards family pension, the Commission has not recommended any change in the existing percentage, i.e., 30% H ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 33 of the last drawn pay. Therefore, this recommendation, as such, A does not warrant any further deliberation as it is the mere continuation of the existing regime. The recommendation is accepted. At the same time, the Commission has recommended payment of family pension @ 30% to the eligible family member after the death of the spouse. This benefit has been given in light B of Rule 54 CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972, which grants similar benefits to members of the central civil services. This recommendation is also thus accepted as it has been granted to members of the central civil services. The quantum of family pension must be increased as per the same multiplier/index of rationalization applicable for pension. This is because the same C factors which are applicable to pay and pension leading to their increase also equally apply to family pension. The Commission has also recommended the same. The recommendation is accepted and it is directed that the quantum of family pension also worked out in the same manner as quantum of pension is D worked out. The last recommendation is that on the income limit prescribed by States to be eligible for family pension. The minimum limit prescribed by the Commission was Rs. 30,000/-. This limit is reasonable but it must be left to the discretion of the States to prescribe a higher limit which is more beneficial to the judicial officers.