SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS 9. The learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the incident is of late evening/night whereas the FIR was lodged next day at 10 am, which is suggestive of the fact that no one witnessed the incident and FIR was lodged after deliberation and the prosecution story developed thereafter; otherwise also, testimony of PW-2 and PW-6 is unreliable for the following reasons: (i) PW-2 is a resident of village Khapri, whereas the incident occurred in village Kohroda. According to PW-2, he had visited Kohroda in the evening to watch television. There he witnessed the incident. After which, he left the village and in the evening itself he informed Smt. Jugmatibai (PW-9), a Kotwarin (village HARILAL ETC. v. STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 143 (NOW CHHATTISGARH) [MANOJ MISRA, J.] chowkidar) of village about the incident. However, PW-9 stated that she was not informed by any person who might have witnessed the incident. This, according to the appellants’ counsel, seriously dents the credibility of PW-2. That apart, PW-2 only disclosed the name of Harilal. Further, PW-2 does not state that the deceased was assaulted to such an extent that he would have expired, or had expired, on account of injuries sustained by him. (ii) PW-6 is not consistent with his previous statement made during the course of investigation, inasmuch as during investigation he disclosed that the accused assaulted the deceased with sticks (danda) but in his deposition in Court he stated that the accused had assaulted the deceased with lathi. A lathi is much thicker and heavier than a danda. That apart, PW-6 was not consistent in respect of the reason as to why he came out of his house to witness the incident. In his deposition in Court he had stated that,- he was in his house at the time of the incident; he came out on alarm raised by mother of accused Parasram that Ellahabadiya alias Vijay (i.e., the deceased) was beating her son Parasram, which was inconsistent with his previous statement made during investigation wherein he had stated that he came out on hearing loud noises of a fi ght in the Gali (alley). Moreover, PW-6 disclosed that the incident occurred in front of the house of Anshram whereas the body of the deceased was found near a temple which was at a considerable distance from the house of Anshram. Otherwise also, PW-6 made no eff ort to lodge a report, or inform persons of the village. This conduct of his does not inspire confi dence in his testimony. 10. In the alternative, it was submitted that from the testimony of prosecution witnesses it appears to be a case where there was a street fi ght. The cause and motive for such street fi ght is not clear except that there existed some dispute with regard to a lady. Therefore, considering the nature of the weapons used, it would be a case falling under one of the Exceptions of Section 300 I.P.C. Hence conviction under Section 304 Part-I I.P.C.