106. While each individual is entitled to their own conception of marriage, a universal conception of marriage, its purpose, and content would be diffi cult to encapsulate in an exhaustive enumeration. Consequently, the argument advanced by the respondents that the very conception of marriage does not permit queer individuals to marry cannot be accepted. Each religion, each community, each couple defi nes the institution of marriage for itself. The queer community is just as much a community as any other, though perhaps not in the traditional sense in which the term is used with respect to customs which govern marriage. 101 Section 3(g)(iv), HMA SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1309 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 107. There is no gainsaying the fact that procreation and the human desire to have a family constitute signifi cant characteristics of the institution of marriage. Yet, even heterosexual couples may fi nd themselves unable or unwilling to procreate. Age, health and a variety of circumstances may bear on the decision of a heterosexual couple to bear or not to bear children. The inability of queer couples to procreate does not act as a barrier to the entry of queer persons to the institution of marriage just as it does not prevent heterosexual couples who are unable or choose not to procreate. Viewing marriage solely through the lens of sexual relations or procreation is a disservice to married couples everywhere including heterosexual couples because it renders invisible the myriad other aspects of a marriage as an emotional union. It relegates the aspects of companionship and love in a marriage to an inferior status. Such a conception of marriage is narrow and factually incorrect. b. The conception of marriage is not static 108. The understanding of marriage – socially, culturally, and legally – has undergone a sea change over time. Some changes which are specifi c to India are discussed in this segment. This segment is not an exhaustive discussion of the changes to the institution of marriage in India. It illustrates some changes in service of the point that the conception of marriage is not static. I. Sati 109. Although far from a universal practice, sati was once permitted and practiced in India. This abhorrent practice was inextricably intertwined with the institution of marriage because a widow was either tied to the funeral pyre of her deceased husband or pressed upon to jump into it. Various rules and regulations restricted and later, barred the practice in the colonial era. In modern day India, the Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act 1987 criminalizes attempts to commit sati, the abetment of sati, as well as its glorifi cation. II. Widow remarriage 110. In accordance with long-standing custom, women (mostly from the dominant castes) were not permitted to remarry if their husbands died. In many communities, the heads of widows were shaved and they 131 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. were prohibited from wearing jewellery or colourful clothes. This was considered a ‘living death.’ Many (including Mahatma Jyotirao Phule, the Brahmo Samaj, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, and Tarabai Shinde) attempted to reform the institution of marriage to permit widows to remarry.