In Ammonia’s case it was held that the jurisdiction exercised by the court for rectification of the register of members is essentially limited. [Para 1 and 19][533-B-C, D-E; 542-E-F] 1.2 While interpreting Section 155, it was held in Ammonia’s D case that the power of CLB is narrow and can only consider questions of rectification. If a petition seeks an adjudication under the garb of rectification, then the CLB would not have jurisdiction, and it would be duty-bound to re-direct the parties to approach the relevant forum. The words ‘sufficient cause’ cannot be interpreted in a manner which would enlarge the scope of the E provision. The decision in Ammonia was followed by this Court even after the deletion of Section 155 and insertion of Section 111A. [Paras 20 and 21][544-F-H] 1.3 The principle enunciated in Ammonia’s case relating to the jurisdiction of a tribunal with respect to the rectification of the register is well-recognized and consistently followed. Sub- F section (3) of Section 59 recognizes the overarching right to hold and transfer securities with the concomitant entitlement of voting. This is a precious right, and that is the reason why the Parliament found it necessary to caution that the provision of this Section shall not restrict the right of a holder of securities, to transfer such securities. This is another feature which is indicative of the G limited scope and extent of the power of rectification of the register. Thus, the company petition under Section 111A of the 1956 Act for a declaration that the acquisition of shares by the Respondents as null and void is misconceived. The tribunal should have directed the appellant to seek such a declaration before the H appropriate forum. The appellate tribunal is, thus, justified in IFB AGRO INDUSTRIES LTD. v. SICGIL INDIA LTD. AND 529 OTHERS allowing the appeal and setting aside the of the tribunal. A [Paras 24 and 25][547-A-D] 1.5 In the exercise of its adjudicatory powers under Section 15-I, the SEBI has the power to appoint officers for holding an inquiry, give a reasonable opportunity to the person concerned and determine if there is any transgression of the rules prescribed. B The Board has the power to impose penalties for violations and also restitute the parties. The adjudicatory power also includes the power to settle administrative and civil proceedings under Section 15JB of the SEBI Act. [Para 31][549-B-C] 1.6 The regulatory jurisdiction of the Board also includes C ex-ante powers to predict a possible violation and take preventive measures. The exercise of ex-ante jurisdiction necessitates the calling of information as provided in Sections 11(2)(i), 11(2)(ia) and 11(2)(ib) of the SEBI Act. Where the Board has a reasonable ground to believe that a transaction in the securities market is going to take place in a manner detrimental to the interests of D the stakeholders or that any intermediary has violated the provisions of the Act, it may investigate into the matter under Section 11(C) of the SEBI Act. In other words, being the real- time security market regulator, the Board is entitled to keep a watch, predict and even act before a violation occurs.