(vii) Anvar P.V. v P.K. Basheer(2014) 10 SCC 473, A (viii) Arjun Panditrao Khotkar v. Kailash Kushanrao Gorantyal (2020) 7 SCC 1. Per contra Shri V. N. Raghupathy, learned standing counsel appearing by the State would support the passed by the High B Court. He would submit that when learned Sessions Judge had failed to look into the evidence available before it or had erroneously appreciated the available evidence it had resulted in appellate court exercising its jurisdiction to reverse the said findings for which the reasonings have been assigned while recording the findings. He would submit that on reappreciation of the evidence the appellatecourt has formed an opinion C that there had been non-appreciation of available material on record and has discussed the same threadbare. 9.He would submit that material witnesses namely the witnesses to the seizure mahazar PW-3, PW-9, PW-11 had remained unshaken and there being no explanation forthcoming in the statement of the D accused recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C.,the High Court has rightly noticed that this material evidence had been ignored by the Trial Court and on account of said uncontroverted evidence available on record it has proceeded to accept the same and convict the accused which finding does not suffer from the vice of error. He would draw the attention of E the court to the evidence of PW-5 who is the friend of the accused who has spoken about the rubble tapping machines being sold to Mr. Babu (PW-11) namely brother in law-Mr. Lijo(PW-5) under the agreement prepared by the advocate PW-15. He would contend that said witness has also spoken about Ex.P-15 under which MO23 to 32 had been seized which are said to have been given by the accused, thus supporting the F case of the prosecution and by contending that the High Court has on re-appreciation of evidence had rightly formed an opinion that the Trial Court had ignored the material evidence and as such prays for sustaining the of the High Court which had reversed the finding of the Trial Court whereby the accused had been acquitted. In support of his submissions he has relied upon the following s: G (i) State of Rajasthan v Kashi Ram (2006) 12 SCC 254 (ii) A.N. Venkatesh & Ors. v State of Karnataka (2005) 7 SCC 714 H 410 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (iii) State of Karnataka v Suvarnamma (2015) 1 SCC 323 (iv) Pattu Rajan v State of Tamil Nadu (2019) 4 SCC 771. (v) Arjun Panditrao Kotkar v Kailash (2020) 7 SCC 1. 10. Having heard the learned Advocates appearing for the parties B and after bestowing our careful and anxious consideration to the rival contentions raised at the bar, we are of the considered view that the following points could arise for our consideration: (a) Whether the of the High Court reversing the finding of the Trial Court is to be set aside on the basis of there being two possible views and the one taken by Trial Court being a possible C view?