But as interpreted by this Court on the happening of the catalyst act i.e. expiry of 90/60 days the hammer of release D on default would fall. Later filing of the charge-sheet (challan) is not by itself relevant to have the bail cancelled on committing the accused for trial or taking cognizance of the offence. As emphasised by this Court in Bashir [(1977) 4 SCC 410] and Raghubir [(1986) 4 SCC 481] cases, on curing the defect by E filing the charge-sheet (challan) if the prosecution seeks to have the bail cancelled on the ground that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the accused has committed a non-bailable offence and that it is necessary to arrest and commit him into custody, prima facie at that stage, strong grounds indeed are necessary. For cancellation of the bail after filing of the charge-sheet the F factum of dismissal of the bail on the earlier occasion is not relevant. But during investigation some strong prima facie evidence and gravity and magnitude of the crime or the manner in which the crime was committed and other attending circumstances may be relevant as prima facie grounds to have a fresh look to cancel G the bail. The grounds for cancellation of the bail in Chapter XXXIII are, dehors the merits in the matter, namely, necessity due to the conduct of the accused and abuse of liberty i.e. obstruction of the smooth investigation or suborning witnesses or attempting to tamper the evidence, threatening the witnesses with dire consequences or making or attempting to remove himself beyond the reach of H THE STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION V. T. 755 GANGI REDDY @ YERRA GANGI REDDY [M. R. SHAH, J.] the court to hamper the smooth trial, etc. are independent of the A merits in the matter. Cancellation of the bail would be necessitated by the conduct of the accused himself after the release. I agree with brother Punchhi, J. that it might be possible to abuse the proviso by deliberate delay in completing the investigation to facilitate the release of the accused on bail. I also agree that B merits brought out in the charge-sheet and attending circumstances are relevant, as the bail was granted due to default of the investigating officer without court’s adverting to the merits but strong grounds are necessary to cancel the bail. To that extent brother Ahmadi, J. also laid emphasis, namely, strong grounds are to be made out in the charge-sheet. With respect I agree with C brother Ahmadi’s emphasis that filing the charge-sheet (challan) itself is not sufficient. However, I lay emphasis that the High Court or the Court of Sessions should consider the merits of the case. With respect, K.J. Shetty, J., laid emphasis on the subsequent filing of the charge-sheet and the power for cancellation under D Sections 437 and 439 of the Code. Unfortunately, the ratio in Parida [(1975) 2 SCC 220] and Bashir [(1977) 4 SCC 410] cases was not brought to the notice of the learned Judge, which was directly on the point and for the reasons stated I find it difficult to agree with the learned Judge in that respect.