Furthermore, it was held that it could not be contended that enforcing provisions of the Act would breach fundamental rights which entitle a citizen to seek recourse to Article 32 of the Constitution. Therefore, the writ petition was rejected. B 31. In Dalip Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors., (2010) 2 SCC 114 (2-Judge Bench), the imperative nature of putting forward all facts and seeking an appropriate relief was reiterated. 32. The Petitioner approached this Court through Writ Petition C No. 55/2023, praying only for the grant of a writ of mandamus for home- cooked food for under-trial prisoners (This question is pending consideration by this Court in other writ petitions). Only subsequently was an Interlocutory Application filed seeking the relief concerning the merits of the present dispute, i.e. direction to Respondent No. 2 (Customs Authority) for settlement under Section 127B of the Customs Act, 1962. D 33. This approach taken by the Petitioner, in my view, is unwarranted and undesirable if not malafide for not exhausting the appropriate alternative remedies. Under the garb of relief purportedly relating to fundamental rights, the relief sought in the instant IA, is statutory in nature- under the Act i.e. for an application of settlement to be decided. E 34. Recourse to the fundamental right to approach this Court has to be permitted in cases where the fundamental rights of the Petitioner have been infringed. Herein, no such infringement is made out. No material has been brought on record displaying that the Customs Department has proceeded in a manner contravening the Constitutional F mandate. 35. Therefore, given the above, the present application is liable to be dismissed on maintainability. It is also to be noted that the practice of circumventing the well-established principles for the exercise of the power of Article 32 should not be encouraged. G In the abovementioned terms, the writ petition, along with interlocutory applications, are disposed of. Divya Pandey Matter to be placed before Hon’ble CJI. (Assisted by : Roopanshi Virang, LCRA) H