Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of J. Yashoda v. K. Shobha Rani (2007) 5 SCC 730. It is submitted that H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 155 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] therefore in the absence of the principal evidence (PoA), the significance A of the two sale deeds, produced by the plaintiffs is diluted. 3.11 It is further contended that in the impugned and , the High Court while holding against the appellants and upsetting the concurrent findings of the courts below, inter alia, has held that there was a statutory presumption in favour of the plaintiffs insofar as B the PoA is concerned. It is submitted that the said finding is erroneous inasmuch as the statutory presumption would not be available to the plaintiffs and the documents in question since the document (PoA) itself has not been produced before the courts below to ascertain whether the document was in or in compliance of Section 33(1)(c) of the C Registration Act. 3.12 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants has also relied upon the decisions of this Court in the case of Rajni Tandon v. Dulal Ranjan Ghosh Dastidar (2009) 14 SCC 782; and recent decision of this Court in the case of Amar Nath v. Gian Chand 2022 D SCC OnLine SC 102, in support of his submission on Section 33 (1)(c) of the Registration Act. 3.13 Making the above submissions and relying upon the aforesaid decisions, it is vehemently submitted that the High Court has erred in allowing the second appeal and quashing and setting aside the concurrent E findings of the courts below and thereby decreeing the suit while exercising the power under Section 100 CPC. Therefore, it is prayed to allow the present appeal and set aside the impugned and passed by the High Court and restore the and decree passed by the learned trial Court. 4. The present appeal is opposed by Shri Hrishikesh Baruah, F learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents – original plaintiffs. 4.1 It is vehemently submitted that the land which is in possession of defendant No.1 is founded on the title of plaintiff No.1 based on the sale deed dated 3.9.1968 which has been executed on the basis of the G PoA in favour of plaintiff No.2. It is submitted that therefore the defendants are not entitled in law as well as in equity to raise a dispute about the existence of the same. 4.2 It is submitted that as such the original defendants tried to take forceful possession of ‘Schedule C’ property by breaking the godown H 156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A and taking away the goods. Plaintiff No.2 informed the concerned police station and thereafter made a prayer before the Court of the SDM, Sardar for drawing up proceedings under Section 144 Cr.P.C. On a police enquiry report, proceedings under Section 144 Cr.P.C. were started. During the proceedings, a prohibitory was passed.