The root cause of the fi re incident was due to the negligence on the part of the Management in not taking adequate precautions when the construction work was going on that too in a secured customs bonded warehouse where many hazardous chemicals were stored: The alleged cause of fi re is hot (sic) covered under the policy... ... ... ...” The insurance company in their letter mentioned two specifi c grounds to repudiate the claim: (i) that the location of fi re was part of the premises not covered under the insurance policy, and (ii) that there was negligence on the part of the insured in carrying out repairs at the roof of the warehouse which caused the fi re. 32. Notably, in earlier cases like Galada Power and Telecommunication Ltd. vs. United India Insurance Co. Ltd. & Anr.5 and Saurashtra Chemicals Ltd. vs. National Insurance Co. Ltd.6, it was declared that new grounds 4 2021 SCC OnLine SC 818. 5 (2016) 14 SCC 161. 6 (2019) 19 SCC 70 103 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. for repudiation cannot be introduced during the hearing if they were not included in the repudiation letter. This legal principle was reiterated in JSK Industries Pvt. Ltd. vs. Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd.7: “10. Mr. Gopal Shankarnarayan, learned senior counsel for the appellants has argued both on substantive and procedural points to assail the aforesaid s. His fi rst submission is that the insurance company cannot resist a claim petition on grounds beyond those cited by them while repudiating a claim. In support of this argument, a decision of this Court in the case Saurashtra Chemicals Ltd. v. National Insurance Co. Ltd. [(2019) 19 SCC 70] has been cited. In this , it has been held: — “23. Hence, we are of the considered opinion that the law, as laid down in Galada [Galada Power & Telecommunication Ltd. v. United India Insurance Co. Ltd., (2016) 14 SCC 161: (2017) 2 SCC (Civ) 765] on Issue (2), still holds the fi eld. It is a settled position that an insurance company cannot travel beyond the grounds mentioned in the letter of repudiation. If the insurer has not taken delay in intimation as a specifi c ground in letter of repudiation, they cannot do so at the stage of hearing of the consumer complaint before NCDRC.” 33. Canvassing supplementary arguments during the hearing, (beyond those in the insurer’s repudiation letter), is explicitly prohibited. Consequently, it is held that the insurer cannot introduce additional reasoning beyond those detailed in their letter, to justify the repudiation. LOCATION OF FIRE IF COVERED UNDER THE POLICY 34. Let us now analyse whether the burnt site was covered under the insurance policy. The Leave & License Agreement dated 04.07.2015 identifi es all three warehouses functioning within the compound operated by M/s Platinum Logistics, with the same Survey No. i.e., 9/3. In fact, the policy documents as well as the License issued under Section 57 of Customs Act 1962 refers to the warehouse situated at Survey No.