In State of U.P. v. Jawahar Lal Bhargava, 1974 SCC OnLine All 45 the Allahabad High Court while considering suspension of STATE OF HARYANA AND OTHERS v. DINESH SINGH 1071 AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] a Judicial offi cer presumably under Rule 49A of the U.P. Civil Services (Classifi cation, control and Appeal) Rules considered the meaning of the term “Inquiry” and “contemplation” as follows: “13. …Thus the word 'inquiry' means nothing hut the formal disciplinary proceeding and not the investigation of an informal character which must often precedes the initiation of formal disciplinary proceeding envisaged by Rule 55. When the appointing authority takes a decision to start formal proceedings, then within 15 days of taking that decision charge or charges should be handed over to the charged offi cer. Thus there is a time lag of 15 days permitted between taking the decision to start formal proceedings and the service of charges on the charged offi cer. The direction given by the Governor envisages that at the time when a decision is taken by the appointing authority to start formal proceedings it must also simultaneously decide whether the Offi cer should be placed under suspension pending the inquiry. It is at this stage that it can be said that an inquiry is contemplated against the conduct of the Government servant. The only meaning that can be given to the phrase 'against whose conduct an inquiry is contemplated', occurring in Clause (I) of Rule 49-A, would be against whose conduct an inquiry under Rule 55 is to be initiated." This will be when a decision has been taken on the basis of the material collected on preliminary investigation and the appointing authority is prima facie satisfi ed that they have substance and the starting of formal proceedings would be justifi ed. At any point of time prior to the taking of such a decision it could not be said that an inquiry under Rule 55 was contemplated. 14. Though the verb 'contemplate' has many meanings and has somewhat an ambiguous import, yet it has to be given a defi nite meaning in the context in which it has been used in harmony with the scheme laid down in the Civil Services (Classifi cation, Control and Appeal) Rules pertaining to conduct and discipline of the Government servant who fall within the rule making power of the Governor under Article 309 of the Constitution. With great respect the meaning given by Seth, J. in Rajendra Shanker Nigam v. State of U.P. appears to be 107 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. correct, that is to have in view an inquiry under Rule 55 or to hold an inquiry under Rule 55. This stage would not be reached unless the appointing authority decides in the circumstances of the case that it will proceed to hold an inquiry under Rule 55. Mewed in this light and the directions of the Governor as given in para 2 of the Appendix IV, quoted above, the substance of which is contained in the Note, the phrase 'suspension, where deemed necessary should, as far as possible immediately precede the framing of charges and their communication to the Government servant charged occurring in the Note will mean where it is decided to suspend a Government servant pending an formal inquiry under Rule 55 the of suspension as far as possible be passed immediately preceding the framing of the charges and their communication…The Note does not permit the appointing authority to suspend a Government servant before it decides to initiate a formal inquiry under Rule 55 against the Government servant.