B 3.4 Validity of award of government contract to IMPCL 26. The appellant flags the insurmountable difficulties in awarding contracts for the purchase of Ayurvedic drugs because of peculiar problems in the process of manufacture. Reference was made to the letter dated 16 July 1994 issued by the Ministry of Health and Family C Welfare stating that purchase through tender would be ‘inadequate’ for the procurement of Ayurveda, Siddha, and Unani medicines because (i) there is a wide variation in the prices of the raw materials as a result of which the cost of the same drug using the ‘best raw materials’ maybe ten times the cost if the ‘poorest’ quality of raw materials is used;and (ii) it is impossible to test the composition and the quality of raw materials D used in the drugs. The letter of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare dated 16 July 1994 is extracted below: “You may perhaps be aware that Government of India has set up in collaboration with Government of Uttar Pradesh, Indian Medicines Pharmaceutical Corporation ltd. for E manufacture of high quality drugs of the Indian Systems of Medicine. The drugs are prepared strictly in accordance with the classical texts and genuine raw materials are used to prepare these drugs. 2. It is our experience that the ordinary financial procedures F such as tendering are inadequate in relation to the purchase of Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani medicines. This is because:- 1. Of the very wide variation in prices of raw materials required for making the drugs. The cost of the same drug using the best raw materials may be 10 times the cost if the poorest G quality raw materials are used. 2. The impossibility of testing the exact composition of drugs of its raw materials and their quality. 3. Pharmacopeial work in these systems of medicines is at a very initial stages. Tests presently available can reveal the H 496 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A presence of harmful ingredients/adulterants and could indicate the presence of certain compounds at best. However, since the basic components of ISM medicines are herbs which are themselves composed of many organic compounds, its well nigh impossible with the present state of technology to test and check whether the B ingredients claimed are actually present in the proportion claimed and whether they are of the right quality and whether the proper process prescribed in theclassical texts have been used to prepare the medicines. Thus purchases purely on the basis of tendering C are likely to lead to purchase medicines which are inefficacious. 4. The only alternative available at present to ensure quality drugs is to have inspectors at the manufacturing site when the manufacturing process is going on. This also is not a D practical alternative since drug control organisations do not have the man power for close supervision. This situation is responsible for the reported malpractices with regard to such medicines. It is under these circumstances that a decision has been taken in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to purchase the requirements of the CGHS only from IMPCL E at process which are been [] as fair and have been scrutinised by a representative of the Cost Accounts Branch of the Finance Ministry.