27. A careful dissection of clauses (a) and (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 44 shows that they confer primacy upon the Special Court constituted under Section 43(1) of the PMLA. These two clauses contain two Rules, namely, (i)that the offence punishable under the PMLA as C well as a scheduled offence connected to the same shall be triable by the Special Court constituted for the area in which the offence of money- laundering has been committed; and (ii) that if cognizance has been taken by one Court, in respect of the scheduled offence and cognizance has been taken in respect of the offence of money-laundering by the D Special Court, the Court trying the scheduled offence shall commit it to the Special Court trying the offence of money- laundering. 28. It is only because of the Special Court constituted under Section 43(1) being conferred primacy that Section 44(1) begins with the words “notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal E Procedure”. Though the PMLA contains a non-obstante clause in relation to the Cr.P.C, both in Section 44(1) and in Section 45(1), there are two other provisions where the Code of Criminal Procedure is specifically declared to apply to the proceedings before a Special Court. Section 46(1) specifically makes the provisions of the Cr.P.C applicable to proceedings before a Special Court. Similarly, Section 65 of the PMLA F makes the provisions of Cr.P.C apply to arrest, search and seizure, attachment, confiscation, investigation, prosecution and all other proceedings under the Act. 29. Therefore, it is clear that the provisions of the Cr.P.C. are applicable to all proceedings under the Act including proceedings before G the Special Court, except to the extent they are specifically excluded. Hence, Section 71 of the PMLA providing an overriding effect, has to be construed in tune with Section 46(1) and Section 65. 30. Having taken note of the relevant provisions of the PMLA, which have a bearing upon the jurisdiction of the Special Court, let us H RANA AYYUB v. DIRECTORATE OF ENFORCEMENT 905 THROUGH ITS ASSISTANT DIRECTOR [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] now turn our attention to some of the provisions of the Cr.P.C, which A deal with the question of territorial jurisdiction. 31. As pointed out by this Court in Kaushik Chatterjee vs. State of Haryana & Ors.5, the question of territorial jurisdiction in criminal cases revolves around, (i) place of commission of the offence; or (ii) place where the consequence of an act, both of which constitute an B offence, ensues; or (iii) place where the accused was found; or (iv) place where the victim was found; or (v) place where the property in respect of which the offence was committed, was found; or (vi) place where the property forming the subject-matter of an offence was required to be returned or accounted for, etc., according as the case may be. C 32. As articulated in Kaushik Chatterjee(supra), the jurisdiction of a civil court is limited by territorial as well as pecuniary limits, but the jurisdiction of a criminal court is determined by (i)the offence; and/or (ii) the offender.