The power to make laws in the opinion of this court (which is to amend or repeal existing laws), could then by sourced to some other provision as well. In the present case, Section 19 itself is held to be the source which enables Parliament and the State Legislatures (along with Article 246A) to amend the existing laws. The analogy of Entry 97 of the Union List, would be tempting. In the case of Parliament, it could be said that once the power to enact laws relating to service tax stood deleted, Entry 92C also stood in a sense, devoid of its essence. Entry 97 could still arguendo, be a source of power to amend the existing Central laws. That interpretation is not feasible, because the expression used in Section 19 is the competent legislature, and not Parliament; the latter alone can enact in THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 193 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the exercise of the power conferred by Entry 97 of the Union List. However, that conclusion would not be consistent with the coming into force of the Amendment on 16.09.2016. The only harmonious manner of sourcing the power to amend or repeal could be to Section 19 and Article 246Awhich are to be seen as both the power enabling the existing state of aff airs to continue and also enabling both the centre and the states to make necessary changes in the existing laws through amendment or repeal. 94. There is no doubt that the authority to legislate fl ows from the Constitution. In the context of our Constitution, this authority has been traditionally located primarily in Articles 245 and 246. The courts have consistently recognized that the Lists in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution merely delineates the fi elds of legislation; they are not considered as sources of power. The authority or the power stems from Articles 245 and 246. The reorganization of those legislative fi elds particularly Entry 84 of the First List and Entry 54 of the Second List and the conformant of larger powers, upon both the legislative entities i.e. Parliament and the State Legislatures meant that both authorities to legislate upon all subject matters which are comprehended within the description of “goods and services” for the purpose of indirect taxation under Article 246 A. Yet the operationalization of this provision required the formulation of the principles by the GST Council which occurred later. The hiatus between the coming into force of the constitutional amendment and the enactment of a comprehensive legislation, [based upon the recommendations of the GST Council] provided for by Section 19. As held in the previous segment of this Section 19 is to be construed as part of the Constitution for the limited duration it operated and was eff ective. 95. Such being the case the sequitur would have to be that the authority to legislate is expressed through Section 19, read with Article 246A. In other words, in the absence of principles formulated by the GST Council, the authority so to say reserved by Section 19 and Article 246A to amend or repeal the law the subject matter as originally understood itself stood obliterated from the Constitution.