This was turned down by RBI in a letter dated 25-10-2013 as follows: “Application for licence Please refer to your application dated 10-4-2013 requesting for a banking licence. On a scrutiny of the application, we observe that you are registered as a Primary Agricultural Credit Society (PACS). In this connection, we have advised RCS vide Letter dated UBD (T) No. 401/10.00/16A/2013-14 dated 18-10-2013 that in terms of Section 3 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (AACS), PACS are not entitled for obtaining a banking licence. Hence, your society does not come under the purview of Reserve Bank of India. RCS will issue the necessary guidelines in this regard.” Consequently, the of the Full Bench of the Kerala High Court was set aside by observing that Section 80P of the Act, being a benevolent provision enacted by Parliament to encourage and promote the credit of co- operative sector in general must be read liberally and reasonably, and if there is any ambiguity, in favour of the assessee. A deduction that is given without any reference to any restriction or limitation cannot be restricted or limited by implication, as is sought to be done by the Revenue in the said case by adding the word “agriculture” into Section 80P(2)(a)(i) when it is not there. Further, sub-section (4) of Section 80P had to be read as a proviso, which specifi cally excludes co-operative banks which are co-operative societies engaged in banking business i.e., engaged in lending money to members of the public, which have a licence in this behalf from Reserve Bank of India. Therefore, the benefi t of deduction was extended to the assessee in the said case notwithstanding that they may also be giving loans to the members which are not related to agriculture. Also, in case it was found that there are instances of loans being given to non-members, profi ts attributable to such loans obviously cannot be deducted. Analysis: 14. We shall now analyse the aforesaid s in a common conspectus. 360 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 14.1. In Apex Co-operative Bank of Urban Bank of Maharashtra and Goa Ltd., it was categorically held that under Section 56 of the BR Act, 1949 only three co-operative banks have been defi ned, namely, state co-operative bank, central co-operative bank and primary co-operative bank which are covered under Section 56 (cci) read with (ccvii) read with the provisions of the NABARD Act, 1981. Thus, it is only these three banks which are co-operative banks which require a licence under the BR Act, 1949 to engage in banking business. If any bank does not fall within the nomenclature of the aforesaid three banks as defi ned under the NABARD Act, 1981, it would not be a co-operative bankwithin the meaning of Section 56 of BR Act, 1949 irrespective of whatever nomenclature it may have or structure it may possess or incorporated under any Act. It was further stated that if a bank has to be a state co-operative bank, there has to be a declaration made by the State Government in terms of Section 2(u) of NABARD Act, 1981.