There is a 50% tax slab for the city having population of more than one lakh and 45% for the city having population less than one lakh. It is stated that all the entertainment units are charging B Rs.100/- towards the payment for admission to entertainment only. To illustrate: Payment of admission to entertainment = Rs.200/- C less 50% of tax (as per S.3(i) = Rs.100/- Total chargeable amount = Rs.100/- Hence, If the payment for admission to entertainment is less 50% of tax is deducted, the net chargeable amount comes to Rs.100/- (which, in the present case, is not collected by D virtue of the provisions of the Act, tourism policy 1995- 2000, and notification).” ….. “5.10 It is respectfully stated that if any entertainment unit is desirous of availing any benefit of the policy and notifications E then in that case, the entertainment units will have to fall in line with the requirements provided in the said policy and notifications. The entertainment units will have to strictly adhere to the conditions mentioned in the notification and once having accepted the terms and conditions of the said F notification for the purpose of availing of the tax exemption, they cannot now back out under the guise that what the entertainment units are charging towards entertainment tax cannot be recovered by the State Government. It is respectfully stated that any breach of any condition or non-compliance of any of the provisions of the statute, notifications and G circulars would result in termination of exemption granted. At the cost of repetition, I say that to illustrate if Rs.100/- is charged for admission, then it has to be treated as a payment for admission to entertainment excluding tax. When the rate of tax is 50%, it has got to be notionally added to the basic H 122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A net ticket rate of Rs.100/ and it is that net ticket rate of Rs.100/ - which would be benefit availed of and would be liable to be adjusted in terms of the notifications and Government resolutions.” 10. The High Court agreed with the petitioners’ contention and held that as multiplexes which availed of the exemption, had in fact not B collected amounts as tax, there were no question of addition of any further amount but rather that to reckon whether the 100% capital investment (the ceiling limit in the Scheme for exemption) was achieved was to be done by notional determination based upon the actual ticket collection for the relevant period. The finding of the High Court in this C regard pertinently are as follows: “Clause 8 of the Scheme declares that “tax holiday of 5 to 1 O years” will .be’ available in respect of various taxes including “exemption from entertainment upto 100% of capital investment. The said clause provides that the assessee viz .. D the proprietor of an entertainment complex is exempted from paying the tax, payable by him under the Act, till tax is 100% sef off against the 100% value of the eligible capital investment made by the proprietor.