The Trial Court discards the evidence in the same school register, as not being authentic, when the defence had raised the apparent contradictions on the prosecutrix being in school and at the Sanwat Khera village at the same time. This is not a fair appreciation of evidence, to say the least, as same school register is the only basis for the determination of the age of the prosecutrix! 9. This Court in Birad Mal Singhvi v. Anand Purohit (1988) Supp SCC 604 had observed that the date of birth in the register of a school would not have any evidentiary value without the testimony of the person making the entry or the person who gave the date of birth. “14. …The date of birth mentioned in the scholar’s register has no evidentiary value unless the person who made the entry or who gave the date of birth is examined. The entry contained in the admission form or in the scholar’s register must be shown to be made on the basis of information given by the parents or a person having special knowledge about the date of birth of the person concerned. If the entry in the scholar’s register regarding date of birth is made on the basis of information given by parents, the entry would have evidentiary value but if it is given by a stranger or by someone else who had no special means of knowledge of the date of birth, such an entry will have no evidentiary value.” In our opinion, the proof submitted by the prosecution with regard to the age of the prosecutrix in the form of the school register was not suffi cient to arrive at a fi nding that the prosecutrix was less than sixteen years of age, especially when there were contradictory evidences before the Trial Court as to the age of the prosecutrix. It was neither safe nor fair to convict the accused, particularly when the age of the prosecutrix was such a crucial factor in the case. Secondly, we cannot lose sight of the fact that since age was such a crucial factor in the present case, the prosecution should have done a bone ossifi cation test for determination of the age of the prosecutrix. This has not been done in the present case. On the other hand, as per the clinical MANAK CHAND @ MANI v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 83 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] examination of the prosecutrix which was done by PW-1, Dr. Kulwinder Kaur on 28.10.2000 and which has also been referred to in the preceding paragraph of the present , we fi nd that the secondary sex characteristics of the prosecutrix were well developed. The doctor in her report mentions that the prosecutrix is a “well built adult female”. At another place it mentions “well developed pubic hair” and “external genitalia were fully developed and normal”. It then records her age as sixteen years as told to her by the mother of the prosecutrix. The report records that there were no external marks of injury over her breast, neck, face, abdomen and thigh.