There must be clear proof that a defendant “specifically intends to C accomplish the aims of the organization by resort to violence.” Thus, the member for whom the organization is a vehicle for the advancement of legitimate aims and policies does not fall within the ban of the statute: he lacks the requisite specific intent ‘to bring about the overthrow of the government as speedily as D circumstances would permit.’ Such a person may be foolish, deluded, or perhaps merely optimistic, but he is not by this statute made a criminal.” 38. In Noto v. United States52, the Petitioner was convicted of violating the membership clause of the Smith Act, which makes a felony E the acquisition or holding of membership in any organization which advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force or violence, knowing the purpose thereof. The Supreme Court observed that There must be some substantial direct or circumstantial evidence of a call to violence now or in the future which is both sufficiently strong and sufficiently pervasive to lend color to the otherwise ambiguous F theoretical material regarding Communist Party teaching. In this backdrop, it was held that the conviction of the Petitioner is being reversed because the Government has failed to produce evidence the Court believes sufficient to prove that the Communist Party presently advocates the overthrow of the Government by force. G 39. Reliance was placed on the dissenting opinion of Justice Hugo Black in Communist Party v. Subversive Activities Control 51 367 US 203 (1960) 52 367 US 290 (1960) H 576 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Board53. In this case, the registration of the Communist Party of the United States since it was a “Communist action organization,” under the Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950 was brought into question. Justice Hugo Black observed that: “I do not believe that it can be too often repeated that the freedoms of speech, press, petition and assembly guaranteed by the First Amendment must be accorded to the ideas we hate or sooner or B later they will be denied to the ideas we cherish. The first banning of an association because it advocates hated ideas — whether that association be called a political party or not — marks a fateful moment in the history of a free country. That moment seems to have arrived for this country.” 40. In Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee v. McGrath54, C the Petitioner organisations were included by the Attorney General as Communist, without hearing and furnished by him to the Loyalty Review Board of the United States Civil Service Commission. The court, while recognising that the Attorney General had no power to do so, remanded the matter back to the district court. It was observed that: D “In days of great tension, when feelings run high, it is a temptation to take shortcuts by borrowing from the totalitarian techniques of our opponents. But when we do, we set in motion a subversive influence of our own design that destroys us from within.” 41.