1 witness earlier examined 488 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. by the Frontier Level Complaints Committee). Later, the Central Complaints Committee delineated the charges to be inquired by it into 10 distinct points. The points of determination framed by the Committee reads thus: - “VII. CHARGES ACTUALLY INQUIRED INTO AND POINTS TO BE DETERMINED The Complaints Committee is aware that aspects of this complaint are implicated in the FIR that Shri Dilip Paul lodged on 26.08.2011 at P.S. Rangia, on the matter of an allegedly threatening message sent to him on his mobile phones by Smt. X’s husband. In the counter-case fi led by Smt. X’s husband, similar allegations of sexual harassment have been raised. The Committee has ascertained from the SP Kamrup that both the cases are still pending investigation. Nevertheless, going by what has been stated in the CCS, CCA Rules 14(3), which states that action of prosecution in a court and departmental proceedings can go on simultaneously. The CCS CCA Rules require the fact that the approach and objective in the criminal and disciplinary proceedings are altogether distinct and diff erent, be kept in view, as is laid down by the various Supreme Court rulings to this eff ect. Accordingly, the Committee decide to proceed with enquiry and submit its fi ndings. Smt. X has alleged that a few months after she joined Area Offi ce, Rangia in April 2009, Shri Dilip Paul, then A.O. Rangia, started making unwelcome sexual advances to her, and that upon her refusal to submit to his advances and his sexually determined misconduct, he withdrew all work from her. She has cited the following incidents as the substance of her complaint. Point 1: That Shri Dilip Paul would use the pretext of summoning into his room with work-related fi les in to make comments of a sexually loaded and personal nature, such as remarks about her personal appearance and her looks, about how he wanted to marry a Manipuri girl like her. He would also boast at times about his sexual prowess and abilities in satisfying women who were unhappy with their husbands. He would also make comments that had a double meaning (of a sexual nature). On such occasions, he would detain her in his offi ce for inordinately long periods. This charge, if substantiated, is admissible under the Vishaka defi nition of sexual harassment as it UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 489 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] involves sexually coloured remarks and other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual nature. Furthermore, it may also be shown to be discriminatory if it is substantiated that Smt. X believed that her objection to Shri Dilip Paul’s conduct would disadvantage her in connection with her employment and her apprehension that it would create a hostile work environment. Point 2: That Shri Dilip Paul would stare at her in the workplace, such as the repeated incidents in which he would come out from his offi ce into the room that she was sitting, on the pretext of drinking water.