Justice M.C. Mahajan held, inter alia, as follows: “23. The third interpretation of the section finds support from the language employed by the legislature in the opening part of the section, wherein it is said:”Where the Directors decide to increase G the capital of the company by the issue of further shares….” (emphasis supplied) The Directors can only decide to increase the capital at their own initiative when they issue further shares out of the authorised capital. In no other case can the Directors themselves decide as to the increase in the capital of a company. Under Section 50 the capital can only be increased by a resolution H 276 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A of the company. Once the company has increased the nominal capital, then the Directors can issue shares within the new limit. Therefore the authority of the Directors, strictly speaking, in respect to the increase of capital is limited to an increase within the authorised limit. They cannot by their own decision increase the nominal capital of the company. In view of this language the third B interpretation of the section seems more plausible.” 62. Justice S.R. Das, in his separate concurring opinion, purported to adopt slightly different reasons while concurring that the Appeal must be dismissed. Justice S.R. Das with whom Justice B.K. Mukherjea also agreed, inter alia, held as follows: C “65. … The first question is whether the section contemplates increase of capital above the authorised limit, or only below the authorised limit. The learned Attorney General appearing for the Company urges that the words “further shares” must be read in conjunction with the words “decide to increase the capital of the D company” and, so read, must mean shares which are issued for the purpose of increasing the capital beyond the authorised capital. He contends that Section 105-C has no application to this case. 66. Section 50 deals with, among other things, alteration of the E conditions of the memorandum of association of the company by increasing its share capital by the issue of new shares. The very idea of alteration of the memorandum by the issue of new shares clearly indicates that it contemplates an increase of the share capital above the authorised capital with which the company got itself registered. This increase can only be done by the company F in a general meeting as provided in sub-section (2) of Section 50. This increase above the authorisedlimit cannot possibly be doneby the Directors on their own responsibility. Section 105-C, however, speaks of increase of capital by the issue of further shares. The words used are capital and not share capital and further shares G and not new shares. It speaks of increase by the Directors. Therefore, the section only contemplates such increase of capital as is within the competence of the Directors to decide upon. It clearly follows from this that the section is intended to cover a case where the Directors decide to increase the capital by issuing further shares within the authorised limit, for it is only within that H HASMUKHLAL MADHAVLAL PATEL v. AMBIKA FOOD 277 PRODUCTS PVT.