Learned counsel has underscored the submission that in case compensation is awarded in addition to the possession of the property itself, the consumer is not B deprived of the escalation in property prices and thus, an award in terms of simple interest may be suitable, on the given set of facts. Secondly, none of the cases cited by the appellants deal with an exceptionally long period of illegal retention of consideration by the builder i.e., 29-34 years. It is undeniable that the property prices escalate exponentially over such long period of over three decades and thus , any award must correlate to C the economic realities of real-estate price escalation, as well as the enormous unjust enrichment of the builder. 9.6. Learned counsel has submitted that in the present case, the appellants have illegally retained and utilized the payments made by the respondents for a period of 29-34 years and made huge profits thereupon D in real-estate projects. In the event the appellants availed such amounts for its business purpose from a bank, even at the most conservative rates [15.95% p.a. compound interest], they would have to repay a sum of Rs. 17.52 crore. Thus, the appellants at least made this profit by utilizing the payments made by the respondent leading to unjust E enrichment. It is submitted that during the period 1989-1994 when the appellants collected funds from the respondent, lending rates were historically at an all-time high (about 20% p.a. in 1991) and therefore, the modus operandi of the appellants in collecting ‘free capital’ from innocent home buyers without any intent of delivering on their promise, deserves to be disapproved with award of penal damages. F 9.6.1. Learned senior counsel has further submitted that the respondent has made investment in real-estate and not in any other sector; and most conservative measure of escalation of real estate prices is provided by comparing circle rates determined by the Government authorities. In 1989, the circle rate for real estate in Sector 4, Vaishali, G Ghaziabad was Rs. 850/sq. mtr. whereas, since 2016, this circle rate escalated to Rs. 74,200/sq. mtr. Thus, property prices in Sector 4, Vaishali, Ghaziabad have risen exponentially since 1989, at least by a multiple of 87.3 times. According to learned counsel, another way of mathematically expressing the same escalation in property prices, other H 1122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A than by way of a multiple, is by way of computing a rate of compounding and as such, it is equivalent to say that property prices in the area in question have escalated at a compound rate of 15% p.a. from 1989 for the next 32 years. 9.6.2. Learned senior counsel has further argued that the contention B on the part of the appellants with reference to simple rate of interest and disputing the reliance on circle rate is also misleading for the reason that in the year 1989, no circle rates of flats were available. Thus, the respondent has used the then circle rate for land and the present circle rate for land for the purpose of drawing an “apples-to-apples” comparison.