The definition of sale under the Sales Tax legislations are in consonance with Article 366(29-A) as per the Constitution 46th Amendment Act, 1982. The expression “dealer” is defined in Section 2(b) of the Central Sales Tax Act and, accordingly, under the respective State Acts to mean any person D who carries on (whether regularly or otherwise) the business of buying, selling, supplying or distributing goods, directly or indirectly, for cash or for deferred payment, or for commission, remuneration or other valuable consideration. 44. The expression “valuable consideration” is not defined either E under the Central Sales Tax or under the respective State Acts under consideration. “Price” is the amount of consideration which a seller charges the buyer for parting with the title to the goods. The price would include not only the price of the goods but also the expenditure incurred for transporting the goods, duties levied, etc. The entire amount of F consideration including the sales tax component which the purchaser pays, constitutes the price of goods. As already noted, the expression “price” under the Sale of Goods Act is limited to a money consideration, cash or deferred payment but under the definition of “sale” under the Sales Tax legislations, the expression used is not just cash or deferred payment but also a valuable consideration. The expression valuable G consideration has a wider connotation but must be read ejusdem generis to cash and deferred payment. The expression valuable consideration takes colour from the preceding expressions cash or deferred payment, therefore, it means payment in monetary terms i.e. in the nature of cash or deferred payment such as cheque, bank draft, promissory note, etc. H 1334 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Cash and deferred payment are relatable to the expression “money”. In other words, a transaction could amount to a sale if consideration is in terms of money. Thus, money is a genus of which cash or deferred payment in the form of cheque, bank draft, promissory note, etc. are species. Money has a wider connotation to include a valuable consideration in the form of money or a payment in monetary terms which is the price B for the transfer of property paid. Thus, a valuable consideration is also a species of money which is the consideration for the transfer of goods under the sales tax enactments. 45. The aforesaid discussion could be illustrated better with reference to State of T.N. vs. Sri Srinivasa Sales Circulation, (1996) C 10 SCC 648. In the said case, the facts were that under a scheme introduced by the assessee, ‘A’ purchased one coupon from the assessee on payment of Rs.5. ‘A’ was to name a particular kind of goods required by him and mentioned in the said coupon. On receipt of the coupon from ‘A’, the asssessee would forward to him by V.P.P. three more such D coupons. ‘A’ was required to give the said three coupons to three persons ‘B’, ‘C’ and ‘D’ and keep the money so realised to himself.