Act before passing the under Section 72 of the Customs Act, in the absence of which the detention s were void ab initio and non-est in the eyes of law. Secondly, on an of winding up being passed, in terms of Section 456 of the Companies Act,the assets of the company in liquidation, by operation of law, vest in the Offi cial Liquidator, who alone was entitled to deal with the eff ects and actionable claims. Reference was also made to Section 447 of the Companies Act13. Consequently, as the winding up had been passed against the Company but sale was yet to be eff ected, the Offi cial Liquidator was duty bound to take into his custody and control all properties, eff ects and actionable claims, including the movable property, that is, the imported goods. Offi cial Liquidator, as the custodian of all the properties of the Company, functions under the directions of the Company Court. Any person making any claim against the Company has to prove his claim before the Offi cial Liquidator by placing necessary material in support. Accordingly, the submission regarding the custom authorities’ entitlement and right under the Customs Act to sell the imported goods to realise their dues was rejected. 5. On the customs authorities preferring an intra-court appeal, the mater was referred to the full bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on the question of whether the claim of a secured creditor has precedence over the right of the customs authorities to recover the customs duty. The full bench, relying on and approving the ratio of the Calcutta High Court in Collector of Customs v. Dytron (India) Ltd.14, disagreed with the view expressed by a full bench of the Madras High Court in UTI Bank Ltd. v. Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise and Another15. The full bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court has held that Section 46816 of the Companies Act has no application as it empowers the Company Court to require the ‘contributory’ to pay, deliver, surrender or transfer any money, property or books and papers in his custody or control. The 13 We shall subsequently refer to Sections 456 and 447 of the Companies Act, as these provisions are of relevance. 14 1998 SCC OnLine Cal 674. 15 (2007) 135 Company Cases 329 (Mad.). On the aspect of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964, see of this Court in Dena Bank v. Bhikhabhai Prabhudas Parekh & Co. and Others, (2000) 5 SCC 694. 16 Section 468 of the Companies Act has been quoted subsequently. IDBI (THROUGH STRESSED ASSETS STABILIZATION FUND 1059 CONSTITUTED BY THE GoI)v. SUPT. OF CENTRAL EXCISE AND CUSTOMS AND OTHERS [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] word ‘contributory’, defi ned in Section 428 of the Companies Act, does not include the customs department/authorities. Observations relying on the ratio in Dytron (India) Ltd. (supra) have been made, a decision which we would advert to later. 6. Aggrieved, the appellant – IBDI, as a secured creditor, has fi led the present appeal.