Judicial verdicts are not like sand dunes which are subject to the vagaries of wind and weather (See Meghmala v G Narasimha Reddy, (2010) 8 SCC 383). A disturbing trend has emerged in this court of repeated applications, styled as C Miscellaneous Applications, being filed after a final has been pronounced. Such a practice has no legal foundation and must be firmly discouraged. It reduces litigation to a gambit. Miscellaneous Applications are becoming a preferred course to those with resources to pursue strategies to avoid compliance D with judicial decisions. A judicial pronouncement cannot be subject to modification once the has been pronounced, by filing a miscellaneous application. Filing of a miscellaneous application seeking modification/clarification of a is not envisaged in law. Further, it is a settled legal principle that one cannot do indirectly what one cannot do directly [“Quando aliquid E prohibetur ex directo, prohibetur et per obliquum”]. (20) He would submit that there is no occasion for the applicant to file the present application. (21) Learned counsel for the petitioner in the main case would, in fact, agree with the applicant that the questions which have been raised F in the application seeking clarification were not those which arose for consideration in the sought to be clarified. This Court was concerned with the validity of Section 497 IPC. It pronounced on the same. It had nothing to do with the provisions under the Acts. (22) He would submit that no occasion has arisen for this Court to G clarify the accordingly. In fact, this Court posed the following question. In a given case, the authority is presented with the following set of facts. An officer is proceeded against under Section 45 of the 1950 Act; the charge against him is adultery; it is alleged, in other words, that he has committed adultery within the meaning of Section 497 IPC H 594 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A which has been struck down. Mr. Kaleeswaram Raj, learned counsel for the original petitioner, very fairly submits that, the fact that Section 497 IPC has been struck down may not stand in the way of the authorities proceeding against the officer with the aid of the provisions contained in Section 45 of the 1950 Act. Of course, he adds that the decision must finally depend upon the play of facts. B (23) This Court in the case in question was concerned only with the validity of Section 497 IPC and Section 198 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Cr.P.C.’ for brevity). This Court spoke through separate but concurrent s. Apart from the lead of Hon’ble Mr. Justice Dipak Misra, former Chief Justice C of this Court, and with whom, Hon’ble Mr. Justice A. M. Khanwilkar concurred, the other learned Judges wrote separate opinions. However, they agreed that Section 497 IPC and Section 198 Cr.P.C. were unconstitutional. The premise on which the provision was struck down was that it offended Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution.