The statutory appeal fi led against the of punishment of removal, was dismissed by the Appellate Authority. In a challenge to the aforesaid , the High Court opined that the punishment of removal was disproportionate vis-à-vis the gravity of charge framed against him. Finally, it was directed that the punishment of removal be converted into compulsory retirement. The intra-court appeal against the aforesaid appeal was dismissed by the High Court. The matter was agitated before this Court. 534 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 20.1. While interpreting the 1979 Regulations, this Court opined that the legal fi ction created in clause (iii) of Sub-Regulation 20(3) of the 1979 Regulations, must be given full eff ect,but it is well-settled that the scope and ambit of the legal fi ction should be confi ned to the object and purport for which the same has been created. It was opined that the 1979 Regulations could be invoked only when the disciplinary proceeding had been initiated prior to the ceasing of the employees service. The delinquent employee would be deemed to be in service, although he has reached the age of superannuation, only if a valid departmental proceeding had been initiated. The departmental proceeding was not initiated merely on issuance of a show cause notice. It is initiated only when a chargesheet is issued. That is the date of application of mind on the allegations levelled against an employee by the competent authority. Pendency of a preliminary disciplinary inquiry by itself cannot be a ground for invoking Regulation20 of the 1979 Regulations. On an employee having been allowed to superannuate, only proceeding inter alia including, withdrawal of his pension or any other retiral dues under the applicable regulation, could have been initiated. As in that case, the chargesheet was issued after the employee had already superannuated, the same along with inquiry report and the of punishment was set aside. The of removal or dismissal from service can be passed only when an employee is in service. If a person is not in employment, the question of terminating his service ordinarily would not arise unless there exists a specifi c rule in this behalf. In the aforesaid case, even though the employee was not in appeal before this Court against the of his compulsory retirement but still this Court invoking the principles, as contained in XLI Rule 33 CPC, granted relief to the respondent. 21. The Bank, being aggrieved against the aforesaid of this Court, fi led a review petition, which was decided by this Court in Rajinder Lal Capoor -II (supra).While harmoniously construing the 1976 and 1979 Regulations, this Court opined that Clause (iii) of Sub- Regulation 20 (3) of the 1979 Regulations is an independent provision. It provides for continuation of disciplinary proceeding which must have been initiated in terms of the 1976 Regulations. The 1979 Regulations will be applicable only in a case where proceeding has been initiated for the purpose of taking disciplinary action against a delinquent offi cer for the purpose of imposition of punishment on him.