This Court has, however, clearly held that nullification of mandamus by an enactment would be impermissible legislative exercise. This Court has B further held that transgression of constitutional limitations and intrusion into the judicial power by the legislature is violative of the principle of separation of powers, the rule of law and of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 115. Though it is the contention of the learned Solicitor General C that the of this Court in Common Cause (2021) was rendered on the basis of the FR existing then, which now stand altered and the very foundation of the is taken away, we are unable to accept the said contention. On the contrary, as could be seen from the in Common Cause (2021), this Court found that there was no proscription D on the Government to appoint a Director of Enforcement beyond a period of two years. This Court, in fact, observed that the Government has a power to appoint a person as Director of Enforcement for a period of more than two years. This Court found that Section 25 of the CVC Act cannot be said to be inconsistent with Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. It is not, as if, that this Court has held that the Government had no E power to make an appointment beyond the period of two years. By the impugned Amendments, the position is clarified, the challenge to which, we have found to be unsustainable. As such, the contention that the very foundation on which of this Court in the case of Common Cause (2021) was based is taken away is without substance. F 116. As already discussed herein above, this Court has specifically issued a mandamus that no further extension shall be granted to the second respondent. The Union of India and the respondent No.2 were both parties in the proceedings before this Court in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 1374 of 2020 [Common Cause (2021)]. The mandamus issued to be parties was binding on them. We, therefore, find that the respondent G No.1 could not have issued s dated 17th November 2021 and 17th November 2022 in breach of the mandamus issued by this Court vide its dated 8th September 2021 in Common Cause (2021). 117. Insofar as the reliance placed by Shri Raju on the of this Court in the case of M/s Kishan Lal Lakhmi Chand and others H DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 585 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] (supra) is concerned, the said would be of no assistance to the A case of the respondents. It would be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court: “8. ……However, to a query put by the Court to Shri Salve as to how Section 11 of the Act could be upheld validating retrospectively by retaining the fund collected under Act 12 of 1983 with the B State Government, he stated in fairness that Section 11 was enacted only to defuse the effect of the writ of mandamus issued by this Court in Om Prakash case [(1986) 1 SCC 722] to refund the fee collected therein to the appellants therein, but under its guise the State did not intend to nor would it intend to retain the C said fund collected under the predecessor Act 12 of 1983 from September 30, 1983, the date on which the notification under Section 5(1) of that Act was published in the State Gazette and the entire fund would be passed on to the credit of the Board under the Act.