Authorities drew a distinction between fraudulent misrepresentation as to the character of the document and fraudulent misrepresentation as to the contents thereof. It was held that the defence was available only if the mistake was as to the very nature or character of the transaction. 14. In Foster v. Mackinnon [(1869) LR 4 CP 704 : 38 LJCP 310], Mackinnon, the defendant was induced to endorse a bill of exchange on the false representation that it was a guarantee similar to one he had signed on a previous occasion. He was held not liable when sued even by an innocent endorsee of the bill. Byles, J. said: “... The defendant never intended to sign that contract or any such contract. He never intended to put his name to any instrument that then was or thereafter might become negotiable. He was deceived, not merely as to the legal eff ect, but as to the ‘actual contents’ of the instrument.” 15. This decision was referred to with approval by this Court in Ningawwa v. Byrappa [(1968) 2 SCR 797 : AIR 1968 SC 956] . It was observed: (SCR pp. 800-01) “It is well established that a contract or other transaction induced or tainted by fraud is not void, but only voidable at the option of the party defrauded. Until it is avoided, the transaction is valid, so that third parties without notice of the fraud may in the meantime acquire rights and interests in the matter which they may enforce against the party defrauded.” 360 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. This would be a voidable transaction. But the position was held to be diff erent if the fraud or misrepresentation related to the character of the document. This court held: (SCR p. 801) “The legal position will be different if there is a fraudulent misrepresentation not merely as to the contents of the document but as to its character. The authorities make a clear distinction between fraudulent misrepresentation as to the character of the document and fraudulent misrepresentation as to the contents thereof. With reference to the former, it has been held that the transaction is void, while in the case of the latter, it is merely voidable.” (emphasis supplied) However the House of Lords in Saunders v. Anglia Building Society [1971 AC 1004 : (1970) 3 All ER 961] reviewed the law and held that the essential features of the doctrine, as expressed by Byles, J. in Foster v. Mackinnon [ Chitty on Contracts, 25th edn., p. 341] , had been correctly stated. Lord Reid, however, observed: (AC headnote at p. 1005) “The plea of non est factum could not be available to anyone who signed without taking the trouble to fi nd out at least the general eff ect of the document. Nor could it be available to a person whose mistake was really a mistake as to the legal eff ect of the document. There must be a radical or fundamental diff erence between what he signed and what he thought he was signing.”” 19.