The Report submitted by IIT (on the basis of which, the ban was fi rst imposed) states that consumption of reinforced paper cups would be deleterious to the environment as it would lead to cutting of more trees, and the recycling of which, will cause more pollution. It also recommended alternatives such as leaf products, kora grass, products made of coconut, screw pine, earthen products, steel products, etc. The Expert Committee Report, similarly, concluded that paper cups are near impossible to recycle due to the LDPE coating, while relying on the CIPET testing. 45. That these cups are indiscriminately used and thrown, as a single use product (often to drink a warm beverage) – requires no statistics. By composition itself, they are non-biodegradable, and there is immense diffi culty in their recycling, as it requires appropriate collecting mechanisms, strict segregation, to name a few of the challenges. The appellants insisted that that this is a situation of not having an eff ective collective mechanism, which the local municipal corporations are responsible for as per the 2016 Rules; they also off ered to take up the responsibility. However, given that there is scientifi c basis for the ban, and it is the State Government’s policy decision to ban numerous categories of single use plastic products, in public interest, there is little room or reason, for this court to interfere on the ground of merits of the ban. TAMIL NADU AND PUDUCHERRY PAPER CUP MANUFACTURES 1153 ASSOCIATION v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 46. Therefore, the contention that the ban is over inclusive, and disproportionate, are in the considered opinion of this court, not made out in relation to reinforced paper cups. The appellant’s right under Article 19(1)(g) has, without a doubt, been restricted; but in the larger interest of the general public to enjoy a pollution free environment the restriction was reasonable as per Article 19(6) of the Constitution of India, and is therefore, upheld. (ii) Non-woven plastic bags 47. The ban of non-woven plastic bags was explained in the letter dated 08.12.2018 in response to a manufacturer-association seeking clarifi cation. The letter read: “Non woven carry bags are made up of polypropylene, which does not easily degrade in natural environment. Further, non-woven fabric carry bag samples tested from CIPET, Chennai for Material Identifi cation test analysis, indicates that it is a polypropylene (synthetic plastic). The polymeric nature is not easily degradable under natural environmental conditions. Accordingly, the non woven polypropylene carry bags are banned” 48. This court is of the considered opinion that the arguments in the case of the non-woven bag, stand on a slightly diff erent footing. These bags, it appears are reusable in nature to some extent. Their composition/ proportion of polypropene and fi ller used, in the manufacture of these bags, is customizable. Therefore, the appellant contended that the overall ban was disproportionate. The State insisted that despite being said to be reusable to an extent, they are indiscriminately disposed and cause littering, which damage ground water, soil quality, etc., because they do not biodegrade properly, and this therefore, justifi ed the ban.