FIRST GLOBAL STOCKBROKING PVT. LTD. v. ANIL 427 RISHIRAJ [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] (4) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3) all offences committed under the repealed Act shall continue to be governed by the provisions of the repealed Act as if that Act had not been repealed. (5) Notwithstanding such repeal,– (a) anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including any rule, notifi cation, inspection, or notice made or issued or any appointment, confi rmation or declaration made or any license, permission, authorization or exemption granted or any document or instrument executed or any direction given under the Act hereby repealed shall, in so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act; (b) any appeal preferred to the Appellate Board under sub-section (2) of section 52 of the repealed Act but not disposed of before the commencement of this Act shall stand transferred to and shall disposed of by the Appellate Tribunal constituted under this Act; (c) every appeal from any decision or of the Appellate Board under sub-section (3) or sub-section (4) of section 52 of the repealed Act shall, if not fi led before the commencement of this Act, be fi lled before the High Court within a period of sixty days of such commencement: Provided that the High Court may entertain such appeal after the expiry of the said period of sixty days if it is satisfi ed that the appellant was prevented by suffi cient cause from fi ling the appeal with the said period.” (emphasis added) 9. From the impugned , it appears that the submissions were made on behalf of the appellants that the word “and” in sub-section (3) must be read as “or”, and therefore, there is a bar on taking cognizance of the off ence under FERA after the repeal of FERA. The High Court has elaborately and eruditely dealt with this argument. However, that need not 428 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. detain us as the submissions made before this Court proceed on the footing that there is a sunset period available of two years as provided in sub-section (3) of Section 49 of FEMA for fi ling complaints alleging the commission of off ences punishable under Sections 56 and 57 of FERA and for taking cognizance thereof. 10. In the facts of the case, the cognizance was taken by the learned Magistrate within the sunset period of two years provided under sub-section (3) of Section 49 of FEMA. 11. We have perused the complaint fi led by the fi rst respondent. The complaint has been fi led by the fi rst respondent, who was, at the relevant time, an Enforcement Offi cer appointed under clause (e) of Section 3 of FERA. As noted earlier, the power under sub-clause (b) of clause (ii) of sub-section (2) of Section 61 was exercised by the Central Government and all the Enforcement Offi cers were authorised to fi le complaints regarding the off ences punishable under Sections 56 and 57 of FERA.