If drafters believe that there is a need for additional clarity beyond the reference to “any person” to ensure that those who launder their own proceeds are covered, a provision can F be added as “[t]he offences set forth in Section 3(2) - (5) shall also apply to the person who has committed the offence(s), other than money laundering, that generated the proceeds of crime.” 92. Similarly, the portion of the Drafting Note in the Model Law, G enlisting the kind of activities that may constitute the offence of money laundering reads as follows: “Kinds of Offences: As the UN’s Legislative Guide to the Palermo Convention and Legislative Guide for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention Against H Corruption make clear, there are four general kinds of Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1085 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] conduct that should be criminalized. The minimum A requirements for each are: 1. Conversion or transfer of proceeds of crime. This includes “instances in which financial assets are converted from one form or type to another, for example, by using illicitly generated cash to purchase precious metals or real estate or B the sale of illicitly acquired real estate, as well as instances in which the same assets are moved from one place or jurisdiction to another or from one bank account to another.” (See, e.g., paragraph 231, in Legislative Guide for the implementation of the UN Corruption Convention). Regarding mental C elements, the conversion or transfer must be intentional, the accused must have knowledge at the time of conversion or transfer that the assets are criminal proceeds, and the act must be done for either one of the two purposes stated – concealing or disguising criminal origin or helping any person (whether one’s self or another) to evade criminal liability for D the crime that generated the proceeds. 2. Concealment or disguise of proceeds of crime. There are many aspects noted in the provision as to which there can be concealment or disguise – almost any aspect of, or information about, the property, so this section is broad. The concealment E or disguise must be intentional and the accused must have knowledge that the property constitutes proceeds of crime at the time of the act. This provision deals with the intentional deception of others. This will include the intentional deception of law enforcement authorities. True nature may be the F essential quality of it having been derived from criminal activity. Origin may be the physical origin, or its origin in criminality. For this second offence, there should not be a requirement of proof that the purpose of the concealment or disguise is to frustrate the tracing of the asset or to conceal its true origin. Although as a general matter this will be the G purpose of the concealing or disguising, the applicable UN Conventions require that there be criminalization that is not dependent upon a showing of such purpose. 3. Acquisition, possession or use of proceeds. This section imposes liability on recipients who acquire, possess or use H 1086 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.