That what is covered by the Central Act is “recognised medical D qualification” within the meaning of Section 2(h) of the Act read with the qualifications included in the First Schedule to the said Central Act and not Diploma in Rural Health Care and Medicine. Therefore, as long as the Parliament does not occupy the field earmarked for it under Entry 66 of List I or for that matter by invoking its concurrent powers E under Entry 25 of List III, the question of competence of the State Legislature to regulate and register the Diploma Holders in medicine and rural health care and their practice of medicine in rural areas cannot be questioned. v. That repugnancy arises when two enactments, both within F the competence of two legislatures collide and when the Constitution expressly or by necessary implication provides that the enactment of one legislature has superiority over the other, then to the extent of repugnancy one supersedes the other. Reliance was placed on Hingir - Rampur Coal G Co. Ltd. vs. State of Orissa, AIR 1961 SC 459, (“Hingir - Rampur Coal Co. Ltd.”) wherein thisCourt observed that in a case where a declaration is made by the Parliament that it is expedient in the public interest to take over the field, in such a case, the test must be whether legislative declaration covers the field or not. It was submitted on behalf H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 943 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] of the State of Assam that in the said case a distinction A must be drawn between the Entries in List I wherein a declaration by the Parliament to take over the field is expressed and to other Entries in List I which do not contain such a declaration. That Entry 66 of List I does not contain any such declaration; therefore, it would be appropriate to B go by the language of Entry 25 of List III i.e., “subject to”. Thus, the test is to find out the true nature and character of the State Legislation. Any incidental encroachment in the process would not vitiate the State law. Thus, the Assam Act and the Central Act can co-exist within their respective spheres and the provisions of Assam Act are not repugnant C to the provisions of the Central Act, hence, there is no requirement of complying with the provisions of Article 254(2) of the Constitution of India. 10. Sri. Rana Mukherjee, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioners in Transferred Case Nos.24 and 25 of 2018 drew our D attention to the relief sought for by the petitioners therein and contended that the status and position of the petitioners therein, subsequent to the enactment of the ‘2015 Act’ has been adversely altered. Hence, the petitioners therein have assailed the said Act. He contended that the petitioners therein were imparted medical education under the Assam E Act and have been trained under the said Act and are registered as Rural Health Practitioners and have been serving as Rural Health Practitioners in various States.