Counsel also relied on BOC India Ltd. vs. Bhagwati Oxygen Ltd7 and urged that since the tribunal had relied on a plausible view on interpretation of the contract, it was not open to the court to set aside the award. 11. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati learned Additional Solicitor General (ASG) appeared for NHAI and urged the court not to interfere with the impugned of the High Court and other decisions which followed it, which are the subject matter of all these appeals. She contended that the Division Bench’s interference with the award was justifi ed and warranted. Learned counsel highlighted the diff erence in the stipulations as they existed in the contract as opposed to what was cited in the majority award which is the subject matter of appeal in the impugned . It was contended that the clause was wrongly reproduced and consequently, not only vitiated by incorrect interpretation but rather a case of rewriting the terms of the contract by the tribunal. This meant that the tribunal acted beyond the terms of the contract. Learned counsel, emphasized that such rewriting was suffi cient justifi cation for the Division Bench to interfere with the award. This aspect had been lost sight of – even overlooked by the learned Single Judge. 12. It was argued next that the interpretation by the contractors and the tribunal, if accepted, will lead to absurd results so far as the ratio of soil and pond ash used in an embankment is concerned. These components or materials vary from case to case. Therefore, it would be illogical and rather unfair to cast a liability upon the NHAI to pay at one rate regardless of the soil and pond ash used for the work. Learned counsel highlighted that embankment construction can involve varied ratios of such materials – ranging from 9:1 to 3:2 at diff erent locations. Therefore, the Division 6 2014 [13] SCR 895 7 2007 [3] SCR 915 M/S HINDUSTAN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY LIMITED v. 631 M/S NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Bench correctly held that it would not be justifi ed to cast this liability upon the NHAI. 13. It was also highlighted that the tribunal and the learned Single Judge erred in improperly analyzing the stipulations and conditions in the contract. Clauses 2.02(a) and (b) reveal that there is only BOQ Item, i.e., embankment. The separate treatment in the stipulation only meant that the embankment could be constructed one way, where the soil was used and second, where both soil and pond ash was used. Learned counsel submitted that in terms of clause 305.8 of the technical specifi cations, cross-sections had to be quantifi ed proportionately. The ASG further highlighted that for two years, separate measurements were taken and consequently it was incorrect to contend that separate measurements for both the materials were not possible. It was further argued that embankment work with pond ash and soil is completed by layering wherever concerned materials are necessary and easily capable of measurement.