There is no material produced in the trial, apart from the interested testimony of the police officers, to show that the D charas and ganja were seized from the possession of the accused or that the samples sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory were taken from the drugs seized from the possession of the accused. Although the High Court noticed the fact that the charas and ganja alleged to have been seized from the custody of the accused had neither been produced in the court, nor marked as articles, E which ought to have been done, the High Court brushed aside the contention by observing that it would not vitiate the conviction as it had been proved that the samples were sent to the Chemical Examiner in a properly sealed condition and those were found to be charas and ganja. The High Court observed, “non-production F of these commodities before the court is not fatal to the prosecution. The defence also did not insist during the trial that these commodities should be produced”. The High Court relied on Section 465 CrPC to hold that non-production of the material object was a mere procedural irregularity and did not cause prejudice to the accused. G 6. In our view, the view taken by the High Court is unsustainable. In the trial it was necessary for the prosecution to establish by cogent evidence that the alleged quantities of charas and ganja were seized from the possession of the accused. The best evidence would have H MANGILAL v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 529 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] been the seized materials which ought to have been A produced during the trial and marked as material objects. There is no explanation for this failure to produce them. Mere oral evidence as to their features and production of panchnama does not discharge the heavy burden which lies on the prosecution, particularly where the offence is B punishable with a stringent sentence as under the NDPS Act. In this case, we notice that panchas have turned hostile so the panchnama is nothing but a document written by the police officer concerned. The suggestion made by the defence in the cross- examination is worthy of notice. It was suggested to the prosecution witnesses that the landlady of the house in collusion C with the police had lodged a false case only for evicting the accused from the house in which they were living. Finally, we notice that the investigating officer was also not examined. Against this background, to say that, despite the panch witnesses having turned hostile, the non-examination of the investigating officer and non- D production of the seized drugs, the conviction under the NDPS Act can still be sustained, is far-fetched.” (emphasis supplied) 12. We further find that memorandum under Section 27 of the Act, as witnessed by the two witnesses, P.W.3 and P.W.4 would be of E no value in evidence as there is no discovery of new fact involved. Be that as it may, these witnesses also turned hostile.