17. When there is an express provision available under the CPC or any statute under which an appeal is maintainable, by-passing the same, THE KOUSHIK MUTUALLY AIDED COOPERATIVE 847 HOUSING SOCIETY v. AMEENA BEGUM & ANOTHER a Revision Petition cannot be fi led. It is needless to observe that in the absence of an appellate remedy, a revision may be maintainable. 18. It is clarifi ed that once the Trial Court dismissed the application seeking condonation of delay in fi ling petition under IX Rule 13 CPC, and consequently, the main petition under IX Rule 13 CPC also stood dismissed which is also noted by the trial Court as “In the result, the petition is dismissed”. 19. Realising this aspect regarding the maintainability of a revision petition before the High Court, Sri Sajan Poovayya, learned senior counsel submitted that liberty may be reserved to the fi rst respondent herein to fi le an appeal and if such an appeal is fi led within a time frame to be granted by this Court, the issue of limitation in fi ling the appeal under XLIII Rule 1(d) CPC may not be raised by the High Court By way of response, Sri C. S. Vaidyanathan, learned senior counsel submitted that if the impugned is set aside and liberty is reserved to the fi rst respondent herein, the appellant may not be prejudiced by such an . 20. In the circumstances, we set aside the impugned on the ground that the said was passed in a Civil Revision Petition which was not at all maintainable under Section 115 of the CPC. However, liberty is reserved to the fi rst respondent herein to fi le an appeal under XLIII Rule 1(d) CPC, if so advised, on or before 31.12.2023. 21. If such an appeal is fi led before the High Court, the point of limitation ought not to be raised by the High Court. 22. It is needless to observe that the High Court shall dispose of the appeal to be fi led by the fi rst respondent herein in accordance with law. 23. All contentions on both sides are left open, to be advanced in the appeal to be fi led before the High Court. 24. This Appeal is allowed and disposed of in the aforesaid terms. No costs. Pending application (s) shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Divya Pandey