A case was then registered by Police on E 11.05.2000 under Section 364 IPC. The body of the deceased was recovered next day i.e. on 12.05.2000, at 1.30 P.M. from a canal. The inquest was conducted the same day and the body was sent for post-mortem. The post-mortem was conducted at about 4:15 P.M. on 12.05.2000 by Dr. Sumesh Garg F (PW-4) and Dr. Ashok Kumar Sharma at Civil Hospital, Jagadhri. The body was found to be swollen with the skin peeling off from many places. Rigor mortis was found to be present in all four limbs of the deceased, but was absent in the neck. The tongue and lips of the deceased was dark red in colour and swollen and further there was red coloured froth coming out from the mouth and nostrils. There was a ligature mark of 53 G cm x 8 cm around the neck, over the thyroid and hyoid cartilage. The base of the ligature mark was hard and the margins of the ligature mark were pale and parchment like. The post-mortem report further states that the ligature marks present on the body disclosed an ante-mortem strangulation. The Pericardium was found to be congested, with the left H chamber of the heart to be empty and the right chamber of the heart DDIINNEESSHH KKUUMMAARR vv.. TTHHEE SSTTAATTEE OOFF HHAARRYYAANNAA 227 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] was found to have little blood. Ultimately the cause of death was asphyxia A due to strangulation which was ante-mortem in nature. The post mortem examination of the body shows that rigor mortis was present in all the four limbs of the body, but was not there in the neck. This was indicative of the fact that rigor mortis was receding from the body. Generally speaking, rigor mortis sets in one to two hours B after the death, and develops from head to foot in about 12 hours. Rigor mortis then disappears in the same sequence i.e. first from the head, then neck and then to the lower part of the body. In northern India, rigor mortis lasts about 24 to 48 hours in winters and 18 to 36 hours in summers. All the same, there are many variables. The body structure, and the C health of the deceased, the fact that it was kept in cold water and away from heat will all slow down the process of rigor mortis1. Rigor mortis disappears late in bodies which are immersed in cold water.2 In the case at hand, the body of the deceased was recovered from a canal, and therefore the possibility that rigor mortis would still D remain in the body cannot be entirely ruled out, but this has nowhere been explained. Although the exact time when the deceased died has not come out but the prosecution case is that he was murdered by the accused (Dinesh Kumar and Mange Ram) on 08.05.2000 itself. If this is so, then the rigor mortis has remained in the body for about 90 hours, which is unusual.