The junior members were entitled to their shares after deducting the Haqe Inthezam and other administrative expenses. There used to be others also known as Guzaryats. 17. The Paigah Estate included some Zat Jagirs as distinct from E the Paigah taluks granted from time to time. They too were eventually merged in the Paigah estates. The holder of the Paigah was called Amir. Though the holder was the Amir, the heirs of the original grantees, as in the case of any other Jagirs, were entitled to their respective shares in the revenue, by inheritance, of course, after deducting the F share of the Amir and also the administrative expenses. The Amir had a special share of his own to support his position as the head and manager of the Paigah and its representative towards the Nizam and the public. This share was previously unascertained. That was the reason why until the death of Sir Khurshid Jah and the other respective holders of the Paigah, the Amirs were practically the only persons to be considered G and they could take for themselves what part of the income they thought fit. 18. In to remedy the injustice caused by such arbitrary and capricious way of appropriation of the income, several committees came up with proposals. Sir Brain Egerton’s Committee proposed among other H M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 293 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] things that the Amir should be allowed to take 11D 2 annas in the rupee A of the gross income of the Paigah. The Reilly Commission proposed that Amir should take a definite portion of the net, instead of the gross income of the Paigah. In fact, in respect of Jagirs there was also a Farman of 1340 H that the manager should be allowed 4 annas in the rupee of the net income. B 19. Sir Khurshid Jah died on Rabi-al-Thani, 1320 H (July, 1902) leaving behind him surviving, two sons, by name Imam Jung and Zafar Jung as his only recognised legitimate heirs. As already stated, any grant of Jagir, on the death of the grantee would lapse to the Crown and a fresh grant could be made to any of the heirs of the previous grantee. C The Nizam had ample powers to resume the Jagirs or to appoint any person, be he the eldest son or not, as the Amir or make any other arrangements. 20. On the death of Sir Khursid Jah, no Amir was appointed by the Nizam in relation to that Paigah until 1345 H (February, 1927) and D no member of the family was put in complete charge of the Paigah. Nawab Zafar Jung, under a Farman issued a few weeks after the death of Sir Khurshid Jah, was put in charge of the Khurshid Jahi Paigah as a mere supervisor and trustee to carry on the ordinary routine work and was directed to take the Nizam’s s on all important matters and to account for the income and expenditure of the estate.