C 112. The provisions of the statute and statutory conditions of supply need to be examined to determine whether the conditions of supply provide for the creation of a charge in terms of Section 100 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. Once it is established that a statutory charge is created and required notice was given, the charge attaches to the property D and the licensee is entitled to recover the unpaid electricity dues by proceeding against the premises. Consequent to the charge created, Article 62 of the Indian Limitation Act, 1963 would come into play. Article 62 of the Limitation Act relates to enforcing the payment of money procured by mortgaged or otherwise charged upon the immoveable property. The electricity utilities would get a period of twelve years to E recover the dues charged on the immoveable property from the date when the money payable became due. 113. In light of the above discussion, we are of the opinion that the electricity utilities can create a charge by framing subordinate legislation or statutory conditions of supply enabling recovery of electricity arrears F from a subsequent transferee. Such a condition is rooted in the importance of protecting electricity which is a public good. Public utilities invest huge amounts of capital and infrastructure in providing electricity supply. The failure or inability to recover outstanding electricity dues of the premises would negatively impact the functioning of such public utilities G and licensees. In the larger public interest, conditions are incorporated in subordinate legislation whereby Electric Utilities can recoup electricity arrears. Recoupment of electricity arrears is necessary to provide funding and investment in laying down new infrastructure and maintaining the existing infrastructure. In the absence of such a provision, Electric Utilities would be left without any recourse and would be compelled to grant a H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 701 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] fresh electricity connection, even when huge arrears of electricity are A outstanding. Besides impacting on the financial health of the Utilities, this would impact the wider body of consumers. VI. Implication of Section 56(2) on recovery of electricity dues by Electric Utilities B 114. The Electric Utilities have submitted that Section 56 of the 2003 Act only deals with the right of the licensee to disconnect supply. Explaining the scope of the relevant provision, it has been submitted that Section 56 sets out different timelines, namely (a) when the disconnection can be made i.e., when payment of charges is not made after giving requisite notice; (b) how long the disconnection can be maintained i.e., C so long as the outstanding dues remain; and (c) when it is to be restored i.e., immediately when the outstanding dues are paid. Reliance has been placed on Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited v. Rahamatullah Khan,54 and M/s Prem Cortex v. Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited55 to contend that the use of the expression “under this section” D in Section 56(2) means that the avenue of effecting disconnection to recover money cannot be resorted to after the limitation period.