v. SHRI 201 TEJRAO BAJIRAO MHASKE & ORS. [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] needs no further elaboration. An inter-se dispute on the validity of the A sale deed dated 04.07.1978, if at all between the second and first defendants, could not have been considered in the subject-suit, for the reasons already mentioned as it would amount to adjudication of right or a claim, by way of counter-claim by one defendant against his co- defendant. Finding on its voidness under the Fragmentation Act was B already held as unsustainable by us. 35.In the context of the contentions of the second defendant/the first respondent herein against Ext. 128, taking note of its registration and the admission of its execution it is only proper to refer to Sections 91 and 92 of the Evidence Act. Certainly, parol evidence is admissible to C show that a contract embodied in a document was never intended to be acted upon but was made for some collateral purpose. But, in view of the specific finding in the of the High Court, which is in favour of the second defendant, that the consistent stand of the second defendant is that he has sold one acre of land by the sale deed at Ext.128 for a total consideration of Rs. 3000/- and admission of execution of sale deed D dated 04.07.1978 in favour of the first defendant and in the absence of anything on record establishing annulment of the said sale deed and also in view of the fact that the first defendant is also a co-executant. We do not think it proper or necessary to enter into the extrinsic evidence relating sale transaction covered by sale deed dated 04.07.1978. It is to be noted E that here, by virtue of Section 54, of the Transfer of Property Act and Section 17 of the Registration Act and since the immovable property was worth more than Rs. 100/- Ext.128 was reduced in writing and registered. The intention of the parties are also reflected specifically in Ext.128 and at the same, nothing reflecting a contra-intention not to pass the title and ownership in present even impliedly therein. In other words, F the need to take into consideration the surrounding circumstances and the conduct of parties in deciding the passing of title would arise only if the recitals in the document are indecisive and ambiguous. The oral evidence of the second defendant could not override the registered Ext. 128 sale deed, as held by the First Appellate Court in the facts, G circumstances and evidence on record in this case. In such circumstances, no other question(s) need be considered. The upshot of our consideration as above, is that the High Court has committed a serious error based on perverse appreciation of evidence, in setting aside the and decree of the First Appellate Court decreeing the subject suit and in restoring the decree of dismissal of the suit of the trial Court. H 202 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 36.In the result, we allow the appeal with costs and set aside the and final dated 30.10.2015 in Second Appeal No.