Sub-section (1) of Section 4, for good reasons, specifically provides that if the application is rejected, the reasons for the rejection must be recorded. As an rejecting the D application for the grant of a caste certificate is made appealable under sub-section (1) of Section 5, the appellate authority should have the benefit of the reasons for rejection. 14. Under Section 9, the Competent Authority, Appellate Authority and Scrutiny Committee have been granted powers of Civil Court under E the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 of summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath, requiring the discovery and production of any documents, receiving evidence on affidavits, requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any Court or office and issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents. However, the nature and extent of the inquiry which is F required to be made by the Competent Authority and by the Scrutiny Committee differ. The 2000 Act has introduced a two-tier system for the verification of caste claims. In view of the express language used by sub-section (2) of Section 4, the caste certificate issued by the Competent Authority does not conclusively establish the caste claim of the applicant. G The person to whom the caste certificate is granted by the Competent Authority cannot claim that his caste status has been established. The caste certificate issued by Competent Authority becomes conclusive evidence of the caste stated therein only after a detailed enquiry as contemplated by the 2000 Act and rules framed thereunder is made by the Scrutiny Committee and the certificate is validated. Therefore, when H MAH. ADIWASI THAKUR JAMAT SWARAKSHAN SAMITI v. 1119 THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] an application made under Section 3 for the grant of a caste certificate A is considered by the Competent Authority, very detailed scrutiny of material produced by the applicant is not contemplated. What is contemplated is prima facie satisfaction of the genuineness of the caste claim and on the basis of such satisfaction that a caste certificate as contemplated by sub-section (1) of Section 4 can be issued. Therefore, B sub-section (1) of Section 4 specifically requires the Competent Authority to record reasons for rejecting the application but there is no such requirement incorporated of giving reasons while granting a caste certificate. However, the Caste Scrutiny Committee is expected to record reasons both for validating and not validating the caste certificate. Sub- rule (6) of Rule 4 of the ST Rules provides that the Competent Authority C shall verify the documents produced by the applicant with the original documents and if satisfied with the correctness of the information, documents and evidence furnished by the applicant, it shall issue a Scheduled Tribe certificate within 15 days from the date of receipt of the application. The time limit fixed under the said Rule is also a pointer D which suggests that the enquiry to be made by the Competent Authority is a summary enquiry and a detailed enquiry is not contemplated.