9. The admissible loss is the lowest of the values computed on the strength of the above three calculation methods. The following values of loss were worked out by the appellant: Input Cost Method – `75,98,361/-; Unit Cost Method - `75,87,750/-; and Fortnightly Valuation Method – `79,20,000/- . The respondent insurance company, however, disputes the same. Thus, the issue primarily boils down to quantifying the insurance amount payable to the appellant, in terms of the aforestated three methodologies. 82 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 10. As noted hereinbefore, the NCDRC deemed it fi t to place reliance on a part of the report dated 22.09.1995 of the three surveyors, despite rejecting several observations made therein as baseless value s and surmises. In such a situation, the average body weight of each prawn assessed by those valuers was equally suspect. It may also be noted that the earlier report dated 01.09.1995 of M/s. Frank & Fair Investigators had estimated the average body weight of the dead prawns/salvaged prawns to be between 10 grams to 12 grams each. This report also recorded that Professor M.Rama Seshaiah from the Department of Marine Living Resources had visited the appellant’s prawn farm on 02.12.1994 and had observed, when the cast nets were hauled in 6 to 8 ponds, that the salvaged prawns/dead prawns were not more than 12 grams in weight each. Similarly, Dr. G. Sudhakar Rao, Scientist, CMERI, had stated that the average weight of the dead prawns was not more than 10 grams each. It is an admitted fact that the average body weight of the prawns would decrease drastically upon death. Therefore, if the earlier survey report placed the average body weight of the dead prawns between 10 grams to 12 grams each, their weight while they were alive would have been far higher. This estimation is fortifi ed by the Death Certifi cate dated 01.05.1995 issued by the Directorate of Fisheries, Andhra Pradesh, Visakhapatnam, which confi rmed that the average weight of each prawn at the time of death/loss would have been 17.78 grams. This fi gure is more logical and acceptable, as the insurance policy itself envisaged the average body weight of the prawns to go up to 33 grams at the time of yield, which was just two months after the outbreak of the fatal disease. 11. The respondent insurance company seeks to wash its hands off the aforestated Death Certifi cate dated 01.05.1995 and dismiss it altogether. It may, however, be noted that in its written statement fi led before the NCDRC, the insurance company had itself stated that it was the duty of the claimant/insured to obtain the death certifi cate from the Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA), Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India, or from the State Fisheries Department. Reference was made by the insurance company to its letter dated 17.04.1995 addressed to the appellant, wherein it had pointed out that it was clearly mentioned in the claim form that the death certifi cate must be signed either by the MPEDA authorities or by the State Fisheries Department and called upon the appellant to obtain the certifi cate from either of the authorities and submit it to the company for further action.