[2023] 1 S.C.R. 797 797 EX-CONST/DVR MUKESH KUMAR RAIGAR A v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. (Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 10499 of 2022) JANUARY 16, 2023 B [AJAY RASTOGI AND BELA M. TRIVEDI, JJ.] Service Law : Removal from service – Constable found guilty of gross misconduct and indiscipline – Suppression of pending criminal litigation in the verification form submitted at the time of C appointment – Departmental inquiry – of removal from the services – Single Judge of the High Court set aside the dismissal and directed the reinstatement of the constable – However, the Division Bench set aside the – On appeal, held: Constable has committed gross misconduct – There was deliberate suppression of fact which was an aggravating circumstances – Force personnel D are required to maintain discipline of the highest and the involvement of the constable in such grave offences debarred him from the appointment – Appointing authorities have passed the of his removal from services after following the due process of law and without malafides – Single Judge of High Court wrongly E interfered with the of removal passed by the authorities, thus, the passed by the Division Bench is upheld – CISF Rules, 2001 – r. 36, 54. Dismissing the Special Leave Petition, the Court HELD : 1.1 The Single Bench of the High Court had F committed an error in interfering with the passed by the respondents-authorities. The respondents-authorities had after taking into consideration the decision in case of Avtar Singh terminated the services of the petitioner holding inter-alia that while the petitioner was appointed in CISF, a criminal case was G pending against him at the time of his enrolment in the force, but he did not reveal the same and that there was deliberate suppression of facts which was an aggravating circumstance. CISF being an armed force of Union of India, is deployed in sensitive sectors such as airports, ports, department of atomic energy, department of space, metro, power and steel, for internal security H 797 798 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A duty etc., and therefore, the force personnel are required to maintain discipline of the highest ; and that the involvement of the petitioner in such grave offences debarred him from the appointment. Such a well-reasoned and well considered decision of the respondent-authorities should not have been interfered by the Single Bench in exercise of its powers under Article 226 B of the Constitution, more particularly when there were no allegations of malafides or of non-observance of rules of natural justice or of breach of statutory rules were attributed against the respondent authorities. [Para 9][806-D-G] 1.2 The Division Bench of the High Court had rightly set C aside the passed by the Single Bench, which had wrongly interfered with the of removal passed by the respondent authorities against the petitioner. The petitioner having been found to have committed gross misconduct right at the threshold of entering into disciplined force like CISF, and the respondent D authorities having passed the of his removal from service after following due process of law and without actuated by malafides, the court is not inclined to exercise its limited jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution.