Equity that arises in favour of a party as a result of a representation made by the State is E founded on the basic concept of “justice and fair play”. The attempt to take away the said benefit of exemption with effect from 15.1.1998 and thereby deprive MRF of the benefit of exemption for more than 5 years out of a total period of 7 years, in our opinion, is highly arbitrary, unjust and F unreasonable and deserves to be quashed. In any event the State Government has no power to make a retrospective amendment to SRO 1729/93 affecting rights already accrued to MRF there under.” 27. Further, in the case of Howrah Municipal Corporation & Ors. vs. Ganges Rope Company Ltd. & Ors.16, it was held by this G Court that no right can be claimed on the basis of legitimate expectation, when the said expectation is contrary to statutory provisions enforced in the public interest. Similarly, in the case of Madras City Wine Merchants 15 (1974) 4 SCC 3 16 (2004) 1 SCC 663 H 852 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Association & Anr. vs. State Of Tamil Nadu & Anr.17, It was held that the doctrine of legitimate expectation is rendered defunct in cases where the said expectation is rescinded by the public authority by way of a change in public policy because of public interest. 28. While a cursory reading of the abovementioned s on the limitations of the doctrine of legitimate expectation would show that B the said doctrine would not be available against policy or statutory change, a careful perusal of the same would show otherwise. The doctrine of legitimate expectation finds its home within the doctrine of rule of law and is a limb of Article 14 that fights against the contamination of arbitrary state action and misuse of power. In all the above mentioned s C that discuss the limitations of legitimate expectation, what is most important, is the principle that public interest is supreme. 29. In such a circumstance, wherein all limitations on the doctrine of legitimate expectation rest on the touchstone of public interest, then, in cases where public interest itself is defeated by barring the applicability D of legitimate expectation, the bar on the legitimate expectation must be removed. Further, it would also mean that for an amendment to claim a bar against legitimate expectation, it must demonstrate that the said change in policy was constructed in public interest. 30. In simpler terms, on the basis of the abovementioned discussions, legitimate expectation can be inferred against a statute, E provided that such a claim of legitimate expectation is in public interest, and for a statute to claim a bar against legitimate expectation, it must demonstrate that the shift in policy is for the advancement of public interest. 31. To elucidate on why such a blanket bar on the invocation of F legitimate expectation against a statute is contrary to the rule of law, we must first take such an interpretation to its logical conclusion.