From the description in the label, it is quite clear that the product is called Flavoured Chewing Tobacco. No expert opinion or information from the trade have been obtained and it is only the statement of factory manager that the product is usually eaten with Pan, Betel nut or Pan Masala etc. Department has come to the conclusion that the product is not Chewing Tobacco. Further, as submitted by the appellant, nowhere in the statement of the employees, it has been stated that Zarda Scent was added. Under these circumstances, in view of the above discussion, neither side has been able to show whether the product is Chewing Tobacco or Zarda Scented Tobacco clearly. Both sides have some points in their favour and some against them. Under these circumstances, in view of the fact that the label calls the product as Flavoured Chewing Tobacco, COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 591 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] no Zarda Scent has been used and the product has not been sold as Zarda Scented Tobacco by the appellant, we consider that the claim of the appellant that the product is Flavoured Chewing Tobacco has to be accepted. Thus, on merit, the appellants succeed. Therefore, the demand for diff erential duty fails and naturally the penalties imposed under Section 11AC of Central Excise Act or rules of Central Excise Rules, 2002 also have to be set aside.” 21. The issue of limitation was also held in favour of the assessee by opining as under: “22. In any case, we consider that the limitation would apply in this case and show cause notice should not have been issued beyond one year in view of the fact that the appellant intimated their intention to change. Further, the appellant had also intimated that the proposed change was not in line with industrial factory. Therefore, extended period also could not have been applied in this case.” 22. Hence these appeals. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES 23. We have heard Shri N. Venkataraman, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Revenue, and Ms. Nisha Bagchi, appearing for the Revenue. 24. It is the contention of the Revenue that Notifi cation No.2 of 2006 dated 01.03.2006 was issued in supersession of Notifi cation No.13 of 2002 dated 01.03.2002 specifying thereunder that the goods covered under Section 4A of CE Act 1944 was for MRP-based assessment and it did not specify the goods falling under CET SH 2403 9930 that is ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’, but it covers the goods falling under CET SH 2403 9910 that is ‘chewing tobacco’. It was contended that as ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ was not specifi ed under MRP-based assessment under Section 4A, the goods have to be assessed under Section 4 of the CE Act. Shri Venkataraman, Learned Additional Solicitor General and Shrimati Nisha Bagchi have contended that the assessee changed and misclassifi ed the product from ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ i.e., CET SH 2403 9930 to ‘chewing tobacco’ i.e., CET SH 2403 9910 with an intention to evade payment of duty under Section 4 of the CE Act, 1944 despite there being no change in the nature 592 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.