The Special Judge also found that there was no material placed on record to show that the appellants were sympathizers of the extortionists or E U.G. factions. The Court further found that the investigating agency itself had admitted that the accused persons were voluntarily cooperating with the investigation. 12. The learned Judges of the Division Bench found that the learned Special Judge having itself recorded that the accused-appellants F had committed the offence, albeit prompted by an element of threat having regard to the provisions under Section 43D (5) of the said Act, the prayer for bail could not have been acceded. 13. The provisions of Section 43D (5) of the said Act have been considered by this Court in the case of Thwaha Fasal (supra). The G Court, after reproducing the provisions of Section 43D (5) and after considering the of this Court in the cases of National Investigation Agency v. Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali2 and Ranjitsing Brahhmajeetsing Sharma v. State of Maharashtra and Another3, 2 (2019) 5 SCC 1 H 3 (2005) 5 SCC 294 KEKHRIESATUO TEP ETC. v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION 529 AGENCY [B. R. GAVAI, J.] held that while deciding a bail petition filed by the accused against whom A offences under Chapter IV and VI of the said Act have been made, the Court has to consider as to whether there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against the accused is prima facie true. It will be worthwhile to note that this Court, in the case of Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (supra), has distinguished the words ‘not guilty’ as used in B TADA, MCOCA and NDPS Act as against the words ‘prima facie’ in the present Act. The Court has held that a degree of satisfaction required in a case of ‘not guilty’ is much stronger than the satisfaction required in a case where the words used are ‘prima facie.’ 14. The additional requirement, as provided under sub-section (5) C of Section 43D of the said Act is twin. The first one being that the public prosecutor has to be given an opportunity of being heard. The second one, that the Court is of the opinion that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against such a person is prima facie true. D 15. Undisputedly, in the present case, the first requirement has been complied with. Insofar as the second requirement with regard to Court arriving at a satisfaction that the accusation against such persons is prima facie true is concerned, we would not like to go into the elaborate discussion of the evidence, inasmuch as that may hamper the rights of the parties at the stage of trial. E 16. It would further reveal that not only the charge-sheet but supplementary charge-sheet has been filed. The Forensic Science Laboratory (for short, “FSL”) report show that the receipts are in the hand writing of the appellants. Be that as it may, it is not even the case of the appellants that they did not make the payment.