The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “43.As the largest democracy in the world, we have to combat violence against women. We are of the considered view that the existing laws, if necessary, be revised and appropriate new laws be enacted by Parliament and the State Legislatures to protect women from any form of indecency, indignity and disrespect at all places (in their homes as well as outside), prevent all forms of violence— domestic violence, sexual assault, sexual harassment at the workplace, etc.—and provide new initiatives for education and advancement of women and girls in all spheres of life. After all they have limitless potential. Lip service, hollow statements and inert and inadequate laws with sloppy enforcement are not enough for true and genuine upliftment of our half most precious population—the women. 44. In what we have discussed above, we are of the considered view that guidelines in Vishaka (Vishaka v. State of Rajasthan, (1997) 6 SCC 241 : 1997 SCC (Cri) 932) should not remain symbolic and the following further directions are necessary until legislative enactment on the subject is in place: 44.1. The States and Union Territories which have not yet carried out adequate and appropriate amendments in their respective Civil Services Conduct Rules (by whatever name these Rules are called) shall do so within two months from today by providing that the report of the Complaints Committee shall be deemed to be an inquiry report in a disciplinary action under such Civil Services Conduct Rules. In other words, the disciplinary authority shall treat the report/fi ndings, etc. of the Complaints Committee as the fi ndings in a disciplinary inquiry against the delinquent employee and shall act on such report accordingly. The fi ndings and the report of the Complaints Committee shall not be treated as a mere preliminary investigation or inquiry UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 521 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] leading to a disciplinary action but shall be treated as a fi nding/report in an inquiry into the misconduct of the delinquent. 44.2. The States and Union Territories which have not carried out amendments in the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Rules shall now carry out amendments on the same lines, as noted above in para 44.1 within two months. 44.3. The States and Union Territories shall form adequate number of Complaints Committees so as to ensure that they function at taluka level, district level and State level. Those States and/or Union Territories which have formed only one committee for the entire State shall now form adequate number of Complaints Committees within two months from today. Each of such Complaints Committees shall be headed by a woman and as far as possible in such committees an independent member shall be associated. 44.4. The State functionaries and private and public sector undertakings/organisations/bodies/institutions, etc. shall put in place suffi cient mechanism to ensure full implementation of Vishaka (Vishaka v. State of Rajasthan, (1997) 6 SCC 241 : 1997 SCC (Cri) 932) guidelines and further provide that if the alleged harasser is found guilty, the complainant victim is not forced to work with/ under such harasser and where appropriate and possible the alleged harasser should be transferred.