26. We may also refer to the of this Court in the case of Raju C vs. State of Haryana8, wherein Justice Mohan M. Shantanagoudar speaking for himself, Justice N.V.Ramana (as he then was) and Justice Indira Banerjee, set aside the conviction and sentence of the appellant therein and as the appellant therein had already undergone almost six years’ incarceration but had been released on bail, the bail bonds were D discharged and all proceedings against the appellant were declared to have terminated. 27. In the aforesaid case, the appellant had not taken the plea of juvenility before the Trial Court, however, such plea was raised before the High Court but the same was rejected. However, this Court got an E inquiry conducted by the Registrar (Judicial) of this Court who found him to be aged less than 18 years. The in this case mainly dealt with the issue as to whether the report of Registrar (Judicial) of this Court could be accepted over and above the finding of the High Court which was different. The proceeds to deal with this issue and ultimately comes to the conclusion that this could be done provided this F Court itself tests the correctness of the report of the Registrar (Judicial). It is only in the penultimate paragraph no. 27 while allowing the appeal it granted the relief of setting aside the conviction, sentence and further terminated the entire proceedings. There is no prior discussion on the issue whether conviction was required to be set aside or not on this G technical ground. Merits of the conviction was not gone into. No ratio is laid down in the said case on this issue. Only while granting relief, conviction has also been set aside. 7 (2020) 10 SCC 555 8 (2019) 14 SCC 401 H 608 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 28. Following the above in the case of Raju (supra), a two-judge Bench of this Court in the case of Ashok Kumar Mehra and Another Vs. State of Punjab and Others9 set aside the of conviction and sentence awarded to appellant no. 2 therein who had claimed to be a juvenile. Paragraph No. 14 of the said which grants the relief is reproduced herein: B “In view of the foregoing discussion, we are of the considered opinion that since Appellant 2 was a juvenile on the date of commission of the offence and though till date he has already undergone considerable jail sentence partly as an undertrial and C partly as a convict, yet the appeal filed by Appellant 2 has to be allowed as was done in the case of Raju (supra) without going into the merits of the case and passing any other consequential in that regard.” 29. It will be pertinent to mention that in this also there D is no discussion with regard to the issue as to whether the conviction should be set aside. This also does not lay down any ratio that if with respect to a juvenile a trial has been conducted by a Sessions Court without the accused having claimed juvenility before it, conviction could be set aside as being vitiated in law if subsequently it is held that the accused was a juvenile.