F 15. The learned senior counsel for the appellants in to buttress his contention with regard to the contradictory stand being taken by the respondents has sought to rely on the affidavit filed before this Court. In that regard, an affidavit filed by respondent Nos.1 to 5 before this Court, the counter affidavit filed by the respondent No.6-State of Odisha, as also the additional affidavit filed on behalf of respondent Nos.1 to 5 in G reply to the affidavit filed by the respondent No.6 are relied upon. Though the specific averments contained in the affidavits were placed before us and have been taken note of, by us, we do not propose to refer to each of the statements made therein to analyse the manner in which the learned senior counsel for the appellant has sought to highlight, which according H 158 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A to him contradicts the stand of State of Chhattisgarh. We have adopted this course since the consideration herein is the limited scope of this petition and it should not affect the rights of the parties in the pending criminal proceedings. Such a serious dispute on facts, in any event, is to be resolved based on evidence and not based on affidavits. B 16. However, the limited aspect which we propose to note is that the affidavit filed by the respondent No.6-State of Odisha is essentially to explain the manner of consideration made by them in relation to FIR No.0027 dated 22.01.2021 lodged at Talcher Police Station, Angul District, Odisha which is pursuant to the complaint on behalf of the appellants. The said affidavit also refers to the investigation made relating to the C online complaint. In the course of the said affidavit, reference has been made to the process of investigation during which they had visited the Green Park Hotel and recorded statements relating to the four persons having come to the hotel and having introduced themselves as Chhattisgarh Police and asked them about the room number of the D appellant No.1. The staff of the hotel had indicated that the appellant No.1 himself had stated that there is no problem and he had checked out after paying the bill. In reply to the said affidavit, the respondent Nos. 1 to 5 have sought to indicate that even as per the said affidavit, appellant No.1 himself had indicated that everything was alright and it is contended that even so far as the Police Officers mentioned by the appellants, they E belong to a different department. The learned senior counsel for the State of Chhattisgarh in fact referred to the counter affidavit on behalf of the respondent Nos. 1 to 5 to clarify that the Police Officers of the Chhattisgarh Police having travelled to Odisha were not denied, in as much as, they have disclosed that a team of abled Police Officers had F travelled to Odisha to look up for the appellant and his whereabouts but it was of no avail and they came back empty handed.