However, the said application was rejected by the Trial Court, vide dated 18.10.2008, on fl imsy grounds like, the application has not been moved through Public Prosecutor, the seizure list is not on record, the person Kishori Rai is not a witness of the chargesheet. The Presiding Offi cer of the Trial Court adopted such a pathetic approach despite noticing the detailed dated 13.03.2007 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court in the Habeas Corpus Petition. 79. Even the High Court, despite acknowledging in the impugned that Revisional Power is akin to the appellate power in view of Section 401 CrPC, failed to set the record straight by exercising the appellate powers given under Sections 386, 389, 390 and 391CrPC, as provided under Section 401(1) of CrPC. 80. Now in this background, we would analyze whether the FIR or Bayan Tahriri can be said to be proved as a piece of reliable prosecution evidence and if so, what would be the position of law on the issue of treating the FIR or Bayan Tahriri as a Dying Declaration. HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 449 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 81. It is an undisputed position of law that the FIR is a public document defi ned under Section 74 of the Evidence Act. Various High Courts have expressed this view from time to time. a) In the case of Channappa Andanappa Siddareddy and others v. State8, the Karnataka High Court held as follows: “3. The F. I. R. being a record of the acts of the public offi cers prepared in discharge of the offi cial duty is a public document as defi ned under Section 74 of the Evidence Act. Under Section 76 of the Evidence Act, every public offi cer having the custody of a public document, which any person has a right to inspect, is bound to give such person on demand a copy of it on payment of the legal fees therefore.” b) The Single Bench of Gujrat High Court, in the case of Jayantibhai Lalubhai Patel vs. State of Gujrat9, concluded as follows: “10. From the aforesaid discussions, it clearly appears that whenever FIR is registered against the accused, a copy of it is forwarded to the Court under provisions of the Code. Thus it becomes a public document. Considering (1) the provisions of Article 21 of the Constitution of India,(2) First Information Report is a public document in view of Section 74 of the Evidence Act.” c) In the case of Shyam Lal vs State of U.P. And Ors10, the Division Bench of Allahabad High Court followed the same view. d) The Division Bench of the Delhi High Court, while dealing with a public interest litigation being Court on its Own Motion through Mr. Ajay Chaudhary vs. State11, discussed pronouncements of various High Courts and held that there can be no trace of doubt that FIR is a public document as defi ned under Section 74 of the Evidence Act.