(iii) In the instant case though Section 11A of Act, 1894 has become applicable, in the changed circumstance we deem it proper to mould the relief instead of holding the acquisition to have lapsed. Hence for the reasons stated above, we direct as follows: (a) The respondents shall construe 09.06.2008 as the relevant date and determine the market value prevailing as on that date applying the yardstick under Act, 1894 in respect of the acquired land. (b) To calculate the statutory benefi ts on such amount including interest, the same shall be determined by taking into consideration the date of the Section 4 notifi cation dated 17.04.2002 since the appellant was dispossessed on 04.02.2003 pursuant to the same. (c) The date on which the fresh award is passed pursuant to this and communicated shall be the date of cause of action for seeking enhancement of compensation if the appellant is dissatisfi ed with the quantum of compensation off ered. 180 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. (d) The compensation determined in this case shall not give the cause of action to any other land loser whose land is acquired under the same notifi cation to seek re-determination of compensation. (e) The appellant shall be entitled to the cost incurred in these proceedings.” 32. In view of the s referred above, this Court while striking a balance between eminent domain of the State and human/civil rights of an individual, has put an obligation on the State and its authorities to pass an award within a reasonable time. It is observed that, on compulsory acquisition of land, if the award is not passed within a reasonable time duly compensating such an individual, it would cause grave hardship and it would adversely aff ect the livelihood of the land loser. In the said s, because of inordinate delay in passing the awards, the Court had changed the date of preliminary notifi cation ordinarily applicable in determining the market value of land for assessing amount of compensation, to the date of the of the Court, and/or the date of award passed belatedly. This Court has recognized the right of the citizen after taking possession of the land without payment of compensation. As observed, the delay in determining compensation uproots the land losers, however, to meet the ends of justice and to rationalize the equity, switching the date of market value in determining compensation by the s of the Court is found necessary. 33. In the case of “K. Krishna Reddy and Others Vs. Special Deputy Collector, Land Acquisition Unit II, LMD Karimnagar, Andhra Pradesh, (1988) 4 SCC 163”, this Court has conceptualized the effect of non- determination and payment of compensation immediately to a land loser. The Court observed that if there is inordinate delay in determination as well as payment of compensation, it diminishes the purchase power as well as value of Rupee due to rising infl ation. Therefore, the utility to compensate such land loser with equal value cannot be ruled out.