In the course of the however, it was suggested that what was determinative was whether the particular expenditure could be put against any particular work or whether it was to be regarded as an enduring expenditure to serve the business as a whole. 16.3. The latter guideline laid down in Vickers Ltd. served as the foundation for the test prescribed by Viscount Cave L.C. in the oft-cited case on the subject, British Insulated Helsby Cables Ltd. vs. Atherton, (1926) AC 205 (“Atherton”), wherein it was observed that when an expenditure is made, not only once and for all, but with a view to bringing into existence an asset or an advantage for the enduring benefi t of trade, such an expenditure is property attributable to capital and not to revenue. 16.4. The expression “enduring benefi t of a trade” was further explained as meaning not “everlasting”, but “in the way capital endures” vide Du Parcq, L.J., in Henriksen vs. Grafton Hotel Ltd., (1942) 24 T.C. 453. In the said case, Lord Greene stated that if the sum payable is not in the nature of revenue expenditure, it cannot be made so by permitting it to be paid by annual instalments. The payments by instalments in respect of monopoly value do not have the quality of annual payments or the grant of the annual excise licence, but are of a diff erent character altogether. 16.5. Viscount Haldane however, in John Smith & Son vs. Moore, (1921) 12 T.C. 266, suggested another test- the test of fi xed or circulating capital. Fixed capital being what the owner turns to profi t by keeping in his possession; circulating capital is what the assessee makes profi t from by parting or letting the product/asset change hands. However, in the said case, it was observed that the demarcation line between assets out of which profi ts were earned and the profi t made upon assets or with assets, was thin and diffi cult to draw in several cases. 16.6. It was clarifi ed in Mallet vs. Staveley Coal and Iron Co., (1928) 2 K.B. 405 (“Mallet”) that where the expenditure is to bring into the hands of the company a necessary ingredient of their existing business, which is important but still ancillary to the business, the expenditure is to be debited 450 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. to the circulating capital rather than to the fi xed capital, which is employed in and sunk in the permanent assets of the business. 16.7. The test of fi xed or circulating capital was also adopted by Lord Hanworth, M.R. in Anglo-Persian Oil Co. vs. Dale, (1932) 1 K.B. 124 (“Dale”) wherein it was observed: “I am inclined to think that the question whether the money paid is provided from the fi xed or the circulating capital comes as near to accuracy as can be suggested.” In further elucidation of the principle, it was laid down as follows: a) The expenditure is to be attributed to capital if it be made “with a view” to bringing an asset or advantage into existence, however, it is not necessary that it should always achieve the intended result in to be held to be capital in nature.