H 950 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A prosecution has failed to establish a chain of cogent circumstances which could lead to the only hypothesis that the appellant had killed her own child. These submissions have been countered with reference to the evidence of the prosecution and findings of the two Courts. 3. Having regard to the submissions made and the questions arising B for determination, we may take note of the relevant factual and background aspects as follows: 3.1. In this case, the First Information Report2, bearing No. 328 of 2007 was registered at Perambalur Police Station at around 9.00 a.m. on 21.06.2007 on the information furnished by PW-1 Basheera, mother- C in-law of the appellant, about killing of the victim child by her own mother, that is, the appellant. The relevant contents of the FIR, said to have been scribed by PW-10 Subbulakshmi, SI, Perambalur, read as under:3 - “…As my grand daughter is 5 years old, my son had spoken from Riyat to Kolakkudi and said that she has to go to Perambalur and stay in my house and educate the child. Hence, Vahida was brought D by her father on 18.6.07 along with grand daughter Farhana and dropped in my house at Perambalur. For two days after her arrival she did not properly have the food and also did not speak to me properly and my daughter-in-law Vahida picked up quarrel with me and was telling me that she is going to Kolakkudi. As I had E warned her not to go to Kolakkudi, she was telling that only because of this child, I could not live peacefully. My husband is suspecting me. You are also not allowing me to go to Kolakkudi. Only if I finish off this child, I shall live peacefully. I, my daughter Mumtaz, my 2nd daughter-in-law Asha, and the Kamala, my neighbour together had warned her on the night of 20.6.2007. On 21.06.2007 F at about 8.00 A.M. I said that I will go and get idli for the child. She said that I could not educate my child here and she wanted to go to Kolakkudi. Hence, there was a quarrel picked up between me and my daughter-in-law Vaheetha. I told her let us see and went to get the idli. By that time, my daughter Mumtaz and my G daughter-in-law Asha came to see me. I being left the home for buying idli without taking money went along with them came to house to take the money. By that time my daughter-in-law Vaheetha, was tying the neck of my grand daughter Farhana who 2 ‘FIR’, for short. H 3 The extractions in this are from the translated copies placed on record. VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 951 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] is aged five years with the outer end of a saree (mundanai) portion A of her saree and was holding it tight. After seeing this I shouted why are you killing my grandchild. Besides, holding my grandchild’s neck with the saree and killing her, she had pushed us and ran away through the entrance.