We would briefly deal with important cases decided by this court in the first phase after broadening the definition of “aggrieved person” 36. Public interest litigation is not in the nature of adversarial litigation but it is a challenge and an opportunity to G the Government and its officers to make basic human rights meaningful to the deprived and vulnerable sections of the community and to assure them social and economic justice which is the signature tune of our constitution. The Government and its officers must welcome public interest litigation because it would provide them an occasion to examine whether the H 1010 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A poor and the downtrodden are getting their social and economic entitlements or whether they are continuing to remain victims of deception and exploitation at the hands of strong and powerful sections of the community and whether social and economic justice has become a meaningful reality for them or it has remained merely a teasing illusion and a promise of B unreality, so that in case the complaint in the public interest litigation is found to be true, they can in discharge of their constitutional obligation root out exploitation and injustice and ensure to the weaker sections their rights and entitlements. 39. The origin and evolution of public interest litigation C in India emanated from realization of constitutional obligation by the Judiciary towards the vast sections of the society - the poor and the marginalized sections of the society. This jurisdiction has been created and carved out by the judicial creatively and craftsmanship. D 40. In M.C. Mehta v. Union of India this Court observed that Article 32 does not merely confer power on this Court to issue direction, or writ for the enforcement of fundamental rights. Instead, it also lays a constitutional obligation on this Court to protect the fundamental rights of the people. E The Court asserted that, in realization of this constitutional obligation, “it has all incidental and ancillary power including the power to forge new remedies and fashion new strategies designed to enforce the fundamental rights”. The Court realized that because of extreme poverty, a large number of sections of society cannot approach the court. The fundamental rights F have no meaning for them and in to preserve and protect the fundamental rights of the marginalized section of the society by judicial innovation and creativity stated giving necessary directions and passing in the public interest. 41. The development of public interest litigation has been G an extremely significant development in the history of the Indian jurisprudence. The decisions of the Supreme Court in the 1970s loosened the strict locus standi requirements to permit filing of petitions on behalf of marginalised and deprived sections of the society by public spirited individuals, institutions and/or bodies. The higher courts exercised wide powers given to them H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 1011 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] under Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution.