The sooner this trend is put to an end, the better. Even this Court, in Mallada K Sri Ram vs. State of Telangana22, while deciding an appeal arising from the state of Telangana, had the occasion to observe: “17. It is also relevant to note, that in the last fi ve years, this Court has quashed over fi ve detention s under the Telangana Act of 1986 for inter alia incorrectly applying the standard for maintenance of public and relying on stale materials while passing the s of detention. At least ten detention s under the Telangana Act of 1986 have been set aside by the High Court of Telangana in the last one 22 2022 SCC OnLine SC 424 996 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. year itself. These numbers evince a callous exercise of the exceptional power of preventive detention by the detaining authorities and the respondent-state. We direct the respondents to take stock of challenges to detention s pending before the Advisory Board, High Court and Supreme Court and evaluate the fairness of the detention against lawful standards. (underlining ours, for emphasis) 56. Interference by this Court with s of detention, routinely issued under the Act, seems to continue unabated. Even after Mallada K Sri Ram (supra), in another decision of fairly recent origin in the case of Shaik Nazneen vs. The State of Telangana23, this Court set aside the impugned of detention dated 28th October, 2021 holding that seeking shelter under preventive detention law was not the proper remedy. 57. It requires no serious debate that preventive detention, conceived as an extraordinary measure by the framers of our Constitution, has been rendered ordinary with its reckless invocation over the years as if it were available for use even in the ordinary course of proceedings. To unchain the shackles of preventive detention, it is important that the safeguards enshrined in our Constitution, particularly under the ‘golden triangle’ formed by Articles 14, 19 and 21, are diligently enforced. 58. Now, we proceed to answer the incidental issue raised before us. Seldom have we found s of detention continued, after the advice of the Advisory Board,for less than the maximum period permissible under the relevant law. Consideration of the matter by the Advisory Board, which consists of respectable members including retired High Court judges and those qualifi ed to become High Court judges, was conceived to act as a safety valve against abuse of power by the detaining authority and/or to check the possibility of grave injustice being caused to a detenu. It is one thing to say that the Advisory Board has expressed an opinion that there is suffi cient cause for the detention and, therefore, the detention has been continued; yet, it is quite another thing to say that the detention should continue for the maximum permissible period. In the light of sub-section (2) of section 23 Crl. Appeal No.908 of 2022, dated 22nd June 2023 AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 997 & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.]