As will be clear from the discussion in the later part of this , it is those two charges which have ultimately been found to be proved that have been elaborated herein below. 9. Pursuant to the above, the Appointing Authority passed an on 31.01.1995 imposing the penalty of “reduction in basic pay to the lowest stage in Scale-I” as provided under Rule No. 49(e) of the State Bank of India (Supervising Staff ) Service Rules and further to treat the period under suspension from 18.08.1990 till the of his reinstatement as suspension only. 10. The Appellate Authority to whom the respondent approached confi rmed the s. 11. Challenging the of the Disciplinary Authorities and the Appellate Authority, the petitioner moved a writ petition, which has now resulted in the s of the learned Single Judge and that of the Division Bench. 12. The learned Single Judge classifi ed the common heads under Charge I as was also done by the Enquiry Offi cer as being i) Conduct of periodical inspection; ii) Non-submission of control forms; and iii) Area of operation 13. We will deal with the fi rst limb, after we consider the second and third limbs, for the sake of convenience. 660 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Charge regarding non-submission of control forms and area of operation 14. On the aspect of non-submission of the control forms, the learned Single Judge records that the burden was wrongly shifted on the respondent when the Enquiry Offi cer held that the delinquent had not proved the submission of the control forms. The learned Single Judge held that when the respondent denied the charge, the onus was on the Disciplinary Authority to prove the charge alleged against the delinquent employee by producing relevant material and the material must be such that it amounts to proving the guilt of the employee in respect of the charge against him with some degree of defi niteness. 15. We have perused the Enquiry Report on this issue and we are satisfi ed that the learned Single Judge is right on this score. The following fi ndings in the Enquiry Report fortify that conclusion:- “However, in respect of other units listed in the charge sheet regarding non-submission of control form the charges are proved. Although, it is likely that the Bank’s fi les may be missing due to shifting of the branch, no attempt has been made by the defence to bring the control forms from the controlling authority. It only clearly indicates that the control forms have not been submitted. This is a failure on the part of the charged offi cial.” 16. Equally with regard to the third limb, namely, transgression of the area of operation, the learned Single Judge rightly found that in a number of instances loans had been sanctioned outside the area of operation and, as such, it could not be held that there was any transgression by the delinquent respondent. This view is independently fortifi ed when we peruse the Enquiry Report.