The President of the Shiv Sena, Mr. Thackeray, was not in favour of a government formed in coalition with the BJP. H 966 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A However, the group led by Mr. Shinde was in favour of such an alliance. By inviting Mr. Shinde to form the government, the Governor has de facto recognized the group led by him as the “real” Shiv Sena; and b. The Governor is not empowered to recognize the legitimacy B of one faction over another. The ECI is the appropriate authority to determine which of the two factions constitute the Shiv Sena. 205. The BJP returned one hundred and six candidates to the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, the highest amongst all political C parties. It formed the primary opposition party in the House. By a letter dated 30 June 2022, the then Leader of Opposition, Mr. Fadnavis, wrote to the Governor claiming that one hundred and six MLAs of the BJP extend their support to Mr. Eknath Shinde for the formation of a government headed by Mr. Shinde. Eight independent candidates also extended their support to a government helmed by Mr. Shinde. On the D same day, Mr. Shinde wrote to the Governor seeking to be called to form the Government. Based on the material before him, that is, the communications received, the Governor invited Mr. Shinde to take the oath of office, and directed him to prove his majority on the floor of the House within a period of seven days. The post of the Chief Minister of E the State of Maharashtra fell vacant after the resignation of Mr. Thackeray on 29 June 2022. The leader of the party that had returned the highest number of candidates to the State Assembly extended support on behalf of the party to Mr. Shinde. Thus, the decision of the Governor dated 30 June 2022 inviting Mr. Shinde to form the Government was justified. F F. Conclusions 206. In view of the discussion above, the following are our conclusions: a. The correctness of the decision in Nabam Rebia (supra) G is referred to a larger Bench of seven judges; b. This Court cannot ordinarily adjudicate petitions for disqualification under the Tenth Schedule in the first instance. There are no extraordinary circumstances in the instant case that warrant the exercise of jurisdiction by this H Court to adjudicate disqualification petitions. The Speaker SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 967 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] must decide disqualification petitions within a reasonable A period; . c. An MLA has the right to participate in the proceedings of the House regardless of the pendency of any petitions for their disqualification. The validity of the proceedings of the House in the interregnum is not “subject to” the outcome B of the disqualification petitions; d. The political party and not the legislature party appoints the Whip and the Leader of the party in the House. Further, the direction to vote in a particular manner or to abstain from voting is issued by the political party and not the C legislature party.