Para 812 is reproduced as follows : (SCC pp. 735-36) “812. … all reservations are not of the same nature. There are two types of reservations, which may, for the sake of E convenience, be referred to as ‘vertical reservations’ and ‘horizontal reservations’. The reservations in favour of the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the Other Backward Classes [under Article 16(4)] may be called vertical reservations whereas reservations in favour of physically handicapped [under clause (1) of Article 16] F can be referred to as horizontal reservations. Horizontal reservations cut across the vertical reservations—what is called interlocking reservations. To be more precise, class of persons with disability of which one per cent each shall be reserved for persons G suffering from— (i) blindness or low vision; (ii) hearing impairment; (iii) locomotor disability or cerebral palsy, in the posts identified for each disability: Provided that the appropriate Government may, having regard to the type of work carried on in any department or establishment, by notification subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in such notification, exempt any establishment from the H provisions of this section. RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 817 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] suppose 3% of the vacancies are reserved in favour of A physically handicapped persons; this would be a reservation relatable to clause (1) of Article 16. The persons selected against this quota will be placed in the appropriate category; if he belongs to SC category he will be placed in that quota by making necessary adjustments; similarly, B if he belongs to open competition (OC) category, he will be placed in that category by making necessary adjustments. Even after providing for these horizontal reservations, the percentage of reservations in favour of backward class of citizens remains—and should remain— the same.”” C This did not discuss reservations in ‘promotions’, but confined its pronouncement to initial appointments only. 7. Rajeev Kumar Gupta v. Union of India9 authoritatively dealt with the question of reservations in promotions for persons with disabilities. D The two-judge bench decision, authored by Chelameshwar, J., differentiated the application of Indra Sawhney (supra) as follows: “21. The principle laid down in Indra Sawhney [Indra Sawhney v. Union of India, 1992 Supp (3) SCC 217 : 1992 SCC (L&S) Supp 1 : (1992) 22 ATC 385] is applicable only E when the State seeks to give preferential treatment in the matter of employment under the State to certain classes of citizens identified to be a backward class. Article 16(4) does not disable the State from providing differential treatment (reservations) to other classes of citizens under Article 16(1) [ As per Indra Sawhney case, 1992 Supp (3) SCC 217, Article F 16(4) is a subset of Article 16(1).] if they otherwise deserve such treatment. However, for creating such preferential treatment under law, consistent with the mandate of Article 16(1), the State cannot choose any one of the factors such as caste, religion, etc. mentioned in Article 16(1) as the basis.