15.1. From the above, what is evident is that where the gross total income of an assessee includes any profi ts and gains derived from any business of an industrial undertaking or an enterprise which are referred to in sub-section (4), referred to as eligible business, this section provides that a deduction shall be allowed in computing the total income. Such deduction shall be allowed from the profi ts and gains of an amount which is equivalent to hundred percent of the profi ts and gains derived from such business for the fi rst fi ve assessment years as specifi ed in sub-section (2) and thereafter twenty fi ve percent of the profi ts and gains for a further period of fi ve assessment years. As per the proviso, if the assessee is a company, then the benefi t for the further fi ve years would be thirty percent instead of twenty fi ve percent. 15.2. Since there is a reference to sub-section (2) in sub-section (1), we may mention that as per sub-section (2), the deduction specifi ed in COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 505 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] sub-section (1) may be claimed by the assessee at its option for any ten consecutive assessment years out of fi fteen years beginning from the year in which the undertaking or the enterprise develops and begins to operate any infrastructure facility or starts providing telecommunication service or develops an industrial park or generates power or commences transmission or distribution of power. In the proviso, there is a reference to clause (b) of the explanation to clause (i) of sub-section (4). Where the assessee begins operating and maintaining any infrastructure facility referred to in the said provision, the benefi t can be availed of by the assessee for twenty years in place of fi fteen years. 15.3. Sub-section (4) of Section 80-IA has some relevance to the present proceeding. Therefore, the same is extracted as under: (4) This section applies to— (i) any enterprise carrying on the business of (i) developing, (ii) maintaining and operating or (iii) developing, maintaining and operating any infrastructure facility which fulfi ls all the following conditions, namely :— (a) it is owned by a company registered in India or by a consortium of such companies; (b) it has entered into an agreement with the Central Government or a State Government or a local authority or any other statutory body for (i) developing, (ii) maintaining and operating or (iii) developing, maintaining and operating a new infrastructure facility subject to the condition that such infrastructure facility shall be transferred to the Central Government, State Government, local authority or such other statutory body, as the case may be, within the period stipulated in the agreement; (c) it has started or starts operating and maintaining the infrastructure facility on or after the 1st day of April, 1995: Provided that where an infrastructure facility is transferred on or after the 1st day of April, 1999 by an enterprise which developed such infrastructure facility (hereafter referred to in this section as the transferor enterprise) to another enterprise (hereafter in this 506 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.