A have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not. (2) An arbitration agreement may be in the form of an arbitration clause in a contract or in the form of a separate agreement. (3) An arbitration agreement shall be in writing. B (4) An arbitration agreement is in writing if it is contained in— (a) a document signed by the parties; (b) an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication [including communication through electronic C means] which provide a record of the agreement; or (c) an exchange of statements of claim and defence in which the existence of the agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by the other. (5) The reference in a contract to a document containing an D arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement if the contract is in writing and the reference is such as to make that arbitration clause part of the contract.” 92. That is to say, the limited scope of the Court under Section 11(6A) at the pre-referral stage is to examine whether the arbitration E agreement, prima facie, exists as referred to under Section 7 of the Act, 1996, which includes only the determination of the following factors: (i) Whether the arbitration agreement is in writing? (ii) Whether the core contractual ingredients qua the arbitration agreement are fulfilled? F (iii) On rare occasions, on a serious note of objection, if any, it may examine whether the subject matter of dispute is arbitrable? IX. Clarification on Stamping of Arbitration Agreement 93. In the reference and in paras 20, 24 and 58in particular, G a reference has been made that Maharashatra Stamp Act, 1958 does not subject to arbitration agreement to payment of stamp duty. The relevant paragraphs of the M/S. N.N. Global Mercantile Private Limited (supra)29 are as follows: H 29 (2021) 4 SCC 379 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 421 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] “20. We have carefully perused the provisions of the Maharashtra A Stamp Act, 1958 and Schedule I appended thereto, which enlists the instruments specified in Section 3, on which stamp duty is chargeable. We find that an arbitration agreement is not included in the Schedule as an instrument chargeable to stamp duty. Item 12 of Schedule I to the Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958 includes an B award passed by an arbitrator to be chargeable for payment of stamp duty….. In Shriram EPC Ltd. v. Rioglass Solar SA [Shriram EPC Ltd. v. Rioglass Solar SA, (2018) 18 SCC 313], this Court held that the payment of stamp duty is applicable to awards made in India, C but does not include a “foreign award” which has not been included in the Schedule to the Stamp Act, 1899. 24. …Section 3 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act does not subject an arbitration agreement to payment of stamp duty, unlike various other agreements enlisted in the Schedule to the Act.