According to Rule 7(7), the Speaker must grant a reasonable opportunity to such member to represent their case. Rule 8 C provides that the Speaker shall after due consideration of the merits of the case either dismiss the disqualification petition or declare that the member has become subject to disqualification under the Tenth Schedule by an in writing. Thus, the Tenth Schedule (read together with the 1986 Rules for Maharashtra) provides a detailed procedure guiding the exercise of power by the Speaker under the Tenth Schedule. The Speaker D must decide disqualification petitions by following this procedure. 76. In Kihoto Hollohan (supra), this Court held that the Speaker is a Tribunal for the purposes of the Tenth Schedule. Therefore, the exercise of power under the Tenth Schedule is subject to the jurisdiction of Courts under Articles 136, 226, and 227 of the Constitution. This E Court further observed that the finality clause contained in Paragraph 6(2) did not completely exclude the jurisdiction of Courts. However, it was held that such a clause limits the scope of judicial review because the Constitution intended the Speaker or the Chairman to be “the repository of adjudicatory powers” under the Tenth Schedule. This Court F held that judicial review is not available at a stage prior to the decision of the Speaker or Chairman, save in certain exceptional circumstances detailed in that case. Thus, Kihoto Hollohan (supra) makes it evident that the exclusive power to decide the question of disqualification under the Tenth Schedule vests with the Speaker or Chairman of the House. G 77. The petitioners have relied on Rajendra Singh Rana (supra) to urge that this Court should invoke its extraordinary jurisdiction and itself decide the question of disqualification against the respondent MLAs. Alternatively, it is urged that this Court should direct the Deputy Speaker, Mr. Zirwal, who was performing the functions of Speaker prior to 3 July 2022, to decide the disqualification petitions. H 912 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 78. In Rajendra Singh Rana (supra), disqualification petitions were filed against thirteen MLAs of the Bahujan Samaj Party24 on 4 September 2003. On 26 August 2003, the Speaker accepted a split in the BSP and recognized a separate group by the name of Lok Tantrik Bahujan Dal. The thirteen MLAs against whom disqualification petitions were instituted were also part of the Lok Tantrik Bahujan Dal. On 6 September B 2003, the Speaker accepted the merger of the Lok Tantrik Bahujan Dal with the Samajwadi Party without deciding the disqualification petitions against the thirteen MLAs. On 7 September 2005, the Speaker rejected the disqualification petitions against the MLAs. By its dated 28 February 2006, the High Court quashed the of the Speaker C rejecting the disqualification petitions against the MLAs and directed him to reconsider the petitions. 79. On appeal, this Court observed that it would not be appropriate for it to decide the disqualification petitions for the first time when the concerned authority had not taken a decision. It observed that this Court D would normally remit the matter to the Speaker or Chairman to take a proper decision in accordance with law.