C Dismissing the appeals, the Court Per SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J. (For himself and ABHAY S. OKA, J.) HELD: 1. A bare reading of Section 14 of the IBC would make it clear that the nature of proceedings which have to be D kept in abeyance do not include criminal proceedings, which is the nature of proceedings under Section 138 of the N.I. Act. It cannot be said that the process under the IBC whether under Section 31 or Sections 38 to 41 which can extinguish the debt would ipso facto apply to the extinguishment of the criminal E proceedings. No doubt in terms of the Scheme under the IBC there are sacrifices to be made by parties to settle the debts, the company being liquidated or revitalized. The Appellant has been roped in as a signatory of the cheque as well as the Promoter and Managing Director of the Accused company, which availed of the loan. The loan agreement was also signed by him on behalf of the F company. What the Appellant seeks is escape out of criminal liability having defaulted in payment of the amount at a very early stage of the loan. In fact, the loan account itself was closed. So much for the bona fides of the Appellant. [Paras 16 and 17][997- D-E, G-H; 998-A-B] G Per J.B. PARDIWALA, J. (Concurring) HELD: 1. Section 141 of the NI Act states that if the person committing an offence under Section 138 is a company, every person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the H 988 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A business of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. The expression “as well” is occurring in Section 141 of the NI Act. This expression means “on par”. Therefore, the liability of such persons in charge of and responsible to the company for the conduct of its business is B thus co-extensive. [Para 33][1007-H; 1008-A-B] 2. The creditor has no option but to join the process under the IBC. Once the plan is approved, it would bind everyone under the sun. The making of a claim and accepting whatever share is allotted could be termed as an “Involuntary Act” on behalf of the C creditor. The making of a claim under the IBC and accepting the same and not making any claim, will not make any difference in light of Section 31 of the IBC. Both the situations will lead to Section 31 and the finality and binding value of the resolution plan. At best, it could be said that from the cheque amount under D Section 138 of the NI Act, the amount received under the resolution plan may be deducted. [Paras 41, 42][1020-D-F] 3. It is true that by virtue of Section 238 of the IBC, the provisions of the CrPC shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time E being in force or any instrument having effect by virtue of any such law.