The High Court, in the earlier found that compliance of Rule 17 was not made in D preparing the seniority list of 1999. The subsequent selection list was made in terms of decision of the High Court delivered on 12th September 2012. The general principle of service jurisprudence that seniority is required to be computed from the date of actual entry into a particular cadre cannot operate in a E case where there is an undisturbed judicial finding that appointments were made on different dates in breach of the applicable Rules. Moreover, selection list per se does not determine seniority as the said list is only to contain names of persons who are to be part of a particular cadre. In the 1979 Rules also, selection list is to be prepared as per Rule 17 whereas F seniority is to be determined in terms of Rule 22. What the authorities have done in finalising the 2013 selection list is that positioning of incumbents in this list have been made on the basis of their seniority. Thus, it has become a combined selection and seniority list. [Paras 11 and 13][220-F-H; 221-A-B] G State of Uttar Pradesh v. Ashok Kumar Srivastava &Anr. (2014) 14 SCC 720 : [2013] 11 SCR 846 – referred to. 1.2 The selection list stipulated how the vacancy positions shall be filled but for determination of seniority, the dates of H SUSHIL PANDEY v. STATE OF U.P.THR. PRINCIPAL 209 SECRETARY (HOME) appointment were to be treated as dates of birth in the cadre. In A relation to the two streams of entry, after they entered the cadre, their seniority were to be decided on the basis of such dates of entry. In the present proceeding, the manner in which appointment s were issued was found to be in breach of the provisions of Rule 17 in the first . But neither the first nor B the under appeal stipulated in what manner the dates of birth into the cadre for individual candidates from the two streams were be determined. Matter not remanded for that purpose, considering that the present dispute is continuing for about three decades. But since the main reasoning of the High Court for deciding the matter was that selection from both streams C was made from a common recruitment process, the dates of appointment s of both the streams ought to be treated from a particular date and 30th January 1996, being the date on which the appointment letters of the promotee candidates were issued, would be such date. The seniority of the candidates including the appellants should be determined treating the entry into the cadre D of both sets of candidates (i.e.promotees and direct recruits) on 30th January 1996 and the seniority position should be recast on that basis. On the question of intra-stream seniority, the provision of Rule 22 shall be followed. In the recast list, however, the position for the posts left vacant on death of dead or E superannuated officers shall be treated as fresh vacancies and filled up through fresh selection process.