The Court laid down the procedure to be adopted when an arbitration is contained in a document which is not duly stamped in the following terms: a. The Court should, before admitting any document into evidence or acting upon such document, examine whether the instrument/ document is duly stamped and whether it is an instrument which is compulsorily registerable. b. If the document is found to be not duly stamped, Section 35 of the Stamp Act bars the said document being acted upon. Consequently, even the arbitration clause therein cannot be acted upon. The court should then proceed to impound the document under Section 33 of the Stamp Act and follow the procedure under Sections 35 and 38 of the Stamp Act. c. If the document is found to be duly stamped, or if the defi cit stamp duty and penalty is paid, either before the court or before 118 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the Collector (as contemplated in Section 35 of Section 49 of the Stamp Act), and the defect with reference to defi cit duty is cured, the court may treat the document as duly stamped. 200. SMS Tea Estates (supra) allowed the courts to impound the document under Section 33 of the Stamp Act at the Section 11 stage. Thus, the courts were mandated to intervene at the pre-arbitral stage before the arbitral tribunal could assume jurisdiction. SMS Tea Estates (supra) was decided in 2011. At that time, Patel Engineering (supra) and Boghara Polyfab (supra) held the fi eld, which held that the referral courts had wide powers to decide a large number of preliminary issues, including the existence and validity of arbitration agreements. As discussed in the segments above, the Law Commission of India recommended amendments to Sections 8 and 11 with a view to restrict the scope of the judicial intervention “to situations where the Court/Judicial Authority fi nds that the arbitration agreement does not exist or is null and void.” 201. Pursuant to the recommendations of the Law Commission of India, Parliament incorporated Section 11(6A) which clarifi ed that the scope of judicial intervention was limited to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement. The legislative note on Clause 11(6A) states that “[s]ub-section (6A) is inserted to provide that the Supreme Court or the High Court while considering applications under sub-section (4) to (6) shall confi ne to the examination of an arbitration agreement.” More importantly, the said provision contains a non-obstante clause which reads: “notwithstanding any , decree or of any Court.” 202. In Emmar MGF Land Ltd. v. Aftab Singh,170 this Court was examining the purport of Section 8 which included a similar non-obstante clause as contained in Section 11(6A). This Court explained the purpose of the non-obstante clause contained in Section 8 in the following terms: “52. […] The words “notwithstanding any , decree or of the Supreme Court or any court” added by amendment in Section 8 were with intent to minimise the intervention of judicial authority in the context of arbitration agreement.