Mesne profi ts accrue from day to day and the cause of action is a continuing one, and arises out of the continued misappropriation of the profi ts to which the plaintiff is entitled. …” (Emphasis supplied) 14. Subsequently, a Full Bench of Punjab & Haryana High Court in Sadhu Singh’s case (supra) considered the following question: “Whether 2, rule 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, bars a suit for mesne profi ts fi led subsequently to a suit for possession of the property because the claim for those accrued mesne profi ts had not been earlier included therein.” 14.1 The same was answered in negative by majority. 15. The Full Bench of Allahabad High Court in Ram Karan Singh’s case (supra) was quoted with approval in Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. v. Sudera Realty Pvt. Ltd.9 opining therein that the cause of action claiming mesne profi ts accrue from day to day and the cause of action is a continuing one. Relevant paragraphs 64 and 65 thereof are extracted below: “64. The case of the respondent is that the plea of limitation was not pressed before the learned Single Judge and was also not taken up before the Division Bench. It is further contended that a claim for mesne profi ts involves a liability, which accrues on a day- to-day basis. 9 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1161: 2022:INSC: 926 M/S BHARAT PETROLEUM CORPORATION LTD. AND ANR. v. 869 ATM CONSTRUCTIONS PVT. LTD. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] In this regard, attention is drawn to Ram Karan Singh and others v. Nakchhed Ahir and others, AIR 1931 Allahabad 429, which has been referred to by this Court in the reported in Raptakos Brett and Company Limited v. Ganesh Property, (2017) 10 SC 643 and we may notice only paragraph-21 of Raptakos Brett and Company Limited (supra): “21. Bench of the Allahabad High Court while examining the issue of maintainability of second suit for pendente lite and future mesne profi ts where earlier suit for possession and past mesne profi ts has already been decided has held as follows : (SCC Online All) “It seems to us that the cause of action for recovery of possession is not necessarily identical with the cause of action for recovery of mesne profi ts. The provisions of 2 Rule 4, indicate that the legislature thought it necessary to provide specially for joining a claim for mesne profi ts with one for recovery of possession of immovable property, and that but for such an express provision, such a combination might well have been disallowed. A suit for possession can be brought within twelve years of the date when the original dispossession took place and the cause of action for recovery of possession accrued. The claim for mesne profi ts can only be brought in respect of profi ts within three years of the institution of the suit and the date of the cause of action for mesne profi ts would in many cases be not identical with the original date of the cause of action for the recovery of possession.