iii. The Parliament has provided ample legislative guidance on the factors that may guide the High Court or the Court of Session while considering the application for grant of an anticipatory bail. iv. The substantive factors consist of the nature and gravity of the accusation, the criminal antecedents of the applicant, the risk of the applicant absconding from justice or not cooperating with the criminal justice administration and the possibility of an accusation made in bad faith with the aim of injuring or humiliating the applicant. v. In addition to the aforementioned substantive factors guiding the exercise of judicial discretion, Section 438 of CrPC engrafts certain procedural requirements. The High Court or the Court of Session may grant an interim under Section 438(1) of CrPC in case the facts and averments in the application satisfy the factors laid down. However, the proviso to Section 438(1) of CrPC provides that if such an interim is denied, the offi cer in-charge of a police station is at liberty to arrest the applicant without warrant. Even if the interim is made in favour of the applicant, the High Court or the Court of Session is mandated under Section 438 (1A) of CrPC to cause a notice of not less than seven days along with a copy of the interim to be served on the Public Prosecutor and the Superintendent of Police, with a view to give the Public Prosecutor a reasonable opportunity of being heard when the application is fi nally heard by the Court. The Court is also empowered under Section 438 (1B) of CrPC to PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 547 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] allow the Public Prosecutor’s application to make the presence of the applicant seeking anticipatory bail obligatory at the time of fi nal hearing, if the Court deems such presence necessary in the interest of justice. vi. The High Court or the Court of Session, under Section 438(2) of CrPC, is further empowered to pass any such conditions in light of the facts of a particular case, including a) A condition that the person shall make himself available for interrogation by a police offi cer as and when required; b) a condition that the person shall not, directly or indirectly, make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the Court or to any police offi cer; c) a condition that the person shall not leave India without the previous permission of the Court; d) such other condition as may be imposed under Sub-Section (3) of section 437, as if the bail is being granted under that Section. vii. Section 438(3) states that if such a person is thereafter arrested without warrant by an offi cer in charge of a police station on an accusation, and is prepared either at the time of arrest or at any time while in the custody of such offi cer to give bail, he is entitled to be released on bail.