At this stage, it is required to be noted that total 95% of the population of Sikkim C are getting the benefit of Section 10(26AAA) of the Income Tax Act and only 5% are left out and out of which only 1% are the persons like the Old Indian Settlers, who have settled in Sikkim prior to the merger with India on 26.04.1975, but their names could not be registered as “Sikkim Subjects” like the petitioners. 13.1 It is to be noted that as such the purpose of Section D 10(26AAA) is to grant exemption to the residents of Sikkim from payment of income tax under the Income Tax Act. Therefore, all such Indians/ citizens, who have settled in Sikkim prior to the merger of Sikkim with India on 26.04.1975 are to be treated at par and they form the same group/class and are entitled to the exemption under Section 10(26AAA) E of the Income Tax Act. As such, there is no difference and/or distinction between those “Sikkim Subjects”, whose names are recorded in the register maintained under the Sikkim Subjects Regulations, 1961 and those Indians, who have settled in Sikkim prior to the merger of Sikkim, but whose names were not recorded as “Sikkim Subjects” in the register maintained under the Sikkim Subjects Regulations, 1961. All are F “Sikkimese”. Merely because at the relevant time and when the Sikkim Subjects Regulations, 1961 was enacted, the Indians settled in Sikkim did not surrender their Indian citizenship or their fathers/forefathers’ names were not entered into the register maintained under the Sikkim Subjects Regulations, 1961, by itself, it cannot be said that they cease to G be the “Sikkimese”. All of them are similarly situated with those “Sikkimese” / “Sikkim Subjects”, who all have settled in Sikkim prior to the merger of Sikkim with India on 26.04.1975. As observed above, the object and purpose of Section 10(26AAA) is to grant benefit of exemption from payment of income tax under the Income Tax Act to the residents of Sikkim. Therefore, there is no nexus sought to be achieved in excluding H ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 313 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] the Indians, who have settled in Sikkim prior to the merger of Sikkim A with India on 26.04.1975 but their names are not recorded as “Sikkim Subjects”. The Union of India has failed to satisfy any reasonable classification and/or nexus to exclude such class of Indians, who, in fact, have settled in Sikkim prior to 26.04.1975. Therefore, exclusion of old Indian settlers, who have settled in Sikkim prior to the merger of Sikkim B with India on 26.04.1975 from the definition of “Sikkimese” in Section 10(26AAA) is arbitrary, discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 13.2 As observed and held by this Court in the case of D.S. Nakara (supra) Article 14 forbids class legislation but permits reasonable classification for the purpose of legislation, which classification must C satisfy the twin tests of classification being founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes persons or things that are grouped together from those that are left out of the group and that differentia must have a rational nexus to the object sought to be achieved by the statute in question.