v. UNION 1263 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] f. Issues of ‘workability’ in statutory provisions do not preclude this Court from protecting rights under Part III of the Constitution. 30. Ms. Karuna Nundy, learned counsel, submitted that: a. A spouse of foreign origin of an Indian Citizen or Overseas Citizen of India47 cardholder is entitled to apply for registration as an OCI under Section 7A(1)(d) of the Citizenship Act 1955.48 Section 7A(1)(d) is gender, sex and sexuality neutral, as distinct from the FMA and SMA. The absence of any conditions qua gender/ sex/sexuality of the parties is a casus omissus in the statute. This Court cannot supply a casus omissus into a statute by judicial interpretation, except in circumstances of clear necessity; b. The recognition of a foreign marriage between two non-citizens is a mere ministerial Act. Only the substantive law of the foreign jurisdiction is relevant; c. It would be manifestly arbitrary and contrary to Article 14, for the law to accord a larger ambit for registration of marriages to an OCI than to a citizen of the country married in a foreign jurisdiction, and to the extent of the inconsistency a harmonious construction of the FMA with the Citizenship Act is required; d. A denial of the right to marry for queer persons is violative of Articles 14, 15, 19, and 21 of the Constitution; and e. Rule 5 of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Rules 2020 recognises marriage of transgender persons because Form 2 contains the word “spouse”. 31. Ms. Anitha Shenoy, learned senior counsel, submitted that: a. The petitioners have a fundamental right to marry a person of one’s own choice under Articles 14, 15, 19, 21 and 25 of the Constitution, and any exclusion or discrimination from solemnization or registration, as incorporated in Section 4(c) 47 “OCI” 48 “Citizenship Act” 126 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. and 17(2) and other provisions of the FMA is ultra-vires the Constitution; b. The denial of recognition of the petitioners’ marriage is inconsistent with the very object of the FMA not to invalidate marriages duly solemnized under foreign law by Indian citizens; c. The requirement of proof of a ‘marital relationship’ by a ‘married couple’ for the purpose of joint adoption under Regulations 5(2) (a) and 5(3) is beyond the remit of Section 57 of the JJ Act that extends joint adoption to relationships that are ‘marriage like’ including marriages between same-sex couples solemnized overseas; d. Regulations 5(2)(a) and 5(3) of the Adoption Regulations 202249 are ultra vires the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015.50 They also violate i. The principle of equality and non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation under Articles 14 and 15; ii. The right to adoption and motherhood protected under Article 21; and iii. The right of a child to be adopted recognised under the Hague Convention on Protection of Children and Co- operation in respect of Inter-country Adoption 1980 and the Convention on the Rights of Children 1989.