858 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 4P OS.RCT.RS. 858 [2023] 4 S.C.R. A PUNJAB AND SIND BANK v. FRONTLINE CORPORATION LTD. (Civil Appeal No.2924 of 2023) B APRIL 18, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI AND ARAVIND KUMAR, JJ.] Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 – s. 34 – Respondent purchased the suit property wherein the appellant-bank was inducted C as a tenant by the previous owner in the ground floor of the suit premises – Respondent availed various credit facilities from the appellant-bank to the tune of Rs.42.74 crore by mortgaging, inter alia, the suit property as collateral – Thereafter, a purported settlement agreement, dated 29.11.2010, filed in the ejectment suit D which was filed earlier by the previous owner, before the City Civil Court and a lease deed dated 11.02.2011 was executed between the parties – Financial defaults were committed by the respondent – Demand notice u/s. 13 of the SARFAESI Act was issued by appellant- bank – Demand remained unmet – Appellant declared that it had taken possession of the suit property – Respondent filed E securitisation application before the DRT and instituted a suit before the High Court for specific performance of the settlement deed and lease deed – An injunction application was also filed restraining appellant from disposing any part of suit property – Interim was passed by the Single Judge of the High Court that no final F s of sale be passed and this was extended from time to time – Thereafter, the Single Judge set aside the interim noting therein that the appellant, being a secured creditor, could not be restrained from taking appropriate steps qua the secured suit property, especially in light of the express bar on the jurisdiction of the civil court, as provided u/s. 34 of the SARFAESI Act – Division Bench set G aside the of the Single Judge and observed that the bar u/s. 34 of the SARFAESI Act was not absolute and restrained the appellant from selling the suit property until the final determination of the rights of the parties – On appeal, held: It is settled that the jurisdiction of the civil court is barred in respect of matters which a DRT or an H Appellate Tribunal is empowered to determine in respect of any action 858 PUNJAB AND SIND BANK v. FRONTLINE CORPORATION 859 LTD. taken “or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred under A this Act” – Bar of civil court thus applies to all such matters which may be taken cognizance of by the DRT, apart from those matters in which measures have already been taken under sub-section (4) of s.13 of the SARFAESI Act – Though a very limited extent jurisdiction of the civil court can also be invoked, where for example, the action B of the secured creditor is alleged to be fraudulent or his claim may be so absurd and untenable which may not require any probe whatsoever – In the instant case, it cannot be said that the action of the secured creditor, i.e.