As noticed earlier, SICA came to be repealed and IBC came into force (Sections 7 to 9 and various other Sections), on the same day viz, on 01.12.2016. 10. A two-Judge Bench decision of this Court in Paramjeet D Singh Patheja’s case (supra), more particularly, paragraph 43 (vii), is relied on by the appellant to support its claim for exclusion of the period from 31.08.2010 to 01.12.2016 while computing the period of limitation for filing applicants under Section 9, IBC. It, in so far as relevant reads thus: - E “43. For the foregoing discussions we hold: (i) (ii) (iii) F (iv) (v) (vi) ……… G (vii) It is a well-established rule that a provision must be construed in a manner which would give effect to its purpose and to cure the mischief in the light of which it was enacted. The object of Section 22, in protecting guarantors from legal proceedings pending a reference to BIFR of the principal H 198 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A debtor, is to ensure that a scheme for rehabilitation would not be defeated by isolated proceedings adopted against the guarantors of a sick company. To achieve that purpose,it is imperative that the expression “suit” in Section 22 be given its plain meaning, namely, any proceedings adopted for realization of a right vested in a party by law. This would B clearly include arbitration proceedings.” (Emphasis added) 11. In the light of the position settled thus, in Paramjeet Singh Patheja’s Case (supra), it is relevant to refer to an earlier two-Judge Bench decision of this court in Kailash Nath Agarwal and Ors. v. C Pradeshiya Industrial & Investment Corporation of U.P. Ltd. and Anr.2 That was also a case, involving consideration of the question as to whether Section 22, SICA, afford protection to guarantors of sick company or only to the sick company. It is relevant to note in this context that the decision in Kailash Nath Agarwal’s Case (supra)was not D brought to the notice of the later bench while deciding Paramjeet Singh Patheja’s Case (supra). In other words, the latter case was decided per incuriam. In Kailash Nath Agarwal’s Case, after considering contentions akin to those raised in Paramjeet Singh Patheja’s Case, this court held that the words “proceedings” and again “suit” had to be construed differently as carrying different meanings, since, they had E been raised to denote different things. It was concluded that Section 22 (1), SICA only prohibits recovery against the industrial company and there would be no protection offered to guarantors against the recovery proceedings. 12. The above conflicting decisions need not detain us from F considering the issue further in the light of a subsequent three-Judge Bench decision of this court in KSL & Industries Ltd. Vs. M/s. Arihant Threads Ltd3. The three-judge bench, after noting the contentions raised before and the findings of the two-judge bench in Kailash Nath Agarwal’s case (supra), found that it did not deal with the question G regarding the scope of protection afforded to the industrial company concerned, under Section 22 (1) of SICA.