Instead, the essential ingredients to logically establish whether an ADP is ‘portable’ are twofold. The first ingredient is their ability to be carried around easily which includes all aspects such as C weight and their dimensions. We must hasten to add that in appropriate cases, this assessment would also take into consideration the necessary accessories which are required for safe and efficient usage such as mounted stands or any power adapters. The second ingredient is that the ADP must be suitable for daily transit of a consumer and would D include aspects such as durability to withstand frequent commute and damage protection. An example of the same would be the availability of protection cases which allows users to carry the ADPs in hand or possibility of carrying the same in normal briefcases or shoulder bags. 19. On applying these core ingredients to the characteristics of E Concerned Goods, there is no room to doubt that they are not ‘portable’. Firstly, the dimensions of the Concerned Goods make it illogical and unviable for daily transit. While it is true that classification of the goods must not be usually made on the advertisement material of the manufacturer, the user guides produced before us showcase that placing the product in other than the specified orientation could lead to damage F to the Concerned Goods. The user guides also emphatically highlight that the Concerned Goods were meant to be used at a fixed place and contained specifications that made them ideal for being mounted on a wall. 20. Secondly, the inability of the consumer to carry these goods G around in the absence of any protective case or any covering bags, which makes the Concerned Goods vulnerable to damage during transit. As noted in the literature relied upon before us, the weight was not the sole consideration for being considered as ‘portable’. For example, there used to be computers which are now no longer in common use which H HEWLETT PACKARD INDIA SALES PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 1135 OF CUSTOMS (IMPORT), NHAVA SHEVA [SURYA KANT, J.] were popularly known as ‘luggable’. They used to weigh more than 10 A kilograms. These old predecessors of laptops were designed at the relevant time to be portable and used to fold up neatly in one box with a handle. Despite their weight and the size comparable to small suitcase, they could still be transported, albeit without a wagon. 21. Furthermore, we must also use this opportunity to highlight B the impact of technological advancement on law. It’s a matter of fact that at the time when the relevant entries of the First Schedule came into effect, weight was definitely an important criterion for deciding whether any ADPs was ‘portable’. Scientific progress has greatly reduced the weight associated with high performance in the context of C ADPs. It is not surprising that the advent of LED technology, faster microchips, etc. has made it possible for mobile phones to have performance specifications which merely a decade ago was possible only on high end laptops.