480 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 4E PSO.CR.RT.S 480 [2023] 4 S.C.R. A RAVINDER SINGH v. THE STATE GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI (Criminal Appeal No. 1031 of 2023) B APRIL 25, 2023 [ABHAY S. OKA AND SANJAY KUMAR, JJ.] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 432 – Penal Code, 1860 – ss. 45, 53 – Power to impose a modified punishment – Special category sentencing to life imprisonment in excess of 14 years – C Appellant was convicted for having committed offence u/s. 376, 377, 506 and was sentenced to life imprisonment – Trial Court directed that the appellant should not be given any clemency by the State before he spent at least 20 years in jail – Same was confirmed by the High Court – On appeal, held: It is settled that the power to D impose a modified punishment within the punishment provided for in the Penal Code for such specified offences can only be exercised by the High Court and in the event of further appeal, by the Supreme Court, and not by any other Court in the country – In the light of this settled legal position, it was clearly not within the domain of the Additional Sessions Judge to impose a restriction that the term E of the appellant’s life imprisonment should be for at least 20 years and that he should not be given any clemency till then – Such power could only be exercised by the High Courts or by Supreme Court – In the instant case, the child was raped by her father during the month of August, 2012, so the amended provisions s.376(2)(f) and F s.376(3) have no role to play – Now, the maximum punishment prescribed by law is imprisonment for life with nothing further – Even in such cases, it would be a parody of justice to allow the convicts so sentenced to avail the benefit of remissions and the like, liberally conferred by the State, and cut short the length of their life sentence to a mere 14 years – Special category sentencing to life G imprisonment in excess of 14 years by fixing a lengthier term would be available to the High Courts and this Court, even in cases where the maximum punishment, permissible in law and duly imposed, is life imprisonment with nothing further – Exercise of such power must be restricted to grave cases – Appellant herein was found guilty H of one of the most monstrous and horrific of offences – Therefore, 480 RAVINDER SINGH v. THE STATE GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI 481 the appellant directed to serve the life imprisonment for a minimum A of 20 years of actual incarceration before he can seek remissions under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, or any other enacted law – Constitution of India – Arts.72 and 161. Disposing of the appeal, the Court B HELD: 1. Affirming the view taken in Swamy Shraddananda, the majority opinion in V. Sriharan observed that it could be said without any scope for controversy that, when by way of a judicial decision after a detailed analysis, having regard to the proportionality of the crime committed, it is decided that the offender deserves to be punished with the sentence of life C imprisonment, i.e., till the end of his life or for a specific period of 20 years or 30 years or 40 years, such a conclusion should survive without any interruption.