F Explanations.- (a) “Expecting to be a public servant”- If a person not expecting to be in office obtains a gratification by deceiving others into a belief that he is about to be in office, and that he will then serve them, he may be guilty of cheating, but he is not guilty of the G offence defined in this section. (b) “Gratification”. The word “gratification” is not restricted to pecuniary gratifications or to gratifications estimable in money. (c) “Legal remuneration”- The words “legal remuneration” are not restricted to remuneration which a public servant can lawfully H 1004 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A demand, but include all remuneration which he is permitted by the Government or the organisation, which he serves, to accept. (d) “A motive or reward for doing”. A person who receives a gratification as a motive or reward for doing what he does not intend or is not in a position to do, or has not done, comes within B this expression. (e) Where a public servant induces a person erroneously to believe that his influence with the Government has obtained a title for that person and thus induces that person to give the public servant, money or any other gratification as a reward for this service, the C public servant has committed an offence under this section.” 9. Section 13(1)(d), as existed at the relevant time, reads thus: “13.Criminal misconduct by a public servant.— (1) A public servantis said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct,- D (a) ……………………………… (b) ……………………………... (c) ……………………………… E (d) if he,- (i) by corrupt or illegal means, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage; or (ii) by abusing his position as a public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary F advantage; or (iii) while holding office as a public servant, obtains for any person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public interest; or (e) ..................................................” G The demand for gratification and the acceptance thereof are sine qua non for the offence punishable under Section 7 of the PC Act. 10. The Constitution Bench4was called upon to decide the question which we have quoted earlier. In paragraph 74, the conclusions of the H Constitution have been summarised, whichread thus: NEERAJ DUTTA v. STATE (GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI) 1005 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] “74. What emerges from theaforesaid discussion is summarised A as under: (a) Proof of demand and acceptance of illegal gratification by a public servant as a fact in issue by the prosecution is a sine qua non in to establish the guilt of the accused public servant under Sections 7 and 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii) of B the Act. (b) In to bring home the guilt of the accused, the prosecution has to first prove the demand of illegal gratification and the subsequent acceptance as a matter of fact. This fact in issue can be proved either by direct C evidence which can be in the nature of oral evidence or documentary evidence.