Where the location, technology, or fuel is not specified by the procurer (Case 1); B ii. For hydro-power projects, load center projects or other location specific projects with specific fuel allocation such as captive mines available, which the procurer intends to set up under tariff based bidding process (Case 2).” (5) The guidelines are binding on the procurers. Guideline 3.2 C which is related to preparation for the invitation of bids would assume relevance. It reads as follows: “3.2 For long-term procurement from hydro electric projects or for projects for which pre-identified sites are to be utilized (Case 2), the following activities should be completed by the procurer or D authorized representative of the procurer, before commencing the bid process: - Site identification and land acquisition required for the project - Environmental clearance E - Fuel linkage, if required (may also be asked from bidder) - Water linkage - Requisite Hydrological, geological, meteorological and seismological data necessary for preparation of Detailed Project Report (DPR), where applicable. F The bidder shall be free to verify geological data through his own sources, as the geological risk would lie with the project developer. The project site shall be transferred to the successful bidder at a declared price. G Provided that for the projects from which more than one distribution licensees located in different States intend to procure power and if the preparations for such projects are being facilitated by the Central Government, the activities referred to above shall be initiated before the bidding process and should be completed before signing the power purchase agreement with the selected bidder. H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 7 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (6) Under the guidelines, tariff structure is contemplated which A consists of capacity charges and energy charges which are dealt with in detail. It also deals with bidding process. The bidding process itself is divided into two stages, viz., a determination of the qualification by a pre-qualification system and thereafter submission and consideration of essentially what consists of the financial bid. There is a guideline which B deals with arbitration and it was contained in guideline 5.17: “5.17 The procurer will establish an Amicable Dispute Resolution (ADR) mechanism in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. The ADR shall be mandatory and time-bound to minimize disputes regarding the bid C process and the documentation thereof. If the ADR fails to resolve the dispute, the same will be subject to jurisdiction of the appropriate Regulatory Commission under the provisions of the Electricity Act 2003.” (7) It is, accordingly, purporting to act in terms of the guidelineS D that a Request for Qualification (for short RFQ) came to be issued on 31.03.2006. Reliance Power Limited was one of the bidders which was pre-qualified in terms of the RFQ. On 18.08.2006, there was a change notified in the guidelines. It brought about the following changes in the guidelines 5.17 besides guideline No. 4.7. The unamended and the E amended guidelines 4.7 and 5.17 read as follows: F G H 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.