19. Although there might not have been a specifi c question put to PW-9 as regards the delay in lodging the FIR but the fact that it was a delayed FIR cannot be ignored. When an FIR is delayed, in absence of proper explanation, the courts must be on guard and test the evidence meticulously to rule out possibility of embellishments in the prosecution story, inasmuch as delay gives opportunity for deliberation and guess work. More so, in a case where probability of no one witnessing the incident is high, such as in a case of night occurrence in an open place or a public street. 20. Bearing the above principles in mind, when we test the deposition of PW-2 against the weight of PW-9’s testimony, the statement of PW-2 to the eff ect that after witnessing the incident, he left the spot and informed PW-9 appears unworthy of acceptance. That apart, PW-2 does not inculpate all the three accused. He only inculpates Harilal. In this regard, PW-2 is inconsistent with his previous statement inasmuch as in his previous statement, with which he was confronted, he had inculpated all the three accused whereas in his deposition in Court he stated that he had not stated HARILAL ETC. v. STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 147 (NOW CHHATTISGARH) [MANOJ MISRA, J.] before the investigating offi cer that both Anshram and Harilal were assaulting the deceased. Moreover, PW-2 does not disclose the seriousness of the assault on the deceased. He does not state that the deceased was seriously injured by the blows infl icted on him. Therefore, his statement is inconclusive as regards the assault being the cause of death. Rather, it leaves room for a possibility that the assault which he witnessed was just the beginning of a mob assault on the deceased concerning his involvement with a lady of the village. More so, when the dead body of the deceased was found 300 feet away from the place where the deceased was allegedly assaulted. Further, PW-2’s statement in respect of number of persons assaulting the deceased appears inconclusive. Taking the above into account and having regard to the fact that PW-2 is a chance witness, not a resident of the village where the incident occurred, and his statement was inconsistent with his previous statement, in our view, it would be unsafe to rely on PW-2 to convict the accused for the off ence of murder. 21. Insofar as PW-6 is concerned, he too is a chance witness, inasmuch as he was not present at the spot when the assault on the deceased started. According to him, he came out to witness the incident when an alarm was raised by mother of Parasram, one of the accused, that Ellahabadiya (the deceased) was beating her son. According to PW-6, when he came out, he saw all the three accused assaulting the deceased with lathi in front of the house of Anshram. He does not state that the deceased was armed and had attacked the accused.