2. The brief facts of the case culled out are that one Srikant Mantri became a member of the Calcutta Stock Exchange (hereinafter being referred to as the “CSE”) and was granted registration as a stock broker on 30th November, 1992. Sometime in the year 1997, he decided to H GPSK CAPITAL PVT. LTD. (FORMERLY KNOWN AS MANTRI FIN. LTD.) v. 739 THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] transfer his membership card of CSE in favour of Mantri Finance Ltd.- A the appellant herein (hereinafter being referred to as the “Company”). It is not in dispute that the company was registered with the Registrar of Companies, Calcutta on 27th December, 1998 under the name and style of Ushagram Properties and Finance Ltd. Later, it changed its name to Mantri Finance Ltd. on 13th November, 1992. The Company had started B the business of stock broking in 1995 and became a member of NSE and thereafter sought registration with the Board as a stock broker and obtained membership of NSE as a stock broker on 17th October, 1995. Thereafter, when the membership card of Srikant Mantri was transferred in the name of the Company, the latter became a member of CSE and was registered as a stock broker of CSE on 1st April, 1998. C 3. After obtaining the membership of CSE on transfer of the card from Srikant Mantri, the appellant Company claimed that it should be exempted from payment of registration fee for the period for which Srikant Mantri had already paid the fees. In other words, it claimed the benefit of exemption of the fee already paid by Srikant Mantri. At the D same time, also claimed that all the conditions prescribed under para 4 of Schedule III to the Regulations were satisfied and, therefore, it was entitled to claim exemption. 4. The claim of the Company was rejected by the Board by its dated 7th May, 2007 holding that Srikant Mantri was only a Director E in the Company during the three years period after the transfer of his membership and since he was not the whole time Director, the conditions prescribed under para 4 of Schedule III are not satisfied and accordingly, was not entitled to claim exemption as prayed for by the appellant. 5. The appellant Company filed appeal against of the Board F dated 7th May, 2007 before the Tribunal on following two issues:- (i) Whether the stock broker requires multiple registrations to operate on more than one stock exchange(s) or a single registration will suffice for all the stock exchanges. G (ii) Whether the appellant Company is entitled to fee continuity benefits provided under para 4 of Schedule III. 6. In regard to issue no. (i), the learned Tribunal held that the single registration with the Board is sufficient even if the stock broker has multiple memberships and functions from several stock exchanges H 740 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A and therefore, will have to pay the fee for initial registration with the Board and set aside the impugned and remitted the matter to the Board for a fresh computation of the registration fee payable by the Company on the basis of its registration with effect from 17th October, 1995.