There is no room for any intendment. There is no equity about a tax. There is no presumption as to a tax. Nothing is to be read in, nothing is to be implied. One can only look fairly at the language used………” C 14. The above opinion of Justice Rowlatt was approvingly cited by former Chief Justice Koka Subba Rao, writing fora three judge bench of this Court in the case of Banarsi Debi vs. ITO.6 The principle that provisions and exemptions under taxation statutes are to be strictly interpreted in accordance with legislative intent was also upheld by one D of us recently in 2022, in Augustan Textile Colours.7 15. Following the aforesaid discussion, it must be said that for purposes of interpreting Section 69A of the Income Tax, Act 1961- the ordinary and literal meaning should be opted as the words in the statute are clear and unambiguous. The provision does not need any E addition or subtraction and stands on its own legs. The phrase ‘valuable article’ would simply mean an item ‘worth a great deal of money’. It cannot mean, as is said in the impugned , to include‘any article of value’. Therefore, in the context of Section 69A, unexplained valuable article has to be high priced item which F are procured to hide income, to avoid tax liability. To adopt a wide interpretation for the phrase- ‘valuable article’ and thereby include within its scope any sundry article of whatever value, is found to be unjustified. It needs to be also reiterated that, ordinarily, fiscal laws including taxation statutes, are to be strictly interpreted and tax G must not be imposed through analogy, inference or by extension of phrases used by the legislature. 5 Capy Brandy Syndicate vs. Inland Revenue (1921) 1 KB 64 6 Banarsi Debi vs. ITO (1964) 7 SCR 539- See paragraph 6. 7 Augustan Textile Colours Ltd. vs. Director of Industries &Anr. (Civil Appeal H No. 2830/2022) per Justice Hrishikesh Roy. See paragraphs 13 & 14 M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 597 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] 16. For purpose of Section 69A of Income Tax Act, it is therefore A declared that- an ‘article’ shall be considered ‘valuable’ if the concerned article is a high-priced article commanding a premium price. As a corollary, an ordinary ‘article’ cannot be bracketed in the same category as the other high-priced articles like bullion, gold, jewellery mentioned in Section 69A by attributing high value to the run-of-the-mill article, only on the B strength of its bulk quantity. To put it in another way, it is not the ownership of huge volume of some low cost ordinary article but the precious gold and the like, that would attract the implication of deemed income under Section 69A. 17. Earlier, it is the high value, less bulky items which were owned C discreetly, that aided the assessee in avoiding tax. The 1964 Amendment was primarily enacted to address mischief of this nature.