Rule 9 came to be amended by notifi cation8 dated 16th February 2017 and the amended Rule read as follows: “9. Selection of Candidates for Register A-I:- (1) The Additional Chief Secretary and Financial Commissioner to Government, Haryana, Revenue and Disaster Management shall, by a date to be determined by the Government, prepare a list of District Revenue Offi cers/Tehsildars not more than fi ve times of the number of vacancies and submit the same for the consideration of a Committee with Chief Secretary as Chairman and two such other offi cers as members, as may be nominated by the Government from time to time, the name of a person shall be submitted who- (a) (i) has completed eight years continuous Government service including service rendered as Naib-Tehsildar; (ii) has not attained the age of fi fty years on the fi rst day of November immediately preceding the date of submission of names by the concerned authority; (iii) is not facing disciplinary proceedings and against whom action is being contemplated and (b) is a graduate of a recognised University.” 18. On 17.04.2017, the Department issued a communication, in which it was stated that the State Government was looking to fi ll up vacancies (9 8 Notifi cation No. G.S.R.3/Const./Art.309/2017 dated 16th February 2017 105 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. vacancies) up to 2016, in the Service from the quota of Register A-1. The relevant part of this communication is extracted below: “ It is intimated that State Government has decided to fi ll up nine vacancies of HCS(Executive Branch) from Register A-I of District Revenue Offi cer/Tehsildars upto the vacancies of the year 2016 in terms of rule 9 of Haryana Civil Service (Executive Branch) Rules, 2008. The offi cers should fulfi ll the following conditions of eligibility as on 01.11.2016:- (a) (i) has completed eight years continuous Government service including service rendered as Naib-Tehsildar; (ii) has not attained the age of fi fty years; (iii) is not facing disciplinary proceedings and against whom action is not being contemplated. (iv) is clear from vigilance angle; (b) is a graduate from a recognized University. It is, therefore, requested to bring the same in the notice of all concerned Offi cers under your control. All the eligible and interested Offi cers should send their application in this regard along with certifi ed documents regarding education to the Government either directly or through proper channel latest by 24.04.2017. The applications received after 24.04.2017 will not be entertained.” 19. It was clearly indicated therein that offi cers should fulfi ll the conditions of eligibility as on 01.11.2016 as prescribed in clause(a)(i) to (iv) therein (referred to supra): - It was also indicated in the said letter to the following eff ect: - “It is, therefore, requested to bring the same in the notice of all concerned Offi cers under your control. All the eligible and interested Offi cers should send their application in this regard along with certified documents regarding education to the Government either directly or through proper channel latest by 24.04.2017.