Chanda Devi’s saree had caught fi re. Neither the murdered woman nor the appellant nor any member of his family was shown to have run about or called for help against a fi re. 9. Learned Counsel for the appellant contended that Section 106 of the Evidence Act could not be called in aid by the prosecution because that section applies only where a fact relating to the actual commission of the off ence is within the special knowledge of the accused, such as the circumstances in which or the intention with which an accused did a particular act alleged to constitute an off ence. The language of Section BALVIR SINGH v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 851 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 106 of the Evidence Act does not, in our opinion, warrant putting such a narrow construction upon it. This Court held in Gurcharan Singh v. State of Punjab [AIR 1956 SC 460 : (1956) Cri LJ 827] that the burden of proving a plea specifi cally set up by an accused, which may absolve him from criminal liability, certainly lies upon him. It is a diff erent matter that the quantum of evidence by which he may succeed in discharging his burden of creating a reasonable belief, that circumstance, absolving him from criminal liability may have existed, is lower than the burden resting upon the prosecution to establish the guilt of an accused beyond reasonable doubt. 10. Neither an application of Section 103 nor of 106 of the Evidence Act could, however, absolve the prosecution from the duty of discharging its general or primary burden of proving the prosecution case beyond reasonable doubt. It is only when the prosecution has led evidence which, if believed, will sustain a conviction, or, which makes out a prima facie case, that the question arises of considering facts of which the burden of proof may lie upon the accused. The crucial question in the case before us is : Has the prosecution discharged its initial or general and primary burden of proving the guilt of the appellant beyond reasonable doubt?” (Emphasis supplied) 60. We also pose the very same question like the one posed in Sawal Das (supra) referred to above, “has the prosecution discharged its initial or general and primary burden of proving the guilt of the appellants beyond reasonable doubt?” 61. We are of the view that the circumstances narrated by us in para 28 of this constitute more than a prima facie case to enable the prosecution to invoke Section 106 of the Evidence Act and shift the burden on the accused husband to explain what had actually happened on the date his wife died. 62. These appeals remind us of what this Court observed in the case of Dharam Das Wadhwani v. State of Uttar Pradesh: “The rule of benefi t of reasonable doubt does not imply a frail willow bending to every whiff of hesitancy. Judges are made of sterner stuff and must take a practical view 852 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.