F and after a fair analysis of the definition “consumer” post- amendment 1993 finally held as under: “21. We must, therefore, hold that: (i) The explanation added by the Consumer Protection G (Amendment) Act 50 of 1993 (replacing Ordinance 24 of 1993) with effect from 18-6-1993 is clarificatory in nature and applies to all pending proceedings. (ii) Whether the purpose for which a person has bought goods is a “commercial purpose” within the meaning of the definition of H 464 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A expression ‘consumer’ in Section 2(d) of the Act is always a question of fact to be decided in the facts and circumstances of each case. (iii) A person who buys goods and uses them himself, exclusively for the purpose of earning his livelihood, by means of self- B employment is within the definition of the expression ‘consumer’.” 31. The exposition of law on the subject was further considered by this Court in Lilavati Kirtilal Mehta Medical Trust v. Unique Shanti Developers and Others4in which one of us (Rastogi, J.) was a member C and the question arose for consideration was whether the purchase of flats for the purpose of providing accommodation to nurses employed by the Lilavati Kirtilal Mehta Medical Trust hospital qualifies a purchase of services for commercial purpose and whether the Hospital Trust was excluded from the definition of “consumer” under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, 1986, this Court after revisiting the scheme of the Act, 1986 and D taking note of the law of precedence in Laxmi Engineering Works (supra) of which a reference has been made and placing reliance on the of this Court in Paramount Digital Colour Lab and Others v. AGFA India Private Limited and Others5 held that a person whether or not a consumer or other activities meant for commercial purpose will E always depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case. 32. It may be a case that a person who is engaged in commercial activities has purchased goods or availed of service for his personal use or consumption or for the personal use of a beneficiary and such purchase is not linked to their ordinary profits generating activities or for creation of self-employment, such a person may still claim to be a consumer and F after discussion of various illustrations summarized the discussion after taking note of the broad principles that were culled out for determination whether the activity or transaction is for a commercial purpose, held as under: “19. To summarise from the above discussion, though a strait G jacket formula cannot be adopted in every case, the following broad principles can be culled out for determining whether an activity or transaction is “for a commercial purpose”: 4 (2020) 2 SCC 265 H 5 (2018) 14 SCC 81 NATIONAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. HARSOLIA MOTORS 465 AND OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 19.1. The question of whether a transaction is for a commercial A purpose would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.