L M Sharma, J. noted: “97. A serious argument has been advanced that the privy purse was a just quid pro quo to the Rulers of the Indian States for surrendering their sovereignty and rights over their territories and that move for integration began on a positive promising note but it soon degenerated into a game of manoeuvre presumably as a deceptive plan or action. This argument based on the ground of breaking of solemn pledges and breach of promise cannot stand much scrutiny. To say that without voluntary accession, India i.e. Bharat would be fundamentally diff erent from that Bharat that came into being prior to the accession is untenable much less inconceivable … the integration could have been achieved even otherwise. One should not lose sight of the fact that neither because of their antipathy towards the Rulers nor due to any xenophobia, did the Indian Government entertain the idea of integration but because of the will of the people. It was the people of the States who were basically instrumental in the integration of India.” 398. The Court held that “the attitude of the princes towards joining a united India was one of resistance, reluctance and high bargain and it was the people of the States who forced them to accede to the new United India.” The States, in other words, “were free but not stable because of the stress and strain they underwent both from inside and outside.” Through the process of integration and democratisation (or unionization, as Sardar Patel called it), multiple forces – political, economic and geographic, and the democratic movement within the States accelerated the process of integration. The removal of Articles 291 and 362 was held not to infringe the basic structure of the Constitution. S Mohan, J. noted that though in Madhav Rao Scindia (supra), Articles 291 and 366(22) were held to be an “integral part of the Constitution”, this statement by itself in the of J C Shah, J. did not elevate those articles to be a part of the basic structure of the Constitution. Mohan, J. held: “198. No doubt, unity and integrity of India would constitute the basic structure as laid down in Kesavananda Bharati case [Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala, (1973) 4 SCC 225] but it is too far-fetched 234 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. a claim to state that the guarantees and assurances in these articles have gone into the process of unifi cation and integration of the country. One cannot lose sight of the fact that it was the will of the people and the urge to breathe free air of independent India as equal citizens that brought about the merger of these princely States. Therefore, the contention that the Articles 291 and 362 facilitated the organic unity of India is unacceptable.” 399. Having discussed the two s (of the 11-judge Bench in Madhav Rao Scindia (supra) and of the Constitution Bench in Raghunathrao Ganpatrao (supra)), it becomes necessary to summarise the principles which are relevant to the present controversy: a.