If you have any documents under consideration in this regard, please D return them to the District Industries Centre. Enclosed Circular Dated 12-01-1995. Copy:- 1. All Unit offices For information. E 2. RIICO (Headquarters) Officers for information (S S Chaturvedi) Advisor (Infra)” x---------------------------------x--------------------------------------x F 16. In this background, JKSL was continuing its operations in the leased-out area for several years. However, in the 1990s, JKSL encountered financial difficulties and was eventually declared a “sick company” by the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (“BIFR”) on 02.04.1998, under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special G Provisions) Act, 1985 (“SICA”). Following the classification of JKSL as a sick company, the matter was referred to the Appellate Authority for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (“AAIFR”). During this period, JKSL signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Respondent No. 1 as part of its plan to sell the Kota unit of its operations. Section 18 of H 258 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A SICA1 envisages certain measures being taken for revival of the company that has fallen on difficult times and been declared a “sick” company. 17. The prospect of a demerger of the certain units owned by JKSL became the preferred strategy for effectuating the recuperation of the company. Respondent No. 1 emerged as the favoured entity to B take over these units and also entered into two tripartite settlements on 09.10.2002 and 22.10.2002, involving JKSL and two worker’s unions, to pay off part of the dues of the former labourers of JKSL, as well as offer them employment under Respondent No. 1. The relevant terms and conditions of the agreement dated 09.10.2002, are as follows: C “IV. TERMS AND CONDITIONS xxx xxx xxx 1 18.Preparation and Sanction of Schemes — (1) Where an is made under sub-section (3) of section 17 in relation to any sick D industrial company, the operating agency specified in the shall prepare, as expeditiously as possible and ordinarily within a period of ninety days from the date of such , a scheme with respect to such company providing for any one or more of the following measures, namely:— [(a) the financial reconstruction of the sick industrial company;] (b) the proper management of the sick industrial company by change in, or take over of, management of the sick industrial company; E [(c) the amalgamation of— (i) the sick industrial company with any other company, or (ii) any other company with the sick industrial company; (hereafter in this section, in the case of sub-clause (i), the other company, and in the case of sub-clause (ii), the sick industrial company, referred to as “transferee company”;] (d) the sale or lease of a part or whole of any industrial undertaking of the sick industrial company; [(da) the rationalisation of managerial personnel, supervisory staff and workmen in F accordance with law;] (e) such other preventive, ameliorative and remedial measures as may be appropriate; (f) such incidental, consequential or supplemental measures as may be necessary or expedient in connection with or for the purposes of the measures specified in clauses (a) to (e).