(g) Buttressing the same aspect, in Balco Employees’ Union (Regd) vs. Union of India AIR 2002 SC 350, it was held that in a democracy, it is the prerogative of each elected G Government to follow its own policy. This Court observed that often a change in Government may result in the shift in focus or change in economic policies and any such change may result in adversely affecting some vested interests. Unless any illegality is committed in the execution of the H 184 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A policy or the same is contrary to law or malafide, a decision bringing about change cannot per se be interfered with by the court. (h) In Directorate of Film Festivals vs. Gaurav Ashwin Jain AIR 2007 SC 1640, it was observed that the scope of B judicial review of governmental policy is now well defined and the courts do not and cannot act as Appellate Authorities examining the correctness, suitability and appropriateness of a policy. ThisCourt was also of the view that Courts are not Advisors to the executive on matters of policy which the executive is entitled to formulate, thus, the scope of C judicial review when examining a policy of the government is to check whether it violates the fundamental rights of the citizens or is opposed to the provisions of the Constitution, or opposed to any statutory provision or manifestly arbitrary. It was thus held that the Courts cannot interfere with policy D either on the ground that it is erroneous or on the ground that a better, fairer or wiser alternative is available. Legality of the policy, and not the wisdom or soundness of the policy, is the subject of judicial review. (i) In the case of DDA vs. Joint Action Committee, Allottee E of SFS Flats AIR 2008 SC 1343, the Supreme Court held as under: “An executive termed as a policy decision is not beyond the pale of judicial review. Whereas the superior courts may not interfere with the nitty-gritty of the policy, or substitute one by the F other but it will not be correct to contend that the court shall lay its judicial hands off, when a plea is raised that the impugned decision is a policy decision. Interference therewith on the part of the superior court would not be without jurisdiction as it is subject G to judicial review.” “Broadly, a policy decision is subject to judicial review on the following grounds: (a) if it is unconstitutional; H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 185 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (b) if it is dehors the provisions of the Act and the A regulations; (c) if the delegate has acted beyond its power of delegation; (d) if the executive policy is contrary to the statutory B or a larger policy.” (j) In Small Scale Industrial Manufacturers Association (Regd.) vs. Union of India (2021) 8 SCC 511, a writ petition was preferred under Article 32 of the Constitution of India by the Small-Scale Industrial Manufactures C Association, Haryana for an appropriate writ, direction or directing the Union of India and others to take effective and remedial measures to redress the financial strain faced by the industrial sector, particularly, MSMEs due to the COVID-19 pandemic.