G 4.4 It is further submitted that if the Magistrates were given powers to dismiss the complaint as soon as he chooses not to make a reference under Section 156(3), it would virtually be quashing the complaint by arriving at a premature conclusion without any evidence on record that the complainant cannot be believed. It is submitted that H 152 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A this would in effect amount to the Magistrate arrogating to himself the inherent powers conferred on the High Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C. It is submitted that at the stage of Section 156(3), the Magistrate will not have any material which would enable him to take a decision on the credibility of the complainant or the acceptability of the allegations in the complaint. B 4.5 It is further submitted that firstly the learned CJM could have exercised the discretion to direct the concerned police officer to register an FIR as the complaint reveals the commission of a cognizable offence. It is submitted that the police officer having not chosen to register an FIR, the Magistrate if he is satisfied certainly has to refer the complaint C to the police station under Section 156(3) to register an FIR. It is submitted that alternatively if the learned Magistrate chooses not to refer the complaint to the police under Section 156(3), in any case, he could not have dismissed the complaint and must have proceeded to the stage of Section 200/202 Cr.P.C. and take an appropriate decision under Section D 203 or 204 Cr.P.C. It is submitted that the petition made by the complainant dated 27.10.2020 inter alia praying for action by the Magistrate to direct investigation, amounts to a “complaint” under Section 2(d) Cr.P.C. It is submitted that therefore the Magistrate has the discretion to decide whatever action needs to be taken in the given facts of the case, under Section 156(3) or Section 200/202 Cr.P.C. E 4.6 It is submitted that therefore, resort to Section 156(3) is also “taking action under the Code” and therefore the complaint does not cease to be a complaint because the complainant has inter alia requested for action under Section 156(3) also. It is submitted that the jurisdiction of the Magistrate under Section 156(3) and Sections 200/202 Cr.P.C F does not depend upon the prayer/choice/preference of the complainant. Formal requirements of filing a list of witnesses and documents under Section 204 Cr.P.C. relate to a post-cognizance stage and the filing or non-filing of such list cannot affect the status of the petition as a complaint under Section 2(d) Cr.P.C. It is submitted that when presented with G such a complaint, the Magistrate certainly has a discretion to make a pre-cognizance reference under Section 156(3) or alternatively take a post-cognizance action under Sections 200/202 Cr.P.C. If a petition answers the definition of a complaint under Section 2(d), all these courses are open and available to the Magistrate. It is submitted that therefore when the Magistrate does not choose to proceed under Section 156(3), H KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 153 AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.]