At that time no B stalls had been constructed and the alleged rights of the plaintiff had not been actually infringed. During the course of the suit the construction of the stalls was commenced, and the same was completed, at some appreciable distance from the house of the plaintiff, after the suit was dismissed for C default. Further the complaint in the 1941 suit was that the right to use the footpath just south of the municipal drain was being infringed which footpath was alleged to have been used by pedestrians and customers of the shop of the plaintiff; there was no allegation that his right to access to Halliday Road was being threatened or infringed. In the present suit D what is substantially alleged is that the plaintiff had a right to access to the house from all sides of the said plot No. 11459 in question abutting and lying in front of the plaintiff ’s house. It will also be noticed that the present plaint alleges a permanent deprivation of plaintiff’s alleged right of access E to Halliday Road. The constructions are of a permanent nature, and, in our view, a fresh cause of action arose when the stalls were constructed in 1942.” 54. What is a cause of action is now settled beyond any doubt. The classic definition of that expression is that of Lord Justice Brett in F Jay Cook v. Henry S. Gill reported in (1873) LR 8 CP 107 as under: “‘Cause of action’ has been held from the earliest time to mean every fact which is material to be proved to entitle the plaintiff to succeed, — every fact which the defendant would have a right to traverse.” G 55. Lord Justice Fry put it in the negative by saying, “Everything which, if not proved, gives the defendant an immediate right to , must be part of the cause of action.” This definition is the basis of all subsequent decisions containing an interpretation of the expression ‘cause of action.’ It was accepted in Deep Narain Singh v. Minnie Dietert and anr. reported in ILR (1904) 31 Cal 274 at p. 282 H GANESH PRASAD v. RAJESHWAR PRASAD AND ORS. 925 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] and by the Privy Council in Mohammad Khalil Khan and others v. A Mahbub Ali Mian and others reported in AIR 1949 PC 78 at p. 86, para 61 point No. 2. 56. The aforesaid cases also make it clear that the cause of action in a suit has no reference to the defence taken in the suit, nor is it related to the evidence by which that cause of action is established. In B Mohammad Khalil Khan (supra) to which, we have referred above, this point is made in the of the Privy Council in para 61, point No. (5), as follows:— “The cause of action has no relation whatever to the defence that may be set up by the defendant nor does it depend upon C the character of the relief prayed for by the plaintiff.