The estimated increase in cost of the water intake system B due to the change in location of the water intake system is 152 crore. The petitioner has submitted that since this increase is directly attributable to the error in the WAPCOS report provided to the bidders at the pre-bid stage, the petitioner is required to be compensated for the same. C 33. In our view, the claim is not covered under any of the provisions of Article 13.1.1 of the PPA. The petitioner being aware that the cost of water intake system being indicative in nature and being not covered under the “Change in Law” under Article 13 should have informed itself fully with the actual site conditions before D preparing the bid and accordingly factored the possible estimates of water intake system while quoting the bid instead of relying on the indicative cost. In this connection, para 2.7.2.1 of the RfP document provides as under: “2.7.2.1 The Bidder shall make independent enquiry and satisfy E itself with respect to all the required information, inputs, conditions and circumstances and factors that may have any effect on his Bid. In assessing the Bid, it is deemed that the Bidder has inspected and examined the site conditions of roads, bridges, ports etc. for unloading and/or transporting heavy pieces of material and has based its design, equipment size and fixed F its price taking into account all such relevant conditions and also the risks, contingencies and other circumstances which may influence or affect supply of power.” Further para 4 of the RfP document provides that the pricing and other details given in the bidding documents are by way of G information only and it was for the bidders to conduct independent enquiry and verify the details and information. Para 4 are extracted as under: “4. While the RFP has been prepared in good faith, neither the Procurers, Authorised Representative and Power Finance H Corporation (PFC) nor their directors or employees or advisors/ HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 23 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] consultants make any representation or warranty, express or A implied, or accept any responsibility or liability, whatsoever, in respect of any statements or omission herein, or the accuracy, completeness or reliability of information contained herein, and shall incur no liability under any law, statute, rules or regulations as to the accuracy, reliability or completeness of this RFP, even B if any loss or damage is caused to the Bidder by any act or omission on their part.” Therefore, it is the responsibility of the petitioner to verify the suitability of the location of water intake and ensure reliable water supply for the power plant and workout the relevant approximate C cost of water intake system independently and factor in the estimates in the bid so that a realistic cost is reflected in the bid. The petitioner having failed to do so, the increase in cost on account of this head is not admissible.” (14) As far as the question relating to imposition of customs duty D on mining equipment is concerned, the same is dealt with in paragraphs 40 and 41.