Conclusion: 29. It is no more res integra that in absence of a fixed date indicated in the advertisement inviting applications, with reference to which the requisite eligibility is to be judged, and when the rules are F silent, the only certain date for the scrutiny of the eligibility of a candidate would be the last date for making the applications. It cannot be gain said that the date of interview or selection would always be uncertain and the uncertainty of the date may lead to an anomalous situation in as much as even those candidates who were not eligible to apply under the G reserved category on the date of making application, may apply under the reserved category and subsequently obtain the certificate by the time the interviews are held. In such circumstance, the possibility of playing mischief also cannot be ruled out. In the instant case, the last date for the submission of applications was 31.08.2021 and the interviews were fixed in August 2022. So, there was a gap of one full year between H 634 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the last date for submission of the applications and the date of interview, during which period the economic status and resultant status of “creamy layer/non-creamy layer/EWS” of the candidates might have also changed. Therefore, the exposition of law settled by this Court is that in absence of a fixed date indicated in the advertisement, and when the rules are also silent, the last date fixed for submitting the applications B would be the date for the scrutiny of the eligibility of the candidates. 30. A Three-Judge Bench of this Court in Dr. M.V. Nair Vs. Union of India & Ors.10,had held inter alia that the qualification and eligibility have to be considered with reference to the last date for receiving the applications, unless the notification calling for applications itself C specifies a date. 31. In Rekha Chaturvedi v. University of Rajasthan and Others11, this Court held as under: - “10. The contention that the required qualifications of the candidates should be examined with reference to the date of D selection and not with reference to the last date for making applications has only to be stated to be rejected. The date of selection is invariably uncertain. In the absence of knowledge of such date the candidates who apply for the posts would be unable to state whether they are qualified for the posts in question or not, E if they are yet to acquire the qualifications. Unless the advertisement mentions a fixed date with reference to which the qualifications are to be judged, whether the said date is of selection or otherwise, it would not be possible for the candidates who do not possess the requisite qualifications in praesenti even to make applications for the posts. The uncertainty of the date may also F lead to a contrary consequence, viz., even those candidates who do not have the qualifications in praesenti and are likely to acquire them at an uncertain future date, may apply for the posts thus swelling the number of applications.