Accordingly to the understanding of the High Court the vacancies were to be fi lled up at its end by advertising the posts and by conducting the examinations and declaring the results which was not true. The application is accordingly disposed of.” (emphasis supplied) 3 IA No 17 690 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 13. By its observations in the above , this Court was of the view that the understanding of the High Court that the vacancies were to be fi lled up “at its end” by advertising the posts and conducting the examination and, eventually, declaring the results was not a correct reading of the previous dated 4 January 2007. Be that as it may, on 23 May 2008, a meeting was held of a Selection Committee consisting of three-Judges of the High Court, the Chief Secretary of the Government of Haryana, the Principal Secretary, Home and Justice, the Advocate General and the Joint Registrar (Recruitment). The minutes recorded an assurance of the Chief Secretary that sanction for taking the selection of candidates for Haryana Civil Service (Judicial Branch) out of the purview of the Haryana Public Service Commission and entrusting it to the Selection Committee of the High Court would be sent shortly, after obtaining the approval of the Cabinet. 14. Following the above development, on 12 February 2009, this Court took up IA No 60 fi led by the High Court and two writ petitions in which the following was passed: “The Public Service Commission had initiated steps to fi ll up 78 vacancies of Civil Judge (Jr.Division) pursuant to the request made by the High Court of Punjab & Haryana and on 14th September 2008 a notifi cation was issued by the Haryana Public Service Commission. There were about 6,000 candidates appeared for the preliminary examination which was held on 16.11.2008 and the result was also published by the Public Service Commission and the candidates have to appear for fi nal selection. Meanwhile, the High Court after consultations with the Government of Haryana and the Public Service Commission decided that further process of selection would be held at the instance of the High Court and the Public Service Commission jointly. The High Court has now constituted a Committee and the Committee will set up the question papers which will be valued and thereafter followed by interview wherein three Judges are nominated by the Chief Justice of the Punjab & Haryana and three members of the Public Service Commission would participate. In the Writ Petition(C) Nos.39 and 40/2009, the petitioners allege that the process of recruitment had already been initiated by the Public Service Commission as per Article 235 of the Constitution of India MALIK MAZHAR SULTAN v. U P PUBLIC SERVICE 691 COMMISSION [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] and as per the Punjab Civil Service (Judicial Branch) Rules, 1951 (as applicable to State of Haryana) and it is submitted that the recruitment had already been started on the basis of the rules. The same can be continued under the said rules and any deviation would be against the decision of this Court in Hemen Malhotra Vs. High Court of Delhi, reported in (2008) 7 SCC p.11 and other cases and the writ petitioners pray that Haryana Public Service Commission alone has got the authority to continue the further selection process.