Therefore, there is a clear interdiction against transfer or assignment by the tenant of the business being run in the leasehold premises in favour D of a third person. 22. Given the clear proscription in the lease deed, duly endorsed by the explicit language of Sections 13(1)(e) and 15(1) of the Act of 1947, the very execution of the assignment agreement dated 15.01.1985 (Exh.49), whereby the tenant admittedly assigned his business in the E leasehold premises in favour of Krishna B Shetty for ` 2,00,000/- and accepted a sum of ` 50,000/- as earnest money, was sufficient in itself to establish transgression of the lease condition and the statutory mandate. No doubt, the earlier decisions of this Court, referred to hereinabove, laid down the principle that the mere execution of a genuine partnership F deed by a tenant, whereby he/she converted a sole proprietary concern into a partnership business, while continuing to actively participate in the business and retaining control over the tenanted premises wherein the business is being run, would not amount to sub-letting. However, that principle has no role to play in the case on hand as the tenant did not stop short at executing the partnership agreement dated 01.01.1985 (Exh.48) G but went on to execute the assignment agreement dated 15.01.1985 (Exh.49), whereby he assigned his hotel business in the leased premises to Krishna B Shetty and received earnest money also. The very act of execution of this document was sufficient in itself to complete the breach of the lease condition and the statutory mandate and did not require H 1146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A anything further. Therefore, the subsequent failure of Krishna B Shetty in his specific performance suit in Civil Suit No. 623 of 1986, be it for whatever reason, is of absolutely no relevance or consequence. All the more so, as the landlord and landlady were admittedly not parties thereto and the rendered in the said suit was not even placed on record as per due procedure and at the relevant time. Irrespective of the result B in the said suit, the ineluctable fact remains that the tenant admitted execution of the assignment agreement (Exh.49) and that singular fact settled the issue as to whether there was an act of assignment on his part. The High Court seems to have lost sight of this crucial aspect. 23. We, therefore, find on facts that the tenant admitted committing C a breach of the lease condition with regard to assignment of his leasehold interest in favour of a third party, when he signed the assignment agreement dated 15.01.1985 (Exh.49) for a consideration of ` 2,00,000/- and received ` 50,000/- as earnest money. The breach being complete on his part upon such execution itself, the failure of the assignee, D Krishna B Shetty, in his suit for specific performance against the tenant is of no import. 24. The impugned s of the Bombay High Court are accordingly set aside and the of the Trial Court, as affirmed by the Appellate Court, shall stand restored.