(2) The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 puts no limitation, C restriction or condition on exercise of such power and an Appellate court on the evidence before it may reach its own conclusion, both on questions of fact and of law. (3) Various expressions, such as, “substantial and compelling reasons”, “good and sufficient grounds”, “very strong circumstances”, “distorted conclusions”, “glaring mistakes”, etc. D are not intended to curtail extensive powers of an Appellate court in an appeal against acquittal. Such phraseologies are more in the nature of “flourishes of language” to emphasise the reluctance of an Appellate court to interfere with acquittal than to curtail the power of the court to review the evidence and to come to its own E conclusion. (4) An Appellate court, however, must bear in mind that in case of acquittal, there is double presumption in favour of the accused. Firstly, the presumption of innocence is available to him under the fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence that every F person shall be presumed to be innocent unless he is proved guilty by a competent court of law. Secondly, the accused having secured his acquittal, the presumption of his innocence is further reinforced, reaffirmed and strengthened by the trial court. (5) If two reasonable conclusions are possible on the basis G of the evidence on record, the Appellate court should not disturb the finding of acquittal recorded by the trial court.” 15. In the aforesaid background the circumstantial evidence relied upon by the State to prove the circumstances which points to the guilt of 4 (2007) 4 SCC 415 H 414 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A the accused alone for having committed the offence as summarized by the High Court cannot be found fault with, for reasons indicated hereinbelow: 16.The death of Mr. Jose C Kafan being homicide stands proved by virtue of the Post Mortem report Ex.P-41 which was conducted on B 21.01.2012. The said report would indicate the death would have occurred 45-60 days prior to the post-mortem examination. PW-22, the Doctor who conducted the post-mortem of the dead body, Doctor Keertiraj in his examination in chief held on 26.03.2013 has opined thus: “A lacerated wound on left eyebrow measuring 2 inches (length) C X 2 ½ inches (width) was found and the edges of the said wound was found to be lacerated. There was commuted fracture on frontal bone that comes under the said wound. Below the left eye i.e., in the maxilla bone part, swollen wound was found that means some blood clotting mark was found measuring 2 ½ inches (length) X 1 ½ inches (width).” D PW-22 has opined that Mr. Jose Kafan had died due to brain hemorrhage that occurred because of commuted fracture on the forehead. In that view of the matter and also there being no serious dispute on this issue,the irresistible conclusion drawn by the High Court, death of Mr. Jose Kafan was by homicidal cannot be found fault with. E 16.1 The contention of the learned counsel for the accused that it is not possible to state conclusively as to what had exactly happened, due to lack of eye-witnesses and therefore the possibility of the deceased having fallen and suffered an injury cannot be ruled out is an argument which cannot be accepted and finding recorded by the High Court F deserves to be affirmed.