The First Committee has to consider the submissions before recording the fact of wilful default with reasons. If the Committee deems it necessary, it could also provide a personal hearing G to the borrower and the promoter/ whole-time director of the borrowing company. The second stage is that the of the First Committee is reviewed by another Committee, known as the Review Committee. Thus, it is clear that the procedure for declaration of a borrower as a wilful defaulter is different from the procedure envisaged under the Master H 508 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Directions on Frauds for classifying a borrower’s account as fraud. However, by virtue of Clause 8.12.1 of the Master Directions on Frauds, the penal provisions applicable to wilful defaulters also apply to fraudulent borrowers. Thus, although the procedure adopted for declaration of a wilful defaulter is different from that envisaged for classifying the borrower’s account as fraud, they will face similar B consequences. In fact, as mentioned above, the borrowers’ accounts classified as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds will face certain additional consequences which have been laid down in Clauses 8.12.2 and 8.12.3. Since the consequences flowing from the two circulars are similar, the observations in Jah Developers (supra) on C the effect of declaring a borrower as wilful defaulter will be squarely applicable to the present case. The observations of the Court are extracted below: 24. However, we are of the view that Article 19(1)(g) is attracted in the facts of the present case as the moment a D person is declared to be a wilful defaulter, the impact on its fundamental right to carry on business is direct and immediate. This is for the reason that no additional facilities can be granted by any bank/financial institutions, and entrepreneurs/promoters would be barred from institutional finance for five years. Banks/financial institutions can even E change the management of the wilful defaulter, and a promoter/director of a wilful defaulter cannot be made promoter or director of any other borrower company. Equally, under Section 29-A of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, a wilful defaulter cannot even apply to be a resolution applicant. F Given these drastic consequences, it is clear that the Revised Circular, being in public interest, must be construed reasonably. (emphasis supplied) In Jah Developers (supra), this Court construed the Master G Circular on Wilful Defaulters by harmonizing it with the principles of natural justice. Particularly, it was directed that: (i) the First Committee must give its to the borrower as soon as possible; (ii) the Borrower, thereafter, can file a written representation against the of First Committee to the Review Committee; and (iii) the Review Committee must pass a reasoned which must be provided to the borrower. H STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 509 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 42. Classification of the borrower’s account as fraud under the A Master Directions on Frauds virtually leads to a credit freeze for the borrower, who is debarred from raising finance from financial markets and capital markets.