before the date of award as the invoices were not paid being in dispute A because the claimant was charging inflated bills; and the amount that was payable could not be crystallized for the claimant having failed to provide the Government of Goa with the necessary details and documents. Such documents were provided only during the arbitration proceedings and thus, if at all any amount towards interest was considered due and B payable; the same could start only from the date when the final amount was crystallized. It has also been suggested that the contractual provisions for interest were in terrorem and liable to be discarded having regard to Section 74 of the Contract Act, 1872. Although the High Court rightly reduced the post-award interest but only modified the amount. It has been further submitted, by relying on NHAI v. M. Hakeem: (2021) 9 C SCC 1, that such course of action was not permissible as modification of an award would not be possible under Section 34 of the Act of 1996. Thus, the award of interest of the Tribunal was liable to be set aside as being patently illegal. 10.9. A few other submissions have also been made by the learned D Attorney General with reference to the calculation of the awarded amount. It has been contended that as per the PPA, the claimant was required to submit its bills according to the forecast period and thereafter for each subsequent financial year; however, the claimant submitted bills for the tariff period which resulted in inflated bills. Further, the Arbitral Tribunal E calculated the amount to be awarded based on the supposed mutually agreed upon table of calculations; however, the set of calculations provided by the claimant was disputed by the State. The Tribunal did not advert to the submission that the principal amount to be paid would be Rs. 60.76 crore as opposed to Rs. 70.58 crore claimed by claimant. According to the learned Attorney General, the claimant has resorted to F exorbitant billing de hors the contract and the amount payable could not be crystallized on account of the fact that the claimant did not provide details of the electricity sold to third parties so as to ascertain liability, and this documentation was only provided during arbitration proceedings. 11. We have given anxious consideration to the rival submissions G and have examined the record with reference to the law applicable. Relevant Statutory provisions 12. Since the present appeals relate to an arbitral award, which was carried in challenge under Section 34 and in appeal under Section H 410 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 37 of the Act of 1996; and looking to the variety of submissions made, we may usefully take note of the relevant statutory provisions contained in Sections 26, 28, 34 and 37 of the Act of 1996 as follows: “26. Expert appointment by arbitral tribunal.-(1) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may— B (a) appoint one or more experts to report to it on specific issues to be determined by the arbitral tribunal, and (b) require a party to give the expert any relevant information or to produce, or to provide access to, any relevant documents, goods or other property for his C inspection.