Even otherwise the correctness of assessment s and their compliance with law, required service of s, in terms F of the two enactments. Without resorting to the precondition of such notice, the revenue could not have sought recourse to the RR Act and attached the assessee’s properties. Therefore, the findings in the impugned were justified and in accordance with law. Analysis and conclusions G 15. The High Court’s reasoning is based entirely on the effect of Rule 64 of the rules. There can be no doubt that when any statutory or administrative , visits a citizen or entity with adverse consequences, such an has to be served upon the concerned person; especially so, when that is appealable or subject to revision by higher H 934 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A authorities. That is the substance of the requirement under Rule 64. The High Court, in the present case, drew a distinction between two periods; for AY 2005-06 to 2008-09 it was held that the assessments could not be called in question. So far as AY 2009-10 and 2010-11 were concerned, the court held that the attachment s were invalid, since the assessment s were not served. B 16. The findings of the High Court, on the facts would not normally have required a second look by this court; however, the peculiar circumstances of this case compel scrutiny. After the disposal of the writ petition filed by the assessee (on 15.04.2010) concededly, it made no attempt to file objections or even deposit the amounts the court had C required it to. As a regular dealer, it had filed returns not only for AY 2005-06 to 2008-09 but also later periods (i.e., AY 2009-10 and 2010- 11). However, if its contentions were to be believed, it made no attempt to ascertain the fate of its assessments for those periods. More importantly, the assessee’s banker had attached and sought to bring to D sale, its properties. At that stage, the revenue approached the High Court, seeking to enforce its first charge, under provisions of the APGST Act and the Telangana VAT Act; the assessee was a party (second respondent) in those proceedings. In those proceedings, specifically, the liabilities of the assessee were pleaded. It however did not deny those averments, nor contended that the assessment s were not served E upon it. Further, it alleged that its representations seeking copies of assessment s were not replied to by the state. The revenue however, pointed out to the High Court, that the representations never alleged that assessment s were not served and that the attachments were therefore not compliant with provision of law. F 17. In Amina Bi Kaskar (D) by LRs. v. Union of India & Ors.7 this court had occasion to deal with complaints of non-service of notice, which led to forfeiture of property. The court held that the conduct of the party is relevant, and in the facts of that case, denied relief: “16. In the light of the aforementioned finding of fact recorded G by the Tribunal and affirmed by the High Court, we do not consider it necessary to examine the question though vehemently argued by Dr Rajeev Dhavan, learned Senior Counsel for the appellants, namely, whether in a given case service of the on the appellants’ lawyer is proper or not H 7 (2018) 16 SCC 266 THE COMMERCIAL TAX OFFICER & ORS.