The rule conforms to the requirement of section 2(8) that primarily electricity should be generated by captive generating plant for his own use/members as the case may be. The provisions of Rule 3(1)(a)(ii) of the Rules of 2005 cannot be said to be against purposes of the Act. Rather it promotes rationale of the provision and essential qualifi cations laid down in the Act itself…” Similarly, the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules is in furtherance of Section 2(8) of the Act. 64. An association of companies or body corporates thus are required to comply with Rule 3(1)(a) read with the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a). Equally, an association of companies, body corporates, or other persons that set up a SPV which owns, maintains, and operates a CGP is required to comply with Rule 3(1)(a) read with the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a). A SPV in this regard may be company, but it also is also an association of persons in terms of the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a). 65. We cannot, in any manner, read Rule 3(1)(b) as overriding or prevailing over Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules. To accept this argument would, in fact, be accepting that “gaming”, as described above, is permissible if a company is formed as a SPV for the purpose of generating and supplying electricity to its shareholders or other body corporates. For instance, a generating company established as an independent power producer being a shareholder of 98% shares in a plant can camoufl age as a CGP by giving 2% shares to group captive users and allowing them to consume 98% of the electricity generated. The independent power producer may consume only 2% of the electricity generated despite holding 98% of the shares in the plant. This would be clearly contrary to Section 2(8), which uses the expression,“primarily for its own use”. To accept this submission would also be contrary to the object and purpose behind giving benefi t to captive users who spend their money and invest in setting up a CGP. While interpreting a provision which is ambiguous or debatable, the court or the adjudicator must keep in mind the intent of the legislature and read the words in a manner that 392 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the object and purpose is promoted, rather than accepting an interpretation which would result in misuse or abuse. 66. In view of the aforesaid reasoning, we hold that SPVs which own, operate and maintain CGPs are an “association of persons” in terms of the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules. Companies, body corporates and other persons, who are shareholders and captive users of a CGP set up by a SPV, are required to comply with Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules read with the second proviso of the Rules. 67. We accordingly answer the three issues. Headnotes prepared by: Issues answered. Divya Pandey