INTERPRETATION OF THE FIRST ENTRY IN PARAGRAPH 1 OF THE SCHEDULE 18. Now, we come to the third argument made by the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant based on the interpretation of the Schedule. It must be noted here that in the case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary1, even the validity of the Schedule was under challenge. A perusal of the said decision shows that this Court was not called upon to interpret any entry in the Schedule and, in particular, entry of Section 120-B in the Schedule. The challenge to the Schedule is dealt with in paragraphs 453, 454 and 455 of the said decision. The contention before this Court was that even minor off ences have been included in the Schedule, and even compoundable off ences form part of the Schedule. It was submitted that the off ences which do not have cross-b implications have been included in the Schedule. In paragraphs 454 and 455 of the said decision, this Court held thus: “454. This Schedule has been amended by Act 21 of 2009, Act 2 of 2013, Act 22 of 2015, Act 13 of 2018 and Act 16 of 2018, thereby inserting new off ences to be regarded as scheduled off ence. The challenge is not on the basis of legislative competence in respect of enactment of Schedule and the amendments thereto from time to time. However, it had been urged before us that there is no consistency in the approach as it includes even minor off ences as scheduled off ence for the purposes of off ence of money-laundering, more so even off ences which have no trans-b implications and are compoundable between the parties. The classifi cation or grouping of off ences for treating the same as relevant for constituting off ence of money-laundering is a matter of legislative policy. The Parliament in its wisdom has regarded the property derived or obtained as a result of specifi ed criminal activity, being an off ence under the concerned legislation mentioned in the Schedule. The fact that some of the off ences may be non-cognizable off ences under the concerned legislation or regarded as minor and compoundable off ences, yet, 106 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the Parliament in its wisdom having perceived the cumulative eff ect of the process or activity concerning the proceeds of crime generated from such criminal activities as being likely to pose threat to the economic stability, sovereignty and integrity of the country and thus, grouped them together for reckoning it as an off ence of money-laundering, is a matter of legislative policy. It is not open to the Court to have a second guess at such a policy. 455. Needless to underscore that the 2002 Act is intended to initiate action in respect of money-laundering activity which necessarily is associated with the property derived or obtained by any person, directly or indirectly, as a result of specifi ed criminal activity. The prosecution under this Act is not in relation to the criminal activity per se but limited to property derived or obtained from specifi ed criminal activity.