The aforesaid has not at all been considered by the High Court while passing the impugned and . As the possession was taken over by the acquiring body and was handed over to the beneficiary, any possession by the petitioners thereafter can be said to be D encroachment and the encroachers cannot be permitted to take the benefit of the provisions of Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013 and pray that as now they are in possession, may be as encroachers, they are entitled to relief under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013. It would be giving a premium to the illegality and the encroachers which cannot be the intention of the E legislature. 4. Even otherwise as observed and held by this Court in the case of Delhi Administration Through Secretary, Land and Building vs. Pawan Kumar & Ors., Civil Appeal No.3646 of 2022 and Delhi F Development Authority versus Godfrey Phillips (I) Ltd. & Ors, Civil Appeal No.3073 of 2022, the subsequent purchasers have no locus to challenge the acquisition and/or lapsing of acquisition. 4.1 Applying the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid two decisions, the writ petition at the instance of the private respondents G herein – original writ petitioners being subsequent purchasers ought not to have been entertained by the High Court challenging the acquisition proceedings and/or praying for lapse of the acquisition under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013. Under the circumstances also the impugned and passed by the High Court is unsustainable. H 578 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 5. In view of the above and for the reason stated above the present appeal succeeds. The impugned and passed by the High Court passed in CWP No. 15720 of 2014 is hereby quashed and set aside. The original writ petition filed by the private respondents – original writ petitioners, stands dismissed accordingly. B Present appeal is accordingly allowed. No costs. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of. Nidhi Jain Appeal allowed. C (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri, LCRA) D E F G H