It was submitted that the present curative petitions did not fall under any of these parameters. Counsel for UCC also highlighted another procedural deficiency on the basis of paragraph 52 of Rupa Ashok Hurra,7wherein the petitioner is required to specifically aver that the D grounds mentioned in the curative petition had been taken in the review petition and subsequently dismissed by circulation. Since Union of India had not filed review petition(s), the curative petitions ought to be thrown out at the threshold. 25. In response, the Learned Attorney General contended that it E was this Court’s prerogative to chart a new course in terms of its curative jurisdiction, and to not limit itself to the extant norms specified in Rupa Ashok Hurra.8 On maintainability 26. On this preliminary point, we may note that a curative petition F relates to a re-examination of a final of this Court, particularly one that has already undergone such re-examination through the Court’s review jurisdiction. Since this Court’s review jurisdiction itself is so restrictive, we find it difficult to accept that this Court can devise a curative jurisdiction that is expansive in character. G 27. On the facts of this case, we have already noticed that when review petitions were filed against the s recording the settlement, the Union of India sought to support the same. However, the Union 6 (2002) 4 SCC 388. 7 (supra). H 8 (supra). UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. M/S. UNION CARBIDE 893 CORPORATION & ORS. subsequently opposed all other applications filed for reopening the A settlement. We understand that such a strategy was adopted as the Union of India’s endeavour is not to set aside the settlement but merely to ‘top up’ the settlement amount. 28. We have great hesitation in allowing such a prayer and granting such sui generis relief through the means of curative petitions. Although B this Court in Rupa Ashok Hurra9 chose not to enumerate all the grounds on which a curative petition could be entertained; the Court was clear in observing that its inherent power ought not to be exercised as a matter of course, and that it should be circumspect in reconsidering an of this Court that had become final on dismissal of the review petition. C Nevertheless, looking at the nature of the matter before us, it would be advisable to also examine the curative petition(s), apart from the aforesaid preliminary objection. On Merits 29. Turning to the objections on merits of the claims in the curative D petitions, counsel for UCC emphasised that the US$ 470 million (Rs. 750 crore), required to be deposited were so deposited and, thus, if the settlement is to be set aside, then the only consequence would be to revive the suit. As a corollary, the Union of India would be required to lead evidence to establish UCC’s liability, and UCC would be entitled to E have US$ 470 million remitted back to it by the Union of India with interest. 30. It was pointed out that an endeavour was made in the year 2007 by way of interlocutory applications to seek enhancement of the settlement fund by private organisations.