Section 2(e) defines the expression ‘industrial establishment’. Under Section 15 of the Act, the B appropriate Government is empowered to make rules for carrying out the purposes of the Act. In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 15, the then State of Bombay had issued the Bombay Industrial Employment (Standing s) Rules, 1959. Insofar as those establishments in respect of which the appropriate Government is the C Central Government, the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Central Rules, 1946, stand framed. 5. Insofar as the Respondent Company is concerned, the appropriate Government is clearly not the Central, but the State Government since the Respondent is not, within the meaning of Section D 2(b), under the control of the Central Government. The present case falls under the latter part of the section; thus, the appropriate Government means the State Government. The Bombay Model Standing would be applicable to the parties. ISSUE II E 6. For the adjudication of this issue, it is pertinent to take note of various judicial pronouncements. 7. On various occasions, this Court has observed that the certified standing s have a statutory force. The Standing implies a contract between the employer and the workman. Therefore, the F employer and workman cannot enter into a contract overriding the statutory contract embodied in the certified Standing s. 8. This Court has succinctly laid down the scope of The Act in U.P. SEB v. Hari Shankar Jain,1 (3-Judge Bench) that it was specially designed to define the terms of employment of workmen in industrial G establishments, to give the workmen a collective voice in determining the terms of employment and to subject the terms of employment to the scrutiny of quasi-judicial authorities by the application of the test of fairness and reasonableness. It is an Act giving recognition and form to workmen’s hard-won and precious rights. We have no hesitation in saying H 1 (1978) 4 SCC 16 BHARATIYA KAMGAR KARMACHARI MAHASANGH v. M/s. 863 JET AIRWAYS LTD. [SANJAY KAROL, J.] that it is a special Act expressly and exclusively dealing with the schedule- A enumerated conditions of service of workmen in industrial establishments. 9. While discussing the letter and spirit of The Act, this Court in Sudhir Chandra Sarkar v. Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd.2 (3-Judge Bench) heldthat: B “11. …it was an act to require employers in industrial establishments to formally define conditions of employment under them. The preamble of the Act provides that it is expedient to require employers in industrial establishments to determine with sufficient precision the conditions of employment under them and C to make the said conditions known to workmen employed by them…… The Act was a legislative response to the laissez-faire rule of hire and fire at sweet will. It was an attempt at imposing a statutory contract of service between two parties unequal to negotiate on the footing of equality. D …. The intendment underlying the Act and the provisions of the Act enacted to give effect to the intendment and the scheme of the Act leave no room for doubt that the Standing s certified under the 1946 Act become part of the statutory terms and E conditions of service between the employer and his employee and they govern the relationship between the parties.” 10.