In the very nature of the right conferred on the party affected, the law expects it to exercise its option promptly and communicate the same to the opposite party; for until the right of avoidance is exercised, the contract is valid, and things done C thereunder may not thereafter be undone. 29. A right to rescind for misrepresentation can be lost in a variety of ways, some depending on the right of election. A representee on discovering the truth loses his right to rescind if once he has elected not to rescind. But he may lose even before he has made D any election where by reason of his conduct or other circumstances it would be unjust or inequitable that he retains the right. For instance, where third parties have acquired rights under the contract; again where it would be unjust to the representor because it is impossible to restore him to his original position. Restitutio in integrum is not only a consequence of rescission, its possibility is E indispensable to the right to rescind. Again, delay in election may make it unjust that the right to elect should continue. For this reason the right to rescission for misrepresentation in general must be promptly exercised. (See Indian Contract and Specific Relief Acts, Pollock and Mulla, 11th Edn., Vol. I, pp. 269-70. )” F Section 19A deals with there being no free consent on account of the consent of a party being obtained by undue influence. The said vitiating factor also, does not result in a void agreement but a voidable contract. Section 14, defining ‘free consent’, provides that consent is said to be free, when it is not caused by mistake, subject to the provisions of Sections 20, 21 and 22, after referring to the other four aspects, which detract G from free consent. We notice what Section 20 provides. Section 20 declares that where both the parties to an agreement are under a mistake as to a matter of fact essential to the agreement, the agreement is void. We may observe that this again is a case of an agreement, which is declared void within the meaning of Section 10, apart from Sections 24 H to 30. Section 21 provides that a mistake as to any law in force in India, M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 341 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] would not make the contract voidable. Thus, while Section 10 sets out A the core element for an agreement to become a contract, the effect of non-conformity varies. Therefore, the lack of competency and absence of sound mind completely detract from the formation of a ‘contract’. The absence of free consent arising from coercion, undue influence, misrepresentation and even fraud will, however, result in an agreement B which is a ‘contract’ though voidable (see Sections 19 and 19A of the Contract Act). The effect of mistake, is again spelt out in Section 22, insofar as it provides that a contract is not voidable merely because one of the parties consented to the contract, labouring under a mistake as to a matter of fact.