Secondly, it is also permissible for the President to assume only some of the functions of the political executive or of anybody or authority of the State other than the Legislature while neither suspending nor removing them.” (emphasis supplied) b. Justice Reddy while answering the above issue agreed with the observations of Justice Sawant to the extent that dissolution of the Legislative Assembly is not an automatic consequence. The learned Judge observed that the President should not dissolve the legislature of the State merely because he has the power to do so. The power, in his opinion, must not be exercised invariably but only after taking into consideration all the relevant facts and circumstances: IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 117 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “288. […] The existence of power does not mean that dissolution of Legislative Assembly should either be treated as obligatory or should invariably be ed whenever a Government of the State is dismissed. It should be a matter for the President to consider, taking into consideration all the relevant facts and circumstances, whether the Legislative Assembly should also be dissolved or not. If he thinks that it should be so dissolved, it would be appropriate, indeed highly desirable, that he states the reasons for such extraordinary step in the itself.” However, Justice Reddy held that it would not be open to the President to exercise some of the powers exercised by the Government without dismissing the Government because: fi rst, the President can only issue a Proclamation under Article 356(1) when the constitutional machinery as a whole (and not one or two functions) fails in the State; and second, that would introduce the concept of two Governments operating in the same sphere. The relevant observations are extracted below: “293. It was suggested by Shri Ram Jethmalani that the President can “assume all or any of the functions” of the State Government without dismissing the Government. Emphasis is laid upon the words “all or any” in sub-clause (1). In particular, he submitted, where the State Government is found remiss in performing one or some of the functions, that or those functions of the State Government can be assumed by the President with a view to remedy the situation. After rectifying the situation, the counsel submitted, the President will give those functions back to the State Government and that in such a situation there would be no occasion or necessity for dismissing the State Government. The learned counsel gave the analogy of a motor car — if one or a few of the parts of a car malfunction or cease to function, one need not throw away the car. That or those particular parts can be replaced or rectifi ed and the car would function normally again. It is diffi cult to agree with the said interpretation. The power under Article 356(1) can be exercised only where the President is satisfi ed that “the government of the State cannot be carried on 118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.