In State of U.P. v. Babu Ram Upadhya,169 this Court held that the principles for the construction of statutes which used the mandatory word “shall” were as follows: “29. The relevant rules of interpretation may be briefl y stated thus : When a statute uses the word “shall”, prima facie, it is mandatory, but the Court may ascertain the real intention of the legislature by carefully attending to the whole scope of the statute. For ascertaining the real intention of the Legislature the Court may consider, inter alia, the nature and the design of the statute, and the consequences which would follow from construing it the one way or the other, the 168 1961 SCC OnLine SC 15 169 1960 SCC OnLine SC 5 118 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. impact of other provisions whereby the necessity of complying with the provisions in question is avoided, the circumstance, namely, that the statute provides for a contingency of the non-compliance with the provisions, the fact that the non-compliance with the provisions is or is not visited by some penalty, the serious or trivial consequences that fl ow therefrom, and, above all, whether the object of the legislation will be defeated or furthered.” 191. This Court must therefore interpret Sections 33 and 35 to assess whether they are mandatory in relation to a court presiding over proceedings under Section 8 or Section 11 by examining: a. Whether the context indicates that the provision is directory; b. The scope of the statute; c. The nature and design of the statute; d. The consequences which would follow from construing it one way or another; e. The impact of other provisions; f. The consequences of non-compliance; and g. Whether the object of the legislation will be furthered or destroyed. 192. The decisions adverted to in the preceding paragraphs were delivered in the context of a single provision in a single statute. Additional factors must be considered in cases such as the present one, where multiple statutes appear to operate in relation to a single issue (or a single agreement such as the arbitration agreement in the present case). To this list of considerations which must animate the court’s evaluation of whether a provision is mandatory or directory, we would add that the scope, nature, and design of all the statutes which appear to operate simultaneously must be considered. Their interplay and the intention of the legislature must be evaluated in the context of all such statutes. The question of whether the object(s) of the applicable legislation(s) will be furthered or destroyed must also be considered in view of all such statutes. IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1181 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] c. The object of the Stamp Act is preserved 193. In N N Global 2 (supra), the majority observed as follows: “92. While the Stamp Act is a fi scal enactment intended to raise revenue, it is a law, which is meant to have teeth.