[2023] 1 S.C.R. 1169 1169 MAHARASHTRA STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATION EX- A EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION & ORS. v. STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 778 of 2023) B FEBRUARY 02, 2023 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE AND S. RAVINDRA BHAT, JJ.] Service Law– Pay revision – Application of Fifth Pay Commission to the employees of Maharashtra State Financial C Corporation with effect from retrospective cut-off date, but limited to only existing employees in service as on the date of implementation – Former employees (including retirees, legal representatives of those who had expired, and those who had availed of voluntary retirement scheme) who were in service as on the D retrospective cut-off date, but not on the date of implementation, filed writ petition complaining of discrimination – Held: Decision to grant pay revision from cut-off date cannot be faulted with, but to not grant any revision to those who were not in service when the implementing the pay revision was issued and confining it to E those in employment, is clearly discriminatory – Limiting pay revision only to existing employees has no rational nexus with the object of pay revisions which is to mitigate rise in cost of living – Further classification in the same class is violative of Article 14 – Those who retired upon attaining superannuation or those who died while F in service are entitled to relief – VRS employees and those dismissed/ terminated from service not on same footing – Constitution of India – Art. 14. Constitution of India –Separation of powers – Policy regarding fixation of pay, extent of revision, date of implementation G – Exclusively within executive decision making powers – However, jurisdiction of courts arises in questions of larger public interest – On manner of implementation, timing of applicability of scheme, impact, and especially where it results in exclusion or discrimination of certain sections of public employees from the benefit –Art. 14. H 1169 1170 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Constitution of India – Rationale of pay revisions – Larger public interest involved - State and public employers obligated to periodically address ill-effects of rise in cost of living – Other objectives include enthusing commitment and loyalty towards public employment, to deter public servants from lure of gratification – B Art. 43. Partly allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 Framing a policy concerning fixation of pay for the salaries of its employees, the extent of its revision, and even C the date of its implementation, are undoubtedly exclusively within executive decision making powers. However, the manner of its implementation, the timing of applicability of a scheme, and its impact, especially where it results in exclusion of a certain section of public employees from the benefit, are subject matters of scrutiny by the court. Especially, when the complaint is of D discrimination and violation of Article 14 of the Constitution, as is the present case. [Para 1][1175-B-C] 1.2 Maharashtra State Financial Corporation-MSFC did not finalise whether to adopt Fifth Pay Commission (which had been E given effect from 01.01.1996 by the State Government) for its employees and sent the proposal to the State Government as per Section 39 of the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951.