In this context, it is also to be noted that Puliyankaladi, who purchased the aforesaid extent of the property under Ext.A1 sale deed, had sold the very same property to appellant/plaintiff APPAIYA v. ANDIMUTHU @ THANGAPANDI & ORS. 543 [C.T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] as per Ext.A5 sale deed No. No.1759/1963 dated 15.07.1963 going by the description thereunder. As stated earlier, going by Ext.A5 the extent of the property transacted thereunder also having an extent of 2 acres and 61 cents comprised in Survey No.845/1 of Thimmanayakanur village. Hence, once Ext.A5 was held as valid and in existence there can be no reason to confi ne the title passed thereunder to 96 cents when based on Exts.A1 and A5 courts below held that the appellant/plaintiff is entitled to title and possession over the entire extent. The discussion and conclusions as above would take us to the next question whether the High Court, on re-appreciation of evidence, was legally and factually correct in reducing the extent to which the appellant/plaintiff is entitled to, by virtue of Ext.A5 sale deed. In view of the admissibility of Exts.A1 and A5 the courts below were right in casting the onus of proof on the defendants as indisputably, the appellant/plaintiff had discharged his burden of proof. The High Court came to the conclusion that the oral and documentary evidence on the part of the defendants were not properly appreciated by the courts below and it resulted in the grant of decree in favour of the appellant/plaintiff in respect of the entire extent of the suit property. 33. A scanning of the concurrent s of the courts below would reveal that the High Court has again committed an error as the courts below had given sound reasons for not accepting the evidence on the part of the defendants. Taking note of the fact that Ext.A5 was registered on 15.07.1963 the courts below considered the question(s) relating their evidentiary value and whether they could outweigh the evidence on the part of the appellant/ plaintiff , in extenso. When once Ext.A1 is found as genuine and as one legally admissible for the purpose of proving the contents of the original sale deed No.1209/1928 of SRO, Andipatti and one transferring the title to the extent covered thereunder to Puliyankaladi who is the vendor of the appellant/plaintiff , in the absence of any proven document conferring a better title to the respondent/defendant, as held by the courts below, there was no reason to reverse the concurrent fi ndings of the courts below. On analysing the evidence on the part of the respondent/defendant the trial Court found that defendant(s) did not produce any document proving that the defendant had any right over the suit property prior to the mortgage of the property eff ected by Puliyankaladi in the year 1959 under Ext.B2. The trial Court, therefore, rightly held that the oral and documentary evidence 544 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. of the appellant/plaintiff clearly established that till 1959 the suit property belonged to Puliyankaladi and thereafter, the appellant/plaintiff purchased the property from Puliyankaladi as per Ext.A5, in the circumstances mentioned thereunder.