F (2) No appointment of a Central Vigilance Commissioner or a Vigilance Commissioner shall be invalid merely by reason of any vacancy in the Committee.” 54. Section 6 of the CVC Act deals with removal of Central Vigilance Commissioner and Vigilance Commissioner, which reads thus: G “6. Removal of Central Vigilance Commissioner and Vigilance Commissioner.—(1) Subject to the provisions of sub- section (3), the Central Vigilance Commissioner or any Vigilance Commissioner shall be removed from his office only by of the President on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity after the Supreme Court, on a reference made to it by the H 556 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A President, has, on inquiry, reported that the Central Vigilance Commissioner or any Vigilance Commissioner, as the case may be, ought on such ground be removed. (2) The President may suspend from office, and if deem necessary prohibit also from attending the office during inquiry, B the Central Vigilance Commissioner or any Vigilance Commissioner in respect of whom a reference has been made to the Supreme Court under sub-section (1) until the President has passed s on receipt of the report of the Supreme Court on such reference. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), C the President may by remove from office the Central Vigilance Commissioner or any Vigilance Commissioner if the Central Vigilance Commissioner or such Vigilance Commissioner, as the case may be,— (a) is adjudged an insolvent; or D (b) has been convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of the Central Government, involves moral turpitude; or (c) engages during his term of office in any paid employment outside the duties of his office; or E (d) is, in the opinion of the President, unfit to continue in office by reason of infirmity of mind or body; or (e) has acquired such financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as a Central Vigilance Commissioner or a Vigilance F Commissioner. (4) If the Central Vigilance Commissioner or any Vigilance Commissioner is or becomes in any way, concerned or interested in any contract or agreement made by or on behalf of the Government of India or G participates in any way in the profit thereof or in any benefit or emolument arising therefrom otherwise than as a member and in common with the other members of an incorporated company, he shall, for the purposes of sub-section (1), be deemed to be guilty of H misbehaviour.” DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 557 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 55. Section 25 of the CVC Act deals with appointments, etc. of A officers of ED, which reads thus: “25. Appointments, etc., of officers of Directorate of Enforcement.—Notwithstanding anything contained in the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) or any other law for the time being in force,— B (a) the Central Government shall appoint a Director of Enforcement in the Directorate of Enforcement in the Ministry of Finance on the recommendation of the Committee consisting of— C D E (b) while making a recommendation, the Committee shall take into consideration the integrity and experience of the officers eligible for appointment; (c) no person below the rank of Additional Secretary to F the Government of India shall be eligible for appointment as a Director of Enforcement; (d) a Director of Enforcement shall continue to hold office for a period of not less than two years from the date on which he assumes office; G (e) a Director of Enforcement shall not be transferred except with the previous consent of the Committee referred to in clause (a); (f) the Committee referred to in clause (a) shall, in consultation with the Director of Enforcement, H 558 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.