There is a material diff erence between the statutory requirements of Section 19 of the PC Act, 1988 on one hand, and Section 197 of the CrPC, on the other. In the prosecution for the off ences exclusively under the PC Act, 1988, sanction is mandatory qua the public servant. In cases under the general penal law against the public servant, the necessity (or otherwise) of sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC depends on the factual aspects. The test in the latter case is of the “nexus” between the act of commission or omission and the offi cial duty of the public servant. To commit an off ence punishable under law can never be a part of the offi cial duty of a public servant. It is too simplistic an approach to adopt and to reject the necessity of sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC on such reasoning. The “safe and sure test”, is to ascertain if the omission or neglect to commit the act complained of would have made the public servant answerable for the charge of dereliction of his offi cial duty. He may have acted “in excess of his duty”, but if there is a “reasonable connection” between the impugned act and the performance of the offi cial duty, the protective umbrella of Section 197 of the CrPC cannot be denied, so long as the discharge of offi cial duty is not used as a cloak for illicit acts. 958 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 60. Before, we close this matter, we would like to observe something which, this Court may have to consider sooner or later. The object behind the enactment of Section 19 of the PC Act, 1988 is to protect the public servants from frivolous prosecutions. Take a case wherein, the sanctioning authority at the time of declining to accord sanction under Section 19 of the PC Act, 1988 observes that sanction is being declined because the prosecution against the accused could be termed as frivolous or vexatious. Then, in such circumstances what would be its eff ect on the trial so far as the IPC off ences are concerned? Could it be said that the prosecution for the off ences under the PC Act, 1988 is frivolous but the same would not be for the off ences under the IPC? We are not going into this question in the present matter as sanction initially was not declined on the ground that the prosecution against the appellant herein is frivolous or vexatious but the same was declined essentially on the ground that what has been alleged is mere procedural irregularities in discharge of essential duties. Whether such procedural irregularities constitute any off ence under the IPC or not will be looked into by the trial court. What we have highlighted may be examined by this Court in some other litigation at an appropriate time. 61. In overall view of the matter, we have reached to the conclusion that the appeal deserves to be dismissed and is hereby dismissed.