It was sought to be contended that the in Bangalore Club, had impliedly overruled the decision of the Karnataka High Court in Canara Bank. Learned ASG submitted that these appeals lack merit and therefore, the same may be dismissed. Reply Arguments: 6.19 By way of reply, learned senior counsel, Sri Datar, while briefl y reiterating his submissions drew our attention to the fact that the special leave petition fi led against the of the Karnataka High Court in Canara Bank was dismissed and therefore, this Court having affi rmed the said of the High Court, which is in line with the of this Court in Cawnpore Club, the subsequent in Bangalore Club taking a totally contrary view as held by this Court earlier, requires reconsideration. Therefore, the observations of the Bombay High Court as well as the Madras High Court on Canara Bank are not binding and are in the nature of obiter. 6.20 It was submitted that till the of this Court in Bangalore Club was delivered, all the social clubs could claim exemption from payment of income tax on the interest income earned on the fi xed deposits in banks, post offi ces etc., however,since 2013, the interest income is subject to tax which may be 30% or above which will greatly aff ect the exchequer of the clubs and reduce the surplus income at the hands of the club which would be prejudicial to the very existence of the social clubs which ultimately are non-profi t entities. Learned senior counsel Sri Datar therefore, urged that there may be a reference to a larger Bench, for reconsideration of the decision in Bangalore Club, so as to benefi t the assessee clubs. 6.21 It was also reiterated that the in Cawnpore Club is a declaration of law and the same ought to have been considered by a Coordinate Bench of this Court in Bangalore Club. That the decision in Cawnpore Club is a fall out of the in Bankipur Club and the same is of binding nature. While referring to the of this Court in the case of Kunhayammed, Sri Datar submitted that the decision in 1006 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Cawnpore Club attracts the doctrine of merger and the said would also be binding. 6.22 It was reiterated that the aspect of profi t motive cannot be attributed to clubs as the only intention behind depositing surplus funds of the clubs in a bank is a matter of prudence and the interest earned thereon along with the principal amount deposited would only be used for the benefi t of the members of a club. Therefore, he urged that at the outset, this Bench may consider as to whether the in Bangalore Club would call for reconsideration, while closing his arguments. Points for Consideration: 7. Having heard learned senior counsel and counsel for the respective parties, we fi nd that the following points would arise for our consideration: a) Whether the of this Court in Bangalore Club would call for reconsideration in light of the “” of this Court in Cawnpore Club?