91. We need to look at the Constituent Assembly Debates to examine the level of independence which was expected from the Election Commission. Moving the draft Article on the Election Commission before H 212 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the Constituent Assembly on 15 June 1949, Dr BR Ambedkar explained the vision behind the provision was independence from the executive in conducting elections. Dr Ambedkar said: “... the House affirmed without any kind of dissent that in the interests of purity and freedom of elections to the legislative bodies, B it was of the utmost importance that they should be freed from any kind of interference from the executive of the day… Therefore, so far as the fundamental question is concerned that the election machinery should be outside the control of the executive Government, there has been no dispute. What Article 289 does is to carry out that part of the decision of the Constituent Assembly. C It transfers the superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of the electoral rolls and of all elections to Parliament and the Legislatures of States to a body outside the executive to be called the Election Commission. That is the provision contained in sub-clause (1).”47 D 92. The reason behind having a permanent office of Chief Election Commissioner was explained by Dr Ambedkar as follows: “What the Drafting Committee proposes by sub-clause (2) is to have permanently in office one man called the Chief Election Commissioner, so that the skeleton machinery would always be E available. Elections no doubt will generally take place at the end of five years; but there is this question, namely that a bye-election may take place at any time. The Assembly may be dissolved before its period of five years has expired. Consequently, the electoral rolls will have to be kept up to date all the time so that the new election may take place without any difficulty. It was therefore F felt that having regard to these exigencies, it would be sufficient if there was permanently in session one officer to be called the Chief Election Commissioner, while when the elections are coming up, the President may further add to the machinery by appointing other members to the Election Commission.” G 93. The above statement suggests that the office of the Chief Election Commissioner requires a kind of permanency, which may be fulfilled by having someone with a stable full term as the Chief Election Commission. 47 Constituent Assembly Debates, 15 June 1949, H http://164.100.47.194/loksabha/writereaddata/cadebatefiles/C15061949.html ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 213 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 94. Regarding the conditions of service, Dr Ambedkar said: A “So far as clause (4) is concerned, we have left the matter to the President to determine the conditions of service and the tenure of office of the members of the Election Commission, subject to one or two conditions, that the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be liable to be removed except in the same manner as a Judge of B the Supreme Court.