A was found that in the said case the assessee therein was not found to be the owner whereas the ITAT found the appellant to be the owner. The High court agreed with the said finding. Thereafter, the High Court went on to deal with the argument that the words ‘other valuable articles’ in Section 69A could not include ‘bitumen’. The argument of the appellant which is noted is that for applying Section 69A bitumen should have B some nexus with money, bullion or jewellery. It was found that any article which has value would come under the expression ‘valuable article’ under Article 69A and the value of such article can be deemed to be the income of the assessee, should the assessee fail to offer any explanation or the explanation offered be unsatisfactory. The argument that Section C 69A would not apply as the appellant had offered an explanation was not accepted as it was found that an explanation though offered, being not accepted, would lead to the invocation of Section 69A, if the explanation was not satisfactory. In other words, Section 69A applied. Lastly, in regard to the argument of the appellant that the cost of the bitumen and not the value thereof was added as income, the High Court D finds that the appellant did not have a case that it had sold the bitumen at the price lower than the cost. The appellant was found to be the owner of the bitumen and the addition was sustained. This was passed on 05.03.2009. 15. Thereupon, the appellant filed Review Petition No. 102 of E 2009.The appellant purported to point out that in separate appeals filed for assessment year 1995-96 and 1996-97 on the same set of facts, the ITAT had allowed the appeal of the Revenue for the year 1996-97, but for the assessment year 1995-96, the matter was remanded back. This argument was rejected by the High court in the review on the following F reasoning: “However, the question would be whether the fact that the appellate tribunal had passed another correctly or incorrectly, the same may have any effect rendering the of the tribunal passed in present matter to be erroneous despite the same having been G upheld in appeal by this Court? Answer has to be in negative. For the assessment year 1995-96, the matter has attained finality as the Division Bench has already accepted the view of the appellate tribunal to be correct in M.A. No.214 of 2002. The view of the same Tribunal or the same Bench of the Tribunal was correct or incorrect for a different assessment year was not the subject matter H M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 547 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] of the appeal. If one of the views of the appellate tribunal is in A favour of the assessee that does not mean that the said view would be correct and the view taken in the present case was incorrect.