28. To contextualise the submissions of counsel, it is appropriate D to refer to the relevant provisions of the 1910 and 2003 enactments. Under Section 3 of the 1910 Act, the State Government could grant a licence to any person to supply energy in any specified area. By virtue of Section 3(2)(f), the provisions contained in the Schedule stood incorporated in the licence. Under Section 22 read with Section 3(2)(f) and Clause VI of the first Schedule, there was an obligation to supply E electricity on the distribution licensees. Section 22 of the 1910 Act obligated the licensee to supply energy to every person within the area of supply on the same terms as those on which any other person in the same area was entitled. Clause VI provided that the licensee shall supply energy within one month of a requisition by the owner or occupier of F any premises situated within the area of supply. 29. Section 43 of the 2003 Act is similar to Section 22 of 1910 Act read with Clause VI of Schedule I of the latter Act. Part VI of the 2003 Act contains provisions dealing with distribution of electricity by distribution licensees. Section 2(17) defines a ‘distribution licensee’ as a G licensee authorised to operate and maintain a distribution system for supplying electricity to the consumer in their area of supply. Section 43 of the 2003 Act casts a duty on every distribution licensee to supply electricity to the premises on an application made by the owner or occupier of such premises. The provision requires the distribution licensee to lay down its network in a particular area to supply electricity to a consumer, H who demands supply. K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 669 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 30. The relevant portion of Section 43 reads as follows: A “43. Duty to supply on request – (1) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, every distribution licensee, shall, on an application by the owner or occupier of any premises, give supply of electricity to such premises, within one month after receipt of the application requiring such supply: B *** Explanation – For the purposes of this sub-section, “application” means application complete in all respects in the appropriate form, as required by the distribution C licensee, along with the documents showing payment of necessary charges and other compliances. (2) It shall be the duty of every distribution licensee to provide, if required, electric plant or electric line for giving electric supply to the premises specified in sub-section (1): D Provided that no person shall be entitled to demand, or to continue to receive, from a licensee a supply of electricity for any premises having a separate supply unless he has agreed with the licensee to pay to him such priceas determined by the Appropriate Commission.” E (emphasis supplied) 31. According to Section 43, the distribution licensee is obligated to supply electricity to the premises of an owner or occupier within a month of the receipt of an application requiring such supply.