That discretion has to be exercised in a reasonable manner so as to comply with the constitutional mandate that the procedure accompanying the performance of a public act must be fair and reasonable. We must lean in favour of this interpretation because it helps sustain the validity of the F law. Reading Section 314 as containing a command not to issue notice before the removal of an encroachment will make the law invalid. (emphasis supplied) G 73. In Union of India v. Col.J N Sinha54, a two-judge bench of this Court held that an endeavor must be made to interpret a statutory provision consistent with the principles of natural justice: 53 (1985) 3 SCC 545 54 (1970) 2 SCC 458 H 524 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 8. […] It is true that if a statutory provision can be read consistently with the principles of natural justice, the courts should do so because it must be presumed that the Legislatures and the statutory authorities intend to act in accordance with the principles of natural justice. But if on the other hand a statutory provision either specifically or by B necessary implication excludes the application of any or all the principles of natural justice then the court cannot ignore the mandate of the Legislature or the statutory authority and read into the concerned provision the principles of natural justice. Whether the exercise of a power conferred should be made in accordance C with any of the principles of natural justice or not depends upon the express words of the provision conferring the power, the nature of the power conferred, the purpose for which it is conferred and the effect of the exercise of that power. (emphasis supplied) D 74. In C B Gautam v. Union of India55, the question before a Constitution Bench of this Court was whether a show cause notice must be issued to an intending purchaser and seller of property before making a compulsory purchase under Section 269-UD(1) of Chapter XX-C of the Income Tax Act, 1961. Chief Justice M H Kania speaking for the E Constitution Bench held that where the validity of a provision would be open to serious challenge for want of an opportunity of being heard, Courts have read such a requirement into the provision. In C B Gautam (supra), this Court read the principles of natural justice into the provisions of Chapter XX-C to save them from the vice of arbitrariness. The Constitution Bench held: F 30. […] Again, there is no express provision in Chapter XX-C barring the giving of a show-cause notice or reasonable opportunity to show cause nor is there anything in the language of Chapter XX-C which could lead to such an implication. The observance of principles of natural justice is the pragmatic requirement of fair G play in action. In our view, therefore, the requirement of an opportunity to show cause being given before an for purchase by the Central Government is made by an appropriate authority under Section 269-UD must be read into the provisions H 55 (1993) 1 SCC 78 STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 525 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] of Chapter XX-C.