[2023] 16 S.C.R. 644 : 2023 INSC 1004 CASE DETAILS MOTURU NALINI KANTH v. GAINEDI KALIPRASAD (DEAD, THROUGH LRS.) (Civil Appeal No. 2435 of 2010) NOVEMBER 20, 2023 [C.T. RAVIKUMAR AND SANJAY KUMAR, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Suit fi led by the appellant (then a minor) through his guardian claiming right and title over the properties of late ‘V’, who as per his claim had adopted him, under a registered Will. Trial Court decreed the suit. High Court whether justifi ed in allowing the appeal fi led by V’s grandson, ‘GK’. Evidence Act, 1872 – ss.68, 69 – Legal requirements to prove a Will – Suit was fi led by the appellant, through his guardian, for declaration of his title to the suit properties belonging to late ‘V’ and for recovery of their possession from V’s grandson-‘GK’ (who was her grandson through her deceased daughter) – It was his case that he was adopted by ‘V’ by a registered Adoption Deed – Appellant was the son of V’s brother’s son – As per him ‘V’ had executed registered Will bequeathing all her properties to him and canceled her earlier Will, executed in favour of ‘GK’ – Trial Court held in favour of the appellant – Decision reversed by High Court: Held: For the purposes of s.69, it is not enough to merely examine a random witness who asserts that he saw the attesting witness affix his signature in the Will – The very purpose and objective of insisting upon examination of at least one attesting witness to the Will would be entirely lost if such requirement is whittled down to just having a stray witness depose that he saw the attesting witness sign the Will – Neither of the attesting witnesses to the Will were examined before the Trial Court, in compliance with s.68 – Therefore, s.69 could have been made use of to prove the Will but no witness was examined who 644 MOTURU NALINI KANTH v. GAINEDI KALIPRASAD (DEAD, 645 THROUGH LRS.) was familiar with the signature of either of the attesting witnesses and who could vouch for the same or produce an admitted signature before the Trial Court – Will not proved in accordance with law and has no legal consequence – Disowning of her own grandson by ‘V’ under Will is a suspicious circumstance that remained unexplained – Too many suspicious circumstances surrounding the Will make it very difficult to accept and act upon the same, even if it had been proved as per law – Further, adoption of the appellant is not proved in accordance with law despite the registration of Adoption Deed – On facts, the very adoption, itself, is not believable, given the multitude of suspicious circumstances surrounding it – Therefore, appellant cannot be treated as V’s heir by adoption thus, not entitled to claim any right or share in her properties – Findings of the High Court to that effect, albeit for reasons altogether different, do not warrant interference – of the High Court confirmed – Indian Succession Act, 1925 – s.63 – Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956 – s.16.