The fi ve-judge decision of this court in Central Bank of India v. Ravindra103 held: 99 To name some, in Bipinchandra Parshottamdas Patel v. State of Gujarat [2003 (4) SCC 642], a provision enabling the suspension of an elected offi cial of a municipality, under detention during trial, was held to include detention during investigation, having regard to the object, or the mischief sought to be addressed by the law.” 100 1987 (2) SCR 1 101 [1988] 1 SCR 961 102 Relied on R.L. Arora v. State of Uttar Pradesh {(1964) 6 SCR 784} “It may be that in interpreting the words of the provision of a statute, the setting in which such words are placed may be taken into consideration, but that does not mean that even though the words which are to be interpreted convey a clear meaning, still a diff erent interpretation or meaning should be given to them because of the setting. In other words, while the setting of the words may sometimes be necessary for the interpretation of the words of the statute, but that has not been ruled by this Court to be the only and the surest method of interpretation.” 103 (2001) Supp (4) SCR 323 148 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “ […] Ordinarily, a word or expression used at several places in one enactment should be assigned the same meaning so as to avoid “a head-on clash” between two meanings assigned to the same word or expression occurring at two places in the same enactment. It should not be lightly assumed that “Parliament had given with one hand what it took away with the other” (see Principles of Statutory Interpretation, Justice G.P. Singh, 7th Edn. 1999, p. 113). That construction is to be rejected which will introduce uncertainty, friction or confusion into the working of the system (ibid, p. 119). While embarking upon interpretation of words and expressions used in a statute it is possible to fi nd a situation when the same word or expression may have somewhat diff erent meaning at diff erent places depending on the subject or context. This is however an exception which can be resorted to only in the event of repugnancy in the subject or context being spelled out. It has been the consistent view of the Supreme Court that when the legislature used same word or expression in diff erent parts of the same section or statute, there is a presumption that the word is used in the same sense throughout (ibid, p. 263). More correct statement of the rule is, as held by the House of Lords in Farrell v. Alexander All ER at p. 736b, “where the draftsman uses the same word or phrase in similar contexts, he must be presumed to intend it in each place to bear the same meaning”. The court having accepted invitation to embark upon interpretative expedition shall identify on its radar the contextual use of the word or expression and then determine its direction avoiding collision with icebergs of inconsistency and repugnancy.” 99.