It held: B “26. In our view, there is no legal impediment to the enforceability of the arbitration agreement, pending payment of Stamp Duty on the substantive contract. The adjudication of the rights and obligations under the Work or the substantive commercial contract would however not proceed before complying with the C mandatory provisions of the Stamp Act… 28. In our view, the decision in SMS Tea Estates does not lay down the correct position in law on two issues i.e. (i) that an arbitration agreement in an unstamped commercial contract cannot be acted upon, or is rendered un-enforceable in law; and (ii) that D an arbitration agreement would be invalid where the contract or instrument is voidable at the option of a party, such asu/s 19 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. 29. We hold that since the arbitration agreement is an independent agreement between the parties, and is not chargeable to payment E of stamp duty, the non-payment of stamp duty on the commercial contract, would not invalidate the arbitration clause, or render it un-enforceable, since it has an independent existence of its own. The view taken by the Court on the issue of separability of the arbitration clause on the registration of the substantive contract, ought to have been followed even with respect to the Stamp Act. F The non-payment of stamp duty on the substantive contract would not invalidate even the main contract. It is a deficiency which is curable on the payment of the requisite Stamp Duty.” 11. It also doubted the correctness of the view taken in SMS Tea Estates Private Limited (supra),which was approved in Garware Wall G Ropes Limited (supra) and Vidya Drolia and Others (supra), and held: “56. We are of the considered view that the finding in SMS Tea Estates and Garware that the non-payment of stamp duty on the commercial contract would invalidate even the arbitration H 392 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A agreement, and render it non-existent in law, and un-enforceable, is not the correct position in law. 57. In view of the finding in paragraph 146 and 147 of the in Vidya Drolia by a co-ordinate bench, which has affirmed the in Garware, the aforesaid issue is required to be B authoritatively settled by a Constitution bench of this Court.” 12. As the Benches in both M/S. N.N. Global Mercantile Private Limited (supra) and Vidya Drolia and Others (supra) are of equal strength, this Constitution Bench has been called upon to authoritatively rule on the issue. To adjudicate the issue, this Bench at C first needs to examine whether the requirements under the Act, 1899 at pre-referral stage arerequired to be examined for appointment of Arbitrator under Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996. 13. Mr. Gourab Banerjee, learned senior counsel, who appears as Amicus Curiae to assist this Court, submits that the intention of the Act, 1996 and the later amendments made from time to time were to D streamline the process and judicial intervention in arbitration proceedings adds significantly to the delay in the arbitration process and that negates the benefit of arbitration.The Arbitration & Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015(hereinafter being referred to as the 2015 Amendment) was introduced to emphasize the speedy disposal of cases relating to arbitration E with minimal court interference.