G (3) (a) The scheme prepared by the operating agency shall be examined by the Board and a copy of the scheme with modification, if any, made by the Board shall be sent, in draft, to the sick industrial company and the operating agency and in the case of amalgamation, also to any other company concerned, and H 1062 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A the Board shall publish or cause to be published the draft scheme in brief in such daily newspapers as the Board may consider necessary, for suggestions and objections, if any, within such period as the Board may specify. (b) The Board may make such modifications, if any, in the B draft scheme as it may consider necessary in the light of the suggestions and objections received from the sick industrial company and the operating agency and also from the transferee industrial company and any other company concerned in the amalgamation and from any shareholder or any creditors or employees of such companies: C Provided that where the scheme relates to amalgamation 33[* * *] the said scheme shall be laid before [the company other than the sick industrial company]34 in the general meeting for the approval of the scheme by its shareholders and no such scheme shall be proceeded with unless it has been approved, with or without D modification, by a special resolution passed by the shareholders of [the company other than the sick industrial company]35. (4) The scheme shall thereafter be sanctioned as soon as may be, by the Board (hereinafter referred to as the ‘sanctioned scheme’) and shall come into force on such date as the Board E may specify in this behalf: Provided that different dates may be specified for different provisions of the scheme. (5) The Board may on the recommendations of the operating agency or otherwise, review any sanctioned scheme and make F such modifications as it may deem fit or may by in writing direct any operating agency specified in the , having regard to such guidelines as may be specified in the , to prepare a fresh scheme providing for such measures as the operating agency may consider necessary. G (6) When a fresh scheme is prepared under sub- section (5), the provisions of sub-sections (3) and (4) shall apply in relation thereto as they apply to in relation to a scheme prepared under sub-section (1). (6-A) Where a sanctioned scheme provides for the transfer of any property or liability of the sick industrial company in favour H MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1063 LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] of any other company or person or where such scheme provides A for the transfer of any property or liability of any other company or person in favour of the sick industrial company, then, by virtue of, and to the extent provided in the scheme, on and from the date of coming into operation of the sanctioned scheme or any provision thereof, the property shall be transferred to, and vest in, and the B liability shall become the liability of, such other company or person or, as the case may be, the sick industrial company.