It is pointed out that the views of Justice Sanjiv Khanna appear to be inconsistent with that of the three-Judge Bench in Mayavati (supra). It D is submitted by the learned Amicus that the observations of Justice Sanjiv Khanna, in paragraphs-146, 147.1, 147.9 and paragraph-147.10 may require recalibration. Paragraphs-146 to 154, it is the stand of the Amicus Curiae, may have to be fine-tuned. Learned Amicus would point out that the conclusion of N.V. Ramana, J. in Paragraphs-237 and 244 may be endorsed to the extent of inconsistency with that of Justice Sanjiv E Khanna. Coming to N.N. Global (supra), the learned Amicus, apart from pointing out that contrary to what was held, viz., that an Arbitration Agreement was not exigible to stamp duty, it was, indeed, liable. It is pointed out that the ratio in paragraphs-22 and 26, would have to be supported. It is the contention of the learned Amicus that Sections 8 and F 11 of the Act could not be equated. The standard to be applied may be the same, i.e., a prima facie satisfaction of the existence of the Arbitration Agreement. In Section 11, the Court operates as a substitute of an Appointing Authority. There is only a narrow scope. It is his case, that in an Application under Section 8, the scope may be wider as one has to G see whether there was a valid Arbitration Agreement. It is his submission that unless it is patently void, ‘subject matter arbitrability’ should be left to the Arbitrator. In a Section 8 Application, the Court should not undertake the exercise of examining of the issue relating to the stamp duty, which goes to admissibility and not jurisdiction. The word ‘existence’ in Section 11(6A) meant legally enforceable existence and not mere presence in H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 315 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] the contract. The scope of the Court must be circumscribed to narrow A the prima facie examination of: i. Formal validity of the Arbitration Agreement at the stage of contract formation, including as to whether it is in writing; ii. Whether the core contractual ingredients were fulfilled? ; B iii. On rare occasions, whether the dispute was arbitrable; 17. The adjudication of stamp duty is a time-consuming affair and it would not align with the goal of the Act, which is to ensure the expeditious appointment of Arbitrators and the conclusion of the proceedings with the least judicial interference. If the Court refrained C from interfering on the score of disputes as to stamp duty and allow the Arbitrator to deal with the matter, which, he is, in law, fully competent to deal with, it would promote the very cause of speedy dispute resolution, which is the very goal of the institution of arbitration. 18. At the time of hearing Shri K. Ramakanth Reddy, learned D senior counsel appeared for the first respondent. He would contend that the court must adopt a harmonious construction as between the Stamp Act and the Act.