The decision in Mahabir Vegetable Oils (P) Ltd. v. State of Haryana16 is along the same lines as MRF Ltd. (supra), which is that benefits once granted, cannot be divested by a retrospective statute or notification. These decisions, in this court’s opinion stand on a different B footing, because they primarily concern exercise of statutory power, i.e. withdrawal, in a manner that has an extremely prejudicial or unreasonable impact, which is retrospective in effect. 26. So far as the question of promissory estoppel is concerned, a recent decision of this court, in Prashanti Medical Services & Research C Foundation v. Union of India17 placed the matter in correct perspective, when it observed that: “26. [..] a plea of promissory estoppel is not available to an assessee against the exercise of legislative power and nor any vested right accrues to an assessee in the matter of grant D of any tax concession to him. In other words, neither the appellant nor the assessee has any right to set up a plea of promissory estoppel against the exercise of legislative power such as the one exercised while inserting sub-section (7) in Section 35-AC of the Act (see Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills E Co. Ltd. [Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of U.P., (1979) 2 SCC 409] and other cases relied on by the learned counsel for the respondent Revenue). It is more so when we find that this sub-section was made applicable uniformly to all alike the appellant prospectively.” 27. In the present case, the principal, or rather the sole ground F which persuaded the High Court, to set aside the Amended Notification is that withdrawal of the concession could not be said to facilitate indigenous manufacturers. It was also held that “Indigenous angle therefore was not germane to withdrawal of exemption” and therefore, “public interest which must govern in the case of grant or G withdrawal of the grant is lost.” The third ground was that there was no “distinction between the two types of machines as both were having the same technology.” 16 (2006) 2 SCR 1172 17 (2019) 9 SCR 828 H 1128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 28. Once it is recognized that it is the executive’s exclusive domain, in fiscal and economic matters to determine the nature of classification, the extent of levy to be imposed, and the factors relevant for either granting, refusing or amending exemptions, the role of the court is confined to decide if its decision is backed by reasons, germane, and not irrelevant to the matter. Judicial scrutiny can also extend to consideration of legality, B and bona fides of the decision. The wisdom or unwisdom, and the soundness of reasons, or their sufficiency, cannot be proper subject matters of judicial review. In the present case, the impugned has virtually conducted a merits review of the concerned economic measure [Vivek Narayan Sharma (Demonetisation Case-5 J.) v. C Union of India18]: “13.4.[..] That the court may not undertake a foray into the merits, demerits, sufficiency or lack thereof, success in realising the objectives, etc.