v. ANITA 1131 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] beyond two and a half years from the original period under Clause A 20, interest would become payable from 1-1-2016. Secondly, insofar as the rate of interest is concerned, the interest should be fixed at 7% p.a. instead and in place of 10% which has been awarded by NCDRC. Interest @ 10% is excessive, in light of prevailing market conditions. [Central Bank of India v. Ravindra, (2002) B 1 SCC 367, SCC para 39.] 14. NCDRC has, in addition to the award of interest, granted compensation of Rs 2,00,000 for loss of rent. Once NCDRC awarded interest for the delayed handing over of possession, there would be no justification to award an additional C amount of Rs 2,00,000.” 14.6. In the case of Experion Developers Pvt. Ltd. (supra), another 3-Judge Bench of this Court dealt with a case where the developer did not offer possession within the period stipulated in the agreement and the complainant sought refund of the total consideration of Rs. D 2,06,41,379/- with interest at the rate of 24% p.a. The reasons given by the developer for delay in handing over the possession was non-availability of occupation certificate and it was pointed out that after securing occupation certificate on 23.07.2018, notice of possession was issued to the consumers on 24.07.2018. It was, therefore, claimed that possession could be handed over and the complaint ought to be dismissed. The E National Commission allowed the complaint and directed the developer to refund the deposited amount with interest @ 9% p.a. In the given context, this Court examined the other decisions of this Court as also the contentions concerning the provisions of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development Act), 2016 and held that the Commission has the power F and jurisdiction to direct return of money under Section 14 of the Act of 1986 if the consumer so chooses. The of the National Commission was approved by this Court with the following observations: - “28. The Consumer in present case prayed for the solitary relief for return of the amount paid towards purchase of the apartment without a prayer for alternate relief. Recognizing the right of the G Consumer for return of the amount with interest and compensation, the Commission passed an directing the Developer as under: “The opposite party shall refund an amount of Rs. 2,06,41,379/- paid by the complainant along with interest H 1132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A @ 9% p.a. from the date of last deposit before the due date of possession till actual payment on the amount paid before due date of possession and after this date if any amount is deposited, then from the date of deposit till actual payment.” B 29. For the reasons stated above, we are of the opinion that the Commission has correctly exercises its power and jurisdiction in passing the above directions for refund of the amount with interest.” 14.7. A look at the decisions aforesaid makes it clear that though C in most of the cases, the questions were relating to the compensation for delayed delivery of possession but even in the cases where possession was not being delivered by the builder or not being taken by the purchaser for a valid reason, the award of compensation was restricted to the refund with simple interest in the range 6% to 9% p.a.