Therefore, sub-section 2(a) also has the same object as sub-section (1) i.e. to carry out the purposes of the Act. Consequently, when the rule-making authority specifies conditions and diseases in the Schedule it exercises the same delegated authority as it does when it exercises powers under sub-section (1) and makes other rules E and therefore it is delegated legislation. The question for decision then is, is the delegation constitutional in that the administrative authority has been supplied with proper guidance. In our view the words impugned are vague. Parliament has established no criteria, no standards and has not prescribed any principle F on which a particular disease or condition is to be specified in the Schedule. It is not stated what facts or circumstances are to be taken into consideration to include a particular condition or disease. The power of specifying diseases and conditions as given in Section 3(d) must therefore be held to be going beyond permissible boundaries of valid delegation. As a consequence the G Schedule in the rules must be struck down. But that would not affect such conditions and diseases which properly fall within the four clauses of Section 3 excluding the portion of clause (d) which has been declared to be unconstitutional. In the view we have taken it is unnecessary to consider the applicability of Baxter v. Ah H Way [(1957) SCR 604].” VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 89 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 163. In the said case, this Court found that sub-section (1) of A Section 16 conferred a power on the Central Government to make rules for carrying out the purposes of the Act. The Court further found that, it is the first sub-section of Section 16 which confers the general rule- making power i.e. it delegates to the administrative authority the power to frame rules and regulations to subserve the object and purpose of the B Act. The Court found that the question, therefore, was, as to whether the delegation to the administrative authority without supplying proper guidance was constitutional or not. The Court held that the words impugned were vague and Parliament had established no criteria, no standards and had not prescribed any principle on which a particular disease or condition was to be specified in the Schedule. The Court, C therefore, held clause (d) of Section 3 to be amounting to excessive delegation and as such unconstitutional. 164. In the case of Harakchand Ratanchand Banthia and others (supra), the Constitution Bench of this Court was considering the power given to the Administrator under the Gold (Control) Act, 1968. D Section 5 of the Gold (Control) Act, 1968, which confers power on the Administrator to issue directions and s, fell for consideration, which read thus: “5. Power of Administrator issue directions and s.— (1) The Administrator may, if he thinks fit, make s, not inconsistent E with the provisions of this Act, for carrying out the provisions of this Act. (2) The Administrator may, so far as it appears to him to be necessary or expedient for carrying out the provisions of this Act, by — F (a) regulate, after consultation with the Reserve Bank of India, the price at which any gold may be bought or sold, and (b) regulate by licences, permits or otherwise, the manufacture, distribution, transport, acquisition, possession, transfer, disposal, use or consumption of gold.” G [emphasis supplied] 165.