D 2.3 It was alleged that the said affidavit was sworn by Shri Parkash Singh Badal, the then President, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) stating that the Party was adhering to the principle of secularism. Under the Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925, only Sikhs can become voters or contest elections to Shiromani Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee E (SGPC). That this restricts membership along religious lines and cannot said to be secular. It was alleged that the Constitution submitted to GEC in conformity with the Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925 is contrary to the one submitted to ECI as it shows that the Party is engaged in religious activities while giving an undertaking to ECI that it shall bear allegiance to the principles of secularism. F That the SAD had no right to function as a political party as its office bearers are non-secular. Therefore, the SAD has filed a false Constitution with ECI to gain recognition as a political party. 2.4 That the learned Trial Court held the inquiry under Section 202 Cr.P.C. and recorded the statement of the concerned witnesses. G The original complainant filed an application before the learned Trial Court with a prayer that Shri Sukhbir Singh Badal and Dr. Daljit Singh Cheema be summoned as witnesses and asked to produce the documents asked for. It was further submitted that the complainant does not want to pursue the complaint against H 922 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A them and their names be stuck down from the title of the complaint. 2.5 The said application was filed on 06.04.2011. By dated 26.08.2011, the learned Trial Court ed the aforesaid two persons to be summoned as witnesses along with the record. That the primary revision application before the first revisional court – B learned Sessions Court came to be dismissed observing that the revision is not maintainable against an interlocutory and that no has been passed by the learned Trial Court on the application dated 06.04.2011 of the complainant as regards not pursuing the complaint against them. That the complainant again filed an application dated 04.07.2014 before the learned Trial Court C in Complaint No. 23 of 2009 submitting that he does not want to pursue the application dated 06.04.2011. 2.6 The second application dated 06.08.2014 filed by the appellants herein - original writ petitioners under Section 315(1)(a) and (b) of Cr.P.C. before the learned ACJM came to be dismissed. The D appellants herein filed revision application before the High Court seeking quashing of the s passed by the learned Trial Court by which they were summoned as witnesses, which came to be disposed of by the High Court, setting aside the summoning of the witnesses while allowing the record to be submitted through duly E authorized person. That thereafter the inquiry proceeded further and the evidence of the relevant witnesses came to be recorded. 2.7 That after a period of 09 years after the original complaint, the complainant moved an amendment application on 28.04.2017 for amendment of the complaint, seeking to introduce substantial changes to the complaint as well as five more persons to be added F as accused and certain offences were also to be added in the complaint.