The prosecution has also not proved that on 11.09.2000 or any time thereafter, till recovery of the body of the deceased, the two accused were seen in the vicinity of that apartment or building from where the dead body was B retrieved on 12.09.2000. 36. In light of the discussion above, we are of the view that though the prosecution has succeeded in proving that the apartment where body of the deceased was found stood in the tenancy of Santosh but it failed to lead any evidence that the two accused, or any one of them, were C present there, or in the vicinity, either on 11.09.2000 or any time thereafter, till recovery of the dead body. In other words, the prosecution miserably failed to show the presence of the accused around the probable timeof murder. Further, the prosecution led no evidence to establish that the concerned apartment was under lock and key or exclusive control of D either Santosh or Neeraj. Even the theory of exclusive possession of Santosh over that apartment is dented by the statement of PW4 that till a week before the incident one Hari Ram used to live in that apartment with Santosh @ Bhure. There is also no evidence of the prosecution to show that the concerned apartment had a separate stair case accessible to Santosh and no one else. For all the reasons above, though we hold E that tenancy of the concerned apartment was proved to be with Santosh but neither his nor Neeraj’s presence in that apartment, around the relevant time, is proved by any evidence. It is also not proved that Santosh was in exclusive possession or control of that apartment. Rather, from the testimony of PW4 it appears that one Hari Ram was residing there with F Santosh though, he had left the place a week before the incident. As to whether the deceased Hari Shankar came there after Hari Om had left or was residing there since before, is not clear from the prosecution evidence. In fact there is no evidence - (a) as to when the deceased came into that apartment and (b) in what capacity he was residing there. In light of the discussion above and in the facts of the case, in our G considered view, the mere presence of the dead body in the apartment let out to Santosh is not such a clinching circumstance which, on its own, could sustain Santosh’s conviction with the aid of section 106 of the IEA, 1872 by shifting the onus on him to explain as to under what circumstances the dead body with multiple injuries was found there. H SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 747 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] Circumstance (b) and (c) — Re: Cause of death and place A of murder 37. As regards death of Hari Shanker being homicidal and a consequence of multiple injuries caused by a sharp edged weapon, no serious challenge is there to the findings returned by the courts below.