This Court ought not to have read down Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA, 1967 more particularly when neither the constitutional F validity of Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA, 1967 was under challenge nor the Union of India was heard. [Paras 11.1, 11.2, 11.3, 11.4 and 11.5][535-F-H; 536-A-E, H] 2. Considering the different position of laws in US and in our country more particularly faced with Articles 19(1)(c) and 19(4) G of the Constitution of India under which the right to freedom of speech is subject to reasonable restrictions and is not an absolute right and the constitution permits the Parliament to frame the laws taking into consideration the public and/or the sovereignty of India, without noticing the differences in American H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 499 Laws and the Indian laws, this Court in the case of Arup Bhuyan A (two Judge Bench decision) and Raneef has erred in straightway and directly following the US Supreme Court decisions and that too without adverting to the differences and the position of laws in India. In the aforesaid two decisions without noticing the differences of the US Supreme Court this Court has just followed B the American decisions, which cannot be accepted. This Court ought to have considered the differences in the American laws and the Indian laws more particularly the provisions in the Indian Constitution. By the aforesaid this Court does not say for a moment that in a given case the US Supreme Court decisions may not be taken into consideration and/or may not be guidance. C Before following the American decisions, the Indian Courts are required to consider the difference in the nature of the laws applicable in the respective countries. [Paras 13 and 13.1][542- G-H; 453-A-C] 3.1 Before any organization is declared unlawful a detailed D procedure is required to be followed including the wide publicity and even the right to a member of such association to represent before the Tribunal. The notification issued by the Central Government declaring a particular association unlawful, is subject to inquiry and approval by the Tribunal as per Section 4. Once that is done and despite that a person who is a member of such E unlawful association continues to be a member of such unlawful association then he has to face the consequences and is subjected to the penal provisions as provided under Section 10 more particularly Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA, 1967. [Para 14.5][554- E-F] F 3.2. A person who is a member of such an unlawful association is as such aware of the declaration of such association as unlawful and despite the same if he still continues to be the member of such unlawful association which is indulging into the unlawful activities and acting against the sovereignty and integrity G of India, his intention is very clear that he still wants to associate with such an association which is indulging into ‘unlawful activities’ and acting against the interests of sovereignty and integrity of India. The language used in the Section 10(1)(i) and the procedure to be followed under Sections 3 & 4 of the Act, before any association is declared as unlawful are very clear.