It is further submitted that the High Court was right in allowing the writ petition by invoking the explanation to XVII Rule 2 CPC and the appeal deserves to be dismissed. 13. It would be worthwhile to mention that this Court, vide dated 10.12.2018, had directed the appellant to deposit 50% of the suit claim i.e. half of Rs. 1,42,85,177/- within a period of six weeks and the matter was directed to be listed after six weeks. On 25.01.2019, this Court being satisfi ed that 50% of the suit claim had been deposited before the Trial Court, directed that the Trial Court would invest the said amount in a Fixed Deposit initially for a period of six months in a Nationalized Bank with automatic renewal. This Court,further, condoned the delay, issued notices to the respondents and further stayed the impugned . 14. Before proceeding to consider the submissions, it would be appropriate to reproduce XVII Rule 2 CPC, which reads as follows: “2. Procedure if parties fail to appear on day fi xed. - Where, on any day to which the hearing of the suit is adjourned, the parties or any of them fail to appear, the Court may proceed to dispose of the suit in one of the modes directed in that behalf by IX or make such other as it thinks fi t. 146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Explanation.-Where the evidence or a substantial portion of the evidence of any party has already been recorded and such party fails to appear on any day to which the hearing of the suit is adjourned, the Court may, in its discretion, proceed with the case as if such party were present.” 15. It would also be relevant to reproduce IX Rule 13 which reads as follows: “Setting aside decree exparte against defendant-In any case in which a decree is passed ex-parte against a defendant, he may apply to the Court by which the decree was passed for an to set it aside; and if he satisfi es the Court that the summons was not duly served, or that he was prevented by any suffi cient cause from appearing when the suit was called on for hearing, the Court shall make an setting aside the decree as against him upon such terms as to costs, payment into Court or otherwise as it thinks fi t, and shall appoint a day for proceeding with the suit: Provided that where the decree is of such a nature that it cannot be set aside as against such defendant only it may be set aside as against all or any of the other defendants also: Provided further that no Court shall set aside a decree passed ex parte merely on the ground that there has been an irregularity in the service of summons, if it is satisfi ed that the defendant had notice of the date of hearing and had suffi cient time to appear and answer the plaintiff s claim. Explanation- Where there has been an appeal against a decree passed ex parte under this rule, and the appeal has been disposal of on any ground other than the ground that the appellant has withdrawn the appeal, no application shall lie under this rule of setting aside the ex parte decree.” 16.