SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1411 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 331. Contrary to what is stated in the of Bhat, J., the directions in my do not require the state to create social or legal status, or a social institution. The directions are with a view to recognizing the choice that a person makes for themselves when they choose another to be their partner for life. The directions seek to make that choice a meaningful one. Nowhere do they create an institution of any kind. Rather, they give eff ect to the fundamental rights in Part III of the Constitution. This is the mandate of this Court under Article 32 – “The Supreme Court shall have power to issue directions or s or writs … for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by this Part.” No response is forthcoming to my detailed exposition of the scope of the powers of this Court under Article 32 in Section D(i) of my . In fact, Bhat, J. himself recognizes that courts often enable and oblige the state to take measures. My learned brother also arrives at the conclusion that the state is indirectly discriminating against the queer community but fails to exercise the power vested in this Court by Article 32 to alleviate this discrimination in any way. This Court is not through judicial diktat creating a legal regime exclusively for persons of the queer community but merely recognising the duty of the State to recognise the entitlements fl owing from exercising the right to choose a life partner. 332. Bhat, J. states that no one has contended that two queer persons have the right of a sustained partnership which is traceable to Articles 19(1) (a), (c), (d) and the right to conscience under Article 25. This is not true, as demonstrated by the segment of this on the submissions made by the petitioners.285 333. Bhat, J. has held that: a. The classifi cation in a legislation is to be discerned by gathering the object sought to be achieved by the enactment. The object of the SMA was to enable inter-faith heterosexual marriage. The classifi cation is therefore between same-faith heterosexual couples 285 Illustratively, see the submissions of (i) Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi (at paragraph 21(d) of this ); (ii) Mr. Raju Ramachandran (at paragraph 22(a) of this ); (iii) Mr KV Vishwanathan (at paragraph 23(f) of this ); (iv) Mr. Anand Grover (at paragraph 25(e) of this ); (v) Dr. Menaka Guruswamy (at paragraph 27(d) of this ); (vi) Ms. Anitha Shenoy (at paragraph 31(a) of this ). 141 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. and inter-faith heterosexual couples. It does not discriminate against queer persons; and b. The test for discrimination is not the object of the statute but its eff ect and impact. The eff ect of the state regulating marriage only for heterosexual couples is that it “adversely impacts” them, “results in their exclusion,” “results in denial of entitlements / benefi ts,” and that “this injustice and inequity results in discrimination.” The state must address “this deprivation” and take “remedial action.” My learned brother contradicts himself when he holds that the SMA is not discriminatory by relying on its object, on the one hand, and that the state has indirectly discriminated against the queer community because it is the eff ect and not the object which is relevant, on the other.