Therefore, in to make an authoritative pronouncement on the question of law concerning the interpretation of Section 24(2) of L.A. Act, 2013 and since there were many s passed by this Court questioning the correctness of the H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 257 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] decision in Pune Municipal Corporation, a Larger Bench of five A Judges was constituted by Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India. Now, the unanimous of the Larger Bench of five Judges holds the field. However, in paragraph 365 of the said or in any other paragraph, there is no observation that on overruling the decision in Pune Municipal Corporation as well as all decisions following Pune Municipal B Corporation, the overruled decisions have to be reviewed. The said observation is conspicuous by its absence obviously for the reason that such a review is impermissible having regard to the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC which aspect has been elaborately discussed above. In fact, the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC has not been noticed by the two learned Judges constituting the majority in Indore C Development Authority vs. Shailendra. 51. There is another aspect which ought to be considered. That in two matters i.e., in the very case of Pune Municipal Corporation (decided on 08.02.2018) which has been overruled by Indore Development Authority (decided on 06.03.2020) by a Bench of three D Judges but the has also been recalled vide dated 16.07.2020. Similarly, another judgement dated 31.08.2016 passed by this Court following Pune Municipal Corporation has been recalled by dated 15.02.2022 by this very Bench. I must be forthright in saying that the recalling of the said s/ dated 08.02.2018 E and 31.08.2016 was done so in the absence of any arguments being advanced on the maintainability of review petitions itself as in the present cases and without taking into consideration the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC. I find that the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC is a bar to the very maintainability of these review petitions in these cases. Hence, before hearing the Civil Appeals / Special Leave F Petitions on merits, the s passed recalling the decision passed earlier would call for reconsideration. All s and s which have been recalled till date subsequent to the in Indore Development Authority on the basis that Pune Municipal Corporation was incorrectly decided are G also not in accordance with law in view of the discussion made above. 52. Having held that the s/s sought to be reviewed by the petitioners is impermissible in law, the ground realities would also have to be now taken into consideration on account of the passage of time. It is noted that Section 24 of the L.A. Act, 2013 is in the nature of H 258 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A a saving clause which is evident on a reading of the same, including the proviso to Sub-Section 2 of Section 24 of the L.A. Act, 2013.