We are actually left with no other option but to remand these appeals back to the High Court for effective adjudication on merits. 58. Our hands are further tied because of the fact that the ownership of certain portions of the Suit Land has apparently changed F hands on account of subsequent sale by the Respondents. Furthermore, we must also note that the value of the Suit Land has increased exponentially during the entire period of litigation and the relevant parties have also done certain valuable developments. Any decision now cannot be based on conjectures and surmises or on the basis of mere guesswork. Hence, we are reluctant to give a final opinion on the matter until the G Court is satisfied on the basis of the entirety of documents which showcase how the ownership or possessory rights were created on the Suit Land. 59.There are indeed compelling circumstances which have been left unanswered by the courts below, because of which determination of several factual issues have been left in limbo. Therefore, in light of the H 976 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A peculiar situation, we find it expedient to remand the present appeals back to the High Court for fresh adjudication on the issues formulated in Para 34 of this judgement and the observations made above. However, we hasten to add that these observations may not to be treated as final determination on the merits of the dispute. B 60. Furthermore, in light of the long-drawn pendency of these disputes, we request the High Court to take up these matters at the earliest and dispose of the same as early as possible, preferably within a period of upcoming 12 months. However, all the original records, including revenue entries as well as that of the office of Deputy Commissioner, Nainital may be requisitioned. In this regard, we direct the Appellant C State to produce entire records and notifications before the High Court and render assistance in the early disposal of these matters. 61.Consequently, these appeals are allowed in part; the impugned s of the High Court are set aside, and the matters are remanded to the High Court for a fresh adjudication. It is made clear that casual D findings/observations made by Revenue Authorities or the Civil Court shall not be accepted at their face value unless the High Court is satisfied on a thorough inspection of the original or certified copies of the relevant record. The parties are directed to keep status quo until the matters are decided afresh by the High Court. E 62. ed accordingly. Pending applications, if any, are also disposed of in above terms. Nidhi Jain Appeals partly allowed. (Assisted by : Rakhi, LCRA) F G H