It was held therein thus:- “6…. *** *** *** *** *** It will be noticed that Section 28 begins with the clause “subject to the other provisions of this Code”. This means that the Section and the Second Schedule referred to therein are controlled by the other provisions of the Code including the provisions of Section 30. Further, the text of Section 30 itself quite clearly says that its provisions will 5 AIR 1955 SC 191 AMANDEEP SINGH SARAN v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 445 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] operate “notwithstanding anything contained in Section 28 or Section 29”. Therefore, the provisions of Section 28 and the Second Schedule must give way to the provisions of Section 30. *** *** *** *** ***” 12. Following the same analogy, despite the absence of a provision under Section 30 of the old Code in ‘Cr.PC’, it can safely be said that the First Schedule to Cr.PC, when lies in confl ict with the other specifi c provisions under the Cr.PC must give way to such other provisions under the Cr.PC. 13. Now, we will refer to the other relevant provisions. Section 3(1) (c), Cr.PC, reads thus:- “Section 3 (1). In this code, - (a) ………………………………………… (i) …………………………….. (ii) ……………………………… (b) …………………………………………. (c) Any reference to a Magistrate of the fi rst class shall,- (i) In relation to a metropolitan area, be construed as a reference to a Metropolitan Magistrate exercising jurisdiction in that area; (ii) In relation to any other area, be construed as a reference to a Judicial Magistrate of the fi rst class exercising jurisdiction in that area;” 14. In the Explanatory Note No. (2) in the First schedule to Cr.PC, insofar as it is relevant, it is stated thus:- “In this schedule, (i) the expressions “Magistrate of the fi rst class” and “Any Magistrate” include Metropolitan Magistrates but not Executive Magistrates;…….” 15. According to us, the expressions ‘Magistrate of the First Class’ and ‘Any Magistrate’ used in the explanatory note No. (2) in the First Schedule not only takes in ‘Metropolitan Magistrates’ but also takes in ‘Chief Judicial Magistrates’. This position is explicit from Section 12, Cr.PC, which reads thus:- 446 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “S.12. Chief Judicial Magistrates and Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate etc.- (1) In every district (not being a metropolitan area), the High Court shall appoint a Judicial Magistrate of the First Class to be the Chief Judicial Magistrate”. (Underline supplied) 16. In short, the expressions ‘Magistrate of the First Class’ and ‘Any Magistrate’ used in the First schedule to Cr.PC, include ‘Chief Judicial Magistrates’ as well and any contra-construction would lead to a situation denuding the status of ‘trial Court’ to a Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate and in other words, any such contra-construction would tantamount to a declaration that as per the First Schedule to Cr. PC no off ence is triable by a Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate. 17. Should we assume in view of the afore-extracted provisions that the choice of the Court, where one allegedly committed an off ence under Section 409, IPC simpliciter or along with other lesser punishable off ences, is to be tried, is left to the whim or idiosyncrasy of the offi cer in-charge of the police station concerned by the legislature so that he may fi le fi nal report under Section 173 (2), Cr.PC either before a Magistrate of the First Class exercising jurisdiction in the area concerned or before the Chief Judicial Magistrate/Magistrate according to his sweet will.