The court however underlined that in the next category where the person became ineligible to be appointed as arbitrator, there was no need for a challenge to be laid before the arbitrator. In such circumstances outlined in Section 12(5), the party aggrieved could directly approach the court under Section 14(1)(a). It was further underlined that in all cases under Section 12(5), there is no challenge procedure to be availed of and that if the arbitrator continues at such, the ground of being unable to perform his function since he falls in any of the categories enumerated in the Seventh Schedule, the party concern may apply to the court. 29. It is, therefore, evident that the rules for disqualifi cation or ineligibility are fairly clear. The ineligibility which attaches to the appointment is the fi rst category: it is contained in Section 12(1) read with the explanation and the Fifth Schedule to the Act. As recounted earlier CHENNAI METRO RAIL LTD. ADMIN. BUILDING v. 1013 M/S TRANSTONNELSTROY AFCONS (JV) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] this schedule has 34 items. In the event any of these circumstances exist, the appointment of the arbitrator is barred. The second category is where the arbitrator to start with is eligible but after appointment incurs any, or becomes subject, to any of the conditions, as enumerated in the Fifth Schedule. In that event, it is open to the party to claim that there could be justifi able doubts about his independence or impartiality. The remedy even then, would be that the party has to seek recourse and apply to the arbitrator in the fi rst stance by virtue of Section 13(2). The wording of Section 13(2) clarifi es that a party who intends to challenge the arbitrator, after becoming aware of certain circumstances which lead to justifi able doubts, that party has to within 15 days [of becoming aware] approach the tribunal and seek a ruling. In the event the party is not successful under Section 13(4), the tribunal is duty bound to continue with the proceedings. When the award is made, it can be subjected to challenge under Section 34, by operation of Section 13(5). Clearly, then the substantive grounds and the procedure applicable in relation to situations where justifi able reasons exist or arise, for questioning the eligibility of a tribunal to decide the reference are enumerated in Sections 12 and 13. 30. As clarifi ed in HRD (supra), the grounds of ineligibility which would apply at the appointment stage, would also continue during the proceedings by virtue of Section 12(2). In other words, if during the continuance of the proceedings, the arbitrator becomes subject to any eligibility condition outlying in the Fifth Schedule, the application for his removal on the grounds of justifi able doubts about his impartiality and independence, can be made. According to the procedure outlined in Section 13(2) read with Section 12, such a procedure has to fi rst be followed which means that the party should fi rst appear before the arbitrator and object to his continuance.