It can be read down in the following manner to include the solemnization of marriages between non-heterosexual persons: i. The word “man” in Section 2(b) includes “any person”, and that correspondingly, the word “woman” includes “any person”; ii. The words “man” and “woman” include trans-men and trans- women, intersex and non-binary individuals as the case may be35; iii. Section 4(c) enacts only an age-based exclusion for persons otherwise eligible to marry under the provisions of Section 4, and shall not be construed to impose any disabilities based on gender, sexual orientation, or sexual identity of the parties. For same sex couples in particular, Section 4(c) can be read as a single age-restriction, be it eighteen or twenty-one. In the alternative, Section 4(c) may be read as prescribing the minimum age as eighteen for both 34 Reliance was placed on Union of India v. Naveen Jindal (2004) 2 SCC 510 35 Reliance was placed on National Legal Services Authority (supra) 125 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. parties in the case of a lesbian relationship and twenty- one for both parties in the case of a gay relationship. For non-binary and inter-sex persons, the SMA may be read as imposing no restriction beyond that imposed by other laws which stipulate the age at which persons become capable of binding themselves under law i.e., eighteen years. In the alternative, this Court may lay down guidelines as an interim measure while leaving it open to Parliament to fi ll the vacuum in due course of time; iv. The reference to “widow” and “widower” in Schedules II and III must be read as “widow or widower” and “widower or widow,” as the case may be, and shall not be construed to impose any disabilities based on gender, sexual orientation, or sexual identity of the parties; v. References to “bride” and “bridegroom” in Schedules III and IV must be read as “bride or bridegroom”, as the case may be, and shall not be construed to impose any disabilities based on gender, sexual orientation, or sexual identity of the parties. g. The Foreign Marriage Act 1969 can similarly be read down; h. The relief sought by the petitioners is workable; i. In reading down the SMA and the FMA to achieve a constitutionally compliant interpretation, neither the text of the statute nor the intention of Parliament act as a limitation. Only the underlying thrust of the legislation and the institutional capacity of this Court are relevant. The underlying thrust of the SMA is that it was designed to facilitate marriages lying outside the pale of social acceptability. Reliance was placed on Ghaidan v. Godin-Mendoza [2004] UKHL 30; j. In the alternative, the principle of updating construction ought to be applied to the SMA. Courts may expand the existing words of a statute to further the march of social norms and contemporary realities; SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1253 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] k. Some laws (such as the Protection of Women Against Domestic Violence Act 2005, the Dowry Prohibition Act 1961, provisions pertaining to cruelty in the Indian Penal Code 186036) were enacted to address structural imbalances of power between men and women in a heteronormative setting.