390 read as: “390. – Moneys received or raised or expenditure incurred between the commencement of the Constitution and the 31st day of March, 1950.- The provisions of this 182 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 296. Article 391 provided that if between the passing of the Constitution and its commencement any action was taken by the President under the Government of India Act 1935 which required an amendment of the First or the Fourth Schedules, the President was empowered to do so237. 297. Article 392 empowered the President to issue s directing that the Constitution would be subject to such adaptations whether by modifi cation, addition and omission for the purpose of removing diffi culties particularly in relation to the transition from the Government of India Act 1935 to the provisions of the Constitution. This power was to be exercised until the fi rst meeting of Parliament238. Constitution relating to the Consolidated Fund of India or the Consolidated Fund of any State and the appropriation of moneys out of either of such funds shall not apply in relation to moneys received or raised or expenditure incurred by the government of India or the Government of any State between the commencement of this Constitution and the thirty-fi rst day of March, 1950, both days inclusive, and any expenditure incurred during that period shall be deemed to be duly authorized if the expenditure was specifi ed in a schedule of authorized expenditure authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Government of India Act, 1935, by the Governor-General of the Dominion of India or the Governor of the corresponding Province or is authorized by the Rajpramukh of the State in accordance with such rules as were applicable to the authorization of expenditure from the revenues of the corresponding Indian State immediately before such commencement.” 237 Repealed Art. 391 read as: “391. Power of the President to amend the First and Fourth Schedules in certain contingencies. – (1) if at any time between the passing of this Constitution and its commencement any action is taken under the provisions of the Government of India Act, 1935, which in the opinion of the President requires any amendment in the First Schedule and the Fourth Schedule, the President may, notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, by , make such amendments in the said Schedules as may be necessary to give eff ect to the action so taken, and any such may contain such supplemental incidental and consequential provisions as the President may deem necessary. (2) When the First Schedule or the Fourth Schedule is so amended, any reference to that Schedule in this Constitution shall be construed as a reference to such Schedule as so amended. 238 “Article 392. Power of the President to remove diffi culties.- (1) The president may, for the purpose of removing any diffi culties, particularly in relation to the transition from the provisions of the Government of India Act, 1935, to the provisions of this Constitution, by direct that this Constitution shall, during such period as may be specifi ed in the , have eff ect subject to such adaptations whether by way of modifi cation, addition or omission, as he may deem to be necessary or expedient: IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 183 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 298.