Reference was also made to the meaning of the word “source”, and it was held that the import entitlements that the assessee had earned E were awarded by the Central Government under the scheme to encourage exports. The source referable to the profits and gains arising out of the sale proceeds of the import entitlement was, therefore, the scheme of the Central Government and not the industrial undertaking of the assessee. F XXXXXXXX 13. We do not think that the source of the import entitlements can be said to be the industrial undertaking of the assessee. The source of the import entitlements can, in the circumstances, only be said to be the Export Promotion Scheme of the Central Government G whereunder the export entitlements become available. There must be, for the application of the words “derived from”, a direct nexus between the profits and gains and the industrial undertaking. In the instant case the nexus is not direct but only incidental. The industrial undertaking exports processed seafood. By reason of H 358 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A such export, the Export Promotion Scheme applies. Thereunder, the assessee is entitled to import entitlements, which it can sell. The sale consideration therefrom cannot, in our view, be held to constitute a profit and gain derived from the assessee’s industrial undertaking.” B 7.6 Therefore, following the law laid down by this Court in the case of Sterling Foods, Mangalore (supra) and Liberty India (supra) as such, no error has been committed by the High Court in holding that on the profit from DEPB and Duty Drawback claims, the assessee shall not be entitled to the deductions under Section 80-IB as such income cannot be said to be an income “derived from” industrial undertaking C and even otherwise as per Section 28(iiid) and (iiie), such an income is chargeable to tax. 7.7 Insofar as reliance placed by the learned counsel for the assessee upon the subsequent decision of this Court in the case of Meghalaya Steels Limited (supra) is concerned, at the outset, it is D required to be noted that in the case of Meghalaya Steels Limited (supra), it was a case of three subsidies, namely a) Transport Subsidy, b) Interest Subsidy, and c) Power Subsidy and in that context this Court observed and held that since these subsidies directly affect the cost of manufacturing, they have a direct nexus with the profits and gains of the E undertaking and since these subsidies have a direct nexus, they can be said to be derived from the industrial undertaking. It is to be noted that in the case of Meghalaya Steels Limited (supra), this Court did take note of the decision in the case of Liberty India (supra), however, this Court specifically observed that the case of Liberty India (supra) was concerned with an export incentive, which is very far removed from F reimbursement of an element of cost. While dealing with the decision in the case of Liberty India (supra), this Court distinguished Duty Entitlement Pass Book and Duty Drawback Schemes and specifically observed that the DPEB / Duty Drawback Scheme is not related to the business of an industrial undertaking for manufacturing or selling its G products and the DEPB entitlement arises only when the undertaking goes on to export the said product, that is, after it manufactures or produces the same.