[2023] 16 S.C.R. 1209 : 2023 INSC 920 CASE DETAILS SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION OF INDIA (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 1011 of 2022) OCTOBER 17, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, S. RAVINDRA BHAT, HIMA KOHLI AND PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issues for consideration: The issues were primarily two-fold: (a) the status of the right to marry for LGBTQ+ couples and (b) depending upon the answer to the fi rst, the remedy that must ensue. The petitioners (members of LGBTQ community)asserted that marriage is an evolving social institution, capable of embracing the union of two willing non-heterosexual, queer or LGBTQ+ (used interchangeably) individuals and necessitating state recognition. On the other, the respondents asserted that the institution of marriage rests on certain constant and unchanging premises, the most prominent of which is that it is a heterosexual union. The common ground on which the petitioners claimed relief was that LGBTQ+ persons are entitled to solemnize and register their marriage – in other words, they claimed a right to legal recognition of their unions within the marriage fold. The petitioners relied on fundamental rights to equality and non-discrimination, of dignity and autonomy and of expression and association, and specifi cally, most petitioners focused on Section 4(c) of the Special Marriage Act, 1954 (SMA) as well as the fi rst and second schedules thereof, to state that particular references to “husband” or “wife” in its provisions are to be read “down”, and a neutral expression needs to substituted, instead. The issue was whether the Special Marriage Act, 1954 is violative of Articles 14, 15, 19, 21, and 25 of the Constitution insofar as it does not provide for the solemnization of marriage between same-sex, gender non-conforming or LGBTQ couples. Ed. Note: Separate s were pronounced by Hon’ble Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, Chief Justice of India, Hon’ble Mr. Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Hon’ble Mr. Justice S. Ravindra Bhat (on behalf of himself and Hon’ble Ms. Justice Hima Kohli) and Hon’ble Mr. Justice Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha. 1209 121 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Some of the prayers also related to the right of such couples to adopt under existing laws in India. The issue was whether Regulations 5(2)(a) and 5(3) read with Schedules II, III and VI of the Adoption Regulations framed by the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) are unconstitutional and ultra vires the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 insofar as they exclude LGBTQ couples from joint adoption. Also, extensive submissions were advanced on the various forms of violence and discrimination that society and the state machinery infl ict upon the queer community, and especially queer couples; and directions were sought to obviate such violence and discrimination. Marriage – Conception and signifi cance of – Right to marriage – Status of – If a fundamental right – Conferring legal status for union or relationship – Prerogative of legislature or court: Held [per S. Ravindra Bhat, J. (for himself and Hima Kohli, J.