[2023] 5 S.C.R. 701 701 ASHWINI KUMAR UPADHYAY A v. UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER (Writ Petition (Civil) No 967 of 2017) FEBRUARY 02, 2023 B [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA AND J. B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] Representation of the People Act, 1951: s. 33(7) – Constitutional validity of –s. 33(7) permitting person to contest from C more than one constituency for the same office simultaneously – Plea that a person should not be permitted to contest from more than one seat at a time – Held: Such relief cannot be granted – Permittinga candidate to contest from more than one seat in a Parliamentary election or at an election to the State Legislative D Assembly is a matter of legislative policy – Thisis a matter where Parliament is legitimately entitled to make legislative choices and enact or amend legislation – In absence of any manifest arbitrariness of the provision or violation of Art. 14 or Art. 19, not possible to strike down the provision as unconstitutional – However, the Parliament not restrained from taking an appropriate view if it E decides to do so at any point of time in pursuance of its legislative authority– Constitution of India – Arts. 14, 19. CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION : Writ Petition (Civil) No.967 of 2017. F (Under Article 32 of The Constitution Of India) Gopal Sankaranarayanan, Sr. Adv., Ashwani Kumar Dubey, Adv. for the Petitioner. R. Venkataramani, AG, Tushar Mehta, SG, Ms. Saudamini Sharma, Mrs. Rukhmini Bobde, Ankur Talwar, Chinmayee Chandra, Kanu G Agrawal, Digvijay Dam, Vinayak Mehrotra, Mrs. Mansi Sood, Chitvan Singhal, Ms. Sonali Jain, Abhishek Kumar Pandey, Raman Yadav, Anand Venkatramani, Ms. Vijay Lakshami Venkataramani, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Amit Sharma, Dipesh Sinha, Pallavi Barua, Ms. Sakshi Upadhayya, Ms. Aparna Singh, Balaji Srinivasan, Advs. for the H Respondents. 701 702 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A The of the Court was delivered by DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI 1. The petitioner has invoked the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution to challenge the constitutional validity of Section 33(7) of the Representation of the People Act 19511. B 2. Apart from the above challenge, the petitioner seeks a direction to the Central government and the Election Commission of India to take appropriate steps to restrict any person from contesting an election for the “same office” from more than one constituency simultaneously. 3. At this stage, it would also be material to note that the third C prayer, prayer (c), which sought a direction to the Union government and the Election Commission “to take appropriate steps to discourage independent candidates from contesting the Parliamentary and Assembly elections” was rejected by an of this Court dated 11 December 2017. D 4. The basis of the petition is that on 5 July 2004, the Chief Election Commissioner urged the then Prime Minister to amend Section 33(7) of the Act of 1951 insofar as it permits a person to contest from more than one constituency for the same office simultaneously.