House of the People. Under Article 81(2)(a), there shall be allotted to each State a number of seats in the House of the People in such a manner that the ratio between that number and the population of the State is, so far as practicable, the same for all States. Article 825 provides for the readjustment of the seats after each census. It provides that upon the completion of each census, the allocation of seats in the House of the People to the States and the division of each State into territorial constituencies shall be readjusted by such authority and in such manner as Parliament may by law determine. For the purposes of Article 81, clause (3) provides that the expression “population” means the population as ascertained at the last preceding census of which the relevant fi gures have been published. However, until the relevant fi gures for the fi rst census taken after 2026 have been published, this shall be construed, for the purpose of sub-clause (a) of clause (2), and its proviso, as a reference to the 1971 census. Regarding the division of each State into territorial constituencies, it has been provided that the reference would be to the 2001 census. Analogous provisions are contained in the proviso to Article 82. Article 170 contains provisions for the composition of the Legislative Assemblies. taken after the year 2026 have been published, be construed,— (i) for the purposes of sub-clause (a) of clause (2) and the proviso to that clause, as a reference to the 1971 census; and (ii) for the purposes of sub-clause (b)of clause (2) as a reference to the 2001 census. 5 82. Readjustment after each census.—Upon the completion of each census, the allocation of seats in the House of the People to the States and the division of each State into territorial constituencies shall be readjusted by such authority and in such manner as Parliament may by law determine: Provided that such readjustment shall not aff ect representation in the House of the People until the dissolution of the then existing House: Provided further that such readjustment shall take eff ect from such date as the President may, by , specify and until such readjustment takes eff ect, any election to the House may be held on the basis of the territorial constituencies existing before such readjustment: Provided also that until the relevant fi gures for the fi rst census taken after the year 2026 have been published, it shall not be necessary to readjust— (i) the allocation of seats in the House of the People to the States as readjusted on the basis of the 1971 census; and (ii) the division of each State into territorial constituencies as may be readjusted on the basis of the 2001]census, under this article. PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1083 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 8. Article 327 entrusts Parliament with the power to make provisions with respect to elections to either House of Parliament or to the Legislature of a State.