It is further submitted that no floor wise sale of property is permissible under the Capital of Punjab (Development & Regulations)” Act, 1952. The contents of the preliminary objections as well as the preliminary submissions may also be read as a part and parcel of this paragraph.” C 104. It can thus clearly be seen that Chandigarh Administration has reiterated its stand that it does not permit residential house to be converted into an apartment on account of the fact that the 2001 Rules now stand repealed. It however stated that there is no bar on alienation/ transfer of a share in a property by a true owner, as it is permissible as D per the provisions of the enactments and the recognized principles of civil law. It is stated that an owner of a freehold residential house is permitted to sell his share or a part of the shares in the said house. However, it is reiterated that no floor-wise sale of property is permissible under the 1952 Act. E 105. The Division Bench of the High Court, vide an interim dated 27th July 2021, reproduced the stand of Chandigarh Administration. It also noticed that in the subsequent affidavit dated 20th July 2021 of the Assistant Estate Officer, Chandigarh, it was specifically deposed that no sale of defined portion/plot of building is permissible, nor any such sale has been recognized by the Chandigarh Administration except those F registered during the year 2001 to 2007 when the 2001 Rules were in vogue. 106. Since the Division Bench was seized of the matter, it thought it was appropriate to scan through the advertisements that were published in news dailies in the recent past, having circulation in the city, so as to G find out whether any floor-wise sale of dwelling units is advertised. It noticed that in the Sunday Tribune dated 25th July 2021 itself, as many as 24 advertisements were published inviting the purchasers/investors to purchase independent floors. In this itself, the High Court has reproduced such advertisements. After reproducing such advertisements, the Division Bench observed thus: H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 655 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] “The afore-reproduced advertisement(s) lend credence to A the assertion raised on behalf of the petitioners that under the garb of sale of certain percentage share of a residential unit independent floors are being sold. We find that the written statement filed on behalf of the official respondents/ Chandigarh Administration as also the B subsequent affidavit of the Assistant Estate Officer is totally silent on such aspect. In our view, the Chandigarh Administration ought to have been alive to such situation and particularly when there were specific averments made in the present petition which was filed way back in the year 2016. Being in a state of denial on paper would not suffice. In the fitness of things, the Administration C should have carried out some kind of physical verification to ascertain as to whether such modus operandi had been resorted to after repeal of the Apartment Rules, 2001.