(6) The Adjudicating Authority, on the receipt of an application from a secured creditor under sub-section (5) may pass such as may be necessary to permit a secured creditor to B realise security interest in accordance with law for the time being in force. (7) Where the enforcement of the security interest under sub- section (4) yields an amount by way of proceeds which is in excess of the debts due to the secured creditor, the secured C creditor shall— (a) account to the liquidator for such surplus; and (b) tender to the liquidator any surplus funds received from the enforcement of such secured assets. D (8) The amount of insolvency resolution process costs, due from secured creditors who realise their security interests in the manner provided in this section, shall be deducted from the proceeds of any realisation by such secured creditors, and they shall transfer such amounts to the liquidator to be included in the liquidation estate. E (9) Where the proceeds of the realisation of the secured assets are not adequate to repay debts owed to the secured creditor, the unpaid debts of such secured creditor shall be paid by the liquidator in the manner specified in clause (e) of sub- section (1) of section 53.” F 34. Section 52 gives an option to secured creditors to either relinquish their security interest, in the liquidation process (the procedure for which is prescribed in Regulations 21 and 21A of the Liquidation Regulations26), or proceed to enforce it. In case of the latter option, the G 26 The said provisions of the Liquidation Regulations read as follows: “21. Proving security interest. The existence of a security interest may be proved by a secured creditor on the basis of- (a) the records available in an information utility, if any; (b) certificate of registration of charge issued by the Registrar of Companies; or (c) proof of registration of charge with the Central Registry of Securitisation Asset Reconstruction and Security Interest of India. H 1250 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A secured creditor has to first indicate its option, within the time prescribed (30 days, in Form C or D of Schedule II to the Liquidation Regulations). The liquidator may then, per Section 52 (3), permit the secured creditor to realize such dues as are proved to exist, as security debts. Upon clearance by the liquidator, the secured creditor may proceed to enforce its claim, under Section 52 (4). If there is resistance during the process, B the secured creditor may approach the NCLT [Section 52 (5) and (6)]. Upon enforcement, any excess amount realized should be tendered to the liquidator [Section 52 (7)]. 35. It is thus, apparent, that a secured creditor has to take a calculated decision, at the outset of the liquidation process, whether or C not to relinquish its secured interest. In case it does so, its dues rank high in the waterfall mechanism. In case it chooses not to relinquish its security interest, and instead proceeds to enforce it without success or is unable to realize all its dues in the process of enforcement, it has to then perforce stand lower in priority, and await distribution of assets upon realization of the liquidation estate, by the liquidator, vis-à-vis D the balance of its dues.