As noticed from the relevant pages of Materia Medica placed before us, in the Homeopathic terminology, Cinchona Officinalis is also termed as China Officinalis; and Pilocarpine is essentially isolated from Jaborandi. The similar product involved in Bakson Homeo Pharmacy (supra) was said to be containing the ingredients Arnica H Mont, Jaborandi, Cantharis and China, apart from other ingredients. COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 341 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] and the submissions made on behalf of the appellant stand on one side A whereas, the findings of the Tribunal with the submissions made on behalf of the respondent stand on the other. 20.1. As noticed, the Adjudicating Authority examined the contents of the product as also its label and observed that it did not contain any condition like “to be sold by authorized medical distributor or retailer B under prescription from medical practitioner” even though such a mention was a mandatory requirement under the Act of 1940; and it did not contain any specification regarding the dosage to be used and the duration for which it is to be used, which is the norm for a medicament. The Adjudicating Authority yet further observed that there was no claim that C the product could cure any particular disease like Alopecia (loss of hair); that the medical conditions like Alopecia actually tend to happen all of a sudden with patches of baldness not only on the head but anywhere on the body; and that Insomnia was a medical condition resulting in sleeplessness due to stress and other neurological diss. According to these observations, non-mention of Alopecia or Insomnia on the labels D indicated that the product was not meant for any substantial curative purpose. The Adjudicating Authority also observed that by mentioning no contra-indications, it implied that irrespective of the quantum or duration of usage, there was no adverse effect on the scalp or skin, which was against the basic concept of a medicament, which is prescribed or used E for a limited period and overdose is known to result in contra-indications like diarrhoea, acidity, ulceration, rashes etc. The Adjudicating Authority further observed that the label neither contained a positive indication that it was a medicament nor a negative indication that it was not a cosmetic but it was certainly labelled as a “Hair Oil”; and if the intention was to identify the product as medicament, there was no need to label it F as “Hair Oil”. Hence, the Adjudicating Authority held that AHAHO could not be categorized as a medicament but had to be classified as “Hair oil”. As regards common parlance test, the Adjudicating Authority observed that AHAHO was accessible in both Medical and General Stores and could be bought across the counter. Moreover, the depiction G of a lady with long, black flowing hair on its label indicated its categorisation as cosmetic and not as a medicament. The Adjudicating Authority even proceeded to observe that ‘Hair growth is at best a cosmetic necessity rather than a disease requiring immediate attention or treatment’.