Instead of doing so the occupiers/owners assailed that demand in Isherdas Sahni and Bros. v. Delhi Admn. [Isherdas Sahni and B Bros. v. Delhi Admn., AIR 1980 Del 147] before the High Court of Delhi in which the High Court directed the authorities to have a fresh look from the standpoint of substantial compliance with the provisions of the Cinematograph Act. The High Court observed : (AIR p. 152, paras 11-12) C “11. Proposition 3 : It has been already made clear above that the relaxation was granted after considering the public health and the fire hazard aspects. It is also clear that the very fact that the relaxation could not be granted after bearing these main considerations in mind would show that there was some D rule for the extension of the sitting accommodation in these theatres within the Rules, though the provision of some of the additional seats may perhaps have been to some extent contrary to some of the Rules. It is not necessary for us to speculate on this question. It is enough to say that the result of the cancellation of the relaxation is simply the withdrawal of the E relaxation. It does not automatically mean that all the additional seats which were installed in the cinema theatres were contrary to the Rules and must, therefore, be dismantled without any consideration as to how many of these seats were in consonance with the Rules and how many of them were contrary to the F Rules. 12. Our finding on Proposition 3 is, therefore, that the Administration will apply their mind to the additional seats with a view to determine which of them have contravened which rules and to what extent. They will bear in mind that the G compliance with the Rules is to be substantial and not rigid and inflexible.” If while carrying out the above directive, the authorities concerned turned a blind eye to the fundamental requirement of the Rules by ignoring the closure of the right side exit and gangway prescribed as an essential requirement under the DCR, 1953, they acted in H AMOD KUMAR KANTH v. ASSOCIATION OF VICTIM OF 685 UPHAAR TRAGEDY AND ANR. breach of the rules and in the process endangered the safety of A the patrons. 135. We shall presently turn to the question whether the repeal of the notification had the effect of obliging the occupier/licensee of the Cinema to remove the seats and restore the gangways and exits as originally sanctioned. But we cannot ignore the fact that B the occupiers/licensees of the Cinema, had opposed the removal of the additional seats even when the respondents in the writ petition had expressed concerns about the safety of the patrons if the additional seats were not removed which removal it is evident would have by itself resulted in the restoration of the right side C gangway. So also the authorities ought to have insisted on the restoration of the right side exit by removal of the eight-seater box which was allowed in the year 1978, ostensibly because with the right side gangway getting closed by additional seats occupying that space the authorities considered the continuance ofthe right side exit to be of no practical use.