On S.A. C I am working as manager of Chetna Foundation (Regd.) Drugh De-addiction and Rehabilitation Centre, Village Auchandi, Delhi- 39 for last five years. In our said centre accused Prem Singh present in the court today (correctly identified) was admitted on 20.11.08 for de- D addiction of his habit of consuming ahlcohol. He was got admitted by his father Girdhari Singh and his wife Sunita. He remained admitted at our said centre till 29.04.09. During the said period his counseling was done and after that he used to behave like an ordinary prudent man. During his said stay of about of 5 months E at our centre he never went to his home. His wife Sunita, Sister Baladevi, father Girdhari Lal and Cousin Puran Singh came at our centre to meet him. He used to talk telephonically with his wife Sunita, father Girdhari and other persons from the telephone no. installed at our centre i.e, 27742360 and 27741540. The behaviour of the Prem Singh was normal during his said stay and F he was never given any medicine for mental illness because neither any mental illness was observed in him nor his family members gave us any previous history of his suffering from any mental illness. He was only having addiction to liquor as told to us by his family members. G ….. ……. ………. On 29.04.2009 Girdhari Singh along with one other person got Prem Singh discharge from our centre against our advice as I had advised him to complete the course of 7-9 months. IO recorded my statement. Documents which I had handed over to the IO i.e., H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 815 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] certificate is Ex. PW3/B and the photocopy of his complete file A of 8 pages is collectively Ex. PW 3/C all the documents signed by me at point A. Original documents produced by the witness seen and returned. xxxxx by Ms. Sadhna Bhatia, Amicus Curie,Ld. Counsel for the accused. B Accused was mentally fit and sound during his stay at our centre and he was admitted only for de-addiction of his habit of consuming liquor.” 6.2. As noticed, PW-7 Mahender Kumar Yadav and PW-8 C Rajender Yadav, both uncles of the wife of the appellant, asserted that the appellant was not having good relations with his wife, was taken to the habit of consuming liquor excessively, and was suspecting the character of his wife. However, PW-5 Bishan Singh, brother of the appellant and PW-9 Sunita Yadav, wife of the appellant did not support the version of PW-7 and PW-8. We may take note of the relevant parts D of the statements of PW-7, PW-8, PW-5 and PW-9, in that , as under: - “PW7- Statement of Mahender Kumar Yadav, Aged-52 years S/ O Late Sh. Ram Kishan Yadav R/O WZ-350 Village Shakurpur Delhi. On S.A. E My niece Sunita Yadav had been married to accused Prem Singh in the year 1996 and after marriage she starts residing at H.NO-225 Haider Pur Delhi.