In this regard, reference has also been made to the facts concerning a civil suit filed by the petitioner wherein, the Additional Civil Judge (SD), Gautam Budh Nagar, by the dated 11.10.2021, had restrained respondent No. 2 from implementing clauses 3(e), (i), (j) and 5 of the aforesaid lease deed; and, therefore, it has been argued that the petitioner-company is within B its rights to enter into bipartite agreements. It has also been pointed out that an ex parte stay was granted by the Allahabad High Court over the said dated 11.10.2021, which was vacated by this Court after a petition for special leave to appeal was filed by the petitioner, while continuing with the interim relief granted by the Trial Court. C 10.7.1. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has highlighted the practical difficulties of entering into tripartite sub-lease agreements with the tenants in a tenancy structure; and has submitted that clarification is required that no tripartite lease deed is required for sub-letting the built-up space; that clause 3(j) of the lease deed dated 23.08.2006 is D inapplicable for transfer of built-up portion; and that the right under clause 9 of the said lease is absolute. 11. Per contra, learned ASG and learned senior counsel for UPSIDC have duly supported the impugned and have submitted that no case for issuance of any writ, or direction in terms of the E prayers of the petitioner is made out. 11.1. While refuting the case of the petitioner, it has been submitted on behalf of the respondents that the amended policy would not be applicable to the petitioner for four primary reasons. First, that as per the lease deed, the subject land has been leased to the petitioner, with 90 years being the term of the lease. Secondly, the policy stipulates that F there must be partnership with State Government/PSU/Government Company, who must have minimum 20% stake/investment but then, there is no such investment of the State Government or PSU or Government Company in the project in question. Thirdly, the policy is applicable to projects having an average Floor Area Ratio4 of 0.5 whereas FAR of G the subject project is 4.0. Fourthly, the policy stipulates that the acquired land is to be made available to the SPV as freehold, for the sole purpose of construction of theme-based mall; and there is nothing within the policy that provides for conversion of the land from leasehold to freehold. H 4 ‘FAR’ for short. BHASIN INFOTECH AND INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LTD. 1087 v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 11.1.1. Apart from the above, it has also been submitted that since A the policy was prospective in nature, it would not be applicable to the petitioner since allotment of leasehold land was made and even the first partial completion certificate was also issued much before issuance of policy. 11.2. It has further been contended on behalf of the respondents B that the petitioner cannot place reliance on the two letters/communication dated 31.01.2015 and 16.09.2016 since both were merely recommendatory in nature where, in the first letter, the only recommendation was that the subject mall be recognised as a tourist destination and even in the second letter, the recommendation had C essentially been to the effect that the subject mall be approved as a theme-based mall under the amended policy dated 03.05.2016.