In either case of relinquishment or non-relinquishment of the security by the secured creditor, the interests of workmen are protected under the Code. In E fact, the secured creditors are taking significant hair-cut and workmen are being compensated on an equitable basis in a just and proper manner as per Section 53 of the Code. The Code balances the rights of the secured creditors, who are financial institutions in which the general public has invested money, and also ensures that the economic activity and revival F of a viable company is not hindered because it has suffered or fallen into a financial crisis. The Code focuses on bringing additional gains to both the economy and the exchequer through efficiency enhancement and consequent greater value capture. In economic matters, a wider latitude is given to the G law- maker and the Court allows for experimentation in such legislations based on practical experiences and other problems seen by the law-makers. In a challenge to such legislation, the Court does not adopt a doctrinaire approach. Some sacrifices have to be always made for the greater good, and unless such sacrifices are prima facie apparent and ex H 1256 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A facie harsh and unequitable as to classify as manifestly arbitrary, these would be interfered with by the court.” 38. It is hence clear that the provisions of the IBC are carefully thought out, and give options to secured creditors, and balance their interests with those of other creditors in a liquidation proceeding. B C. RECOVERYMECHANISMUNDERTHE 2003 ACTAND 2005 CODE 39. By virtue of Section 56 of the 2003 Act, in the event of any person’s neglect “to pay any charge for electricity or any sum other than a charge for electricity” payable “in respect of supply, transmission or distribution or wheeling of electricity to him” (after C a clear fifteen days’ notice in writing)”and without prejudice to his rights to recover such charge or other sum by suit”, a licensee (including a distribution licensee such as PVVNL) is empowered to disconnect electricity supply to such consumer or person. 40. By virtue of Section 181(2)(x) of the 2003 Act, State D Commissions are empowered to frame regulations. Section 50 empowers the State Commissions to frame the “Electricity Supply Code” to provide for recovery of electricity charges, intervals for billing of electricity charges, disconnection of supply of electricity for non-payment, etc. These provisions in the 2003 Act and the respective Codes form the legal framework for recovery of dues by various kinds of licensees under E the 2003 Act. In the present case, the Uttar Pradesh State Commission had framed the 2005 Supply Code. Clause 4.3 (f) (iv) of the 2005 Code is relevant, which inter alia provides as follows: “The outstanding dues will be first charge on the assets of the company, and the licensee shall ensure that this is entered F in an agreement with new applicant.” 41. Clause 6.15 of the 2005 Code enacts that recovery of arrears shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Uttar Pradesh Government Electrical Undertakings (Dues Recovery) Act, 1958: G “6.15 Recovery of Arrears (a) The payments due to the Licensee shall be recovered as per provision of Section 56 of the Act, and arrears of land revenue as per the provisions of the U.P.