Usually, the existence of the conspiracy and its objects have to be inferred from the circumstances and the conduct of the accused. iv. Where in pursuance of the agreement, the conspirators commit off enses individually or adopt illegal means to do a legal act that has a nexus to the object of the conspiracy, all of them will be liable for such off enses even if some of them have not actively participated in the commission of those off enses. 36. These principles were followed in Yakub Abdul Razak Memon v. State of Maharashtra7 (2-Judge Bench), wherein this Court reiterated that to establish conspiracy it is necessary to establish an agreement between the parties. Further, the off ence of criminal conspiracy is of joint responsibility, all conspirators are liable for the acts of each of the crimes which have been committed as a result of the conspiracy. [See also: Arvind Singh v. State of Maharashtra8 (3-Judge Bench); Mohd. Naushad (supra)] 37. Applying these principles to the case at hand, as discussed above, it is established that (a) A10 and A11 were known to A1; (b) A10 and A11 visited the residence of A1 on 05.04.2003, in the presence of other accused persons; (c) Methyl alcohol was supplied to and stored at the residence of A1, with the knowledge that the substance being sold was harmful; (d) A11 was running the aff airs of the fi rm RR distributors which procured methyl alcohol at the fi rst instance and fabricated record of its sale to diff erent entities; (e) There is no dispute about the causation of deaths and injuries. Hence, the argument on behalf of the present appellants that they did not know A1 and 7 (2013) 13 SCC 1 8 (2021) 11 SCC 1 SAJEEV v. STATE OF KERALA 255 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] were nowhere connected with the present crime is untenable and cannot be accepted. Therefore, the prosecution has succeeded in establishing the off ence of criminal conspiracy of A10 and A11 with A1 (conviction of whom stands affi rmed). 38. Another aspect to be considered is the destruction of evidence by A11, as submitted by both the learned Amicus Curiae and the State of Kerala. 39. K.J. Devasia (PW76), the Investigating Offi cer, has deposed that in his presence, PW51 collected materials/samples from land at the southern side of the residence of A11 which was marked as MO49 to MO53. This was in furtherance of information given by A11. 40. PW51, FSL Assistant Director tested these samples, who in his deposition stated that except for MO52, these samples consisted of burnt plastic and soil, which all pertinently tested positive for methyl alcohol. This supplements the prosecution story that A11 attempted to destroy evidence at his residence by burning the incriminating material connecting him to the crime. In similar circumstances, this Court in State of Haryana v. Krishan9 (2-Judge Bench) while convicting the respondents therein placed reliance on the conduct of those accused in attempting to destroy evidence to connect them to the larger conspiracy.