Analysis: Whether Delimitation Commission can amend the 2006 Notifi cation under the Delimitation Act 50. Article 82 of the Constitution provides that “upon the completion of each census, the allocation of seats in the House of the People to the States and the division of each State into territorial constituencies shall be readjusted by such authority and in such manner as Parliament may by law determine” 51. Article 327 provides that “Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, Parliament may from time to time by law make provision with respect to all matters relating to, or in connection with, elections to either House of Parliament or to the House or either House of the Legislature of the State including the preparation of rolls, the delimitation of constituencies and all other matters necessary for securing the due constitution of such Houses”. 52. The Delimitation Commission is a statutory body under the Delimitation Act. The 2006 Delimitation Notifi cation is duly published in the Gazette of India and of the States in the manner prescribed under Sections 4, 8 and 10 of the Delimitation Act. In accordance with Section 10(2), the has the force of law, and cannot be called into question before any court of law. 53. In Meghraj Kothari v. Delimitation Commission, rejecting the argument that the Delimitation Act was passed under Article 82 and not Article 327 and that the Act was thus exempt from the bar under Article 329, this Court has held that the Act was made under Article 327. Thus, even though the notifi cation issued under Section 10 is not a statute, it has been held to have the eff ect of a law relating to the delimitation of constituencies or allotment of seats under not only Section 10, but also under Article 327 of the Constitution.10 10 Meghraj Kothari vs Delimitation Commission and Ors, 1966 SCC OnLine SC 12 paras 10, 11. PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1101 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 54. The delimitation of constituencies can only be objected to, and the objections entertained by the Commission when they are made before the Commission prior to the date specifi ed by the Commission. Once the s made under Sections 8 and 9 are published under Section 10, they cannot be objected to. This Court has observed: “20. In our view, therefore, the objection to the delimitation of constituencies could only be entertained by the Commission before the date specifi ed. Once the s made by the Commission under Sections 8 and 9 were published in the Gazette of India and in the Offi cial Gazettes of the States concerned, these matters could no longer be reagitated in a court of law. There seems to be very good reason behind such a provision. If the s made under Sections 8 and 9 were not to be treated as fi nal, the eff ect would be that any voter, if he so wished, could hold up an election indefi nitely by questioning the delimitation of the constituencies from court to court.