21. Having considered the provisions of the Companies Act, and the general principles of law, we would now proceed to examine whether the Customs Act creates a fi rst charge for payment of the customs dues, and if so, harmonise and resolve the confl ict between the Companies Act and the Customs Act. 22. We would begin by quoting Section 15 of the Customs Act: “15. Date for determination of rate of duty and tariff valuation of imported goods.—(1) The rate of duty and tariff valuation, if any, applicable to any imported goods, shall be the rate and valuation in force,— (a) in the case of goods entered for home consumption under Section 46, on the date on which a bill of entry in respect of such goods is presented under that section; (b) in the case of goods cleared from a warehouse under Section 68, on the date on which a bill of entry for home consumption in respect of such goods is presented under that section; (c) in the case of any other goods, on the date of payment of duty: Provided that if a bill of entry has been presented before the date of entry inwards of the vessel or the arrival of the aircraft or the vehicle by which the goods are imported, the bill of entry shall be deemed to have been presented on the date of such entry inwards or the arrival, as the case may be. (2) The provisions of this section shall not apply to baggage and goods imported by post.” 30 (1967) 3 SCR 855. 1076 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. In the present case, upon import of the goods, the Company had entered the goods for home consumption under Section 46 of the Customs Act, which reads as under: “46. Entry of goods on importation.—(1) The importer of any goods, other than goods intended for transit or transhipment, shall make entry thereof by presenting electronically on the customs automated system to the proper offi cer a bill of entry for home consumption or warehousing in such form and manner as may be prescribed: Provided that the Principal Commissioner of Customs or Commissioner of Customs may, in cases where it is not feasible to make entry by presenting electronically on the customs automated system, allow an entry to be presented in any other manner: Provided further that if the importer makes and subscribes to a declaration before the proper offi cer, to the eff ect that he is unable for want of full information to furnish all the particulars of the goods required under this sub-section, the proper offi cer may, pending the production of such information, permit him, previous to the entry thereof : (a) to examine the goods in the presence of an offi cer of customs, or (b) to deposit the goods in a public warehouse appointed under Section 57 without warehousing the same. (2) Save as otherwise permitted by the proper offi cer, a bill of entry shall include all the goods mentioned in the bill of lading or other receipt given by the carrier to the consignor.