181. The Resolution Professional made an incorrect statement F that the revised Resolution Plan was approved at the 9th COC meeting. The revised Resolution Plan was not approved on 22 January 2021. After 22nd January 2021, based on the COC Resolution Dt.22.1.2021, the Resolution Plan was further modified, and the final Revised Resolution Plan dated 25 January 2021 was never laid before the CoC for approval. Thus the approval of the G Resolution Plan by the Adjudicating Authority can not be treated as valid under Sec. 31(1) of the I & B Code, 2016. 182. However, the IBC does not treat Related Party as a separate class for any other purpose. Therefore, a rationale nexus must exist for any classification between the object sought to achieve H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 839 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] the classification and sub-classification. Therefore, Related Party A Financial or Operational Creditor cannot be discriminated under the Resolution Plan only on being a Related Party. 183. Based on the discussion above, it is clear that IBC treats related parties as a separate category for specified purposes, excluding from the CoC under Section 21 and disqualifying them B from being Resolution Applicants under Section 29A. However, the IBC does not treat Related Party as a separate class for any other purpose. Therefore, a rationale nexus must exist for any classification between the object sought to achieve the classification and sub-classification. C 184. Therefore, the Related Party financial or operational creditor cannot be discriminated against under the Resolution Plan, denying their right to get payments under the resolution Plan only on being a Related Party. It is also made clear that by getting only payment under the Resolution Plan, related party creditors could in no way D sabotage the CIRP. 185. Based on the above discussion, it is clear that the approved Resolution Plan is in contravention of Section 30 (2) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016, which contravenes the provision of law.” E 20. Hence, the Appellate Authority set aside the resolution plan approved by the Adjudicating Authority; directed the resolution professional to proceed with the CIRP from publication stage of Form G for inviting EOI afresh as per the CIRP Regulations and further to put up the settlement proposal of the promoter for consideration before CoC; and ordained that the claim of related party financial/operational creditor F be not discriminated from unrelated financial/operational creditors. Proceedings in this Court 21. Aggrieved of the aforesaid and dated 17.02.2022 passed by the Appellate Authority, eight appeals are filed before this G Court. As noticed, one sub-set is of four appeals as filed by the resolution applicant and other sub-set is of four appeals as filed by the resolution professional against the promoter and erstwhile director of the corporate debtor, related financial and operational creditor and against the NRI shareholder and erstwhile director of the corporate debtor. The details H 840 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A whereof have been noticed hereinbefore in the particulars of proceedings and parties.