However, for the balance suit land, it was held that the defendant no.1 had acquired the said land and accordingly the suit of the plaintiff for the 2 Bighas land, was dismissed. While granting relief for the 1 Bigha land, the learned Trial Judge noted that possession of the same was restored to the plaintiff after due permission from the State Government and therefore 526 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. his ownership remained undisturbed. For the balance 2 Bighas land, relief was refused and it was held that even though the said land was purchased in 1970 through registered sale deeds, the names of the new owners were not mutated in the revenue records which continued to refl ect the name of the previous owner (seller), to whom compensation was paid. It was further held that the onus was on the plaintiff to prove ownership, claim compensation, and get his name recorded in jamabandi. 5. The plaintiff then fi led an appeal before the District Judge, Bikaner and the learned Appellate Court by its dated 16.4.2004 decreed the entire suit land in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendant no.1 and the defendant was restrained from interfering with the plaintiff ’s peaceful possession, use and occupation of the suit land. The Appellate Court concluded in favour of the plaintiff after noting that no opportunity of hearing was provided to the plaintiff for acquisition of the land and furthermore, the plaintiff, Gordhan Dass was enjoying undisturbed possession of the land until 10.6.1988. Notwithstanding the mutation correction not being carried out in the revenue records by the purchasers, the Appellate Court noted that the plaintiff had already applied before the District Magistrate for conversion of 1 Bigha land for establishing petrol pump and NOC for the said purpose was issued in favour of the plaintiff with the active cooperation by the defendants and it was thus concluded that despite knowledge of the plaintiff ’s ownership and possession, the defendant no.1 did not discharge its duty to issue notice to the land owner/plaintiff and accordingly the land acquisition proceedings were held to be invalid. Moreover, since during the pendency of the suit the plaintiff was forcefully evicted from the land on 10.6.1988 under cover of some other of the High Court, the Court opined that without proper acquisition proceedings with notice to the owner, the possession of the plaintiff (who was enjoying uninterrupted possession till 10.6.1988), could not have been disturbed. It was further noted that neither was any acquisition notice issued to the plaintiff nor they were paid any acquisition compensation although they were the actual owners of the land. On the claim that the compensation was paid, the Court opined that it was a vague contention in the written statement and it was not categorically mentioned to whom compensation was paid nor any evidence on such payment was produced by the defendant URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 527 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] No. 1. It was also found that the defendant no.1 had forcibly evicted the plaintiff from his property during the pendency of the suit without due legal process i.e.