Nonetheless, the discussion on the point is purely academic looking to the law on the point namely VII, Rule 14, VIII, Rule 1 and XIII, Rule 1 of the Civil Procedure Code. Besides, if an interpretation as canvassed by Shri Pangam is accepted, the provisions of VII, VIII and XIII would be rendered nugatory and as observed in Laxmikant Sinai Lotlekar (supra). The learned trial Court therefore was in jurisdictional error to disallow the objections raised by the petitioner-plaintiff contrary to the mandate of VIII, Rule 1 and XIII, Rule 1(3)(a) of the Civil Procedure Code. The Respondents had to follow the mandate as contained in VIII, Rule 1 of the Civil Procedure Code and could not seek to produce such documents directly during the cross- examination of the plaintiff which it had to otherwise rely upon in a list of documents as required by law. The learned trial Court therefore committed a jurisdictional error and therefore the impugned calls for an interference.” (Emphasis Supplied) 5.2 Finding there to be an apparent confl ict between the above-stated two s on the issue of the diff erence, if any, between the party to a suit and a witness in a suit on the one hand and, also with respect to when it may be permissible to produce documents directly at the stage of MOHAMMED ABDUL WAHID v. NILOFER & ANR. 873 the cross-examination vis a vis another of a co-ordinate bench in Upper India Couper Paper Mills Co. Ltd. v. M/s Mangaldas and Sons5, the Learned Single Judge observed as under: “9. A perusal of the above quoted portion of the in the case of Vinayak M. Dessai (supra) shows that observation was made to the eff ect that if a party was not to be a witness it would lead to a disastrous interpretation to the extent that even Section 137 of the Evidence Act, 1872, may not apply to a party, which could defeat the purpose of examination and cross-examination. This observation is directly contrary to the observations made in the above quoted portion of the of a learned single Judge of this Court in the case Purshottam s/o Shankar Ghodegaonkar (supra), wherein it has been categorically laid down that the party to a suit cannot be equated with a witness and cannot be confronted with documents by casting surprise upon him, particularly when the documents were not fi led along with the list of documents. Thus, there is an obvious cleavage of views in the aforesaid two s of learned single Judges of this Court on the said issue i.e. whether a “party” is also a “witness”. … 17. As regards the other issue that arises for consideration, there appears to be direct confl ict in the observations made in the above-quoted portions of the s of the learned single Judges in the cases of Purshottam s/o Shankar Ghodegaonkar (supra) and Vinayak M. Dessai (supra), on the one hand and those made by the learned single Judge in the case of Upper India Couper Paper Mills Co. Ltd. (supra).