A (d) a list of creditors containing the names of creditors, the amounts claimed by them, the amount of their claims admitted and the security interest, if any, in respect of such claims;…..” (e) In the aforesaid context, I may look into the decision of this Court in the case of Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India B Limited v. Satish Kumar Gupta and Others reported in (2020) 8 SCC 531, more particularly, paras 42-45 which read thus: “42. Under Section 29(1) of the Code, the resolution professional shall prepare an information memorandum containing all relevant information, as may be specified, so C that a resolution plan may then be formulated by a prospective resolution applicant. Under Section 30 of the Code, the resolution applicant must then submit a resolution plan to the resolution professional, prepared on the basis of the information memorandum. After this, the resolution professional must present to the Committee of Creditors, for its approval, such resolution D plans which conform to the conditions referred to in Section 30(2) of the Code — see Section 30(3) of the Code. If the resolution plan is approved by the requisite majority of the Committee of Creditors, it is then the duty of the resolution professional to submit the resolution plan as approved by the E Committee of Creditors to the Adjudicating Authority — see Section 30(6) of the Code. 43. The aforesaid provisions of the Code are then fleshed out in the 2016 Regulations. Under Chapter IV of the aforesaid Regulations, claims by operational creditors, financial creditors, other creditors, workmen and employees are to be F submitted to the resolution professional along with proofs thereof — see Regulations 7 to 12. Thereafter, under Regulation 13, the resolution professional shall verify each claim as on the insolvency commencement date, and thereupon maintain a list of creditors containing the names of creditors G along with the amounts claimed by them, the amounts admitted by him, and the security interest, if any, in respect of such claims, and constantly update the aforesaid list — see Regulation 13(1). 44. Chapter X of the Regulations then deals with resolution H plans that are submitted. Under Regulation 35, “fair value” AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1017 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] as defined by Regulation 2(1)(hb) [Under Regulation 2(1)(hb), A Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016:” 2. (1)(hb) “fair value” means the estimated realisable value of the assets of the corporate debtor, if they were to be exchanged on the insolvency commencement date between a B willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm’s length transaction, after proper marketing and where the parties had acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion;”] and “liquidation value” as defined by Regulation 2(1)(k) [Id. Under Regulation 2(1)(k):”2. (1)(k) “liquidation value” means the estimated realisable value of the assets of C the corporate debtor, if the corporate debtor were to be liquidated on the insolvency commencement date;”] shall be determined by two registered valuers appointed under Regulation 27, which shall be handed over to the resolution professional.