The Court held that the non-payment of stamp-duty would not invalidate even the underlying contract because it is a curable defect. In the process, this Court adopted a view at variance with SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd5 and Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. v. Coastal Marine Constructions & Engg. Ltd.6 In SMS Tea Estates (supra), a two-Judge Bench of this Court held that an arbitration agreement in an unstamped contract could not be acted upon. A two-Judge Bench of this Court in Garware Wall Ropes (supra) relied on SMS Tea Estates (supra) to hold that an arbitration agreement in an unstamped commercial contract would not “exist” as a matter of law and could not be acted upon until the underlying contract was duly stamped: “22. When an arbitration clause is contained “in a contract”, it is signifi cant that the agreement only becomes a contract if it is enforceable by law. We have seen how, under the Stamp Act, an agreement does not become a contract, namely, that it is not enforceable in law, unless it is duly stamped. Therefore, even a plain reading of Section 11(6-A), when read with Section 7(2) of the 1996 Act and Section 2(h) of the Contract Act, would make it clear that an arbitration clause in an agreement would not exist when it is not enforceable by law. This is also an indicator that SMS Tea Estates [SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd., (2011) 14 SCC 66 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 777] has, in no manner, been touched by the amendment of Section 11(6-A). […] 29. This in Hyundai Engg. case [United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd., (2018) 17 SCC 607 : (2019) 2 SCC (Civ) 530] is important in that what was specifi cally under consideration was an arbitration clause which would get activated only if an insurer admits or accepts liability. Since on facts it was found that the insurer repudiated the claim, though an arbitration 5 (2011) 14 SCC 66 6 (2019) 9 SCC 209 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1097 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] clause did “exist”, so to speak, in the policy, it would not exist in law, as was held in that , when one important fact is introduced, namely, that the insurer has not admitted or accepted liability. Likewise, in the facts of the present case, it is clear that the arbitration clause that is contained in the sub-contract would not “exist” as a matter of law until the sub-contract is duly stamped, as has been held by us above. The argument that Section 11(6-A) deals with “existence”, as opposed to Section 8, Section 16 and Section 45, which deal with “validity” of an arbitration agreement is answered by this Court’s understanding of the expression “existence” in Hyundai Engg. case [United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Hyundai Engg.