In support of his arguments, learned counsel for the Appellant has relied upon the s of this Court in Balwinder Singh v. Asstt. Commr., Customs and Central Excise1, State by Inspector of Police, Narcotic Intelligence Bureau, Madurai, Tamil Nadu v. Rajangam2, Bhola Singh v. State of Punjab3 G and Gangadhar alias Gangaram v. State of Madhya Pradesh4. 1 (2005) 4 SCC 146 2 (2010) 15 SCC 369 3 (2011) 11 SCC 653 4 (2020) 9 SCC 202 H 548 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 4. On the other hand, learned counsel for the State submitted that the Appellant has failed to prove its case that the truck was not being used for any illegal activities. The owner of the truck is vicariously liable. Though stand was taken by him that the truck was given for carrying sand however no such evidence was led by him to prove his plea. Presumption goes against him. B 5. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant referred record. 6. The basic facts of the case as have been noticed above are not in dispute. The Appellant who is the registered owner of the truck was C not arrested from the spot. A case was set up by the prosecution that Joginder Singh and Gurmail Singh were driver and cleaner of the truck. Even they were not arrested from the spot. Their identity was established on the basis of the information furnished to the police party by Ram Sarup (PW-6) and Naresh Kumar (PW-10). However, when appeared in Court, they were declared hostile. Joginder Singh and Gurmail Singh D were acquitted. The Appellant is owner of the truck. He was not arrested from the spot. Section 25 of the NDPS Act provides that if an owner of a vehicle knowingly permits it to be used for commission of any offence punishable under the NDPS Act, he shall be punished accordingly. 7. In the case in hand, the prosecution has failed to produce any E material on record to show that the vehicle in question, if was used for any illegal activity, was used with the knowledge and consent of the Appellant. Even presumption as provided for under Section 35 of the NDPS Act will not be available for the reason that the prosecution had failed to discharge initial burden on it to prove the foundational facts. In the absence thereof, the onus will not shift on the accused. F 8. The issue was considered by this Court in Bhola Singh’s case (supra). It was opined that unless the vehicle is used with the knowledge and consent of the owner thereof, which is sine qua non for applicability of Section 25 of the NDPS Act, conviction thereunder cannot be legally sustained. Relevant paragraphs thereof are extracted below: G “8. We have considered the arguments advanced by the learned counsel. We see that Section 25 of the Act would not be applicable in the present case as there is no evidence to indicate that Bhola Singh, the appellant had either knowingly permitted the use of the vehicle for any improper purpose.