The power to relax must be clearly spelt out and cannot otherwise be exercised.” [Emphasis added] 11. Coming back to the case in hand, the learned Single Judge has scrupulously examined the records and the pleadings in the petitions and made the following pertinent observations in respect of the selection process adopted by the Selection Committee constituted by the respondent No.1 - University : “There are three types of physical education qualifi cation. The fi rst is a three year physical education course after Intermediate resulting in degree of B.P.E. The second is a three year Graduation course in any subject after Intermediate plus one year physical education course conducted by University leading to B.P. Ed. Degree and the third is three year Graduation course in any subject after Intermediate and one year physical education diploma course conducted by School Examination Board leading to D.P. Ed. The selection committee on the date of interview evolved marking system for Graduation level which as noted above was as follows. For candidates with B.P.E and B.P. Ed. their marks scored in B.P.E and B.P. Ed. were only taken and in a graded manner. If they had scored more than 75% they were awarded 40 out of 40, if they scored 60-75% they were awarded 30 out of 40, if they had scored 45-60% they were awarded 25 out of 40 and if they had scored below 45% they were awarded 20 out of 40 but when it came to D.P. Ed. their marks scored were calculated diff erently. Their marks out of 40 for Graduation was split into two of 20 marks each, 20 marks for their three years Graduation course and only 20 marks maximum for their physical education course. The result was that though petitioner, Nutan Kumari had 83.6% in D.P. Ed., she was awarded only 20 marks, whereas others who had scored lesser marks in physical education but NUTAN KUMARI v. B.R.A. BIHAR UNIVERSITY 713 had B.P.E. or B.P. Ed. were given higher marks on that basis ignoring their Graduation or other marks. For example, Ravi Shankar Kumar who had got 80% was given 40 marks, Mithilesh Kumar Mani who had scored 72.6% was given 30 marks, Chandrama Singh who had scored 55% was given 25 marks and Sanjay Kumar Singh scored 57% was given 25 marks. Then the challenge is to the marks on higher qualifi cation and experience. It is submitted that the two are diff erent criterion but the total marks combined has been fi xed at 10 not disclosing any bifurcation or any criteria. Then is the marks for viva (interview), which is 30% of the total marks, as noted in the very beginning, the same set of fi ve members on the same day interviewed the selected candidates four times, one time each for each College and gave drastically diff erent marks. First, in this regard it is submitted that this shows the erratic irrational marking on subjective satisfaction, which interview marks being as high as 30% is irrational, especially, when it is showed that the diff erence between selection and non-selection was barely a few marks.” 12.