(Confronted with portion F to F-2 G of my statement mark PW9/B wherein it is so recorded). It is wrong to suggest that I have been won over by the accused or that he being my husband I am not deposing the true facts of the case or that I have been compromised or that I was emotionally blackmail by the accused to depose in his favour. It is wrong to H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 823 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] suggest that the signatures belongs to me on mark PW9/A and A voluntarily I have given statement to the police officials. It is wrong to suggest that accused has never suspicion on my character or that to faded this issue I am deposing falsely. It is wrong to suggest that I am deposing falsely. Xxxxxx By Ms. Sadhna Bhatia (Amicus Curie) for the accused B Prem Singh. It is correct that my husband loved my both the sons and I was never beaten or abused by my husband. It is correct that myhusband has never been commenting on my character and never told me characterless. It is correct that my relation with my husband C were remained cordial after marriage.” 6.3. The fact that after the event in question, the appellant visited the office of Haiderpur Water Plant as also the nearby Petrol Pump and suggested that his sons had accidentally fallen into the canal had not been of much dispute. These facts were duly established in the testimony D of PW-4 Mahesh Kumar Sharma and PW-6 Komal Ram related with Haiderpur Water Plant as also by PW-1 Naresh Kaushik, the delivery boy at Indian Oil Petrol Pump. In fact, PW-1 also testified to the facts that the appellant made a call from his petrol pump to number 100 to police and that the police officers visited the petrol pump and collected E relevant evidence including the bill of telephone used by the appellant. For ready reference, we may only take note of the testimony of PW-1 Naresh Kaushik as follows: - “PW 1 Sh. Naresh Kaushik S/o Ram kumar Kaushik R/o VPO Vill Kiwana Tehsil Sambhalkha Disstt. Panipat, Haryana F On S.A. On 3.05.2009 was working as delivery boy at Indian Oil Petrol pump in the name of Ridge view Shalimar Bagh, Opposite Haider pur water plant.On that day at about 8:15 p.m. I was on duty there accused prem singh present in the court today (correctly G identified) came at said petrol pump and told me that, he had come along with his two sons for walking near Hadarpur Canal and while his both the sons were playing near the canal they fell down in the canal and drowned in his presence. He also told me that he tried to save his sons by jumping in the canal and swimming H 824 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A to some distance but he was unable to save them. He requested me to permit him to make a call at no.