If for any reason the first party does not execute a sale deed in favour of the second party, after five years but within ten years from the date of sale deed dated 4-2-1971, then the second party will have a right to deposit the entire D consideration of Rs 4900 in the civil court and get the sale deed executed by the court, the first party will have no objection. The present agreement will be binding upon the parties and the heirs of the parties. Therefore, these few comments by way of agreement of reconveyance of sale within ten years are being written so that this document may be used E when necessary. After the limitation of ten years the second party will have no right at all to get released the aforesaid from Party 1.” (emphasis supplied) F 17. In Shyam Singh’s case (supra) the party having right to repurchase the land sold the rights to a third party for a consideration of 19,000/- by way of a registered document. The right to repurchase was available to him on payment of 4900/-. All the courts below had opined that if there is no clause in the sale deed permitting assignment of right to repurchase, the same could not be transferred. When the matter G came up before this Court, the question under consideration was whether such a prohibition against assignment or transfer can be read into the document by implication. The opinion expressed was that a long period of ten years was fixed for obtaining re-conveyance, no implied prohibition of transfer or assignment can be inferred in the document keeping in H 382 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A view the provisions of Section 15(b) of the Specific Relief Act. The relevant paras of the are extracted below:- “13.In our considered opinion, in the absence of any words or expressions in the documents indicating prohibition on assignment or transfer of right of repurchase and in the face B of clear provisions of Section 15(b) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, an implied prohibition cannot be read into the terms of the documents. Merely because in the documents, there is mention of “heirs” of the contracting parties but not their “assignees” or “transferees”, the legal right of assignment available to the benefit of original contracting party under C Section 15(b) of the Act cannot be denied to it. 14.We are fortified in our view by two direct decisions of this Court rendered in somewhat similar circumstances with documents contemporaneously executed for sale and repurchase with comparable stipulations. See T.M. D Balakrishna Mudaliar v. M. Satyanarayana Rao (supra) and Habiba Khatoon v. Ubaidul Huq8". 15. In the case of Habiba Khatoon [(1997) 7 SCC 452] taking stock of earlier decisions of this Court, the Privy Council and the High Court of Bombay, the law on the present-contested issue E was explained to uphold the right of repurchase of the original contracting party thus: “We may in this connection also usefully refer to a decision of this Court in the case of T.M.