The person to be searched is to be specifi cally informed that he has a right to be searched in presence of a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate. The Court also held that while it is the choice of police to take the suspect either before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate, an endeavour should be made to take him before Magistrate. The relevant observations made therein are reproduced below:- “29. In view of the foregoing discussion, we are of the fi rm opinion that the object with which the right under Section 50(1) of the NDPS Act, by way of a safeguard, has been conferred on the suspect viz. to check the misuse of power, to avoid harm to innocent persons and to minimise the allegations of planting or foisting of false cases by the law enforcement agencies, it would be imperative on the part of the empowered offi cer to apprise the person intended to be searched of his right to be searched before a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate. We have no hesitation in holding that insofar as the obligation of the authorised offi cer under sub-section (1) of Section 50 of the NDPS Act is concerned, it is mandatory and requires strict compliance. Failure to comply with the provision would render the recovery of the illicit article suspect and vitiate the conviction if the same is recorded only on the basis of the recovery of the illicit article from the person of the accused during such search. Thereafter, the suspect may or may not choose to exercise the right provided to him under the said provision. x x x x 328 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 31. We are of the opinion that the concept of “substantial compliance” with the requirement of Section 50 of the NDPS Act introduced and read into the mandate of the said section in Joseph Fernandez and Prabha Shankar Dubey is neither borne out from the language of sub-section (1) of Section 50 nor it is in consonance with the dictum laid down in Baldev Singh case. Needless to add that the question whether or not the procedure prescribed has been followed and the requirement of Section 50 had been met, is a matter of trial. It would neither be possible nor feasible to lay down any absolute formula in that behalf. 32. We also feel that though Section 50 gives an option to the empowered officer to take such person (suspect) either before the nearest gazetted offi cer or the Magistrate but in to impart authenticity, transparency and creditworthiness to the entire proceedings, in the fi rst instance, an endeavour should be to produce the suspect before the nearest Magistrate, who enjoys more confi dence of the common man compared to any other offi cer. It would not only add legitimacy to the search proceedings, it may verily strengthen the prosecution as well.” (Emphasis supplied) 54. In Parmanand (supra) this Court held that Section 50 confers a right upon the accused to be searched either by a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate, and as such while informing the suspect of its right, only the aforesaid two options can be provided.