The said paragraph of the Regulation stipulates:- “(12) No candidate irrespective of the marks obtained by him in the Main Examination, shall be eligible for selection for appointment, if he obtains less than 20 marks out of aggregate of 40 in the Viva-Voce Test.” 224 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 7. We have already quoted Rule 21 of the 2001 Rules where minimum of 30% marks in the viva-voce has been prescribed as the qualification criteria. But that question also does not arise in the present two writ petitions as none of the parties before us has raised this point. We also find it to be a safer course to go by the provisions of paragraph 12 of the 2017 Regulation, as the advertisement also prescribed minimum 20 marks out of aggregate of 40 in the Viva Voce test. 8. Admitted position is that the 9 candidates who have been left out from being recommended for appointment, had found place in the select list in terms of Rule 21 of the 2001 Rules. 9. In Writ Petition (Civil) No. 753 of 2023, altogether seven petitioners have joined in questioning the exclusion of the 9 candidates by the Full Court Resolution. The said resolution introduces securing 50 per cent marks in aggregate (combination of marks obtained in main examination and viva-voce) as the qualifying criteria for being recommended to the said posts. This resolution against Agenda No. 1 of the Full Court Meeting held on 23rd March, 2023 records:- SL.No. AGENDA RESOLUTIONS 1. To consider the matter Considered. over recruitment The Full Court resolves to approve process of District the final result list of 63 Candidates Judge [U/r 4(a) who have appeared for viva voce directly from Bar] with (list enclosed with this resolution and regard to Final Result marked at Flag “X”) against advertisement no.01/2022/Apptt. Further, Full Court observes that candidates at Sl.No.7 & 8 have got the same total marks, but on careful consideration it transpires that candidate at Sl.No.8 has got higher marks in written examination. Hence in view of Rule 21 of Jharkhand Superior Judicial (Recruitment, Appointment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2001, candidate at Sl.No.8 is placed at higher place/ rank. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 225 Sushil Kumar Pandey & Ors. v. The High Court of Jharkhand & Anr. Further after due deliberation, keeping in view the responsibility that will be vested upon the candidates who qualify for appointment of District Judges and to maintain the high standard of Superior Judicial Services, the Full Court resolves that only those candidates who have secured at least 50% marks in aggregate, shall be qualified for appointment to post of District Judge. It is hereby resolved to recommend the names of following 13 top (merit wise) candidates to the State Government for issuance of necessary notification/s for their appointment to the post of District Judge after completing/undertaking the investigation/enquiry relating to the candidates credentials as per Rule 23 & 24 of Jharkhand Superior Judicial (Recruitment, Appointment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2001: S.No.