While interpreting the entries harmoniously, it must be ensured that no entry is rendered redundant. This principle of construction applies equally to entries within the same List and entries within different lists.88 The principle of parliamentary supremacy must be applied only when the attempted reconciliation by the above methods of interpretation fails. iii. The field covered by Entry 52 of List I and Entry 8 of List II 52. Entry 8 of List II reads as follows: “Intoxicating liquors, that is to say, the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors”. (emphasis supplied) a. The scope of Entry 8 I. The meaning of ‘that is to say’ 53. Entry 8 of List II deals with ‘intoxicating liquor’. The Entry specifies the scope of the provision by the usage of the phrase ‘that is to say’. The Entry stipulates that it includes everything from the production to the sale of intoxicating liquor, with the use of the expressions ‘production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale’. The Entry specifies the breadth of the provision by couching it in over broad terms. There are a few entries which provide such a specification, by the use of the words “that is to say”.89 Otherwise, the general language of the Seventh Schedule is to merely mention the field such as ‘gas and gas-works’,90 or ‘fisheries’,91 or ‘census’,92 or ‘public health and sanitation; hospitals and dispensaries’.93 Entry 25 of List II specifies ‘gas and gas-works’ without clarifying the scope of the provision. Similarly, Entry 21 of List II specifies ‘fisheries’. Even 88 See Harakchand Ratanchand Banthia v. Union of India (1969) 2 SCC 166 89 Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India; Entry 71 to List I, Entry 5 to List II, Entry 13 of List II, Entry 17 of List II, Entry 18 of List II, Entry 42 of List II 90 Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India; Entry 25 of List II 91 Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India; Entry 21 of List II 92 Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India; Entry 69 of List I 93 Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India; Entry 6 of List II 1992 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports within the entries that provide some specification, there are two kinds. First, entries where the meaning of the field is clarified. For example, Entry 71 of List I deals with the field of ‘Union Pensions’. The phrase ‘that is to say’ is then used to specify the meaning of the phrase ‘Union Pensions’ as pensions payable by the Government of India or out of the Consolidated Fund of India.94 This specification operates more or less as a definition clause. Second, the phrase is used to specify the scope of the provision. For example, Entry 5 of List II reads as “local government, that is to say, the constitution and powers of municipal corporations, improvement trusts…”95 Entry 8 falls in the latter category. 54. The next question is whether the phrase ‘that is to say’ used in Entry 8 limits or explains the scope of the entry.