Vs. Padmini Chandrasekharan (dead) by Lrs., and (2004) 8 SCC 1 Zile Singh versus State of Haryana, the Division Bench opined that the minute the Exim Policy came into force the benefit of duty drawback automatically became available to the respondent and that the clarification [2024] 2 S.C.R. 107 Union of India and Ors. v. M/S. B.T. Patil and Sons Belgaum (Construction) Pvt. Ltd. was only with regard to the doubts expressed in some quarters as to whether civil construction works were also entitled to such benefit. By virtue of the two circulars dated 20.08.1998 and 05.12.2000, no new right or benefit came to be created; those two circulars were clarificatory in nature only clarifying that the benefit under the Exim Policy 1992-1997 was available to civil construction as well. Therefore, such benefit would take effect from the date of the Exim Policy. It was thereafter that the Division Bench posed the further question as to what would be the rate of interest on the delayed refund. In this connection, the Division Bench referred to Sections 27A and 75A of the Customs Act and came to the conclusion that the date of payment of interest would have to be on expiry of the period of three months from the date of making an application for refund of duty drawback. The Division Bench held that the respondent would be entitled to interest from the date of expiry of three months after submission of applications for refund back in the year 1996 till the time the payment was made at the rate of fifteen percent as awarded by the learned Single Judge. Consequently, the appeal of the appellants was dismissed while the appeal of the respondent was allowed. 31. Reverting back to the Exim Policy of 1992-1997, we have already noted about the Duty Exemption Scheme. We have noted that under the Duty Exemption Scheme, import of duty free raw materials, components, intermediates, consumables, parts, spares including mandatory spares and packing materials required for the purpose of export production could be permitted by the competent authority under five categories of licences mentioned in Chapter VII including special imprest licence. Section 56 provided that a special imprest licence was granted for the duty free import of raw materials, components, consumables, parts, spares including mandatory spares and packing materials to main/sub-contractors for the manufacture or supply of products when such supply were made to projects financed by multilateral or bilateral agencies, such as, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development under international competitive bidding or under limited tender system. 108 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 31.1. In Chapter X ‘deemed export’ has been defined. It is a transaction in which the goods supplied do not leave the country and the payment for the goods is received by the supplier in Indian rupees, but the supplies earn or save foreign exchange for the country. Section 121 declares that the categories of supply of goods mentioned in the said section would be regarded as ‘deemed export’ under the Exim Policy provided the goods were manufactured in India and the payment was received in Indian rupees.