Nothing in Article 30 prevents some persons from other communities in contributing to the establishment of an institution by a minority. There may be persons hailing from different communities who are concerned about the need for minority educational institutions and lend their assistance in some form – be it by contributing monies or otherwise. Their participation and involvement would not preclude Article 30 from being applicable to such institutions provided that the minority community continues to shoulder the core of the responsibility of establishing an educational institution. vi. Impact of Entry 63 of List I on the minority status of educational institutions 144. Entry 63 of the Union List to the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution deals with the institutions known at the commencement of the Constitution as Benares Hindu University, Aligarh Muslim University and Delhi University. Notably, the entry also indicates that Parliament may enact laws which pertain to any other institutions which are declared by law to be institutions of national importance.124 145. Entry 63 of List I had its genesis in Entry 13 of List I to the Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act 1935. Entry 13 read as “Benares Hindu University and the Aligarh Muslim University”. Entry 17 of List II read as “Educations including Universities other than those specified in paragraph 13 of List I”. The Federal Legislature 124 Entry 63: “The institutions known at the commencement of this Constitution as the Benares Hindu University, the Aligarh Muslim University and the Delhi University, and any other institution declared by Parliament by law to be an institution of national importance.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1753 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. had the power to enact laws with respect to BHU and AMU while the Provincial Legislatures had the power to enact laws to establish new Universities and amend the legislation through which Universities were established and/or incorporated, except for the laws relating to AMU and BHU.125 146. The Constitution of India adopted a similar model of division of legislative power as regards the subject at hand. The State Legislature had the power to enact laws with respect to education, including Universities by virtue of Entry 11 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. This power was subject to Entries 63,64 and 65 of List I and Entry 25 of List III. By the Constitution (Thirty-second Amendment) Act 1973, Entry 63 was amended to include the University established in pursuance of Article 371-E.126,127 Subsequently, by the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act 1976, Entry 11 of List II was deleted and a similar subject was placed in Entry 25 of List III.128 Both Entry 11 of List II (prior to its omission) and Entry 25 of List III (as it currently stands) were made subject to the provisions of Entries 63, 64 and 65 of List I. The effect of this was that Parliament retained the exclusive power to legislate upon AMU, BHU and Delhi University in Entry 63 of List I and the subjects which fall within the scope of Entries 64 and 65 notwithstanding the broader or more general entries in the Seventh Schedule which include Universities.