Digital Supreme Court Reports the buyer cannot recover the money, but once the seller rescinds the contract or treats it as at an end owing to the buyer’s default, then the buyer is entitled to recover his money by action at law, subject to a cross-claim by the seller for damages: see Palmer v. Temple 112 E.R. 1304, Mayson v. Clouet (1924) A.C. 980, Dies v. British and International Mining and Finance Corporation Ltd. (1939) 1 .K.B. 724 and Williams on Vendor and Purchaser 4th ed., vol. 2, p. 1006. (ii) But when there is a forfeiture clause or the money is expressly paid as a deposit (which is equivalent to a forfeiture clause) then the buyer who is in default cannot recover the money at law at all. He may, however, have a remedy in equity, for, despite the express stipulation in the contract, equity can relieve the buyer from forfeiture of the money and the seller to repay it on such terms as the Court thinks fit.” 89. Therefore, it is clear that the forfeiture can be justified if the terms of the contract are clear and explicit. If it is found that the earnest money was paid in accordance with the terms of the tender for the due performance of the contract by the Promisee, the same can be forfeited in case of non-performance by him or her. 90. We are conscious of the decision of this Court in Kailash Nath Associates v. Delhi Development Authority & Anr. reported in (2015) 4 SCC 136 wherein it was held that Section 74 of the 1872 Act will be applicable to cases of forfeiture of earnest-money deposit, however, where such forfeiture takes place under the terms and conditions of a public auction, Section 74 will have no application. The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “43.1. Where a sum is named in a contract as a liquidated amount payable by way of damages, the party complaining of a breach can receive as reasonable compensation such liquidated amount only if it is a genuine pre-estimate of damages fixed by both parties and found to be such by the court. In other cases, where a sum is named in a contract as a liquidated amount payable by way of damages, only reasonable compensation can be awarded not exceeding the amount so stated. Similarly, in cases where the amount fixed is in the nature of penalty, only [2024] 2 S.C.R. 77 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu reasonable compensation can be awarded not exceeding the penalty so stated. In both cases, the liquidated amount or penalty is the upper limit beyond which the court cannot grant reasonable compensation. 43.2. Reasonable compensation will be fixed on well-known principles that are applicable to the law of contract, which are to be found inter alia in Section 73 of the Contract Act. 43.3. Since Section 74 awards reasonable compensation for damage or loss caused by a breach of contract, damage or loss caused is a sine qua non for the applicability of the Section.