These include the power to (i)confirm or vacate the injunction;100 (ii) rescind or alter an injunction;101 and (iii) reject the application for injunction wholly or in part by a speaking .102 The punishment for disobeying an injunction issued under Section 13 of the PCMA is imprisonment which may extend to two years or a fine which may extend to one lakh rupees or both.103 However, no woman can be sentenced to imprisonment for violating an injunction under Section 13. Any marriage solemnized in violation of an injunction passed under the PCMA is void ab initio as per Section 14 of the PCMA. 69. In addition to the power of the Judicial Magistrate of the first class or a Metropolitan Magistrate to issue injunctions, Section 13 also stipulates the role of the District Magistrate in the prevention of child marriages. Clause (4) of Section 13 stipulates that a District 96 Section 13(2), PCMA. 97 Section 13(1), PCMA. 98 Section 13(6), PCMA. 99 Section 13(3), PCMA. 100 Section 13(7), PCMA. 101 Section 13(8), PCMA. 102 Section 13(9), PCMA. 103 Section 13(10), PCMA. 1562 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Magistrate is deemed to be a CPMO on certain days to prevent the solemnization of child marriages. The District Magistrate may exercise all the powers which accrue to the CMPO under the PCMA.104 The intent of empowering the District Magistrate is in recognition of the fact that child marriages may take place in higher numbers on certain days. Since many communities in India believe that marriages may be beneficial if conducted on auspicious days, the authorities may preventively earmark these days for the application of Clauses (4) and (5) of Section 13 of the PCMA. Clause (5) of the PCMA stipulates that the District Magistrate shall have additional powers to stop or prevent the solemnisation of child marriages, for which he may take appropriate measures and use the minimum force required. Child Marriage Prohibition Officers 70. In addition to injunctions, the PCMA also prescribes the appointment of CMPOs for the prevention of child marriage. One of the primary critiques of the CMRA was that the law was dependent on the private initiative of public-spirited citizens to avoid child marriages. The offences under the CMRA were only partially cognizable and its enforcement was met with severe social penalty and the wrath of the two families whose wards were made to tie the knot. The PCMA sought to better enforce its provisions by stipulating the appointment of a CMPO. Section 2(d) of PCMA defines a CMPO as an officer appointed by the State Government under Section 16(1) of PCMA. Section 16 empowers the State Government to issue a notification in the official gazette appointing a CMPO for the specified jurisdiction. Under Clause (2) of Section 16 of PCMA, the State may also request a respectable member of the locality with a record in social service or an officer of the Gram Panchayat or Municipality or an officer of the Government or any public sector undertaking or a non- governmental organisation to render assistance to the CMPO.