Therefore I am strongly of opinion that there should be no reservation of seats for anyone and I, as a Muslim, speak for the Muslims. There should be no reservation of seats for the Muslim community. (Hear, Hear). I would like to tell you that in no civilised country where there is parliamentary system on democratic lines, there is any reservation of seats. […]” [Emphasis supplied] 29. Eventually, the Constituent Assembly dropped the proposals to grant varied rights to linguistic and religious minorities, and retained only 45 Christina George, “Begum Aizaz Rasul: The only Muslim Woman to oppose minority reservations in the Constituent Assembly” The Indian Express, (14 February, 2018), available at https://indianexpress. com/article/gender/begum-aizaz-rasul-the-only-muslim-woman-to-oppose-minority-reservations-in-the- constituent-assembly-5057096/. 46 Constituent Assembly Debate, Speech by Mohammad Ismail Khan, (26 May 1949). 47 Constituent Assembly Debate, Speech by Tajamul Hussain, (26 May 1949). [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1773 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. Articles 29 and 30 to assuage their concerns. These two Fundamental Rights under Part III nonetheless represent a watershed moment in the jurisprudence of minority rights worldwide. B. The Constitutional scheme 30. The majority of minority rights within the Indian Constitution are encapsulated in Part III under the sub-section on ‘Cultural and Educational Rights’. This section includes: (i) the right of any section of citizens with a distinct language, script, or culture to conserve the same under Article 29; and (ii) the right of linguistic and religious minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice under Article 30. 31. This focus on cultural and educational rights does not diminish the broader protections offered by the Constitution, which includes positive discrimination and affirmative action. Notable amongst these are Articles 15 and 16, which provide reservations to ensure equality of opportunity, and Articles 25 to 28, for the safeguard of religious freedoms. In addition, Articles 350A and 350B were incorporated shortly after independence in 1956 to further protect linguistic minorities. These provisions established administrative shields to support language rights and ensure their preservation within the broader framework of the Indian State. 32. Given this context, Article 29 protects linguistic minorities and their right to conserve their languages,and Article 30 bestows positive rights to religious and linguistic minorities,allowing them to establish and administer educational institutions. These provisions read as follows: “29. Protection of interests of minorities.— (1) Any section of the citizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script or culture of its own shall have the right to conserve the same. (2) No citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the State or receiving aid out of State funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.” 1774 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “30. Right of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions.— (1) All minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice. (1A) In making any law providing for the compulsory acquisition of any property of any educational institution established and administered by a minority, referred to in clause (1), the State shall ensure that the amount fixed by or determined under such law for the acquisition of such property is such as would not restrict or abrogate the right guaranteed under that clause.