All depends on facts of each case. 28. In the instant case, the appellant has contended that the respondent did not participate in the domestic enquiry in spite of an opportunity of hearing having been provided to him. He was also offered the inspection of the documents, but he did not avail of that opportunity. He himself invoked the jurisdiction of the Appellate Authority and the of dismissal passed against him was set aside on the ground that the appellant did not hold any domestic enquiry. It has already been seen above that the Appellate Authority has full jurisdiction to record evidence to enable it to come to its own conclusion on the guilt of the employee concerned. Since the Appellate Authority has to come to its own conclusion on the basis of the evidence recorded by it, irrespective of the findings recorded in the domestic enquiry, the rule laid down in Ratna case will not strictly apply and the opportunity of hearing which is 224 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports being provided to the respondent at the appellate stage will sufficiently meet his demands for a just and proper enquiry. [emphasis supplied] 56. In Jayantilal Ratanchand Shah vs. Reserve Bank of India and Others, (1996) 9 SCC 650, A Constitution Bench of this Court held that opportunity even if assumed to be denied at the original stage, no grievance could be raised as the appellate authority gave such an opportunity: “16. In impugning the of the Currency Officer of the Bank it was submitted on behalf of the petitioner that no opportunity of being heard was given to the Society so as to enable it to explain the reasons for delay in submitting the declaration form. Even if we proceed on the assumption that such an opportunity of personal hearing was imperative to comply with the rules of natural justice the petitioner cannot raise any grievance on that score for the appellate authority gave them such an opportunity before dismissing their appeal. This apart, as noticed earlier, the appellate authority has given detailed reasons for its inability to accept the explanation of the Society for not filing the declaration in time….” The provision providing for appeal in Section 8(3) of the High Denomination Bank Notes (Demonetisation) Act, 1978 reads as under:- “8(3). Any person aggrieved by the refusal of the Reserve Bank to pay the value of the notes under sub-section (2) may prefer an appeal to the Central Government within fourteen days of the communication of such refusal to him.” 57. Three other cases need only a brief mention. In Olga Tellis and Others vs. Bombay Municipal Corporation and Others, (1985) 3 SCC 545, (Para 51) Chief Justice Y.V. Chandrachud found that no opportunity was given to the petitioners. However, it was observed that hearing in ample measure was given by this Court. Ultimately, the case was found to be covered by the exception carved out in S.L. Kapur (supra) and writ was denied since on admitted and indisputable facts only one conclusion was possible.