the doctor. The ocular evidence supported by the medical evidence clearly establish that it was a case of murder of the deceased by the other accused persons under Section 302 IPC. 25. Appellant has been roped in by virtue of Sections 148 and 149 IPC. Appellant was a part of the unlawful assembly which had the common object of eliminating Satya Narain by means of criminal force and, therefore, being a member of the unlawful assembly, he was also guilty of the offence committed in prosecution of the common object i.e. the offence under Section 302 IPC. 26. At this juncture, we may briefly survey the relevant legal provisions. 27. Section 141 IPC defines unlawful assembly. It says an assembly of five or more persons is designated as unlawful assembly if the common object of the persons composing that assembly is to commit an illegal act by means of criminal force. 28. As per Section 148 IPC which deals with rioting armed with deadly weapon, whoever is guilty of rioting, being armed with a deadly weapon or with anything which, used as weapon of offence, is likely to cause death, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both. Rioting is defined in Section 146 IPC. As per the said definition, whenever force or violence is used by an unlawful assembly, or by any member thereof, in prosecution of the common object of such assembly, every member of such assembly is guilty of the offence of rioting. 29. This brings us to the pivotal section which is Section 149 IPC. Section 149 IPC says that every member of an unlawful assembly shall be guilty of the offence committed in prosecution of the common object. Section 149 IPC is quite categorical. It says that if an offence is 50 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports committed by any member of an unlawful assembly in prosecution of the common object of that assembly, or such as the members of that assembly knew to be likely to be committed in prosecution of that object, every person who, at the time of committing of that offence, is a member of the said assembly; is guilty of that offence. Thus, if it is a case of murder under Section 302 IPC, each member of the unlawful assembly would be guilty of committing the offence under Section 302 IPC. 30. In Krishnappa Vs. State of Karnataka,1 this Court while examining Section 149 IPC held as follows:- 20. It is now well-settled law that the provisions of Section 149 IPC will be attracted whenever any offence committed by any member of an unlawful assembly in prosecution of the common object of that assembly, or when the members of that assembly knew that offence is likely to be committed in prosecution of that object, so that every person, who, at the time of committing of that offence is a member, will be also vicariously held liable and guilty of that offence.