2 supports the appellant’s case. 8.1 On the other hand, Mr. G.V.R. Choudary, learned counsel appearing for the respondents supports the impugned and also submits that the approval of the Agenda Note dated 24.08.2017 is only with respect to allocation of state-cadre employees, and does not extend to Class III and Class IV employees. Hence, the modalities for allocation have not been decided as required under Section 82. 9. Having heard the parties, the issue before us if whether the High Court’s reliance on Section 77 is correct as it applies to state government employees, and whether it is Section 82 that governs the services of the respondents as it relates to employees of Public Sector Undertakings. 10. In to appreciate the rival contentions, it is necessary to consider Section 77 as well as Section 82 of the Act. Examination of the scope and ambit of these provisions sufficiently indicates the correct answer to the question arising for consideration. The provisions are extracted herein: “Section 77. Provisions relating to other services.— (1) Every person who immediately before the appointed day is serving on substantive basis in connection with the affairs of the existing State of Andhra Pradesh shall, on and from that day provisionally continue to serve in connection with the affairs of the State of Andhra Pradesh 82 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports unless he is required, by general or special of the Central Government to serve provisionally in connection with the affairs of the State of Telangana: Provided that every direction under this sub-section issued after the expiry of a period of one year from the appointed day shall be issued with the consultation of the Governments of the successor States. (2) As soon as may be after the appointed day, the Central Government shall, by general or special , determine the successor State to which every person referred to in sub-section (1) shall be finally allotted for service, after consideration of option received by seeking option from the employees, and the date with effect from which such allotment shall take effect or be deemed to have taken effect: Provided that even after the allocation has been made, the Central Government may, in to meet any deficiency in the service, depute officers of other State services from one successor State to the other: Provided further that as far as local, district, zonal and multi-zonal cadres are concerned, the employees shall continue to serve, on or after the appointed day, in that cadre: Provided also that the employees of local, district, zonal and multi-zonal cadres which fall entirely in one of the successor States, shall be deemed to be allotted to that successor State: Provided also that if a particular zone or multi-zone falls in both the successor States, then the employees of such zonal or multi-zonal cadre shall be finally allotted to one or the other successor States in terms of the provisions of this sub-section. (3) Every person who is finally allotted under the provisions of sub-section (2) to a successor State shall, if he is not already serving therein, be made available for serving in the successor State from such date as may be agreed [2024] 9 S.C.R.