The Writ Petitioner contended that NTBCL had already recovered the project costs, thereby eliminating the need to continue imposing user fees. Respondent No. 1 thereafter on 08.09.2014, amended the Writ Petition, seeking additional relief to annul both the MoU and the Concession Agreement. 4.9. The High Court, vide the impugned dated 26.10.2016, while considering the constitutional validity of the Concession Agreement, has primarily held that: (i) Article 13 of the Concession Agreement, which governed the determination, collection, and appropriation of user fees by NTBCL, was invalid in law; (ii) Article 14 thereof, which outlined the calculation of the Total Project Cost, Returns, and their recovery by NTBCL, was to be severed from the Concession Agreement; and (iii) NTBCL was prohibited from continuing to impose or collect user fees. The High Court further held that the selection process of NTBCL for the Project violated Article 14 of the Constitution. 4.10. The aggrieved NTBCL, has preferred the instant appeal. The record reveals that this Court passed a self-speaking on 11.11.2016, (i) outlining the facts of the case; (ii) identified that the matter contained issues that required thorough scrutiny; and (iii) also noted the conflicting claims regarding the Total Project Cost recovered by NTBCL. Thereafter, this Court directed the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) to verify NTBCL’s claims and submit a Report. The salient features of the dated 11.11.2016 may be highlighted at this stage: “….3. Federation of NOIDA Residents Welfare Association & Ors., Respondent No.1 herein, filed PIL No.60214 of 2012 in the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad for a declaration that collection of toll fee should be stopped on the DND Flyover between New Delhi and NOIDA. 4. A Concession Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement”) was entered into between the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2009 Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. v. Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association and Others Petitioner, NOIDA (Respondent No.2) and IL & FS Ltd. (Respondent No.9) on 12.11.1997 for development of infrastructure facility of a bridge and an access road. The Project was conceived on Build-Operate- Transfer (BOT) basis. The 9th Respondent IL & FS had to arrange the investment for the Project which could be recovered by levy of toll from the users of the road and the Project...” “…14. Prima facie, we are of the opinion that the various issues that arise in this SLP warrant a detailed scrutiny. Conflicting claims have been made regarding the recovery of the Total Cost of the Project by the Concessionaire. To resolve the dispute, it is appropriate that an independent agency is requested to examine the relevant records of the DND flyway. The said agency should examine the reports of the independent auditors appointed by the Petitioner and submit a report regarding the correctness of the Petitioner’s claim that the Total Cost of the Project has not been recovered. We accept the suggestion of the Petitioner and request the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) to assist us in this matter. The Petitioner is directed to place the entire record pertaining to the recovery of the Total Project Cost of the DND flyover project as per the Agreement before the CAG.