In their statements under Section 313 CrPC, the accused denied the allegations appearing against them in the prosecution case and claimed to have been falsely implicated. 11. The learned trial Court, after hearing the arguments advanced by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor and the learned defence counsel and upon appreciating the evidence available on record proceeded to convict A1 and A2 and sentenced them both as above vide dated 4th March, 1997. The Division Bench of the Gujarat High Court in appeal, while affirming the guilt of both the accused, toned down the offence from Section 302 IPC to offence under Section 304 Part I IPC vide dated 13th February, 2017 which is assailed in the present appeal by special leave. Submissions on behalf of the appellant: - 12. Shri Harin P. Raval, learned senior counsel representing the accused appellant(A1), put forth the following submissions in to assail the impugned s seeking acquittal for the accused appellant- Vinod Jaswantray Vyas(since deceased):- (i) That there is a delay of around 20 days in filing the formal complaint before the concerned Court of the Magistrate, since the alleged incident took place on 10th June, 1992 and the complaint came to be filed on 1st July, 1992. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 373 Vinod Jaswantray Vyas (Dead) Through Lrs v. The State of Gujarat (ii) That the accused appellant had neither any motive nor any reason to assault Jeeva(deceased). (iii) That Jeeva(deceased) and Anna Dorai(both accused in C.R. No. 555/92) had voluntarily surrendered at the Amraiwadi Police Station. However, the injuries were suffered only by Jeeva(deceased) which creates a doubt about the prosecution story, inasmuch as, it cannot be believed that the police officers who were presumably intending to extract confessions from the accused would focus their attention only on one accused while totally sparing the other who was also arraigned in the same case. (iv) That Jeeva(deceased) was presented in the concerned Court on 11th June, 1992, but he made no complaint whatsoever to the Magistrate that he had been maltreated or assaulted by the police officials at the police station. Jeeva(deceased) was having significant criminal antecedents and had been arraigned as an accused in multiple cases and had also been placed under preventive detention. Therefore, he was fully aware about the nitty gritties of the legal system. Thus, the rank silence on part of the victim and his failure in raising a grievance before the remand Magistrate that he had been subjected to custodial torture at the police station despite having ample opportunity, creates a grave doubt on the truthfulness of the entire prosecution case. (v) That Jeeva(deceased) had been taken and presented before the DCP Shri Surelia at the Karanj Bhavan, Ahmedabad and only thereafter, he was produced in the concerned Court of the Magistrate. Shri Raval referred to the testimony of Pratapbhai Jagannath(PW-6) to contend that the office of DCP Shri Surelia was located on the fifth floor and Jeeva(deceased) climbed the staircases without any support or displaying signs of discomfort or pain.