This in itself does not absolve them from producing documents as asked for. In the Original Applications filed by the respondent-employees also, the service particulars of their fathers in place of whom such employment was sought, have not been disclosed, as recorded by the Tribunal. So, whereas a respondent-employee may state that onus of proof on the part of the appellant-employer was not discharged properly in respect of the disciplinary proceedings initiated by the latter, as far as the O.As. were concerned, the respondent-employees were the ones pleading their case before a judicial or quasi-judicial authority. Therefore, it was incumbent upon them to produce all documents, on the basis of which they could have said that their dismissal from service on the part of the appellant-employer was incorrect and unjust in law. 10. It is apparent from record that the respondent-employees did not furnish any document as part of the O.As. When the claim made before the Tribunal itself is not clear, unequivocal and supported by relevant material, the same being rejected is not a matter of surprise. The very basis upon which the relief claimed rests is found to be circumspect then the relief, if awarded, suffers from the vice of being improper. 18 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11. Whether or not the Tribunal ought to have heard the matter together or separately is to be decided solely by the adjudicating authority. Comments by the High Court in this regard do not appear to be just. Before parting with the matter, however, in the facts of this case, we express our surprise towards the actions of the appellant-employer who appointed the respondent-employees on the basis of questionable documentation, which was later found to be forged, fabricated and bogus. How could someone be appointed to a government job without proper checking and verification of documents? The Railways are recorded to be one of the largest employers in the country and yet such incidents falling through the cracks, ought to be checked. 12. Upon it being discovered that the respondent-employees had secured appointments on the basis of forged and fabricated documents, an FIR bearing No.29/05 dated 17th December 2005 stood registered against them under Sections 467, 468, 471, 419, 420 and 120-B Indian Penal Code, 1860. There is no bar, as has been held in M. Paul Anthony v. Bharat Gold Mines Ltd.11 and as recently reiterated in State Bank of India & Ors. v. P. Zadenga12 for departmental and criminal proceedings to continue simultaneously. As such, the criminal proceedings initiated as a result of alleged fraud committed by the respondent-employees are independent of the proceedings initiated by the appellant-employer. It has been held that in certain cases it would be ideal if the criminal proceedings were stayed in the pendency of the departmental proceedings, however, no such prayer having been made, is on record. 13. The impugned is liable to be set aside on a further ground, since the requisite to establish eligibility for compassionate appointment was not properly fulfilled, they were appointed on the basis of false claims and fabricated documents.