2164 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Costs (m) take necessary measures to ensure that the insolvency resolution process cost is reasonable. (n) expeditiously decide on all the expenses to be incurred by the Insolvency Professional including the going concern expenses of the corporate debtor and his fee. (o) prudently fix the fee payable to the liquidator while deciding to liquidate the corporate debtor. Meeting of the CoC (p) regularly monitor the activities of the Insolvency Professional and seek rationale of decisions/actions taken by him. (q) diligently recommend for the inclusion or otherwise of the belated claims collated by the Insolvency Professional and categorised as acceptable, in the list of creditors and its treatment in the resolution plan, if any. (r) actively participate in the presentation of valuation methodologies made by the Registered Valuers. (s) ensure the conduct of the meeting at regular intervals as specified in the regulations. Sharing of information (t) proactively share the latest financial statements, relevant extract from the audits of the corporate debtor, conducted by the creditors such as stock audit, transaction audit, forensic audit, etc. and other relevant information available, with the Insolvency Professional to enable efficient conduct of the process. (u) seek details of all litigation filed against or by the corporate debtor from Insolvency Professional and recommend necessary actions to Insolvency Professional to safeguard the interest of the corporate debtor. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2165 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. Feasibility and viability of corporate debtor (v) carefully review and assess the information memorandum prepared by Insolvency Professional and offer additional insights. (w) duly contribute to the preparation of the marketing strategy by the Insolvency Professional and may also take measures for marketing of the assets of the corporate debtor, if necessary. (x) ensure that all resolution plans as received by Insolvency Professional are placed before CoC. (y) suitably consider the requirement of a monitoring committee for the implementation of the resolution plan.” 172. The aforesaid guidelines may go a long way in streamlining the functions of the CoC. Adding to the aforesaid guidelines, we suggest that the CoC exercise their commercial wisdom and approve/reject the Resolution Plans placed before them exhibiting fairness and with good reasons. Such a reasoned decision making on their part will only serve to further enable the other key players like the Adjudicating Authorities to understand the rationale behind their decision and to uphold the correctness of the same. Furthermore, it is also suggested that the Central Government or the IBBI explore the possibilities of better enforcement of the standards and practices enumerated in the guidelines through an independent mechanism under the auspices of an oversight committee instead of making them self-regulatory. This will enable the guidelines to achieve some level of practical and operational relevance and also prevent any significant lapse in decision making on the part of the CoC. 173. This litigation is an eye-opener also as regards the manner in which the implementation of plans are handled by the Successful Resolution Applicant and the Lenders involved in the process.