In our view, it is only in respect of succession to the enemy property on death of the enemy which has been abrogated by the Parliament by insertion of Explanations (1) and (2) to clause (b) of Section 2 which defines enemy or enemy subject or enemy firm which are with effect from 21.03.2018. Therefore, the jurisprudential position of the Custodian for Enemy Property vis-à-vis the enemy continues to remain as that of a trustee although the enemy property may vest in such Custodian for the protection, preservation and management thereof. Thus, such vesting of property in the Custodian does not result in the transfer of ownership from the owner of the property who is an enemy or enemy subject or enemy firm within the meaning of clause (b) of Section 2 of the Act to the Custodian. When the Custodian appointed by the Central Government in whom enemy property vests is only a trustee and does not adorn the status of an owner of such enemy property, consequently, the Central Government or the Union 914 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports even within the meaning of Article 285 of the Constitution cannot usurp the ownership of such property. 17.4 That when enemy property is not the property of the Union within the meaning of Article 285 of the Constitution, there is no exemption from taxes imposed on by a State or by any authority within a State. When the aforesaid position of law was discussed during the course of submission and specifically put to Sri Balbir Singh, learned ASG by the Bench, the response was that the enemy property being the property of the Union is exempt from all taxes imposed by a State or by any authority within a State, save insofar as Parliament may by law otherwise provide. That in the instant case, Section 8(2)(vi) authorises the Custodian to make payments out of the enemy property any taxes, dues, cesses or rates to the State Government or to any local authority and therefore, the Parliament has by the said provision authorised the payment of taxes to the State Government or the local authority such as the appellant herein and hence, there is no exemption from payment of taxes in respect of enemy property which is by that reason Union property. In other words, the contention was premised on the fact that once the enemy property vests in the Custodian, it automatically becomes the property of the Union and having regard to the saving clause in Articles 285(1) of the Constitution, and bearing in mind Section 8(2) (vi) of the Act, there is no exemption from the payment of property tax in the instant case. 17.5 Thus, while both the appellant-Municipal Corporation or Nagar Nigam and the Union of India are at ad idem on the legal position that the property tax is liable to be paid to the appellant in the instant case but it is for different reasons or basis. 17.6 In this context, Mr. Kavin Gulati, learned senior counsel for the appellant emphasised that the subject property in question is not Union property but it is enemy property vested with the Custodian under the Act and continues to be so and is therefore, subject to payment of taxes, etc.