These definitions take character and substance from the context in which they are employed. Their full import and nuances only become 1140 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports visible when they are exposed to the guiding light of the overall promotional policy of the organisation. The concept of promotions in the District Judiciary is a peculiar one, and one that must be analysed in its own unique context. Unlike most cases on promotions decided by this Court where the interpretation or incorrect implementation of the promotion policy contained in a statute have been in question, the present case of promotions to the Higher Judicial Service is one in which the statutory framework itself was created after the decision in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra). Thus, any dispute arising out of the respective rules of promotions of different States/Union Territories as devised by their respective High Courts must be construed in the context of various decisions which have ultimately shaped such rules. 131. How ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ will apply to promotions within an organization will ultimately depend on the statutory rules, if any, or the promotional policy of such an organisation. We have discussed in detail in the preceding paragraphs that the objective of this Court in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra) was to create a new category for accelerated promotions and to introduce a test to ascertain the suitability of candidates in the regular promotional category. While the newly created category was strictly based on merit, the due weightage on seniority in the regular promotional category was not diluted in any manner except for the introduction of the suitability test. We are aware that in a number of decisions of this Court, the term ‘merit’ has been infused with a competitive and comparative character, however, we are of the opinion that whether the term ‘merit’ includes a comparative element can only be ascertained from the context in which it is employed and not in isolation from it. Merit only indicates an assessment of qualities which are relevant for the post. It is not synonymous to scores in the competitive examination. Competitive examinations are merely one of the many ways in which the merit of the candidate is determined. This Court in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra) notes that merit must be determined based on a limited competitive examination with respect to the 25% (now 10%) of the seats which are to be filled by merit. Thus, this Court clarifies that merit in the context of the 25% (now 10%) of the seats must be determined through the competitive examination while for the 50% (now 65%) of the seats must be determined based on an assessment of specific suitability parameters. Whether the idea of [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1141 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. a ‘minimum threshold merit’ would be antithetical to the concept of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ would again depend on the context and the manner in which the minimum threshold is applied. 132.