Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. Since the present case deals with a policy and its repudiation before the 2014 amendment to Section 45 of the Insurance Act, the pre- amendment time period of two years would be applicable to the case. As per the aforesaid language and interpretation of Section 45, the insurer cannot question the policy after the expiry of the time period and if it does, then the burden rests on the insurer to establish materiality of the fact suppressed and the knowledge of the insured about such suppression, so that the repudiation of the claim could be justified by the insurer. 17. In the present case, the onus was on the insurer to show that the insured had fraudulently given false information and the said information was related to a material fact. The second aspect of the controversy would be dealt with first. 18. For a better appreciation of the controversy, it would be important to analyse the maxim of uberrimae fidei that governs the insurance contracts. It may also be observed that insurance contracts are special contracts based on the general principles of full disclosure inasmuch as a person seeking insurance is bound to disclose all material facts relating to the risk involved. Law demands a higher standard of good faith in matters of insurance contracts which is expressed in the legal maxim uberrimae fidei. The plea of utmost good faith has also been taken by the respondent, for contending that the insured-deceased had a duty to disclose the details of the previous policies, as the same was sought in the application form. However, the insured failed in his duty to correctly answer the question about his previous policies. The law relating to the maxim uberrimae fidei was dealt with by this Court in the case of Manmohan Nanda vs. United India Insurance Co. Ltd., (2022) 4 SCC 582, (“Manmohan Nanda”). The same could be discussed at this stage with reference to legal authorities as well as relevant provisions of law. 19. MacGillivray on Insurance Law, (12th Edn., Sweet & Maxwell, London, 2012 at p. 477) has summarised the duty of an insured to disclose as under: “... the assured must disclose to the insurer all facts material to an insurer’s appraisal of the risk which are known or deemed to be known by the assured but neither known nor deemed to be known by the insurer. Breach of this duty [2024] 4 S.C.R. 737 Mahakali Sujatha v. The Branch Manager, Future Generali India Life Insurance Company Limited & another by the assured entitles the insurer to avoid the contract of insurance so long as he can show that the non-disclosure induced the making of the contract on the relevant terms.” 20. Lord Mansfield in Carter vs. Boehm, (1766) 3 Burr 1905 has summarised the principles necessitating disclosure by the assured in the following words: “Insurance is a contract of speculation. The special facts upon which the contingent chance is to be computed, lie most commonly in the knowledge of the assured only; the under-writer trusts to his representation, and proceeds upon confidence that he does not keep back any circumstance in his knowledge, to mislead the under- writer into a belief that the circumstance does not exist … The keeping back such circumstance is a fraud, and therefore the policy is void.