While patriarchy promises respect to its adherents, it only leads to the subordination of women who are deprived of any meaningful avenue to develop their agency and exercise their autonomy. The malleability of a girl child and her inability to form informed opinions are looked up to as desirable qualities. These qualities are understood to earn her favour in the eyes of her in-laws in serving them as they see fit.27 In less educated, rural and poor setups, members of the community lack effective opportunities and life chances. Investing in the education and development of a girl is seen as unworthy and unrealistic. The lack of alternative means for education, employment and skill development for women also incentivises parents to give their daughters away in child marriage. 26 Sanjay Kumar (2020). Trends, Differentials and Determinants of Child Marriage in India: Evidence from Large-scale Surveys. Economic & Political Weekly, 55(6), 57. 27 See RC Roy (1888). Child Marriage in India. The North America Review 147(383) 415-423. University of Iowa. 1536 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. Parents also believe that their daughters would be saved from pregnancy out of wedlock and be guarded against unsolicited advances by men if she were to be married early. Many marry their daughters off but delay the consummation of marriage till the age of puberty. A gauna ceremony is performed to mark the growing up of the daughter and her departure from the parental home to the marital home upon getting menses. The delay in sending a child bride to her marital home is informed only by the bodily development of the girl and is unbothered by any other consideration, such as the mental and educational development of the person or indeed her own choice in the matter. The compounding of one evil to emerge out of patriarchy with another solution rooted in patriarchy has the effect of culturally stunting society and depriving children, girls in particular, of any avenue to exit from the cycle of generational oppression. 15. Notably, the very causes of child marriage ensure that members of the marital union and their families are stuck in the vicious cycle of social and economic oppression. Early marriage in girls, places a burden on them to discharge their duty of giving offspring to the family. Sexual activity within themarital union is unregulated and even encouraged. A child, forced to prove her fertility, is exposed to enormous health risks. Her body is mentally and physically unprepared for sexual engagement which is forced upon her. Girls in child marriage report early, frequent and unplanned pregnancies which are linked to increased risk of maternal and infant morbidity and mortality. 16. Adolescent mothers are also likely to experience fistula, pregnancy complications and death during childbirth.28 Women married as children are likely to have their first child before the age of eighteen and are likely to have had atleast three or more childbirths and a repeat childbirth in less than twenty-four months.29 Currently, between the ages of 15 and 19, 7% of women have begun childbearing; 5% of women have successfully delivered, while 2% of women are pregnant with their first child.30 The rate of teenage pregnancy is higher in 28 Anita Raj, Niranjan Saggurti, Donta Balaiah, Jay G Silverman (2009).