The company which has made [2024] 2 S.C.R. 485 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. financial contributions is now only required to disclose the total amount contributed to political parties without disclosing specific particulars about the political party to which the contribution was made. 57. Maintaining the anonymity of the contributor is a crucial and primary characteristic of the Electoral Bond Scheme. The electoral bond is defined as a bearer banking instrument which does not carry the name of the buyer.”* The law mandates the authorized bank to not disclose the information furnished by the buyer except when demanded by a competent court or upon the registration of a criminal case by law enforcement agencies.”° 58. The amendments introduced by the Finance Act 2017 and the Electoral Bond Scheme are challenged on the ground that the non- disclosure of information about electoral contributions is violative of the right to information of the voter which is traceable to Article 19(1) (a) of the Constitution. |. Infringement of the right to information of the voter 59. This segment of the will discuss whether the amendments and the Electoral Bond Scheme infringe the right to information of the voter. For this purpose, we will discuss the scope of the right to information, and whether the right extends to information on contributions to political parties. a. The scope of Article 19(1)(a): tracing the right to information 60. Article 19(1)(a) has been held to guarantee the right to information to citizens. The s of this Court on the right to information can be divided into two phases. In the first phase, this Court traced the right to information to the values of good governance, transparency and accountability. These s recognize that it is the role of citizens to hold the State accountable for its actions and inactions and they must possess information about State action for them to accomplish this role effectively. 61. In the first phase, this Court delineated the scope of the right to information in the context of deciding the disclosure of evidence relating to affairs of the State. Provisions of the Indian Evidence Act 74 Electoral Bond Scheme, Clause 2(a) 75 Electoral Bond Scheme, Clause 7(4) 486 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports stipulate that evidence which is relevant and material to proceedings need not be disclosed to the party if the disclosure would violate public interest.”© In the 1960’s, this Court framed the issue of disclosure of documents related to the affairs of the State in terms of a conflict between public interest and private interest. This Court observed that the underlying principle in the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act bearing on the disclosure of evidence related to the affairs of the State is that if such disclosure is denied, it would violate the private interest of the party.’”” So, when a party seeks the disclosure of documents, and when such disclosure is denied on the ground that it would violate public interest, there is a conflict between private interest and public interest.