But once the court is satisfied that the dying declaration is true and voluntary, it can base conviction on it without corroboration. 29. This Court highlighted the significance of a dying declaration in Kundula Bala Subrahmanyam vs. State of Andhra Pradesh3. The general rule is that hearsay evidence is not admissible. Unless the evidence tendered is tested by cross-examination, it is not creditworthy. However, Section 32(1) of the Evidence Act is an exception to this general rule. This Court observed as under: 18. * * * * * A dying declaration made by person on the verge of his death has a special sanctity as at that solemn moment, a person is most unlikely to make any untrue statement. The shadow of impending death is by itself the guarantee of the truth of the statement made by the deceased regarding the causes or circumstances leading to his death. A dying declaration, therefore, enjoys almost a sacrosanct status, as a piece of evidence, coming as it does from the mouth of the deceased victim. Once the statement of the dying person and the evidence of the witnesses testifying to the same passes the test of careful scrutiny of the courts, it becomes a very important and a reliable piece of evidence and if the court is satisfied that the dying declaration is true and free from any embellishment such a dying declaration, by itself, can be sufficient for recording conviction even without looking for any corroboration. * * * * * 2 [1992] 2 SCR 197 : (1992) 2 SCC 474 3 [1993] 2 SCR 666 : (1993) 2 SCC 684 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 759 Rajendra S/o Ramdas Kolhe v. State of Maharashtra 30. Elaborating further, this Court in Sher Singh vs. State of Punjab4 held that acceptability of a dying declaration is greater because the declaration is made in extremity. When a party is on the verge of death, one rarely finds any motive to tell falsehood. It is for this reason that the requirements of oath and cross-examination are dispensed with in the case of a dying declaration. 31. In Sudhakar vs. State of Madhya Pradesh5, this Court observed thus: 20. The “dying declaration” is the last statement made by a person at a stage when he is in serious apprehension of his death and expects no chances of his survival. At such time, it is expected that a person will speak the truth and only the truth. Normally in such situations the courts attach the intrinsic value of truthfulness to such statement. Once such statement has been made voluntarily, it is reliable and is not an attempt by the deceased to cover up the truth or falsely implicate a person, then the courts can safely rely on such dying declaration and it can form the basis of conviction. More so, where the version given by the deceased as dying declaration is supported and corroborated by other prosecution evidence, there is no reason for the courts to doubt the truthfulness of such dying declaration.