iv) The change in policy could not be given retrospective effect. The in-principle approval was granted on 24.03.2003, whereas the change in policy came in December, 2003. The 1981 Rules were much later amended in April 2006. The Society would be entitled to be dealt with the practice and procedure existing at the time when the request was made and in-principle approval was granted by the Lieutenant Governor. v) Lastly it was submitted that in similar facts and circumstances, the appellant had allotted land to different Societies even after the change of policy and the amendment in the 1981 Rules without holding public auction or by tender process. ANALYSIS 18. Having considered the submissions advanced, our analysis on the various issues is as under: 18.1 Taking up the last point first as raised by the appellant that there was inordinate delay in approaching the Court, we find much substance in the same. It is well settled that the litigant who is not diligent cannot invoke the extraordinary jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The in-principle approval having been granted on 24.03.2003, there was no justification for the Society to wait for 11 years to file a writ petition in the year 2014 on the basis of the said in-principle approval of the Lieutenant Governor. The Society [2024] 1 S.C.R. 465 Delhi Development Authority v. Hello Home Education Society ought to have exercised due diligence and should have claimed its rights within a reasonable time from the date of said in- principle approval if the same was not being implemented and the allotment letter was not being issued. There is no justifiable or satisfactory explanation for the said period of inordinate delay of 11 years. The writ petition ought to have been dismissed on this ground alone. Reference can be made to a recent of this Court in State of Orissa & Anr. vs. Laxmi Narayan Das (Dead) thr. LRs & Ors.8 Paragraphs 25, 30, 32, 33 and 34 are extracted hereunder: “25. In New Delhi Municipal Council v. Pan Singh and others, (2007) 9 SCC 278, this Court has opined that though there is no period of limitation provided for filing a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, yet ordinarily a writ petition should be filed within a reasonable time. In the said case the respondents had filed the writ petition after seventeen years and the court, as stated earlier, took note of the delay and laches as relevant factors and set aside the passed by the High Court which had exercised the discretionary jurisdiction. xxx xxx 30. Subsequently, a Constitution Bench of this Court in Senior Divisional Manager, Life Insurance Corporation of India Ltd. and others v. Shree Lal Meena, (2019) 4 SCC 479, considering the principle of delay and laches, opined as under:- “36. We may also find that the appellant remained silent for years together and that this Court, taking a particular view subsequently, in Sheel Kumar Jain v. New India Assurance Company Limited, (2011)12 SCC 197 would not entitle stale claims to be raised on this behalf, like that of the appellant.