The aforesaid provision, especially, Section 4(1), makes it clear that where several instruments are executed for completing a transaction, the principal instrument alone shall be chargeable with duty prescribed in Schedule I. The proviso makes it clear that the duty chargeable on the instrument so determined shall be the highest duty which could be chargeable in respect of any of the said instruments forming part of the same transaction. Each of the other instruments is chargeable 886 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports with a fixed duty. That apart, sub-section (2) also gives an opportunity to the parties to determine for themselves, which of the instruments shall be deemed to be the principal instrument. We shall therefore look into the documents in question and determine whether they are required to be stamped and registered. 11. The documents sought to be impounded at the instance of one of the defendants are: (i) Exh.145/3 dated 20.07.1994 – agreement for sale-cum- development executed by Vinayak Kashinath Gharat and others in favour of Naresh N. Jain, Sunita P. Jain and Kalawati N. Jain, which is on the stamp paper of Rs.20/-; (ii) Exh.145/9 dated 20.07.1994 – agreement for sale-cum- development executed by Vinayak Kashinath Gharat and others in favour of Naresh N. Jain, Sunita P. Jain and Kalawati N. Jain, which is on the stamp paper of Rs.20/-; (iii) Exh.145/15 dated 12.10.1994 executed by Naresh N. Jain and others in favour of M/s.Chedda Enterprises, which is on the stamp paper of Rs.20/-; (iv) Exh.145/19 dated 12.10.1994 – agreement for sale-cum- development executed by Naresh N. Jain and others in favour of M/s.Chedda Enterprises, which is on the stamp paper of Rs.20/-; (v) Exh.145/23 dated 27.04.2006 – agreement for sale executed by M/s.Sunshine Builders and Developers in favour of the appellants, which is on the stamp paper of Rs.100/-; and (vi) Exh.145/25 dated 19.09.2004 – agreement for development -cum- sale executed by M/s.Sunshine Builders and Developers in favour of the appellants, which is on the stamp paper of Rs.100/-. 12. On a reading of all these six documents, it could be seen that the instruments /documents were not forming part of a single transaction between the same parties and they were different transactions between different vendors and purchasers. Further, for several documents to form part of a single transaction, there must be a transaction in furtherance of which several other documents are executed to complete that transaction and then it becomes imperative [2024] 9 S.C.R. 887 Shyamsundar Radheshyam Agrawal & Anr. v. Pushpabai Nilkanth Patil & Ors to charge stamp duty on the principal instrument/document. The language used in the provision is very clear, whereby the stamp duty is on the instrument and not on the transaction. It will be useful to refer to Explanation 1 to Article 25 of Schedule I of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, which would read as under: “Explanation I.—For the purposes of this article, where in the case of agreement to sell an immovable property, the possession of any immovable property is transferred or agreed to be transferred to the purchaser before the execution, or at the time of execution, or after the execution of such agreement without executing the conveyance in respect thereof, then such agreement to sell shall be deemed to be a conveyance and stamp duty thereon shall be leviable accordingly: Provided that, the provisions of Section 32-A shall apply mutatis mutandis to such agreement which is deemed to be a conveyance as aforesaid, as they apply to a conveyance under that Section: Provided further that, where subsequently a conveyance is executed in pursuance of such agreement of sale, the stamp duty, if any, already paid and recovered on the agreement of sale which is deemed to be a conveyance, shall be adjusted towards the total duty leviable on the conveyance.” 13.