(vi) That it is settled law that the decision on invocation of urgency clause is an administrative decision requiring subjective satisfaction of the State Government and scope of judicial review in the matters of invocation of the urgency clause under Sections 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act is limited to the decision- making procedure and not to the decision itself. The Court is required to examine the record just to arrive at a satisfaction regarding existence of material to form an opinion about invoking the urgency clause. (vii) That the controversy involved in the present case is adidem to the facts of the case in Nand Kishore and the factors that weighed with this Court in upholding the invocation of the urgency clause in Nand Kishore, also exist in the present case, and therefore, the invocation of the urgency clause in the present case was fully justified. The Court’s attention was drawn to the following factors:- (a) Enormity of the project: The acquisition therein in ‘Nand Kishore’ case, involved 1604 Hectares of land affecting 12,283 farmers. Similarly, in the present case, the acquisition involves approximately 2,979 Hectares of land affecting 12,868 farmers/landowners. Thus, the present acquisition is of greater magnitude than the one considered in Nand Kishore. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1087 Kali Charan and Others v. State of U.P. and Others (b) Likelihood of encroachments: The area for the expressway alone exceeded 1600 Hectares, not including the 25 million square meter parcel of land required for developing the five additional zones. In the present case, out of the 2,979 Hectares of land acquired, only 456.74 Hectares of land is under litigation. Therefore, there is an imminent likelihood of encroachment on 2,522.26 Hectares of land where landowners have already received compensation and YEIDA has taken the possession. (c) Number of Landowners to be heard: The total number of landowners to be heard could delay the project further. In the present case, 12,868 landowners would need to be heard, significantly delaying the project. Only 140 landowners are before this Court (inclusive of both batches of civil appeals @ special leave petitions), claiming they were not heard before the issuance of notification under Section 6 of the Act, whereas, the others have accepted the escalated compensation of 64.7% directed to be paid by the High Court in Kamal Sharma. Thus, hearing all the landowners was bound to unnecessarily delay the developmental works of great importance without causing any real prejudice to the large number of landowners and would also lead to escalation of cost of development. (viii) That there was sufficient material before the State Government to justify the invocation of urgency clause, and there was no malice on part of the State Government in invoking the same. Stress was laid upon the observations made in Nand Kishore, wherein it was held that the executive’s subjective satisfaction in dispensing with the enquiry under Section 5-A can be subjected to judicial review only on the grounds of insufficient material to justify dispensing with the enquiry or malice in the impugned action, neither of these elements exist in the present case.