30. For reasons more than one, we propose to hold that the Executing Court and the High Court were right in holding that the objection raised by the respondents 1 to 3 to the executability of the decree was well-founded. 31. What appears to be of significance in the light of the decisions referred to above is the importance of the legal term ‘jurisdiction’, and the question whether the Trial Court did have the jurisdiction to pass the it did on 5th August, 1991 followed by the decree signed on 11th November, 1991. 32. What does ‘jurisdiction’ mean? In the ensuing discussion, we feel inclined to draw guidance from certain decisions of ancient vintage which have stood the test of time. 33. The wisdom of Sir Ashutosh Mukherjee, A.C.J., speaking for a Full Bench of the High Court at Calcutta in Hirday Nath Roy v. Ramachandra Barna Sarma14, more than a century back, profitably assists us in understanding what is meant by ‘jurisdiction’, ‘lack of jurisdiction’ and ‘error in the exercise of jurisdiction’. The relevant passage reads as under: “…An examination of the cases in the books discloses numerous attempts to define the term ‘jurisdiction’, which has been stated to be ‘the power to hear and determine issues of law and fact’; ‘the authority by which judicial officers take cognizance of and decide causes’; ‘the authority to hear and decide a legal controversy’; ‘the power to hear and determine the subject-matter in controversy between parties to a suit and to adjudicate or exercise any judicial power over them’; ‘the power to hear, determine 14 1920 SCC OnLine Cal 85 : ILR LXVIII, Cal 138 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 539 Asma Lateef & Anr. v. Shabbir Ahmad & Ors. and pronounce on the issues before the Court’; ‘the power or authority which is conferred upon a Court by the legislature to bear and determine causes between parties and to carry the s into effect’; ‘the power to enquire into the facts, to apply the law, to pronounce the and to carry it into execution. … This jurisdiction of the Court may be qualified or restricted by a variety of circumstances. Thus, the jurisdiction may have to be considered with reference to place, value, and nature of the subject-matter. … This classification into territorial jurisdiction, pecuniary jurisdiction and jurisdiction of the subject-matter is obviously of a fundamental character. Given such jurisdiction, we must be careful to distinguish exercise of jurisdiction from existence of jurisdiction; for fundamentally different are the consequences of failure to comply with statutory requirements in the assumption and in the exercise of jurisdiction. The authority to decide a cause at all and not the decision rendered therein is what makes up jurisdiction; and when there is jurisdiction of the person and subject-matter, the decision of all other questions arising in the case is but an exercise of that jurisdiction. The extent to which the conditions essential for creating and raising the jurisdiction of a Court or the restraints attaching to the mode of exercise of that jurisdiction should be included in the conception of jurisdiction itself is sometimes a question of great nicety… But the distinction between existence of jurisdiction and exercise of jurisdiction has not always been borne in mind and this has sometimes led to confusion.