Reliance was placed on the decisions in State of A.P. v. Gangula Satya Murthy20 and A.N.Vekatesh and Anr. v. State of Karnataka21. 30. However, evidentiary value to be attached on evidence produced before the court in terms of Section 27 of the Evidence Act cannot be codified or put in a straightjacket formula. It depends upon the facts and circumstances of the case. A holistic and inferential appreciation of evidence is required to be adopted in a case of circumstantial evidence. 31. When we turn to the facts of the present case, the body parts of the deceased Rajini @ Rajinikanth were recovered on the pointing out of appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal in his disclosure 18 (2010) 3 SCC 56. 19 (2014) 5 SCC 509. 20 (1997) 1 SCC 272. 21 (2005) 7 SCC 714. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 107 PERUMAL RAJA @ PERUMAL v. STATE, REP. BY INSPECTOR OF POLICE statement. Rajini @ Rajinikanth had been missing for months and was untraceable. In the present case, as discussed above, the homicidal death of Rajini @ Rajinikanth, the disclosure statement marked Exhibit P-37, and the consequent recovery as elucidated above have been proved beyond doubt and debate. 32. In State of Maharashtra v. Suresh22, this Court in the facts therein held that recovery of a dead body, which was from the place pointed out by the accused, was a formidable incriminating circumstance. This would, the Court held, reveal that the dead body was concealed by the accused unless there is material and evidence to show that somebody else had concealed it and this fact came to the knowledge of the accused either because he had seen that person concealing the dead body or was told by someone else that the dead body was concealed at the said location. Here, if the accused declines and does not tell the criminal court that his knowledge of the concealment was on the basis of the possibilities that absolve him, the court can presume that the dead body (or physical object, as the case may be) was concealed by the accused himself. This is because the person who can offer the explanation as to how he came to know of such concealment is the accused. If the accused chooses to refrain from telling the court as to how else he came to know of it, the presumption is that the concealment was by the accused himself. 33. The aforesaid view has been followed subsequently and reiterated in Harivadan Babubhai Patel v. State of Gujarat23, Vasanta Sampat Dupare v. State of Maharashtra24, State of Maharashtra v. Damu S/o Gopinath Shinde and Ors.25, and Rumi Bora Dutta v. State of Assam26. 34. Our reasoning, which places reliance on Section 106 of the Evidence Act, does not in any way dilute the burden of proof which is on the prosecution. Section 106 comes into play when the prosecution is able to establish the facts by way of circumstantial evidence. On this aspect we shall delve upon subsequently.