His evidence established that A7 assaulted the deceased with knife and he was assaulted by A3 with an axe. The High Court has arrived at the conclusion that evidence of PW-4 is quite natural and there is nothing to disbelieve his veracity. It has also been observed that PW-4, after the assault, was found lying unconscious. He was admitted to the hospital on the next date at 12.30 P.M. The contents of the wound certificate at Ex.P8 show that PW-4 was semi-conscious and it corroborates the version of PW-4 about his condition that he fell unconscious and was semi-conscious at the time when he was admitted to the hospital. 16. In those circumstances, the High Court has arrived at a conclusion that there is no reason to disbelieve the evidence of PW-4, and also that he was a witness to the assault on the deceased and was also a victim of assault. 17. The High Court also considered the evidence of PW-3 who was the eye witness of the incident. The High Court has observed that PW-3 certainly had several options, like informing by-standers at the bus-stop, going to Nagaral village or going to the police, but he went to the village of the deceased father at his Aidbhavi village as he was keen on informing PW-2, as he was the most appropriate person to be informed about the incident. In such circumstances, the High Court has arrived at the conclusion that the conduct of PW-3 in not informing others and going to Aidbhavi village to inform PW-2, could not be a reason to disbelieve his statement. The High Court has arrived a conclusion that the evidence of PW-3 and PW- 4, if read together, proves the alleged incident and the evidence of PW-3 and PW-4 establishes that Al, A2, A7 and A8 assaulted the deceased with clubs, however, there are no injuries reflected on the dead body of the deceased. 18. It has been further held that in respect of A3 to A6, the evidence of PW-3 and PW-4 is consistent and establishes their involvement in the assault and proves their guilt. The manner of assault in the overt acts of A3 to A6 corresponds with the injuries noted in the wound certificate and the post-mortem report. In those circumstances, the High Court has set aside the acquittal of A3, A4 and A5, and convicted them for offences punishable under Sections 302 read with Section [2024] 2 S.C.R. 299 Mallappa & Ors. v. State of Karnataka 34 of the Indian Penal Code and confirmed the of acquittal in respect of A1, A2, A7 and A8. 19. Assailing the of the High Court, the appellants submit that the High Court has erred in re-appreciating the entire evidence without finding any fault with the appreciation of evidence by the Trial Court. They submit that re-appreciation of the entire evidence at the appellate stage is not permissible until and unless a grave error has been identified in the view taken by the Trial Court.