It provided that: “(11) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any , decree or of any court of law, tribunal or other authority, all persons appointed as officers of Customs under sub-section (1) of section 4 before the 6th day of July, 2011 shall be deemed to have and always had the power of assessment under section 17 and shall be deemed to have been and always had been the proper officers for the purposes of this section.” 138. As stated in the foregoing extract, sub-section (11) was introduced in the statute to remedy the defects highlighted by this Court in the case of Sayed Ali (supra) and the same retrospectively empowered all officers of customs appointed under Section 4(1) before 06.07.2011 to conduct assessments under Section 17 of the Act and to be proper officers for the purpose of Section 28. 304 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 139. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Validation Act explained that the introduction of Section 28(11) was necessary because the position of law on the functions of proper officers as interpreted by this Court in Sayed Ali (supra) and the consequent invalidation of show cause notices issued by the Commissionerates of Customs (Preventive), DRI and others, was not the legislative intent. Parliament clarified that show cause notices issued by officers of the Commissionerates of Customs (Preventive), DRI, Directorate General of Central Excise Intelligence (DGCEI) and Central Excise Commissionerates for demanding customs duty not levied or short levied or erroneously refunded under Section 28 in respect of goods imported are valid, irrespective of whether any specific assignment as proper officer was issued. 140. The Validation Act was first challenged before the High Court of Bombay in the case of Sunil Gupta (supra) on the grounds that it is violative of Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution and that it fails to take note of Explanation 2 to Section 28. Relying on Sayed Ali (supra), the petitioners therein challenged the Validation Act on the ground that it is only the officers of customs who are assigned functions of assessment including the reassessment and they alone are competent to issue notice under Section 28. x. Bombay High Court decision in Sunil Gupta (supra) 141. Similar grounds were taken by the petitioners before the High Court of Delhi in the case of Mangali Impex (supra) wherein it was submitted that there was an apparent conflict between Explanation 2 and Section 28(11) which rendered the Validation Act inapplicable to show cause notices issued prior to 08.04.2011 i.e., the date on which the new Section 28 came into force. It was further submitted that Section 28(11), by conferring powers of the proper officer to multiple sets of customs officers without any territorial or pecuniary jurisdictional limit, would result in utter chaos and confusion as envisaged in Sayed Ali (supra) and therefore, does not cure the defects pointed out therein. 142. The very same argument has been canvassed before us by the respondents herein.