Non-State actors exercising 274 [2012] 2 SCR 715 : (2012) 6 SCC 1 1614 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the State functions like establishing and running private educational institutions are also expected to respect and protect the rights of the child, but they are, not expected to surrender their rights constitutionally guaranteed.” (emphasis supplied) 206. These s affirm that the State must regulate private as well as non-State actors in ensuring children’s welfare and that the State holds primary responsibility for protecting children’s rights. Applied to child marriage, these principles reiterate that the State must enact and enforce laws that prohibit child marriage while ensuring that social, educational, and economic protections are in place to prevent the practice. IX. Way forward 207. In light of the foregoing analyses, we seek to formulate specific guidelines for achieving the elimination of child marriage while bearing in mind the delicate socio-economic interplay. The Union submits that the PCMA focuses on two key pillars: (a) raising awareness and (b) prosecution. Despite progress in awareness campaigns, there is still a pressing need to enhance accountability mechanisms, ensure mandatory reporting, and rehabilitate minors affected by child marriages. Further attention is required to make the legal framework more effective by addressing loopholes and ensuring swift action against offenders, particularly in areas with high child marriage prevalence. 208. Addressing child marriage requires an intersectional approach that acknowledges the overlapping vulnerabilities experienced by children, especially girls from marginalized communities. Intersectionality involves considering factors like gender, caste, socioeconomic status, and geography, which often increase the risks of early marriage. Preventive strategies should therefore be tailored to the unique needs of various communities and focus on addressing the root causes of child marriage, such as poverty, gender inequality, lack of education, and entrenched cultural practices. 209. The PCMA as a social legislation will only succeed through the collective efforts of all stakeholders to address the issue within a broader social framework which emphasises the need for multi-sectoral coordination. This necessitates the enhancement of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1615 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. reporting mechanisms, expansion of public awareness campaigns, and investment in the training and capacity-building of law enforcement officers and related actors. It is also crucial to regularly monitor the implementation of the Act, conduct evaluations to identify gaps, and establish feedback mechanisms to continually refine and improve responses to child marriage. As we issue these directions, we emphasize the need for more comprehensive approaches and community-driven strategies to ensure the complete eradication of child marriages. 210. We frame the following guidelines for the effective and useful implementation of the PCMA. The orientation of these guidelines is to prioritise prevention before protection and protection before penalisation. We are cognizant of the impact that criminalisation has on families and communities. To ensure effective use of penal provisions in the PCMA, it is imperative that there is widespread awareness and education about child marriage and the legal consequences of its commission.