20. The position of law discussed above makes it clear that sale certificate issued by the authorised officer is not compulsorily registrable. Mere filing under Section 89(4) of the Registration Act itself is sufficient when a copy of the sale certificate is forwarded by the authorised officer to the registering authority. However, a perusal of Articles 18 and 23 respectively of the first schedule to the Stamp Act respectively makes it clear that when the auction purchaser presents the original sale certificate for registration, it would attract stamp duty in accordance with the said Articles. As long as the sale certificate remains as it is, it is not compulsorily registrable. It is only when the auction purchaser uses the certificate for some other purpose that the requirement of payment of stamp duty, etc. would arise. 1342 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. We also do not find any force in the contention of the appellant that the High Court should not have exercised its writ jurisdiction under Article 226 as Respondent no. 1 had an alternate efficacious remedy of filing an appeal against the of the Company Judge in pursuance of which directions came to be passed by the Registrar. This Court in Radha Krishan Industries v. State of H.P. reported in (2021) 6 SCC 771 observed that an alternate remedy by itself does not divest the High Court of its powers under Article 226 of the Constitution in an appropriate case though ordinarily, a writ petition should not be entertained when an efficacious alternate remedy is provided by law. It was held that when a right is created by a statute, which itself prescribes the remedy or procedure for enforcing the right or liability, resort must be had to that particular statutory remedy before invoking the discretionary remedy under Article 226 of the Constitution. However, this Court clarified that this rule of exhaustion of statutory remedies is a rule of policy, convenience and discretion and if the High Court is objectively of the view that the nature of the controversy requires the exercise of its writ jurisdiction, such a view would not readily be interfered with. 22. In view of the aforesaid, the appeal fails and is hereby dismissed. 23. Pending application(s), if any, shall also stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan