Even then, having considered such ‘GROUNDS’, we are of the considered opinion that the s/ s under review do not suffer from any error apparent on the face of the record. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1003 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others 111. Thus, we have no hesitation to reject Mr. Sen’s contention and answer question (e) against the review petitioners. 112. As we approach the end, we need to address question (f) regarding the maintainability of several miscellaneous applications in the present batch that seek recall of certain s of this Court, whereby some of the land acquisition proceedings were declared to have lapsed. 113. Notably, while these have been filed in the form of miscellaneous applications, they are in essence akin to the RPs as they also seek reconsideration of this Court’s s. Since these miscellaneous applications also rely on Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra) as a ground for review/reconsideration of the previous s, they are squarely covered by the foregoing analysis in this . If we were to hold otherwise, we would be permitting the review petitioners to do something indirectly—i.e., seeking review through miscellaneous applications, which they could not have done directly—i.e., seeking review through RPs. This would open the law to being misused and lead to by-passing the legislative intent behind introduction of Explanation 1 to Rule 1 of XLVII, CPC which, as noticed in paragraph 91 of this , cannot be permitted by the Court. 114. In this regard, we find sufficient support in the decision in Delhi Administration v. Gurdip Singh Uban and others,49 where this Court held: “17. We next come to applications described as applications for ‘clarification’, ‘modification’ or ‘recall’ of s or s finally passed. We may point out that under the relevant Rule XL of the Supreme Court Rules, 1966 a review application has first to go before the learned Judges in circulation and it will be for the Court to consider whether the application is to be rejected without giving an oral hearing or whether notice is to be issued. […] However, with a view to avoid this procedure of ‘no hearing’, we find that sometimes applications are filed for ‘clarification’, ‘modification’ or ‘recall’ etc. not because any such clarification, modification is indeed necessary but because the applicant in reality wants a review and 49 [2000] Supp. 2 SCR 496 : (2000) 7 SCC 296 1004 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports also wants a hearing, thus avoiding listing of the same in chambers by way of circulation. Such applications, if they are in substance review applications, deserve to be rejected straight away inasmuch as the attempt is obviously to bypass XL Rule 3 relating to circulation of the application in chambers for consideration without oral hearing. By describing an application as one for ‘clarification’ or ‘modification’, — though it is really one of review — a party cannot be permitted to circumvent or bypass the circulation procedure and indirectly obtain a hearing in the open court.