86. In the aforesaid context, we may refer to the decision of this Court in State of Bihar v. Kripalu Shankar reported in (1987) 3 SCC 34, wherein it was held that the internal file notings reflect the views and line of thinking of a particular officer. It further held that such views would amount to disobedience or contempt of court only when they are translated into a formal decision. The relevant observations read as under: - “11. After this finding, the High Court held some of the officers of the government guilty solely on the basis of the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 595 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. views expressed by them in the files, which were not, in fact, accepted by the Government and which were only at the stage of suggestions and views. Shri K.K. Venugopal, the learned Counsel for the State contended that it would be unsafe to initiate action in contempt merely on the strength or notings by officials on the files, expressing their views and to do so would imperil the working of various departments in a Government in a democracy and would have far-reaching consequences. Sometimes a view expressed by an officer may be incorrect. The view so expressed passes through various hands and gets translated into action only at the ultimate stage. The views so expressed are only for internal use. Such views may indicate the line of thinking of a particular officer. Until the views so expressed culminate into an executable , the question of disobedience of court’s does not arise. Though the State Government have been found not guilty, the State has filed the appeal to protect its officers from independent and fearless expression of opinion and to see that the under appeal does not affect the proper functioning of the Government.” (Emphasis supplied) 87. The above observations of this Court fortify our view that once a decision is made, all opinions and deliberations pertaining to the said decision in the internal file-notings become a part of the process by which the decision is arrived at, and can be looked into for the purposes of judicial review. In other words, any internal discussions or notings that have been approved and formalized into a decision by an authority can be examined to ascertain the reasons and purposes behind such decisions for the overall judicial review of such decision- making process and whether it conforms to the principles enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution. 88. One another reason why the respondent cannot claim that its internal file-notings fall outside the purview of judicial review of the courts is in view of the inviolable rule that came to be recognized by this Court in Ramana Dayaram Shetty (supra) wherein it was held that an executive authority must be rigorously held to the standard by which it professes its actions to be judged. The relevant observations read as under: - 596 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “10.