It cannot be said that the funds of the Bank which were not lent to borrowers but were laid out in the form of deposits in another Bank to add to the profit instead of lying idle necessarily ceased to be a part of the stock-in-trade of the Bank, or that the interest arising therefrom did not form part of its business profits. Under the bye-laws one of the objects of the appellant Bank is to carry on the general business of Banking and therefore subject to the Cooperative Societies Act, it has to carry on its business in the manner that ordinary Banks do. It may be added that the various heads under Section 6 of the Income Tax Act and the provisions of that Act applicable to these various heads are mutually exclusive. Section 12 is a residuary section and does not come into operation until the preceding heads are excluded. CIT v. Basant Rai Takht Singh [(1933) ITR 197, 201].” (emphasis added) 16. The decision of the Privy Council in the case of Punjab Co-operative Bank v. Commissioner of Income Tax9 is also very relevant. It was held thus: 9 (1940) SCC Online PC 46 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 887 Bank of Rajasthan Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax “The principle to be applied in such a case is now well settled. It was admirably stated in a Scottish case, Californian Copper Syndicate v. Harris [(1904) 6 F. 894 : 5 Tax Cas. 159.] and the statement has been more than once approved both in the House of Lords and in the Judicial Committee: See for example Commissioner of Taxes v. Melbourne Trust Ltd. [1914 A.C. 1001 at p. 1010.]. Some dicta which appear to support the view that it is necessary to prove that the taxpayer has carried on a separate or severable business of buying and selling investments with a view to profit in to establish that profits made on the sale of investments are taxable, for example, the dicta in the case of Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. Scottish Automobile and General Insurance Co. [(1913-16) 6 Tax Cas. 381, at pp. 388, 389. ], cannot now be relied on. It is well established, to cite the exact words used in Californian Copper Syndicate v. Harris [(1904) 6 F. 894 : 5 Tax Cas. 159.]. “that enhanced values obtained from realization or conversion of securities may be so assessable where what is done is not merely a realization or change of investment, but an act done in what is truly the carrying on, or carrying out, of a business”. In the ordinary case of a Bank, the business consists in its essence of dealing with money and credit. Numerous depositors place their money with the Bank often receiving a small rate of interest on it. A number of borrowers receive loans of a large part of these deposited funds at somewhat higher rates of interest. But the Banker has always to keep enough cash or easily realisable securities to meet any probable demand by the depositors.