Moreover, this Court took note of the fact that subsequently the rules in the State of Kerala were amended in 2017 to prescribe a cut-off of 35% marks in the viva voce examination which was not the prevailing legal position when the process of selection was initiated in that case. The above extract from the decision of this Court in Sivanandan C T (supra) reveals that it was a cumulative set of factors set out in paragraph 14 which have led to the ultimate determination. The statutory rules had indicated in that case that the 1170 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports merit list would be prepared on the basis of the aggregate marks in the written examination and the viva voce. The Scheme of the High Court had specified that there would be no separate cut-off for the viva voce. Moreover, the process of shortlisting, as prescribed, was to be on the basis of the length of the service. Finally, the decision to prescribe a cut-off in the viva voce was taken much after the test was conducted. 57. The facts as they stand in the present case are clearly in contrast to those contained in Sivanandan C T (supra). As opposed to the Rules having made a specific provision, the Rules were clearly silent in the present case. It is in this backdrop, in the face of the silence of the statutory rules that the High Court had, in its initial Full Court Resolution dated 29 January 2013, prescribed an overall cut-off of 50% of combined marks in the written test and in the viva voce. The High Court, while amending the text of its Full Court Resolution of 29 January 2013, had done so in the exercise of the same administrative capacity which it had wielded while formulating the original Resolution. Hence, the Resolution of the High Court dated 30 November 2021 cannot be faulted in that regard. 58. The unsuccessful candidates in the present case have further relied on Sivanandan C T (supra) to contend that the absence of notice to the candidates about the imposition of the minimum cut-off marks for the viva voce contravenes their legitimate expectation. In Sivanandan C T (supra), this Court held that an individual who claims a benefit or entitlement based on the doctrine of legitimate expectation has to establish: (i) the legitimacy of the expectation; and (ii) that the denial of the legitimate expectation led to a violation of Article 14. In Sivanandan C T (supra), the statutory rules coupled with the Scheme of the High Court generated a legitimate expectation that (i) the merit list would be drawn based on the aggregate of the total marks received in the written examination and viva voce; and (ii) there would be no minimum cut-off marks for the viva voce. However, in the present case neither the statutory Rules, nor the High Court committed that there would be no cut-off marks for the viva voce so as to give rise to such a legitimate expectation on behalf of the petitioners.