The issue of registration of a document is with the State, which requires compulsory registration of documents so that it is not deprived of revenue by way of stamp duty payable on such transfers of immovable property. If the purchaser has no means to pay stamp duty or exorbitant demand of stamp duty is made by the registering authority which the purchaser is unable to pay at that time but he remains satisfied with the fact that the vendor has fairly and duly executed the sale deed presented it for registration and put him in possession of the purchased property which he is peacefully enjoying, he is always at liberty to pay the deficiency of stamp duty at any point of time. The document presented for registration will remain with the Registering Authority till such time, the deficiency is removed. However, this pendency of registration on account of deficiency cannot enure any benefit to the vendor, who has already eliminated all his rights by executing the sale deed after receiving the sale consideration. He cannot become the owner of the transferred land merely because the document of sale is pending for registration. It is the purchaser who cannot produce such document which is pending registration with respect to the immovable property in evidence before the Court of law as the same would be inadmissible in view of statutory provision contained in the TP Act as also the Act, 1908. 34. Coming to the submission of Mr. Ahmadi, learned senior counsel for the subsequent purchaser-respondent No.1, his claim would come up for consideration only if it is finally held that the sale deed of 02.12.1985 was not a valid sale deed. As otherwise all the rights, title and interest of the vendor- respondent no.2 would be curtailed from the date of execution of the first sale deed on 02.12.1985. As we have already held above that the sale deed cannot be discarded 2326 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports as void ab initio, rather we have held that it is a valid document of sale, therefore, no benefit can be extended to respondent no.1. Respondent no.1 would enter the shoes of the respondent no.2. If respondent no.2 had alienated all his rights, title and interest and also delivered possession, respondent no.1 could not claim to be a bona fide purchaser for value without notice. 35. The doctrine of bona fide purchaser for value applies in situations where the seller appears to have some semblance of legitimate ownership rights. However, this principle does not protect a subsequent purchaser if the vendor had already transferred those rights through a prior sale deed. In a case where the vendor deceitfully executes a second sale deed 26 years after the initial transfer, without disclosing the earlier transaction and without any ongoing litigation regarding the property, the subsequent purchaser cannot claim the benefits of a bona fide purchaser. Essentially, if the vendor’s rights were already severed by the first sale, any later sale deed made without transparency and in bad faith is invalid.