On 1st April, 2003, Shivani @ Kaku approached him and pressurized him to elope with her. He tried to reason with her that it was not the right step and advised her to return home. Since, she was pressurizing him for marriage, he assured her that they would marry. He was illegally detained by the CIA officials on 26th April, 2003 and was kept confined and tortured in custody. No recovery was effected from him and all the recoveries were manipulated. The other accused also denied the prosecution allegations and claimed to be innocent. Four witnesses were examined in defence. 16. After hearing the arguments of both the sides and analysing the evidence, the learned trial Court proceeded to convict and sentence the accused appellants(A1, A2, A3 and A4) as above vide and dated 26th September, 2005. The appeals preferred by the appellants against the rendered by the trial Court were rejected by the Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court vide dated 19th, January, 2009 which is subjected to challenge in these four appeals by special leave. 344 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Submissions of learned counsel for the appellants:- 17. Ms. Kiran Suri, learned senior counsel representing the accused appellant Gaurav Bhalla(A-2), vehemently and fervently contended that the entire case setup by the prosecution is false and fabricated. For assailing the impugned s, learned senior counsel advanced the following pertinent submissions: - (i) That the alleged incident of kidnapping and demand of ransom took place on 2nd April, 2003. Even though the kidnapped boy, i.e., Sachin Garg(PW-2) had been released on 3rd April, 2003, the family members took no steps whatsoever to report the matter to the police. This rank silence of the family members and their utter failure to report the matter to the police or the authorities casts a grave doubt on the truthfulness of the entire prosecution case. (ii) That the Investigating Officer(PW-37) went to the house of the kidnapped boy on 15th April, 2023, and recorded the statement of his grandfather Shamlal Garg on the very same day. However, no effort was made by the Investigating Officer(PW-37) to record the statement of Sachin Garg(PW-2) on the same day despite he being available in the house. Sachin Garg(PW-2), categorically stated to the Investigation Officer(PW-37) on 20th April, 2003 that he had identified Gaurav Bhalla(A2) at the time of the incident. Had there been an iota of truth in the prosecution case, identity of Gaurav Bhalla(A2) would definitely have been disclosed by Shamlal Garg to the Investigating Officer(PW-37), when his statement was recorded on 15th April, 2003. (iii) That the entire process of recovery of money and other articles at the instance of the accused is totally fabricated and remained unsubstantiated because the arrest memos of the accused were never proved by the prosecution. The accused made pertinent assertion that the police had kept them illegally confined for almost seven days and thus proving of the arrest documents was imperative to arrive at the truth of the case.