It is only on establishing the three facts that the offence of money laundering is committed. When the foundational facts of Section 24 are met, a legal presumption would arise that the proceeds of crime are involved in money laundering. The person concerned who has no causal connection with such proceeds of crime can disprove their involvement in the process or activity connected therewith by producing evidence or material in that regard. In that event, the legal presumption would be rebutted. 47. We now turn to the facts of the present case. At the outset we must record that the DoE has produced the “reasons to believe” to invoke Section 19(1) of the PML Act. We have examined the contents thereof and the contents of the “grounds of arrest” furnished to Arvind Kejriwal upon his arrest. They are identical.44 42 [2004] Supp. 6 SCR 460 : (2005) 1 SCC 568 43 It goes without saying that the oral evidence when recorded in the Court can be taken into consideration. 44 The reasons to believe are enclosed at pages 19 to 34 of Volume I of the convenience compilation filed by the DoE. The grounds of arrest are to be found at pages 35 to 62 of the same compilation. 2402 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 48. We would briefly refer to the contents of the “reasons to believe”: • CBI has registered an RC regarding framing and implementation of the excise policy by the Govt. of NCT of Delhi for the year 2021- 22 with the intent to procure undue favours from the licensee post the tender. Contents of the FIR have been elaborated. • DoE has registered an ECIR on the basis of the aforesaid predicate offence. Upon investigation by the DoE, several searches have been conducted and statements have been recorded. • Salient features of the excise policy that establish criminality are: ο The wholesale entity should not be a manufacturer/winery/ brewery/bottler of liquor in India or abroad either directly or through any sister entities; ο The manufacturer/winery/brewery/bottler of liquor has to choose a distributor holding wholesale license for supply of Indian and foreign liquor as an exclusive distributor; ο The wholesale licensee shall not directly or indirectly have any retail wings. The retail license holder shall not be a manufacturer/winery/brewery/bottler of liquor in India or abroad either directly or through any sister concerns/ related entities; ο The final price to the retailer shall be fixed by the excise commissioner as per the formula prescribed which will include the profit margin of 12% for the wholesale license holders. • A cartel was formed wherein one group/person effectively would be controlling manufacturing, wholesale and retail entitles of liquor business in return for bribes/kickbacks. • The excise policy 2021 was implemented on 17.11.2021, which continued till 31.08.2022, after which the government discontinued the policy and went back to the old regime. • The role of Arvind Kejriwal is elaborated. He has been described as the kingpin/key conspirator in formulation of the policy, which favoured certain persons in exchange for kickbacks from liquor businessmen.