They would further contend that the offences alleged against the 3rd respondent were serious offences having impact on the society and letting off the third respondent untried might result in recurrence of such instances besides it being injustice to the victim and society as a whole. On 30.09.2022, this Court issued notice and taking note of the involvement of important issues in the matter, requested Mr. R. Basant, learned Sr. advocate to assist the Court as amicus curiae, which request was graciously accepted by the learned counsel. On 13.10.2022, Mr. Aviral Saxena, learned advocate, agreed to assist the learned Senior Counsel. On 02.12.2022, upon hearing the learned counsel appearing for the parties and the learned amicus curiae and taking note of difficulty to continue the writ petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of India this Court converted the writ petition into Special Leave Petition under Article 136 of the Constitution of India and further ed thus:- “Let the parties address the Court on merits on the next date of hearing. List on 20.01.2023” 5. The learned counsel appearing respectively for the third and fourth respondents vehemently challenged the locus standi of the appellants to challenge the dated 04.02.2022 passed thereon as they were not parties to the above mentioned Crl. Misc. Petition. Besides challenging the locus standi of the appellants they would contend that the quashment of the subject FIR and all further proceedings therefrom is legally permissible in view of the law laid down by this Court in Gian Singh’s case (supra) and the reason for such interference and consequential quashment are specifically mentioned in the impugned . According to the said respondents the appellants besides being total strangers to the Misc. Petition and are not at all affected by the impugned . Meanwhile Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) have filed an intervention application seeking permission to assist the Court for proper adjudication of the issues 648 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports raised in the Special Leave Petition. Considering the nature of the issues involved and the fact that intervention is sought for by the Commission for Protection for Child Rights we have heard learned counsel for the intervenor, besides the learned amicus curae Sri R. Basant, with the able assistance of Mr. Avival Saxena and the learned counsel for the parties. 6. Considering the conspectus of facts and taking note of the rival contentions, the following twin questions of relevance arise for consideration in this appeal: - (I.) Whether a third party to a criminal proceeding got locus standi to challenge the quashing the FIR concerned and all further proceedings pursuant thereto based on a compromise arrived at by the parties, in a Special Leave Petition under Article 136 of the Constitution of India? (II.) Whether the power to quash criminal proceedings or complaint or FIR in regard to heinous and serious offences having serious impact on society, is exercisable merely because the offender and victim or parent(s) of the victim arrived at a compromise, relying on the dictum laid down by this Court in Gian Singh’s case (supra)?