Nothing has been canvassed before us to indicate that such rate was exorbitant or disproportionate, requiring judicial interdiction. There is no dispute that in the Meeting held on 29.08.2005, the advertising companies did not object to payment of royalty, as sought by the Corporation. Hence, a challenge could, later be mounted on limited grounds to the quantum/rate of royalty, and not on the decision to charge royalty itself. Even otherwise, as we do not find that the ‘royalty’ was a tax/ levy, the action of the Corporation cannot be struck down merely on the ground of having quoted Section 431 of the Act (wrongly), for, quoting the wrong provision of law, when the power to do an act otherwise exists, would not invalidate or render illegal the act in question. A Bench of three learned Judges in N Mani v. Sangeetha Theatre (2004) 12 SCC 278 held: ‘9. It is well settled that if an authority has a power under the law merely because while exercising that power the source of power is not specifically referred to or a reference is made to a wrong provision of law, that by itself does not vitiate the exercise of power so long as the power does exist and can be traced to a source available in law.’ (emphasis supplied) 30. The decision in N Mani (supra) was relied upon by two learned Judges in Ram Sunder Ram v Union of India, 2007 (9) SCALE 197, wherein this Court reiterated that quoting the wrong provision of law, when the authority concerned is otherwise empowered to carry out an act, could not vitiate the act on such ground alone. Likewise, and on taking note of N Mani (supra) and Ram Sunder Ram (supra), 2 learned Judges in P K Palanisamy v N Arumugham (2009) 9 SCC 173 opined as under: ‘27. … Only because a wrong provision was mentioned by the appellant, the same, in our opinion, by itself would not be a ground to hold that the application was not maintainable or that the passed thereon would be a nullity. It is a well-settled principle of law that mentioning 1400 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of a wrong provision or non-mentioning of a provision does not invalidate an if the court and/or statutory authority had the requisite jurisdiction therefor.’ (emphasis supplied) 31. The above principle found acceptance also, inter alia, in Mohd. Shahabuddin v State of Bihar (2010) 4 SCC 653 and State of Haryana v Raj Kumar (2021) 9 SCC 292. 32. Respondent No.1 placed strong emphasis on the Patna Municipal Corporation (Grant of Permission for Display of Advertisements & Similar Devices) Regulations, 2012 dated 04.07.2012 and published in the Official Gazette on 13.08.2012. We find that this relates only to grant of permission for display of advertisements and similar devices in any place within the jurisdiction of the Corporation. However, it cannot be said that these Regulations would have conferred the right to demand royalty by the Corporation, which we find was traceable to the agreement/arrangement between the parties.