Every judicial officer is required to work both before and after the court working hours. The judicial work of each day requires preparation before cases are called out. A judicial officer continues to work on cases which may have been dealt with in court, in terms of preparing the and attending to other administrative aspects of the judicial record. That apart, members of the district judiciary have wide ranging administrative functions which take place beyond working hours, especially on week-ends including the discharge of numerous duties in relation to prison establishments, juvenile justice institutions, legal service camps and in general, work associated with the Legal Services Act 1987. 8 2024 INSC 26 : [2024] 1 SCR 327 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1053 Justice Shailendra Singh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. 14. The work of a Judge cannot be assessed solely in terms of their duties during court working hours. The State is under an affirmative obligation to ensure dignified conditions of work for its judicial officers and it cannot raise the defense of an increase in financial burden or expenditure. Judicial officers spend the largest part of their working life in service of the institution. The nature of the office often renders the incumbent incapacitated in availing of opportunities for legal work which may otherwise be available to a member of the Bar. That furnishes an additional reason why post-retirement, it is necessary for the State to ensure that judicial officers are able to live in conditions of human dignity. It needs to be emphasized that providing for judges, both during their tenure and upon retirement, is correlated with the independence of the judiciary. Judicial independence, which is necessary to preserve the faith and confidence of common citizens in the rule of law, can be ensured and enhanced only so long as judges are able to lead their life with a sense of financial dignity. The conditions of service while a judge is in service must ensure a dignified existence. The post-retirement conditions of service have a crucial bearing on the dignity and independence of the office of a judge and how it is perceived by the society. If the service of the judiciary is to be a viable career option so as to attract talent, conditions of service, both for working and retired officers, must offer security and dignity.” (emphasis supplied) 20. Members of the Bar who are appointed to the High Court are entitled to subscribe to the General Provident Fund in terms of Section 20 of the Act of 1954. The issue is whether such a benefit can be denied to a Judge of the High Court who was a member of the district judiciary prior to their appointment as a Judge of the High Court. 21. The High Courts are constitutional institutions. Their status as constitutional institutions is recognised by Article 216. Article 216 does not make any distinction between the source through which 1054 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports judges of the High Court are recruited.