Furthermore, the decision of the High Court to apply the minimum cut-off marks for the viva voce is grounded in legality, and therefore, cannot be faulted for contravening the established practice. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1171 Dr Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana & Ors iv. Articles 233, 234 and 235 of the Constitution of India 59. That leads us to the analysis of the provisions of Articles 233, 234 and 235 of the Constitution. Clause (1) of Article 233 stipulates that appointment of persons to be District Judges in the State and their posting and promotion shall be made by the Governor in consultation with the High Court exercising jurisdiction in the State. According to Article 234, appointments of persons other than District Judges to the Judicial Service of a State are to be made by the Governor in accordance with the rules made in that behalf after consulting the State Public Service Commission and the High Court exercising jurisdiction in relation to the State. Control over the “Subordinate Courts” under Article 235 is vested in the High Court. Article 235 provides that: “The control over district courts and courts subordinate thereto including the posting and promotion of, and the grant of leave to, persons belonging to the judicial service of a State and holding any post inferior to the post of district judge shall be vested in the High Court, but nothing in this article shall be construed as taking away from any such person any right of appeal which he may under the law regulating the conditions of his service or as authorising the High Court to deal with him otherwise than in accordance with the conditions of his service prescribed under such law.” 60. These provisions have been dealt with in several decisions of this Court, including in decisions of Constitution Benches. In the course of its , the High Court has elaborately dealt with several of these s. 61. In Chandra Mohan v. State of Uttar Pradesh25, a Constitution Bench of this Court, speaking through Chief Justice K Subba Rao, held that the constitutional mandate under Article 233 is that the exercise of the power of appointment by the Governor is conditioned by consultation with the High Court. The object of consultation is that the High Court is expected to know better than the Governor the suitability of a person belonging either to the Judicial Service or 25 [1967] 1 SCR 77 : (1967) 1 SCR 77 1172 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to the Bar for appointment as a District Judge. The Court held that the mandate would stand disobeyed if the Governor either did not consult the High Court at all or if it were to consult the High Court or any other person in a manner not contemplated. The Court held that in case the Governor consults an authority other than the High Court, it would amount to indirect infringement of the mandate of the Constitution. In situations where the Constitution sought to provide for more than one consultant, it did so (for e.g.