Rule 16E deals with the jurisdiction of Tribunals constituted under the Foreigners 212 ibid 213 The Foreigners (Tribunals) 1964; Paragraph 3(14) 214 The Foreigners (Tribunals) 1964; Paragraph 3(5) (a) to (j) 215 The Foreigners (Tribunals) 1964; Paragraph 4 216 See Notification No. GSR 25 (E), dt. 15.1.1987 1308 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (Tribunals) 1964 to deal with references under Section 6A(3). Rule 16F provides for the registering authority and procedure for registration for the purpose of Section 6A(3).217 119. The legislature by adopting Section 6A(3) in the current form required the State to make rules for its implementation. As explained above, the detection as a foreigner is an elaborate process that required the State to build manpower and infrastructure for its implementation. The Legislature conferred the State with the duty to implement the provision after it had built sufficient infrastructure for the same. The purpose of Section 6A(3) was to provide a long term solution to the issue of the large influx of migrants from Bangladesh to Assam. It is true that one of the causes of concern which led to the Assam Students’ Movement (and culminated with the Assam Accord) was the dilution of the electoral right of those native to Assam because of the inflow of migrants. However, the purpose of Section 6A(3) cannot be limited to it. The objective behind the enactment of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act 1985 was to deal with the larger problem of whether Bangladesh migrants of Indian Origin could secure citizenship in India. The objective of the provision must be understood in the backdrop of the Indian policy on post-partition migration and the Assam movement. The provision strives to bring about a balance between both the objectives. Having said that, the concerns of the petitioners regarding the burden on the resources of the State and on its demographic identity due the influx of illegal 217 “16F. The registering authority for the purpose of section 6A(3) and form of application foe registration: (1) The registering authority, for the purpose of sub-section (3) of section 6A of the Act shall be such officer as maybe appointed by each district of Assam by the Central Government. (2) An application for registration under sub-section (3) of section 6A of the Act shall be filed in Form XXIII by the person with the registering authority for the district in which he is ordinarily resident- a. Whithin thirty days from the date ofhis detection as a foreigner, where such detection takes place after the commencement of the Citizenship(Amendment) Rules 1986; or b. Within thirty days of the appointment of the registering authority for the district concerned where such detection has taken place before the coomencement of the Citizenship (Amendment) Rules 1986 (3) The registering authority shall, after entering the particulars of the application in a register in Form XXIV, return a copy of the application under his seals to the applicant. (4) One copy of every application received during a quarter shall be sent by the registering authority to the Central Government and the State Government of Assam along with a quarterly return in Form XXV.