(2) The State shall not, in granting aid to educational institutions, discriminate against any educational institution on the ground that it is under the management of a minority, whether based on religion or language.” 33. Other provisions in the Constitution of India,such as Article 19, for instance, also provide a similar freedom to establish educational institutions. However, the distinguishing and unique nature of Article 30 lies in its broader protection against State intervention. The interplay of these Articles has been thoroughly examined by an eleven-judge bench of this Court in TMA Pai (supra): “18. With regard to the establishment of educational institutions, three articles of the Constitution come into play. Article 19(1)(g) gives the right to all the citizens to practise any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business; this right is subject to restrictions that may be placed under Article 19(6). Article 26 gives the right to every religious denomination to establish and maintain an institution for religious purposes, which would include an educational institution. Article 19(1)(g) and Article 26, therefore, confer rights on all citizens and religious denominations to establish and maintain educational institutions. There was no serious dispute that the majority community as well as linguistic and religious minorities would have a right under Articles 19(1)(g) and 26 to establish educational institutions. In addition, Article 30(1), [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1775 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. in no uncertain terms, gives the right to the religious and linguistic minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.” 34. The distinction between broader rights such as Article 19 and Article 30, is thus clearly visible. Though Article 19 grants all citizens the right to establish institutions, it does not indemnify these institutions from State intervention in their administration and allows reasonable restrictions in the interests of the public. In contrast, Article 30 provides a specific right for religious minorities to establish and administer educational institutions without significant State interference. Additionally, whereas Articles 25 to 28 grant general rights to religious denominations, Article 30 specifically protects the rights of religious minorities. B.1. Relevant case laws on the interpretation of Article 30 35. While the judicial interpretation of the scope and nuances of Article 30 will be discussed later in relevant parts of the judgement, a brief note of the landmark edicts that have been enumerated on this provision can be laid out. Over the course of several decades, through multiple judicial pronouncements and interpretations, the Supreme Court has held that the right provided under Article 30 is not absolute. An eleven-judge bench in TMA Pai (supra) and a seven-judge bench in P.A. Inamdar v. State of Maharashtra,48 have held that while the minority community possesses the right to administer the educational institutions, the State may impose reasonable regulations for the benefit of these institutions. Similarly, five-judge benches in Islamic Academy of Education v. State of Karnataka49 and St. Stephen’s College v. University of Delhi50 have held that the State can prescribe general rules regarding merit in admissions.