(2) Before passing an , the Board shall obtain a social investigation report in Form 6 prepared by the Probation Officer or Child Welfare Officer or social worker as ed, and take the findings of the report into account. (3) All dispositional s passed by the Board shall necessarily include an individual care plan in Form 7 for the child in conflict with law concerned, prepared by a Probation Officer or Child Welfare Officer or a recognised 784 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports voluntary organisation on the basis of interaction with the child and his family, where possible. (4) Where the Board is satisfied that it is neither in the interest of the child himself nor in the interest of other children to keep a child in the special home, the Board may the child to be kept in a place of safety and in a manner considered appropriate by it. (5) Where the Board decides to release the child after advice or admonition or after participation in group counselling or s him to perform community service, necessary direction may also be issued by the Board to the District Child Protection Unit for arranging such counselling and community service. (6) Where the Board decides to release the child in conflict with law on probation and place him under the care of the parent or the guardian or fit person, the person in whose custody the child is released may be required to submit a written undertaking in Form 8 for good behaviour and well-being of the child for a maximum period of three years. (7) The Board may the release of a child in conflict with law on execution of a personal bond without surety in Form 9. (8) In the event of placement of the child in a fit facility or special home, the Board shall consider that the fit facility or special home is located nearest to the place of residence of the child’s parent or guardian, except where it is not in the best interest of the child to do so. (9) The Board, where it releases a child on probation and places him under the care of parent or guardian or fit person or where the child is released on probation and placed under the care of fit facility, it may also that the child be placed under the supervision of a Probation Officer who shall submit periodic reports in Form 10 and the period of such supervision shall be maximum of three years. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 785 Child in Conflict with Law Through his Mother v. The State of Karnataka and Another (10) Where it appears to the Board that the child has not complied with the probation conditions, it may the child to be produced before it and may send the child to a special home or place of safety for the remaining period of supervision. (11) In no case, the period of stay in the special home or the place of safety shall exceed the maximum period provided in clause (g) of sub-section (1) of section 18 of the Act.