(3) Nothing in this section shall authorize the imposition 886 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of any tax which the State Legislature has no power to impose in the State under the Constitution: Provided that a Municipality which immediately before the commencement of the Constitution was lawfully levying any such tax under this section as then in force, may continue to levy that tax until provision to the contrary is made by Parliament. (i) A tax on the annual value of buildings or lands or both; (ii) A water tax on the annual value of buildings or lands or both; (iii) A drainage tax on the annual value of buildings leviable on such buildings as are situated within a distance, to be fixed by rules in this behalf for each municipality from the nearest sewer lines; (iv) A conservancy tax for the collection, removal and disposal of excrementious and polluted matter from privies, urinals, cesspools; (2) x x x (3) The municipal taxes shall be assessed and levied in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules and bye-laws framed thereunder. (4) Nothing in this section shall authorize the imposition of any tax which the State Legislature has no power to impose in the State under the Constitution: Provided that a Municipality which immediately before the commencement of the Constitution was lawfully levying any such tax under this section as then in force, may continue to levy that tax until provisions to the contrary is made by the Parliament. x x x 129-A. Levy of tax on annual value of buildings or lands or both.- The Tax on annual value of buildings or lands or both shall be levied in respect of all buildings and lands situated in the municipal limit except,- x x x [2024] 2 S.C.R. 887 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others (e) building and land vested in the Union of India, except where provisions of clause (2) of Article 285 of the Constitution of India, apply;” 12.1 Section 140 of the said Act defines annual value. 13. The relevant provisions of the Act of 1959 are extracted as under as they are applicable to Lucknow Nagar Nigam (Municipal Corporation) – the appellant herein: “172. Taxes to be imposed under this Act. – (1) For the purposes of this Act and subject to the provisions thereof and of Article 285 of the Constitution of India the Corporation shall impose the following taxes, namely- (a) property taxes; x x x (3) The Corporation taxes shall be assessed and levied in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules and bye-laws framed thereunder. (4) Nothing in this section shall authorize the imposition of any tax which the State Legislature has no power to impose in the State under the Constitution of India: Provided that where any tax was being lawfully levied in the area included in the City immediately before the commencement of the Constitution of India such tax may continue to be levied and applied for the purposes of this Act until provision to the contrary is made by Parliament.