iv. What is the true meaning and purport of the in Azeez Basha [supra]? v. What must be the approach of the court in balancing the conflicting narratives of history presented before it in such cases? vi. What was the legislative scenario governing the Universities in India prior to the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 and how does the same impact the judicial enquiry in the present matter? vii. Whether the Legislature using the terms “establish” and/ or “incorporate” in the Preamble of a legislation would be determinative of the question of establishment? viii. What is the impact of the Constitution coming into force and the subsequent legislative amendments made to the AMU Act on the present proceedings? ix. Whether the presence of members of the minority community in the governance of the institution, without any necessary legal requirement for the same, would impact the question of the institution falling under Article 30? x. Whether Article 30 exists to protect institutions from “majoritarianism by default” approach? xi. Whether the UGC Act, 1956 and the judgement in Yashpal [supra] impacts on the correctness of the in Azeez Basha [supra]? [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1961 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. xii. Whether the NCMEI Act, 2004 impacts on the correctness of the in Azeez Basha [supra]? 126. The following issues and proceedings are however, left to be decided by a regular bench: i. Whether the AMU was “established” and “administered” by the minority community and therefore entitled to claim protection under Article 30? ii. Whether the 1981 amendment to the AMU Act, 1920, was an impermissible exercise of legislative power? iii. Whether the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admissions) Act, 2006, would be applicable to the AMU? iv. The civil appeal challenging the of the Hon’ble Allahabad High Court dated 16.10.2015 that dismissed the prayer for quo warranto regarding the appointment of the then Vice Chancellor of Appellant-University - SLP(C) No. 32490 of 2015; v. The writ petition under Article 32 seeking a writ or direction to the Appellant - University to follow the regulations laid by University Grants Commission (‘UGC’) in 2010 on minimum qualifications for appointment of teachers and academic staff - WP(C) No. 272 of 2016. f. whether estaBlIshment Is necessary 127. The first question that needs to be answered is whether an institution needs to be “established” by the minority community in to claim protection/rights under Article 30? In other words, is it possible for an institution to “acquire” the status of a minority institution without being established as one? While there has not been much contest on the aforesaid question, considering the fact that it has arisen before this Court on numerous occasions and further was one of the factors for the reference in Anjuman [supra], it would be appropriate that the same is settled for posterity. 128. The first which may provide some assistance in this regard would be the landmark in case of Re: Kerala Education Bill, 1957, 1959 SCR 995, rendered by a bench of seven judges wherein this Court deliberated on the prerequisites for invoking Article 30 for 1962 [2024] 11 S.C.R.