3, is established as the extended family of the propositus, irrespective of whether the marriages of appellant No. 2 and respondent No. 2 with MG are void or voidable, denying the children of MG a share in the property of notional partitioned in favour of MG, is unsustainable in law and fact – Also, applying the principle laid down in Revanasiddappa and another v. Mallikarjun and others on entitlement of share to the children of void and voidable marriages, the s under appeal are set aside. [Paras 15.1, 16, 17, 18] Evidence Act, 1872 – Admission: Held: Admission is a conscious and deliberate act and not something that could be inferred – An admission could be a positive act of acknowledgement or confession – To constitute an admission, one of the requirements is a voluntary acknowledgement through a statement of the existence of certain facts during the judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings, which conclude as true or valid the allegations made in the proceedings or in the notice – The formal act of acknowledgement during the proceedings waives or dispenses with the production of evidence by the contesting party – The admission concedes, for the purpose of litigation, the proposition of fact claimed by the opponents as true – An admission is also the best evidence the opposite party can rely upon, and though inconclusive, is decisive of the matter unless successfully withdrawn or proved erroneous by the other side. [Para 13.1] [2024] 1 S.C.R. 415 Raja Gounder and Others v. M. Sengodan and Others Case Law Cited Revanasiddappa and another v. Mallikarjun and others (2023) 10 SCC 1 – relied on. Gopal Das and another v. Sri Thakurji and others AIR 1943 PC 83 – referred to. Nirmala v. Rukminibai AIR 1994 Kar 247 – approved. List of Acts Evidence Act, 1872 – ss. 17 and 18. List of Keywords Partition; Factum of marriage; Void or voidable marriage; Status of wife; Status of the children through the extended family; Coparceners; Admission by record; Entitlement of share to the children of void and voidable marriages; Preliminary decree of partition; Notional partition. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.600 of 2024. From the and dated 26.09.2006 of the High Court of Judicature at Madras in AS No.929 of 1991. Appearances for Parties Ms. N. S. Nappinai, V. Balaji, A. Krishna Kumar, R. Mohan, Nizamuddin, C. Kannan, Rakesh K. Sharma, Advs. for the Appellants. Vinodh Kanna B., K. K. S. Krishnaraj, T. R. B. Sivakumar, Ms. Shagufa Khan, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court S.V.N. Bhatti, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. The Defendant Nos. 3 to 5 in O.S. No. 357 of 1985 before the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Sankari, Coimbatore District, Tamil Nadu, are the Appellants in the Civil Appeal. The Appellants assail the and decree of the Trial Court and the High Court of 416 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Judicature at Madras, dismissing the suit filed by Respondent No. 1 and Respondent No.