The process to constitute manufacture should either be labelling or re-labelling of containers and repacking from bulk packs to retail packs. This process was construed to be one whole. In other words, the activity should not only include labelling or re-labelling of containers but the same should relate to repacking from bulk packs to retail packs. This was one activity. The other activity was adoption of any other treatment to render the product marketable to the consumer. Therefore, the legislature was quite clear that if either of the two processes were followed, the same would amount to manufacture. 13.3. However, after the amendment i.e. post 01.03.2008, Note 3 has undergone a change as indicated above. Now because of substitution of the word ‘or’ in place of the word ‘and’ between the two expressions ‘labelling or re-labelling of containers’ and ‘repacking from bulk packs to retail packs’, the earlier composite process of labelling or re-labelling of containers and repacking from bulk packs to retail packs has been split up into two independent processes. Labelling or re-labelling of containers is one process and repacking from bulk packs to retail packs has now become another process. Therefore, instead of two [2024] 5 S.C.R. 283 Commissioner of Central Excise Belapur v. Jindal Drugs Ltd. activities, Note 3 now contemplates three activities. As pointed out above, the composite activity of labelling or re-labelling of containers and repacking from bulk packs to retail packs has been split up into two activities i.e. labelling or re-labelling of containers is one and the other is repacking from bulk packs to retail packs. The other activity of adopting any other treatment to render the product marketable to the consumers remains the same. Therefore, Note 3, post amendment, as it exists today contemplates three different processes; if either of the three processes are satisfied, the same would amount to manufacture. The three processes are: (i) labelling or re-labelling of containers; or (ii) repacking from bulk packs to retail packs; or (iii) the adoption of any other treatment to render the product marketable to the consumer. 13.4. As already observed above, if any one of the above three processes is satisfied then the same would amount to manufacture. 14. We have already noticed the definition of ‘manufacture’ in the Central Excise Act. Any one of the processes indicated in Note 3 to Chapter 18 of the Central Excise Tariff Act would come within the ambit of the definition of ‘manufacture’ under Section 2(f)(ii) of the Central Excise Act. 15. There is no factual dispute as to the activity carried out by the respondent at its Taloja unit. Whether the goods are brought from the Jammu unit or are imported, those are relabelled on both sides of the packs containing the goods at the Taloja unit of the respondent and thereafter, introduced in the market or sent for export. In terms of Note 3 to Chapter 18, this process of re-labelling amounts to ‘manufacture’. 16. That being the position, we are of the considered opinion that the view taken by CESTAT is the correct one and no case for interference is made out.