4. Other arguments raised relate to — the alleged modification of the VVPAT in the year 2017, whereby the glass window on the VVPAT was made translucent/tinted instead of transparent, depriving the voter from knowing whether the vote cast by him was actually registered and counted; Rule 49MA of the Conduct of Election Rules, 19615 is draconian, arbitrary, and contrary to law as reference to Section 177 of the Indian Penal Code, 18606 in the written declaration under Rule 49MA is wrong and misconceived; and lastly, the voters’ right to know that the vote as cast is duly registered, being a paramount and indelible fundamental right, any administrative reason and ground raised by the ECI objecting to 100% counting of the VVPAT paper trail should be rejected. 5. Paper ballots were the norm, till EVMs were projected as a viable alternative in 1980s. EVMs were first used in an assembly bye- 1 For short, ‘ECI’. 2 For short, ‘EVMs’ 3 ‘Voters’ and ‘Electors’ is used interchangeably. 4 For short, ‘VVPAT’. 5 For short, ‘1961 Rules’. 6 For short, ‘IPC’. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 425 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another election in Kerala in 1982. All through the 1980s and early 1990s, the use of EVMs for elections was discussed and debated by politicians and experts in the domain of technology and electoral process, and after due deliberations and review, the EVMs were accepted and embraced. In view of the legal challenge7 regarding use of EVMs without legislative approval, the Parliament vide Act 1 of 1989 amended the Representation of the People Act, 19518 allowing the use of EVMs. They were used in the General Elections in 2004 and have been used in each and every General and other election thereafter. 6. ECI maintains that the EVMs have been a huge success in ensuring free, fair and transparent elections across the nation in all elections. They restrict human intervention, checkmate electoral fraud and malpractices like stuffing and smudging of votes, and deter the errors and mischiefs faced in manual counting of ballot papers. While earlier it was apprehended that the introduction of EVMs will lead to hardship and disenfranchisement, independent studies showcase that EVMs have led to increase in voter participation.9 Yet, it is also true that time and again use of EVMs has been objected to and questioned, not by one but by all political parties and others. There have been several litigations in this Court and the High Courts, albeit the challenge to the use of EVMs has been rejected recording good grounds and reasons. 7. We deem it appropriate to begin this decision by referring to some of the earlier case laws and s of this Court on the efficacy and use of EVMs in the elections in this country. 8. This Court in Subramanian Swamy v. Election Commission of India,10 held that a paper trail was an indispensable requirement of free and fair elections. The relevant portion of the is reproduced below: “28.