As has been demonstrated in the preceding paragraphs, that threshold cannot be said to have been breached. 46. In view of the entire conspectus above, the field testing of DMH-11, pursuant to the conditional approval of the GEAC, with sufficient safeguards and precautions, ought to continue and cannot be said to be violative of the precautionary principle and therefore, the con- stitutional challenge thereto, fails. 47. Two additional aspects need to be clarified. Pursuant to the above discussion, when I consider the prayer made on behalf of the 1952 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Petitioners, it is clear that whether or not there should be a complete ban on Ht crops is not something this Court can issue a direction on. Such a decision has to be taken, keeping in view the opinion of various experts who have the knowledge and ability to comprehend scientific literature on the point as also the views of those persons specifically tasked with taking decisions in such matters. Courts, only on the basis of material placed on record or the indirect understand- ing passed on to it through counsel, is not in a position to take an informed decision. If such a decision is taken, it would be completely foreign to the standards of judicial review as discussed above, for it is not within the Court’s purview to undertake cost benefit analysis of a policy decision of the executive. 48. The aspect of India being a centre of origin or diversity qua mustard was laid considerable emphasis on by the learned counsel for the Petitioners, however this, in my considered view, is another prayer with which this Court cannot do justice by returning or not returning a finding. Counsel on both sides supplied research material to support their own stand which argued contrarian viewpoints in this regard and so, it would be best if minds equipped to undertake detailed studies to come to a conclusion, would be the ones to decide this important issue. Conclusions & Directions 49. In view of the above discussion, the conclusions arrived at in the discussion above are that: i. Judicial review into the decision making of all bodies concerned with GMOs, is possible. ii. The question of ban on Ht crops is not warranted in view of the precautionary principle and it is a decision squarely within the domain of policy. iii. The composition of the GEAC is in accordance with the Rules, to which the challenge of constitutionality, has failed, and in the absence of any change in the Rules, no fault can be found with the same. iv. The decision of the GEAC to grant conditional approval is not vitiated by non-application of mind, or any other principle of law, on part of the body, which itself is an expert body. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1953 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 50. In view of the above, I deem it appropriate to give the following directions: 50.1. Field trials of DMH-11, shall continue in strict consonance with the conditions imposed.