However, the Bench relying on Vam Organic I (supra) noted that the power stops with denaturing and that even if denatured alcohol can be re-natured, the States would not have the power to regulate it. The relevant observations are extracted below: “43. […] We are of the view that the State Government is competent to levy fee for the purpose of ensuring that industrial alcohol is not surreptitiously converted into potable alcohol so that the State is deprived of revenue on the sale of such potable alcohol and the public is protected from consuming such illicit liquor. But this power stops with the denaturation of the industrial alcohol. Denatured spirit has been held in Vam Organics-I to be outside the seism of the State Legislature. Assuming that denatured spirit may by whatever process be renatured (a proposition which is seriously disputed by the respondents) and then converted into potable liquor, this would not give the State the power to regulate it. Even according to the demarcation of the fields of legislative competence as envisaged in Bihar Distillery industrial alcohol for industrial purposes falls within the exclusive control of the Union and according to Bihar Distillery “denatured rectified spirit, of course, is wholly and exclusively industrial alcohol.” (emphasis supplied) 53 (2004) 1 SCC 243 [2] 54 (2004) 1 SCC 225 1970 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports iv. The Reference (s) 22. Separately, the State of UP levied an ad valorem licence fee on the sale of specially denatured alcohol by a wholesale vendor to those holding a licence under Form FL 4155 of the UP Excise Act. The fee was levied under the provisions of the UP Spirit Rules. The petitioner in RP Sharma v. State of UP56 instituted a writ petition before the Allahabad High Court, inter alia, for challenging the relevant rule and for a refund of the fee collected by the state. 23. A Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court allowed the petition, relying on the decision in Vam Organic-II (supra) since the fee was levied on the sale of denatured spirit and not to ensure that rectified spirit was not diverted for human consumption. The State of UP preferred an appeal against the decision before this Court, resulting in the present proceedings. The Court issued notice on the matter and granted an interim stay of the of the High Court on 27 August 2004. By its dated 25 October 2007, a three-Judge Bench of this Court in State of UP v. Lalta Prasad57 agreed with the submissions advanced by counsel for the appellants on the need for reconsideration by a larger bench. Numerous decisions were relied on to argue that Section 18G of the IDRA would not deprive the States of the power to enact laws with respect to Entry 33 of List III. The appellants argued that a notification ought to be issued under Section 18G for the field under Entry 33 to be occupied. Justice Altmas Kabir, writing for the three-Judge Bench observed that that the question of whether Section 18G occupies the field of Entry 33 on the alcohol industry needs to be referred to a Constitution Bench: “26.