However, no corresponding declaration is made under Section 18G of the IDRA to satisfy the requirements of Entry 33, List III. The Central government would be required to issue a notified under Section 18G of the IDRA to claim control over the product. No such has been issued and therefore the product remains in the exclusive domain of the State. Therefore, the Union has not occupied the field under Entry 33, List III. 29. Mr Arvind Datar, learned senior counsel took us through the process of making denatured alcohol and potable liquor from molasses or grains. He argued that a license is required to make ENA and another license is required to make denatured spirit out of ENA. The process of denaturation is done before a State Excise Officer and the excise or duty payable against ENA and denatured spirit changes drastically. He argued that States can regulate potable alcohol as well as denatured spirits because the process of denaturing takes place within the same premises. 30. Mr Datar argued that the Synthetics (7J) (supra) must be overruled because: a. In para 74 of the , this Court erred in assuming that industrial alcohol and rectified spirit are the same substance. Rectified spirit or ethyl alcohol, which is per se for human consumption, cannot be used interchangeably with industrial alcohol which has undergone denaturation. Ethyl alcohol or rectified spirit usually undergoes denaturation for the purpose of their use in industries. This would involve payment of fees and obtaining of licenses for the process; b. The expression ‘alcoholic liquor for human consumption’ in Entry 51 of List II was mistakenly read as ‘alcoholic liquor [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1977 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons fit for human consumption’ which has a widely different meaning.60 For example, molasses despite not being capable of final consumption, as it is, would be alcohol for human consumption. It would undergo a process for making it fit for human consumption. However, that does not take away from the fact that molasses is intended for human consumption and is susceptible to excise. Alcoholic liquor for human consumption means that the alcoholic liquor is capable of being consumed by humans. It would fall under Entry 51, List II while denatured alcohol would fall under Entry 84, List I; c. Everything except denatured spirit is alcohol for human consumption because it has the potential to be consumed by humans. The process of denaturation is carried out only to make the alcohol sufficiently disagreeable for human consumption to avoid its misuse. ENA and rectified spirit may therefore be for human consumption and cease to be such upon undergoing denaturation. Mr Datar emphasized that the State does not have the power to levy tax on ENA in terms of Synthetics (7J) (supra) despite being for human consumption. Such an interpretation has drastically reduced the ability of States to levy tax under Entry 51 of List II; d. Unlike what was held in Synthetics (7J) (supra), there are no licenses to manufacture industrial alcohol because what is manufactured is only the ENA.