47. He acknowledges the vision of the Drafting Committee and its Chairman as to who will be the Scheduled Castes, and when there is need for including any other class or to exclude anybody or any community from the list of Scheduled Castes that must be by the word of Parliament. He states that he is grateful to the Chairman for [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1469 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. bringing in this clause and that when Harijans behave independently or assert their right on some matters, not only the members of that community but their entire community is harassed. 48. Having referred to the history of as to how the concept of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes has emerged, I, now, for the sake of convenience, refer to the provisions in the Constitution of India dealing with the special treatment provided to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes. Since we are not concerned with political reservations, I do not find it necessary to refer to the provisions dealing therewith. Since Articles 341 and 342 are draft Articles 300A and 300B, which were approved by the Constituent Assembly on 17th September 1949, I do not repeat the same here. Article 15, 16, 46, 335, 338, Clauses 24 and 25 of Article 366 “15. Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth.—(1) The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them. (2) No citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them, be subject to any disability, liability, restriction or condition with regard to— (a) access to shops, public restaurants, hotels and places of public entertainment; or (b) the use of wells, tanks, bathing ghats, roads and places of public resort maintained wholly or partly out of State funds or dedicated to the use of the general public. (3) Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any special provision for women and children. (4) Nothing in this article or in clause (2) of Article 29 shall prevent the State from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. (5) Nothing in this article or in sub-clause (g) of clause (1) of Article 19 shall prevent the State from making any 1470 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports special provision, by law, for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes insofar as such special provisions relate to their admission to educational institutions including private educational institutions, whether aided or unaided by the State, other than the minority educational institutions referred to in clause (1) of Article 30. (6) Nothing in this article or sub-clause (g) of clause (1) of Article 19 or clause (2) of Article 29 shall prevent the State from making,— (a) any special provision for the advancement of any economically weaker sections of citizens other than the classes mentioned in clauses (4) and (5); and (b) any special provision for the advancement of any economically weaker sections of citizens other than the classes mentioned in clauses (4) and (5) insofar as such special provisions relate to their admission to educational institutions including private educational institutions, whether aided or unaided by the State, other than the minority educational institutions referred to in clause (1) of Article 30, which in the case of reservation would be in addition to the existing reservations and subject to a maximum of ten per cent of the total seats in each category.