The Court has been informed that the minor is ready and willing to accept the decision of her parents which is in her best interest. Performing a procedure for termination of an advanced pregnancy at this stage is subject to risks involving the well-being and safety of the minor as explained by the medical team at Sion hospital. Bearing in mind the detailed discussion which took place, the parents of the minor have chosen not to press ahead with the termination of the advanced pregnancy at the present point of time. This decision, should, in our view, be accepted bearing in mind all that has been set out in the earlier part of this . As a consequence, the earlier of this Court dated 22 April 2024 shall stand recalled. 20. Before parting with this we would like to shed light on two issues which have caught our attention in these proceedings. First, the opinion of the medical board constituted under the MTP Act must reflect the effect of the pregnancy on the pregnant person’s physical and mental health. Second, the MTP Act and the reproductive right of a pregnant person gives primacy to their consent. Role of the RMP and medical board under the MTP Act 21. In X v. State (NCT of Delhi),4 a three-judge bench of this Court had recognised that the fear of prosecution among registered medical practitioners5 is a barrier for pregnant persons6 to access safe and legal abortions. The opinion of the RMP is decisive in matters of termination of pregnancy under the MTP Act. The purpose of the opinion of the RMP borrows from the legislative intent of the MTP Act which is to protect the health of a pregnant person and facilitate safe, hygienic, and legal abortion. The right to abortion is a concomitant right of dignity, autonomy and reproductive choice. This right is guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The 4 [2022] 7 SCR 686 : (2023) 9 SCC 433 5 “RMP” 6 We use the term ‘pregnant person’ and recognize that in addition to cisgender women, pregnancy can also be experienced by some non-binary people and transgender men among other gender identities. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 485 A (Mother of X) v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. decision to terminate pregnancy is deeply personal for any person. The choice exercised by a pregnant person is not merely about their reproductive freedom but also about their agency as recognised by this court in X v. State (NCT of Delhi).7 It is therefore imperative that the fundamental right of a pregnant person is not compromised for reasons other than to protect the physical and mental health of the pregnant person. 22. Section 3(1) of the MTP Act protects the registered medical practitioner from penal provisions against abortion, under the Indian Penal Code,8 if it is carried out as per the MTP Act. Moreover, no penalty may be attracted to a RMP merely for forming an opinion, in good faith, on whether a pregnancy may be terminated.