19. When the defendant has failed to prove that plaintiff has executed the Sale Agreement dated 25.11.1968 agreeing to sell 2 gunta out of survey No.24/9 and he came in possession and occupation of suit schedule property by virtue of the same, question of providing protection under Section 53A of the T.P. Act does not arise. Consequently, the ratio in the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Shrimant Shamrao Suryavanshi and Another vs. Pralhad Bhairoba Suryavanshi (dead) by Lrs and Others2 is not applicable to the case on hand and accordingly, the substantial question of law is answered in the negative.” 9. We are of the view that no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned and . 10. Section 53-A of the TP Act and Section 16 of the Specific Relief Act, 1964 (for short, hereinafter to be referred to as “the 1963 Act”), being of significant relevance are extracted hereunder: “53-A. Part-performance.—Where any person contracts to transfer for consideration any immovable property by writing signed by him or on his behalf from which the terms necessary to constitute the transfer can be ascertained with reasonable certainty, and the transferee has, in part-performance of the contract, taken possession of the property or any part thereof, or the transferee, [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2099 Giriyappa & Anr. v. Kamalamma & Ors. being already in possession, continues in possession in part-performance of the contract and has done some act in furtherance of the contract, and the transferee has performed or is willing to perform his part of the contract, then, notwithstanding that, where there is an instrument of transfer, that the transfer has not been completed in the manner prescribed therefor by the law for the time being in force, the transferor or any person claiming under him shall be debarred from enforcing against the transferee and persons claiming under him any right in respect of the property of which the transferee has taken or continued in possession, other than a right expressly provided by the terms of the contract: Provided that nothing in this section shall affect the rights of a transferee for consideration who has no notice of the contract or of the part-performance thereof.” (emphasis supplied) “16. Personal bars to relief.—Specific performance of a contract cannot be enforced in favour of a person— (a) who would not be entitled to recover compensation for its breach; or (b) who has become incapable of performing, or violates any essential term of, the contract that on his part remains to be performed, or acts in fraud of the contract, or wilfully acts at variance with, or in subversion of, the relation intended to be established by the contract; or (c) who fails to aver and prove that he has performed or has always been ready and willing to perform the essential terms of the contract which are to be performed by him, other than terms the performance of which has been prevented or waived by the defendant.