In the inquiry, the appellants were not given any opportunity. Even in the inquiry held behind the back of the appellants, there were no findings of collusion or blameworthiness against them for the alleged manipulation. Even as on date, the appointment dated 25.06.1999 and the approval of 09.06.1999 have not been revoked. With no finding of guilt against the appellants and with no material against them, their salaries had been stopped and they have been prevented to sign on the regular attendance register, admittedly from October, 2005. The contention of the appellants is that they continued with their teaching work up till 30.03.2016 entering their names on a separate attendance register. 30 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 20. We may also note the fact that in the F.I.R. lodged by the State on 17.07.2015 also, there is no allegation against the appellants or any other applicants and only two persons were named in that F.I.R. They were Vinod Kumar Chaturvedi, Senior Assistant and Rajendra Prasad Yadav, Senior Assistant. Both were employees in the office of the District Basic Education Officer. The allegation was that the documents related to approval of appointments/teacher listings from the concerned schools were missing and that the said two officers were responsible for maintaining the records. 21. In this background, the question that really falls for consideration is, was the State justified in abruptly and without anything more, stopping the salary? We are constrained to answer the question in negative. 22. Assuming the case of the State to be true and taking it at its highest, the factual position would come to this, namely, that while the State sanctioned two vacancies, the school went ahead and recruited three. The State has no proof of commission of any malpractice by the appellants. The State approved their appointments, and the approval till date has not been cancelled. The appointments have not been terminated. No action has been taken against the school and the school continues to receive the aid. 23. Chief Engineer, M.S.E.B. and Another vs. Suresh Raghunath Bhokare, (2005) 10 SCC 465 is a case which, on facts, has a striking resemblance to the case at hand. The respondent therein had been recommended by the department and was selected as line-helper in the appellant-Board. On the ground that the recommendation was allegedly made fraudulently, the respondent was dismissed from service. The complaint preferred by the respondent had been dismissed by the Labour Court. The Industrial Court reversing the findings of the Labour Court, quashed the termination of the respondent therein and directed reinstatement. Writ Petition filed by the appellant therein was dismissed by the High Court. This Court, while observing that in the absence of any overt act being attributed to the respondent, held that it could not be inferred that the respondent had a role in sending fraudulent list, solely on the basis of the presumption that he got the job. Para 5 of the which is crucial for the decision of the present case is extracted herein below:- [2024] 1 S.C.R.