39. In Bir Singh Vs. Delhi Jal Board and Others,19 a Five-Judge Bench after referring to the relevant clauses of the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) 1950, and the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) 1950,observed as under: “36. The upshot of the aforesaid discussion would lead us to the conclusion that the Presidential s issued under Article 341 in regard to Scheduled Castes and under Article 342 in regard to Scheduled Tribes cannot be varied or altered by any authority including the Court. It is Parliament alone which has been vested with the power to so act, that too, by laws made. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes thus specified in relation to a State or a Union Territory does not carry the same status in another State or Union Territory. Any expansion/deletion of the list of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes by any authority except Parliament would be against the constitutional mandate under Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution of India. 37……………………………………………………. 38. It is an unquestionable principle of interpretation that interrelated statutory as well as constitutional provisions 19 [2018] 10 SCR 513 : (2018) 10 SCC 312 1618 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports have to be harmoniously construed and understood so as to avoid making any provision nugatory and redundant. If the list of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes in the Presidential s under Articles 341/342 is subject to alteration only by laws made by Parliament, operation of the lists of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes beyond the classes or categories enumerated under the Presidential for a particular State/Union Territory by exercise of the enabling power vested by Article 16(4) would have the obvious effect of circumventing the specific constitutional provisions in Articles 341/342. In this regard, it must also be noted that the power under Article 16(4) is not only capable of being exercised by a legislative provision/enactment but also by an Executive issued under Article 166 of the Constitution. It will, therefore, be in consonance with the constitutional scheme to understand the enabling provision under Article 16(4) to be available to provide reservation only to the classes or categories of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes enumerated in the Presidential s for a particular State/Union Territory within the geographical area of that State and not beyond. If in the opinion of a State it is necessary to extend the benefit of reservation to a class/category of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes beyond those specified in the Lists for that particular State, constitutional discipline would require the State to make its views in the matter prevail with the central authority so as to enable an appropriate parliamentary exercise to be made by an amendment of the Lists of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes for that particular State. Unilateral action by States on the touchstone of Article 16(4) of the Constitution could be a possible trigger point of constitutional anarchy and therefore must be held to be impermissible under the Constitution.” 40. From the afore stated legal position, there is no room for doubt that the Presidential List as notified under Article 341 assumes finality on the publication of the notification, and that the castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes specified in the notification are, for the purposes of the Constitution, deemed to be the“Scheduled Castes” in relation to that State or Union Territory [2024] 8 S.C.R.