The Maharani had claimed the entire 5.38 acres of land on the basis of the maintenance grant executed by Raja in her favour but her aforesaid claim was not accepted. The Cantonment Board, Ramgarh on the other hand had staked its claim only in respect of 2.55 acres of land forming part of 5.38 acres of the land but has nowhere claimed any right, title and interest over the suit land as claimed by the plaintiff-appellant. The Cantonment Board only on the basis of the and dated 16.03.2000 passed in Title Suit No.8/64 alleges that it has been recognized to be the owner of the entire 5.38 acres of land by adverse possession and, therefore, the plaintiff-appellant has no subsisting right in the suit land. The Cantonment Board further contends that the entire 5.38 acres of land was leased out by the Raja on 02.06.1931 for a period of 15 years to the Dublin University Mission and, therefore, no part of it could have been settled by him in favour of the plaintiff-appellant in the year 1942. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 39 Har Narayan Tewari (D) Thr. Lrs. v. Cantonment Board, Ramgarh Cantonment & Ors. 30. In respect to the second aspect as raised on behalf of the Cantonment Board, it is necessary to note that no material or evidence was adduced by the Cantonment Board to establish that the entire 5.38 acres of land was transferred by way of lease to Dublin University Mission; not even any oral evidence was adduced to prove such a transfer restricting the right of the Raja to settle the land in favour of the plaintiff-appellant. Even otherwise assuming there was such a lease, it would have expired in June 1946 on completion of 15 year period in which case the settlement of 1942 and the Hukumnama of 1943 being valid would revive and continue in favour of the plaintiff- appellant, more particularly with its confirmation by the Additional Collector and mutation in 1963. 31. In context with the first contention that in Title Suit No.8/64, possession of the Cantonment Board over the entire 5.38 acres was accepted by adverse possession, it would be pertinent to note that on perusal of the said and and decree would reveal that the court of first instance in the said suit has not given any finding with regard to the claim to the plaintiff-appellant (who was defendant No.32 in the said suit) nor with regard to the claim set up by the Cantonment Board. It is misconceived to contend that the said and accepts the title of the Cantonment Board by adverse possession on the entire 5.38 acres of land. In the said suit, the Cantonment Board had claimed rights only in respect of the part of the aforesaid 5.38 acres of land to the extent of 2.55 acres and, therefore, any observation of the trial court regarding adverse possession of the Cantonment Board would be deemed to be in respect of the claim as set up by the Cantonment Board and would not be construed to be in connection with the entire 5.38 acres of land so as to include the land of the plaintiff-appellant.