Repeated and persistent doubts and despair, even without supporting evidence, can have the contrarian impact of creating distrust. This can reduce citizen participation and confidence in elections, essential for a healthy and robust democracy. Unfounded challenges may actually reveal perceptions and predispositions, whereas this Court, as an arbiter and adjudicator of disputes and challenges, must render decisions on facts based on evidence and data. This is the reason why we had re-listed the matters for directions and clarifications on 24.04.2024, when specific points/questions raised were answered by the ECI. The petitioners were also heard. 68. The counsel for the petitioners, on 24.04.2024, drew our attention to a Wikipedia article which states that firmware is a software which provides low-level control of computing device hardware etc. It also states that programmable firmware memory can be reprogrammed via a procedure sometimes called flashing. This is stoutly denied by the officer of the ECI, who states that this would require the EVMs to be re-engineered by the manufacturers. It is submitted that the microcontroller used in the EVM has one-time programable memory, that is, it is unalterable once burned. It is only the VVPAT which has a flash memory component for the purpose of storing the bitmap file. To us, it is apparent that a number of safeguards and protocols with stringent checks have been put in place. Data and figures do not indicate artifice and deceit. Reprogramming by flashing, even if we assume is remotely possible, is inhibited by the strict control and checks put in place and noticed above. Imagination and suppositions should not lead us to hypothesize a wrong doing without any basis or facts. The credibility of the ECI and integrity of the electoral process earned over years cannot be chaffed and over-ridden by baroque contemplations and speculations. 69. The test for determining the scope of unenumerated rights is based on tracing them to specific provision of Part III of the Constitution 446 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or to the core values which the Constitution espouses. While we acknowledge the fundamental right of voters to ensure their vote is accurately recorded and counted, the same cannot be equated with the right to 100% counting of VVPAT slips, or a right to physical access to the VVPAT slips, which the voter should be permitted to put in the drop box. These are two separate aspects – the former is the right itself and the latter is a plea to protect or how to secure the right. The voters’ right can be protected and safeguarded by adopting several measures. This Court in Subramanian Swamy (supra) had directed gradual introduction of VVPATs to guarantee utmost transparency and integrity in the system. This direction was made to safeguard the right of the voters to know that the vote has been correctly recorded in the EVM. The direction has been implemented. The voter can see the VVPAT slip through the glass window and this assures the voter that his vote as cast has been recorded and will be counted.