Haemorrhages and extravasation of blood presentation with the track of wound. Depth of wound is 9 cm. 11. Incised stab wound present obliquely in midline over front of abdomen with interesting protruding out of the wound. It measures 4.5 x 0.2 cm and is placed 5 cm above the umbilicus. It has clean cut margin and one angle of the wound is more acute than the other. On dissection, the track of the wound is going up posteriorly and laterally and dominated by cutting the mesenteric blood vessels. Haemorrhage present in the mesentery depth of wound is 8 cm. 12. Incised cut through wound of neck measuring 10 cm x 2 cm into 4 cm present horizontally above the thyroid 178 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cartilage. Upper margin of the wound is placed 55 cm below chin and lower margin is 6 cm above the sterna notch. All soft tissues of the neck, measure blood vessel trachea and oesophagus have been cut through into till the vertebral column. Haemorrhage and extra vacation or blood present in the soft tissues of the wound. 13. Red abrasion 2.5 cm x 0.3 cm present in midline over front of neck 1.5 cm below chin. 14. Red abrasion 2 cm. x 0.3 cm over left side of face 1.5 cm below the left eye.” 10. The weapon of offence, i.e., the knife was also discovered at the instance of the appellant herein by drawing a panchnama under the provisions of Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, ‘the Evidence Act’). The blood-stained clothes of the deceased as well as those of the appellant herein were collected and sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for chemical analysis. The statements of various other witnesses were recorded under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, the “Cr.P.C.”). 11. Upon completion of the investigation, the Investigating Officer filed a chargesheet for the offence punishable under Section 302 of the IPC in the Court of Metropolitan Magistrate, Karkardooma Courts, Delhi, who, in turn, committed the case to the Court of Sessions Judge, Karkardooma Courts, which culminated in the Sessions Case No. 176 of 1996. 12. The appellant pleaded not guilty to the charge framed by the Sessions Court and claimed to be tried. 13. The prosecution examined 17 witnesses in support of the charge. Shaheena (PW-3), was examined as the sole eye-witness to the incident. Shakeel Ahmad (PW-4), the brother of the deceased, and Rafiq (PW-11), the father of the deceased, were examined to establish the demand of dowry by the appellant from the deceased, and the harassment caused by him towards his deceased wife. Dr. Sayed Ali (PW-9), the neighbour of the appellant, was examined as a panch witness to prove the contents of the discovery panchnama of the knife used in the commission of the crime. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 179 Anees v. The State Govt. of NCT 14. It is the case of the prosecution that the knife was discovered from a drain outside the house of the appellant, as pointed out by him, in the presence of the Investigating Officer and the panch witnesses.