On behalf of the appellant, the main argument, which was also made before the High Court, revolves around non-compliance of Section 17A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 in implicating the appellant under Sections 12, 13(2) read with 13(1) (c) and (d) of the 1988 Act and proceeding against him inter-alia, under the aforesaid provisions. The arguments on behalf of the appellants have been mainly advanced by Mr. Harish N. Salve and Mr. Siddharth Luthra, learned Senior Advocates. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi with Mr. Ranjit Kumar, both learned Senior Counsel have primarily argued on behalf of the 558 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports State. It is also the appellant’s case that once fault is found with implicating the appellant under the aforesaid provisions of the 1988 Act, the entire proceeding qua the appellant before the Special Judge would also collapse because in such a case the Special Judge under the PC Act would have had acted beyond his jurisdiction and the remand would become non-est. 7. Section 17A was introduced to the 1988 Act with effect from 26.07.2018. The said provision reads: - “17A. Enquiry or Inquiry or investigation of offences relatable to recommendations made or decision taken by public servant in discharge of official functions or duties.—No police officer shall conduct any enquiry or inquiry or investigation into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant under this Act, where the alleged offence is relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by such public servant in discharge of his official functions or duties, without the previous approval— (a) in the case of a person who is or was employed, at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed, in connection with the affairs of the Union, of that Government; (b) in the case of a person who is or was employed, at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed, in connection with the affairs of a State, of that Government; (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office, at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed: Provided that no such approval shall be necessary for cases involving arrest of a person on the spot on the charge of accepting or attempting to accept any undue advantage for himself or for any other person: Provided further that the concerned authority shall convey its decision under this section within a period of three [2024] 1 S.C.R. 559 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. months, which may, for reasons to be recorded in writing by such authority, be extended by a further period of one month.” 8. The High Court, inter-alia, held that the said provision cannot be applied to any offence committed prior to 26.07.2018. It has also been highlighted before us on behalf of the State that offences under Section 13 (1) (c) & (d) were deleted from the said statute by the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 26 of 2018.