(4) Where the Court s that an arbitral award be set aside, the period between the commencement of the declaration and the date of the of the court shall be excluded in computing the time prescribed by the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963), for the commencement of the proceedings (including arbitration) with respect to the dispute so submitted. 65 Section 21. Commencement of arbitral proceedings. -- Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral proceedings in respect of a particular dispute commence on the date on which a request for that dispute to be referred to arbitration is received by the respondent. 556 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports along with Sections 366 and 2 (j)67 of the 1963 Act it is clear that if on the date of commencement of the arbitral proceeding, as referred to in Section 21 of the 1996 Act, the claim(s) is/are barred by limitation, as per the provisions of the 1963 Act, the Arbitral Tribunal will have to reject such claim(s) as barred by limitation.68 84. In the case in hand there is no dispute between the parties that the arbitral proceedings, in terms of Section 21 of the 1996 Act, commenced on 2 May 2019. Therefore, our exercise would be to determine whether the period of limitation got over prior to that date or not. For that purpose, it would be necessary to ascertain as to which Article of the Schedule was applicable to the claim. And if more than one applied, which one applied to which part of the claim. 85. According to the appellant(s) (i.e., OPG and Gita Power – appellant in the connected appeal), Articles 14 and 18 of the Schedule to the 1963 Act applied to the claim. Importantly, the award does not specify the Article(s) which were applied except Article 58 which was applied to the declaratory relief sought in the claim and which was found barred by time. However, as the claim is based on a contract, we will also consider the applicability of Article 55 and the residuary Article 113 of the Schedule,69 if none other Article(s) were applicable to the claim. 66 Section 3. — Bar of limitation. – (1) Subject to the provisions contained in sections 4 to 24 inclusive, every suit instituted, appeal preferred, and application made after the prescribed period shall be dismissed, although limitation has not been set up as a defense. (2) For the purposes of this Act – (a) a suit is instituted – (i) in an ordinary case, when the plaint is presented to the proper officer; (ii) in the case of a pauper, when his application for leave to sue as a pauper is made; and (iii) in the case of a claim against the company which is being wound up by the court, when the claimant first sends in his claim to the official liquidator; (b) any claim by way of a set-off or a counter claim, shall be treated as a separate suit and shall be deemed to have been instituted – (i) in the case of a set off, on the same date as the suit in which the set off is pleaded; (ii) in the case of a counter claim, on the date on which the counter claim is made in court; (c) an application by notice of motion in a High Court is made when the application is presented to the proper officer of that court.