[2024] 5 S.C.R. 1211 : 2024 INSC 456 Delhi Development Authority v. Tejpal & Ors. Civil Appeal No. 6798 of 2024 17 May 2024 [Surya Kant,* Dipankar Datta and Ujjal Bhuyan, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the appellants made out sufficient cause for condonation of delay on the grounds of subsequent change of law brought in by Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra [2018] 2 SCR 1 and Indore Development Authority v. Manoharlal [2020] 3 SCR 1, public interest and justice, COVID-19 pandemic, suppression of material facts by the landowners, leeway to be granted to government entities etc. Headnotes† Land Acquisition – Land Acquisition Act, 1894 – Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 – s.24(2) – Deemed lapse of land acquisition proceedings initiated under the 1894 Act, on non-payment of compensation or non-taking of possession – Interpretation – Change of law – Condonation of delay sought on the basis of such subsequent change of law – Limitation Act, 1963 – s.24(2) was interpreted in Pune Municipal Corporation v. Harak Chand Mistrimal Solanki [2014] 1 SCR 783 and Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Association v. State of Tamil Nadu [2014] 7 SCR 799 – Following Pune Municipal Corporation and Sree Balaji, the High Court allowed the landowners’ claim and declared the acquisition proceedings as lapsed on account of non-payment of compensation or non-taking of possession – However, eventually five-judge bench in Indore Development Authority v. Manoharlal [2020] 3 SCR 1 overruled Pune Municipal Corporation and Sree Balaji and Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra [2018] 2 SCR 1 – Present cases filed by the appellants before and after the decision in Shailendra as well as after the decision * Author 1212 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in Manoharlal in view of re-interpretation of s.24(2) of the 2013 Act therein, against various s of the High Court whereby acquisition proceedings were declared to have lapsed in terms of s.24(2) – Delay in filing – Condonation of delay sought on the basis of subsequent change of law in view of the decisions in Shailendra and Manoharlal – Impermissibility: Held: In most of the present cases, the prescribed period of limitation had already expired long before the s in Shailendra and Manoharlal were delivered – Appellants let the limitation period lapse because they saw no case on merits for appeal – However, when the law was subsequently re-interpreted in Shailendra and Manoharlal, they approached this Court with the present matters – Instead of showing a sufficient cause arising within the period of limitation, the appellants are using an event after the expiry of such period to justify the delay – A party cannot be allowed to take advantage of its deliberate inaction during the limitation period – If subsequent change of law is allowed as a valid ground for condonation of delay, it would open a Pandora’s Box where all the cases that were subsequently overruled, or the cases that had relied on such cases, would approach this Court and would seek a relief based on the new interpretation of law – When a case is overruled, it is only its binding nature as a precedent that is taken away and the lis between the parties is still deemed to have been settled by the overruled case – When Manoharlal overruled Pune Municipal Corporation and Sree Balaji and other cases relying on them, it only overruled their precedential value, and did not reopen the lis between the parties – Therefore, the mere fact that the impugned s in the present case were overruled by Manoharlal would not be a sufficient ground to argue that the cases should be reopened – Delay cannot be condoned based on subsequent change of law brought in by Shailendra and Manoharlal.