Digital Supreme Court Reports Dr. Sanjay Kumar Mishra, Scientist H, DBT, Government of India and Co-Chairman, GEAC, held two meetings in September, 2022 and it outrightly recommended environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11. Also, further evaluation was to be carried out as per ICAR guidelines. Thus, the Expert Committee took a dramatically opposite view as compared to GEAC with regard to the field demonstration studies on the effect of GE mustard on honeybees and other pollinators. In the 136th GEAC meeting, it was recommended by GEAC that the same be conducted prior to the environmental release. This Expert Committee, on the other hand, suggested that within two years, post-environmental release under the supervision of ICAR, the effect of GE mustard on honeybees and other pollinators may be studied and a report be submitted to GEAC. For immediate reference, the relevant extracts of the Expert Committee recommendation is extracted as under: “The Expert Committee had deliberations and in-depth consideration of the scientific evidences, including data available on GM Canola cultivation & honey production in other countries and correlated all the concerned issues of contemporary relevance under Indian scenario. Additionally, inputs on the above issues from Members of the Expert Committee, Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Ministry of Science and Technology; and Department of Agriculture Research & Education (DARE), Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare were also considered and deliberated. The DBT opined that “it seems likely that there were no major deviations in the behaviour of honey bees when compared among the transgenic and non-transgenic comparator lines. GEAC may consider its recommendations of the 133rd meeting on the environmental release of GE mustard”. The DARE opined that “GEAC may consider exempting additional studies on the impact of GM mustard hybrid DMH-11 containing the bar, barnase, and barstar genes on honey bees and honey as decided in its 136th meeting and the recommendation of the 133rd meeting of GEAC may be considered”. Based on the examination of scientific evidences available globally, and as per the recommendations of concerned ministries, it seems unlikely that the bar, barnase, and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2105 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. barstar system will pose an adverse impact on honey bees and other pollinators. Therefore, the Committee was of the view that GEAC may consider the environmental release of GE mustard and further evaluation to be carried out as per ICAR guidelines for release and notification. However, to generate scientific evidences in Indian agro-climatic situation and also as a precautionary mechanism, the Expert Committee suggests that the field demonstration studies with respect to the effect of GE mustard on honey bees and other pollinators, as recommended in the 136th GEAC meeting, may also be conducted post-environmental release, simultaneously by the applicant, within two years under supervision of ICAR and the report be submitted to the GEAC.” (underlining by me) 42.5 Further, on 18.10.2022, when the 147th Meeting of the GEAC was convened, as many as seven members communicated their inability to attend the meeting and Dr. Geeta Jotwani, Scientist ‘G’ at Indian Council of Medica Research (ICMR) did not attend the meeting.