(6) In cases of petty or serious offences, the final report shall be filed before the Board at the earliest and in any case not beyond the period of two months from the date of information to the police, except in those cases where it was not reasonably known that the person involved in the offence was a child, in which case extension of time may be granted by the Board for filing the final report. (7) When witnesses are produced for examination in an inquiry relating to a child alleged to be in conflict with law, the Board shall ensure that the inquiry is not conducted in the spirit of strict adversarial proceedings and it shall use the powers conferred by section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872) so as to interrogate the child and proceed with the presumptions in favour of the child. (8) While examining a child alleged to be in conflict with law and recording his statement during the inquiry under section 14 of the Act, the Board shall address the child in a child-friendly manner in to put the child at ease and to encourage him to state the facts and circumstances without any fear, not only in respect of the offence which has been alleged against the child, but also in respect of the home and social surroundings, and the influence or the offences to which the child might have been subjected to. (9) The Board shall take into account the report containing circumstances of apprehending the child and the offence alleged to have been committed by him and the social investigation report in Form 6 prepared by the Probation Officer or the voluntary or non- governmental organisation, [2024] 5 S.C.R. 783 Child in Conflict with Law Through his Mother v. The State of Karnataka and Another along with the evidence produced by the parties for arriving at a conclusion. Rule 10A. Preliminary assessment into heinous offences by Board.- (1) The Board shall in the first instance determine whether the child is of sixteen years of age or above; if not, it shall proceed as per provisions of section 14 of the Act. (2) For the purpose of conducting a preliminary assessment in case of heinous offences, the Board may take the assistance of psychologists or psycho-social workers or other experts who have experience of working with children in difficult circumstances. A panel of such experts may be made available by the District Child Protection Unit, whose assistance can be taken by the Board or could be accessed independently. (3) While making the preliminary assessment, the child shall be presumed to be innocent unless proved otherwise. (4) Where the Board, after preliminary assessment under section 15 of the Act, passes an that there is a need for trial of the said child as an adult, it shall assign reasons for the same and the copy of the shall be provided to the child forthwith. Rule 11. Completion of Inquiry.- (1) Where after preliminary assessment under section 15 of the Act, in cases of heinous offences allegedly committed by a child, the Board decides to dispose of the matter, the Board may pass any of the dispositional s as specified in section 18 of the Act.