Thus, in short, the contract is for providing the service of cranes to ONGC. The reason is that the transferee (ONGC) is not required to face legal consequences for using the cranes supplied by the contractor. Therefore, the tests laid down in clauses (c) and (d) of paragraph 97 of the decision of Dr AR Laxmanan, J are not fulfilled in this case. Moreover, on a conjoint reading of the aforesaid clauses, it appears that the use of the cranes provided by the contractor to ONGC will be by way of only a permissive use. Though the cranes are used for carrying out the work as suggested by ONGC, the entire control over the cranes is retained by the contractor, inasmuch as it is the contractor who provides crew members for operating the cranes, it is the contractor who has to pay for fuel, oil, etc. and for maintenance of any loss or damage to the equipment of the contractor, staff of the contractor, any third party and staff and property of ONGC. Therefore, we find that as regards the contract to provide cranes, the finding of the High Court that there was a transfer of the right to use cranes was not correct as the transactions do not satisfy all the five tests referred to above. 36. We have also carefully perused the terms and conditions of the contract subject matter of challenge in Civil Appeal nos.3566-3569 of 2017. The contract concerns hiring services of ten truck-mounted all-terrain hydraulic cranes with the crew. In this case, like the other contracts, Clause 2 provides that the supply of equipment will not be by way of lease or transfer or right to use the equipment. All the other clauses are practically the same. Even in this case, also, the reasons which are recorded earlier will squarely apply. The contracts do not reflect the intention on the part of the contractor to transfer the right to use the goods. 37. Now, we come to Civil Appeal No. 4657 of 2013 and Civil Appeal no.3580 of 2017. In this case, the contract is of 20th November 2008 by and between the ONGC and M/s.Ali Brothers. The contract is for hiring a 20-metre-ton trailer. The salient features of the said contract are as under: a. Even in this contract, the entire manpower was to be provided by the Contractor; [2024] 1 S.C.R. 513 M/s. K.P. Mozika v. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. and Ors. b. The contractor was required to indemnify ONGC from all the actions, proceedings, claims, demands, and liabilities arising out of or in the course of or caused by the execution of work under the contract; c. The driver must be appointed by the employer having a valid professional driving license with three years of experience; d. The contractor must register himself under the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970; e. The trailer shall be available for 26 days in a calendar month. The normal working hours will be 12 hours; f. The contractor shall make his own arrangements for parking all the trailers after duty hours; g. The contractor shall be responsible for the loss of the material provided by ONGC during transportation.