Thereafter, in a criminal prosecution by B against A for trespass, passed between the parties in civil proceedings would be relevant and the court may hold that it conclusively establishes the title as well as possession of B over the property. In such case, A may be convicted for trespass. The illustration to Section 42 which is quoted above makes the position clear. Hence, in each and every case, the first question which would require consideration is — whether , or decree is relevant, if relevant — its effect. It may be relevant for a limited purpose, such as, motive or as a fact in issue. This would depend upon the facts of each case. 32. In the present case, the decision rendered by the Constitution Bench in M.S. Sheriff case [AIR 1954 SC 397 : 1954 Cri LJ 1019] would be binding, wherein it has been specifically held that no hard-and- fast rule can be laid down and that possibility of conflicting decision in civil and criminal courts is not a relevant consideration. The law envisages “such an eventuality when it expressly refrains from making the decision of one court binding on the other, or even relevant, except for limited purpose such as sentence or damages”.’ [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1173 Bharat Sher Singh Kalsia v. State of Bihar & Anr. SUBMISSIONS BY THE RESPONDENT NO.2: 17. Per contra, learned senior counsel appearing for respondent no.2 submitted that the case before the High Court was confined to the question of territorial jurisdiction and it was observed that the same depends upon evidence. Thus, it was submitted that territorial jurisdiction does not go to the root of the matter, but is merely for administrative convenience. Reliance was placed on the decision in Smt. Raj Kumari Vijh v Dev Raj Vijh, (1977) 2 SCC 190, the relevant being at Paragraph 73. 18. It was submitted that the appellant has wilfully purchased the land of the complainant on the strength of the PoA, which itself required the assent of the land-owners/principals for sale of land, as would be clear from Clause 15 of the PoA. 19. Learned senior counsel, in the alternative took the stand that if relief was granted to the appellant with regard to quashing of the FIR, it may be confined to the appellant and not of the FIR as a whole, where the other co-accused has been charge-sheeted and summoned to face trial. It was urged that it may be left open to the Trial Court to summon the appellant if the evidence so warrants, under Section 319, Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the “CrPC”). SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE: 20. A counter has been filed on behalf of the State of Bihar opposing the prayer made in the present appeal and justifying the prosecution of the appellant on the basis of the FIR. 3 ‘7. Section 531 of the Code reads as follows: “531. No finding, sentence or of any criminal court shall be set aside merely on the ground that the inquiry, trial or other proceeding in the course of which it was arrived at or passed, took place in a wrong sessions division, district, sub-division or other local area, unless it appears that such error has in fact occasioned a failure of justice.” The section therefore relates to a defect of jurisdiction.