Therefore, in light of these provisions of the IBC, 2016 and the 2016 Regulations, it can be seen that the resolution plan must be impermeable to any shortcuts that prevent its implementation, including timely implementation, by the successful resolution applicant. A consideration of these provisions reinforces the idea that timely implementation and strict adherence to the terms of the resolution plan is crucial. 178. Furthermore, Section 74(3) of the IBC, 2016 provides for the punishment for contravention of the resolution plan and reads as follows: “(3) Where the corporate debtor, any of its officers or creditors or any person on whom the approved resolution plan is binding under section 31, knowingly and wilfully contravenes any of the terms of such resolution plan or abets such contravention, such corporate debtor, officer, creditor or person shall be punishable with imprisonment of not less than one year, but may extend to five years, or with fine which shall not be less than one lakh rupees, but may extend to one crore rupees, or with both.” (emphasis supplied) 179. The Code comes down heavily on any knowing and willful contravention of the terms of the Resolution Plan, committed by any person, on whom the approved Resolution Plan has been made binding under Section 31 of the IBC, 2016. A punishment of minimum one year which may extend up to five years or minimum [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2169 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. fine of one Lakh which may be up to one Crore rupees, or both, has been prescribed for such a contravention. In light of such strict consequence provided for the contravention of the resolution plan envisaged under the scheme of the Code itself, there is good reason for us to ensure that the successful resolution applicants abide by their commitments made under the Resolution Plan. Therefore, it is suggested that the authorities including the NCLT and NCLAT must not aid the Successful Resolution Applicants in circumventing the strict mandates of the law by acceding to their requests to relax the terms of the plan itself. 180. One another suggestion at our end that may aid in a coordinated and non-adversarial implementation of the Resolution Plan by all the stakeholders is that the Adjudicating Authority while approving a Resolution Plan under Section 31 of the IBC, 2016, should record the next steps which are to be taken by the respective parties for commencement of implementation of the approved Resolution Plan. This will ensure that the parties are ad idem about the next round of their obligations that each of them is required to discharge under the approved Resolution Plan and that they do not delay the implementation by initiating any further litigation on this aspect. If such an approach is adopted, the parties would be able to put forth any difficulty that they might face in performing those next steps before the NCLT itself and seek necessary relief in that regard.