for the Appellants. Anil Nag, Adv. for the Respondents. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1401 Amro Devi & Ors. v. Julfi Ram (Deceased) Thr. Lrs. & Ors. / of the Supreme Court Vikram Nath, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. The present appeal is filed by defendants against the of Himachal Pradesh High Court dated 15.12.2014. The Respondents are original plaintiffs who had filed the suit for declaration and specific performance. The Trial Court dismissed the suit. However, the first Appellate Court reversed the finding of Trial Court and decreed the suit. The High Court, by the impugned , dismissed the second appeal. 3. Following are the facts leading to the Civil Suit in question: On 27.12.1979, Mansha Ram, Dev Raj, Khazana Ram, Ramji Das and Bihari Lal (hereinafter referred as “Mansha Ram and others”) filed a suit (Civil Suit No. 43 of 1983) for declaration and permanent injunction against Julfi Ram, Tihru Ram, Bakshi Ram-all three are sons of Khajana, Prem Chand-son of Julfi Ram, Kartar Chand-son of Bakshi Ram and Dharam Singh son of Nighu. Plaintiffs were the landowners and defendants were the co-tenants of the land. The Plaintiffs sought a declaration that they are owners in possession of suit land measuring 7 kanals 9 marlas. They also sought permanent injunction restraining defendants from interfering in the land in suit. The defendants contested the suit and stated that they are in cultivatory possession as tenants on payment. Thus, they claimed to be owners by virtue of tenancy. 4. Trial Court by dated 11.04.1983, decreed the suit in favor of plaintiffs-Mansha Ram & others granting them both the reliefs of declaration and permanent injunction by holding that they are owners in possession. Aggrieved, all six defendants preferred an appeal before the District Judge. As one of the plaintiffs-Dev Raj had died during the pendency, his widow Asha Devi and his son Suresh Kumar were arrayed as Respondents in the first Appeal. 5. During the pendency of appeal, on 22.08.1983 Mansha Ram and others executed a sale deed in favour of Kartar Chand, Sansar Chand and Rajinder Kumar-three sons of Bakshi Ram for consideration of Rs. 12,500/-. The first Appellate Court, by dated 20.08.1984, 1402 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports allowed the appeal, setting aside the decree of Trial Court in light of statements made by plaintiffs before the court. It noted that ‘the plaintiffs have compromised the case and stated that they do not want to pursue with the suit and it to be dismissed.’ Before the first Appellate Court, Julfi Ram, Tihru Ram, Bakshi Ram, Prem Chand and Kartar Singh made a joint statement on 20.06.1984 that they have reached a settlement with Respondents. They have also paid money to Mansha Ram and others and they shall be the owners and hold possession of the land in dispute. Thus, Suit filed by Plaintiffs be dismissed. Dharam Singh-son of Nighu recorded a separate statement to the same effect. On the other hand, Bihari Lal, Suresh Kumar (son of Devraj and holder of General power of attorney of Asha Devi), Ramji Das and Dhyan Chand made a statement that they have reached a settlement and have received money.