140. We may specifically deal with a scenario of an educational institution established before the commencement of the Constitution. The test of administration should be evaluated in praesenti, that is, on the date of the commencement of the Constitution. An institution to be a minority institution must satisfy the criteria of being ‘administered’ as a minority institution on the date of commencement of the Constitution, and being a minority institution on the date of formation. Even if an educational institution was established by the minority for the purposes of the community, we must assess the impact of any subsequent events that altered the character of the institution before the commencement of the Constitution. We have in section E(iv)(c) held that the statutory incorporation of the institution does not ipso facto amount to a surrender of the minority character of the institution. We have held that the Court must pierce the veil to identify if the University was established by a minority for the purpose of promoting the interest of the community. The Court may on a holistic reading of the statutory provisions relating to the administrative set-up of the educational institution deduce if the minority character or the purpose of establishment was relinquished upon incorporation. The question is whether the regulatory measures wrest the administrative control from the founders of the institution. This is a question of fact which must be determined on the facts of each case. The Court must make that determination upon a comprehensive analysis of the administrative framework which includes host of factors such as the representation of the interests of the community in the administrative set-up. 141. Taken together, these are the main indicia which assist the Court in determining who established an educational institution under Article 30. However, the complex nature of establishing an educational institution is not lost on us. Undoubtedly, there can be no straitjacket formula which may be applied. The above indicia of establishment must be considered as a whole, along with any relevant facts which are available to the Court. The matter must be considered in totality and competing factors must be weighed against each other depending on the facts and circumstances of each institution. 142. The above indicia must be proved through the submission of cogent material. Reliance must be placed on primary sources such as office documents, letters and resolutions or memorandums issued to implement the resolutions. Secondary sources must only be 1752 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports used to corroborate the primary sources. The onus to prove that the educational institution was established by a minority is on the claimants. 143. One of the questions referred to this Bench was whether Article 30(1) envisages an institution which is established by minorities alone without participation from any other community? This question was based on the facts as observed by this Court in Anjuman-e- Rahmaniya (supra) where some persons from communities other than the Muslim community had contributed to the establishment of the educational institution. That case has been finally adjudicated and the issues which arose in it do not survive.