The term “consideration” however is broader. The plain meaning is a monetary payment, for something obtained, in the form of goods, or services. In CCE v. Fiat India (P) Ltd. [CCE v. Fiat India (P) Ltd. (2012) 9 SCC 332 : (2012) 12 SCR 975] this Court explained the meaning of that term : (SCC pp. 360-61, paras 68-73) “68. … Consideration means something which is of value in the eye of the law, moving from the plaintiff, either of benefit to the plaintiff or of detriment to the defendant. In other words, it may consist either in some right, interest, profit or benefit accruing to the one party, or some forbearance, detriment, loss or responsibility, given, suffered or undertaken by the other, as observed in Currie v. Misa [Currie v. Misa, (1875) LR 10 Exch 153] . 69. Webster’s Third New International Dictionary (unabridged) defines, “consideration” thus: ‘Something that is legally regarded as the equivalent or return given or suffered by one for the act or promise of another.’ 5 (2023) 4 SCC 561 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2343 Ramachandra Reddy (Dead) Thr. LRs. & Ors. v. Ramulu Ammal (Dead) Thr. LRs. 70. In Vol. 17 of Corpus Juris Secundum (pp. 420- 21 and 425) the import of “consideration” has been described thus: ‘Various definitions of the meaning of “consideration” are to be found in the textbooks and judicial opinions. A sufficient one, as stated in Corpus Juris and which has been quoted and cited with approval is “a benefit to the party promising or a loss or detriment to the party to whom the promise is made….” At common law every contract not under seal requires a consideration to support it, that is, as shown in the definition above, some benefit to the promisor, or some detriment to the promisee.’ 71. In Salmond on Jurisprudence, the word “consideration” has been explained in the following words: ‘A consideration in its widest sense is the reason, motive or inducement, by which a man is moved to bind himself by an agreement. It is for nothing that he consents to impose an obligation upon himself, or to abandon or transfer a right. It is in consideration of such and such a fact that he agrees to bear new burdens or to forego the benefits which the law already allows him.’ xxx xxx xxx 73. From a conspectus of decisions and dictionary meaning, the inescapable conclusion that follows is that “consideration” means a reasonable equivalent or other valuable benefit passed on by the promisor to the promisee or by the transferor to the transferee. Similarly, when the word “consideration” is qualified by the word “sole”, it makes consideration stronger so as to make it sufficient and valuable having regard to the facts, circumstances and necessities of the case.” (Emphasis supplied) 2344 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 15.3 Chidambara Iyer & Ors. v. P.S. Renga Iyer6 which cites similar authorities is also important for our consideration. 15.4 What flows from the above-cited s as also provisions of law, is that ‘consideration’ need not always be in monetary terms.