Additionally, they contend that Section 6A, in fact, gives quietus to a long-standing dispute. According to the Respondents, the provision does not violate Article 21 as Section 6A is to be construed as a “procedure established by law”. 307. The issue that arises for consideration therefore is whether Section 6A is violative of Article 21. Though Article 21 needs no introduction, it provides that no person can be deprived of life and personal liberty except according to procedure established by law. (a) ‘Marginalization’ of a community 308. In this regard, the Petitioners have put forth an argument akin to their claim under Article 29 and have argued that Section 6A violates Article 21 as it affects the way of life of original inhabitants. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1123 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 309. Although the rights conferred by Article 21 differ from those under Article 29 of the Constitution; the burden to be discharged by the Petitioners to support their claims would remain broadly similar. It would be otiose for us to delineate the legal tests and the substance of the rights provided by Article 21 in the context of the Petitioners’ cultural claims, given that the Petitioners have failed to provide material beyond mere averments. 310. As elaborated in paragraph 298 of this judgement, the Petitioners need to establish both a deleterious effect of Section 6A on their indigenous communities as well as trace the cause of such effect to Section 6A. In light of our conclusions in the preceding segment re: Article 29, namely, that the Petitioners have been not been able to show a constitutionally actionable impact on their communities, and if at all there is any such impact it can be attributed to several factors beyond Section 6A. The Petitioners’ challenge on the ground of violation of Article 21, thus deserves to be closed at the threshold itself. (b) Right of self-governance 311. In addition to asserting that their community is being marginalized, the Petitioners have also laid claim to the right of self-governance. In support of this assertion, they have referenced Article 1 of the ICCPR, which affirms that all “peoples” possess the right to self-governance. The expression ‘peoples’ has a wide connotation and it is nearly impossible to outline its exact constituents. It is however, a settled proposition that Article 1 referred to above, is a collective right, which cannot be claimed by an individual. 312. In any case, India has declared its reservation regarding this Article and has stated that:199 "The Government of the Republic of India declares that the words ‘the right of self-determination’ appearing in [this article] apply only to the peoples under foreign domination and that these words do not apply to sovereign 199 Permanent Mission of India, Human Rights Committee https://pmindiaun.gov.in/pageinfo/ ODY3#:~:text=Article%201%3A%20The%20Government%20of,which%20is%20the%20essence%20 of. 1124 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports independent States or to a section of a people or nation-which is the essence of national integrity.” [Emphasis supplied] 313. Further, we are of the considered opinion that the perceived right under Article 1 of the ICCPR is not enforceable through writ jurisdiction.