……….. What can be acknowledged is a present subsisting liability. An 110 [2008] 1 SCR 821 : (2008) 2 SCC 444 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 591 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. acknowledgement made with reference to a liability, cannot extend limitation for a time-barred liability or a claim that was not made at the time of acknowledgement or some other liability relating to other transactions. Any admission of jural relationship in regard to the ascertained sum due or a pending claim, cannot be an acknowledgment for a new additional claim for damages. (Emphasis supplied) 119. In the instant case, as found above, the limitation period started to run from 19 March 2016. Within three years therefrom, in the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018111 there was a clear acknowledgement that the amount claimed by Enexio (as is there in the claim) is the balance amount payable, though subject to debit, by way of set off, against various claims made by the appellant(s) herein upon the claimant. In our view, such an acknowledgment is sufficient to extend the limitation period as it admits the existing liability of the appellant(s) qua the balance amount payable to the claimant under the contract. Benefit of such an acknowledgement would not be lost merely because a set off is claimed, inasmuch as clause (a) of the Explanation to Section 18, inter alia, provides that an acknowledgement for the purposes of this Section may be sufficient though it is accompanied by a refusal to pay, or is coupled with a claim to set off. This would imply that, subject to fulfilment of other conditions of Section 18, once the defendant acknowledges that he owes a certain sum to the plaintiff there would be sufficient acknowledgment within the meaning of Section 18, even though he states that he is entitled to set off against this sum another sum which the plaintiff owes him. Thus, in our view, the minutes of meeting dated 19 April 2018, though claims a set off, is a valid acknowledgement of the existing liability within the ambit of Section 18 of the 1963 Act and it extends the period of limitation for a period of 3 years from the date it was made. In consequence, the claim of Enexio, made on 2 May 2019, was well within the period of limitation. Sub-issue (b) is decided in the aforesaid terms. 111 Minutes are quoted in paragraph 7 of this 592 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports APPELLANT(S) COUNTERCLAIM IN RESPECT OF COST OF REPAIR/ REPLACEMENT OF GEAR BOX AND FAN MODULES BARRED BY TIME 120. Now, we shall consider whether the counterclaim was barred by limitation. Before that, we must understand the true nature of a counterclaim. A counterclaim is a claim made by a defendant in a suit against the plaintiff. It is a claim, independent of and separable from the plaintiff’s claim, which can be enforced by a cross action. Counterclaim preferred by the defendant in a suit is a cross suit and even if the suit is dismissed, counterclaim shall remain alive for adjudication.