It is an approval from an appropriate authority of the investigation having been completed. We are not dealing with the case where an approval is declined or rejected. Rather, it is a case where an authority has failed to exercise the said power in granting an authorization. Thus, we are in complete agreement with the reasoning adopted by the High Court of Calcutta in Nibaran Chandra (supra). 33. If we were to hold that even by way of a prospective application, notwithstanding the non-compliance under the CrPC, 1989, the [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1073 National Investigation Agency New Delhi v. Owais Amin @ Cherry & Ors. appellant shall be permitted to prosecute the respondents, we would only be applying CrPC, 1973 retrospectively, which as discussed is not permissible. ON FACTS 34. On facts, it is an omission caused by the appellant which needs to be rectified. It being a curable defect, would not enure to the benefit of the respondents, particularly when they are yet to be charged in the absence of such sanction or empowerment. At this stage, it is pertinent to reiterate that the complaint was conveyed by the District Magistrate, Ramban to the Special Judge, NIA on 20.09.2019. Further, the investigation stood completed with the filing of the chargesheet on 25.09.2019. Whereas, the appointed day for the Act, 2019 was 31.10.2019. Hence, on the day when the investigation stood completed, the CrPC, 1989 was in force within the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir. 35. In such view of the matter, we are inclined to set aside the impugned insofar as it confirms the of the Special Judge, NIA, in not taking cognizance for the offence punishable under Section 120-B of the RPC, 1989. Accordingly, we give liberty to the appellant to comply with the mandate of Section 196-A of the CrPC, 1989, by seeking appropriate authorization or empowerment as the case may be. Needless to state, if such a compliance is duly made, then the Trial Court shall undertake the exercise of taking cognizance, and proceed further with the trial in accordance with law. 36. The appeal is accordingly allowed in part. Pending Applications, if any, stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal partly allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey