Therefore, it is incorrect to state that the Respondent No.1 lost its right to demolish the said unauthorized construction on the ground of delay and laches. (iv) The appellants’ right over the shops was created in pursuance of the change in usage of plot and unauthorized construction raised by the original allottee, which was never approved by the Respondent No.1 and therefore, in no way, their rights are being infringed by the Respondent No.1. Further, it cannot be said that the action of the Respondent No.1 is barred by the principles of acquiescence and estoppel. (v) The violations made by Respondent No.5 are deliberate, designed and motivated and it is not a case where the violations are marginal or insignificant or that it had crept in accidentally. It is only after complying with all the requirements of law that a violation would qualify for regularization. Therefore, there is no illegality or infirmity in the of the High Court directing demolition of the unauthorized construction. (vi) Nevertheless, the appellants always have a remedy to sue the Respondent No.5 for return of money and/or damages. 1330 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (vii) After carrying out all kinds of development activities in different sectors of the Scheme, the Respondent No.1 allotted commercial properties, wherever required, by way of auction sale and commercial activities are taking place on such properties and therefore, it is wrong to state that the Respondent No.1 failed in its duty to provide planned development in the area. (viii) An illegal act, more so, when it was done deliberately, does not become legal only because certain length of time has passed. Thus, it is submitted by the learned counsel that the appeals filed by the appellants may be dismissed by this Court. 8. The learned counsel for the Respondent Nos.2 to 4 made his submissions supporting the case of the Respondent No.1 in entirety. Placing reliance on the counter affidavit filed by the respondent authorities, it is submitted by the learned counsel that they are ready to provide all the protection and facilities to the Respondent No.1 to demolish the unauthorized construction as ed by the High Court. Therefore, the learned counsel prayed for appropriate s in these appeals. 9. During the pendency of these appeals, the Respondent No.5 died, his legal heirs were brought on record as Respondent Nos.5.1 to 5.6, and the cause title was accordingly amended. Despite the service of notice, none appeared on behalf of the legal heirs of the deceased Respondent No.5. Qua the Respondent No.6, who also died during the pendency of these appeals, it was recorded by this Court on 24.03.20226 in SLP(C)No.36440 of 2014 that considering the status of the parties and the subject matter in issue, there was no requirement to substitute the legal representatives of the deceased Respondent No.6. In such circumstances, we have to 6 It has been pointed out that respondent No. 6 in these petitions, Shri Vinod Arora S/o Late K.L. Arora, has expired. It has also been pointed out that he has been a party in these matters in his capacity as power of attorney holder of the other private i.e., respondent No.