However, even this expansive reading of judicial review does not capture the essence of the judicial branch in its entirety. 40. There is yet another role which the judiciary can and ought to perform- that of facilitator of access to justice and effective functioning of constitutional bodies. In this role, the judiciary does not review executive and legislative actions, but only nudges and provides impetus to systemic reforms. The statute in question is one which was intended to benefit the marginalised and the impoverished. It is not easy for the intended beneficiaries of this legislation to carry their voice to legislative branch for effective reform. The exercise that this Court intends to direct presently is aimed at facilitating their access to legislative and executive reform, which this court believes is an essential component of constitutional justice. That all justice is to be achieved only through courtroom debates is too myopic an understanding of constitutional justice. The facilitative role is not just inspired from the institutional role that the judiciary perceives for itself, but is also a directive of many of the fundamental rights in Part III and the cherished preambular vision of justice- social, economic and political. 41. A peculiar feature of how our legislative system works is that an overwhelming majority of legislations are introduced and carried through by the Government, with very few private member bills being introduced and debated. In such circumstances, the judicial role does encompass, in this court’s understanding, the power, nay the duty to direct the executive branch to review the working of statutes and audit the statutory impact. It is not possible to exhaustively enlist the circumstances and standards that will trigger such a judicial direction. One can only state that this direction must be predicated on a finding that the statute has through demonstrable judicial data or other cogent material failed to ameliorate the conditions of the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1475 Yash Developers v. Harihar Krupa Co-Operative Housing Society Limited & Ors. beneficiaries. The courts will also do well, to arrive the very least, at a prima facie finding that much statutory schemes and procedures are gridlocked in bureaucratic or judicial quagmires that impede or delay statutory objectives. This facilitative role the judiciary compels audit of the legislation, promote debate and discussion but does not and cannot compel legislative reforms. 42. In light of the foregoing, considering that the Act is a state-legislation, implementation of which lies with the State of Maharashtra, and till date no comprehensive statutory audit has been undertaken, we request the Ld. Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court to constitute a bench to initiate suo motu proceedings for reviewing the working of the statute to identify the cause of the problems indicated in Paragraph 34. The concerned bench will hear the government, the statutory authorities, the necessary stakeholders including intended beneficiaries and perhaps take the assistance of some senior members of the bar specialising in this area as amici curae. We leave it to the High Court to devise such methods as it deems fit and appropriate.