845 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others of administering justice, and have historically been ‘officers of the courts.’” 24. We now look at how this Court has understood public interest in matters pertaining to abridgment of Article 19(1)(g). (i) A Constitution Bench of this Court, through JC Shah J, in Mohd. Faruk vs. State of M.P., (1969) 1 SCC 853, held that the Notification issued by the State Government prohibiting the slaughter of bulls and bullocks in premises maintained by a local authority infringed upon the right to freedom of profession under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. This Court had emphasized that even though such a Notification may be issued under the authority of law that was enacted by a competent legislature, it would nevertheless be liable for directly infringing the fundamental right of the petitioner guaranteed by Article 19(1) (g) unless it is established that it seeks to impose reasonable restrictions in the interest of the general public and a less drastic restriction will not ensure the interest of the general public. It was reasoned that the judicial determination of the validity of the law imposing a prohibition on the carrying on of a business or profession should be informed by: a. an evaluation of the direct and immediate impact of the prohibition upon the fundamental rights of the citizens affected thereby; b. the larger public interest sought to be ensured in the light of the object sought to be achieved; c. the necessity to restrict the citizen’s freedom; d. the inherently pernicious nature of the act prohibited or its capacity or tendency to be harmful to the general public; e. the possibility of achieving the object by imposing a less drastic restraint; and f. in the absence of exceptional exigent situations like the prevalence of a state of emergency national or local, the existence of a machinery to satisfy the administrative authority that no case for imposing the restriction is made out or that a less drastic restriction may ensure the object intended to be achieved. 846 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) A reasonable restriction, within the meaning of Article 19(6) must also be ‘in the interests of the general public.’ Our Constitution, by establishing a welfare State, emphasises a fine balance between the public interest of the community and the liberties of the individual. Indeed, this is not to say that individual rights and liberties are not a matter of vital public interest but any policy or law may not be struck down at the instance of an individual alone. In other words, there is a basic unity between fundamental rights and the public interest. The public interest inherent in the said individual’s exercise of a fundamental right under Part III would need to be delicately balanced with the imminent constitutional imperative of the ‘ed progress of society towards a welfare state,’ vide K. K. Kochuni vs. States of Madras and Kerala, 1958 SCC OnLine SC 12, Pr. 33.