50. In the judicial pronouncements that followed Renusagar (supra), already discussed above, the domain of what could be considered contrary to the ‘public policy of India’/ ‘fundamental policy of Indian law’ expanded, resulting in much greater interference with arbitral awards than what the lawmakers intended. This led to the Amendment, 2015 in the 1996 Act. 51. In Ssangyong Engineering (supra), this Court dealt with the effect of the Amendment, 2015. While doing so, it took note of a supplementary report of February 2015 of the Law Commission of India made in the context of the proposed 2015 amendments. The said supplementary report has been extracted in paragraph 30 of that . The key features of it are summarized below: (a) Mere violation of law of India would not be a violation of public policy in cases of international commercial arbitrations held in India. (b) The proposed 2015 amendments in 1996 Act (i.e., in Sections 34(2)(b)(ii) and 48(2)(b) including insertion of sub-section (2-A) in Section 34) were on the assumption that the terms, such as, “fundamental policy of Indian law” or conflict with “most basic notions of morality or justice” would not be widely construed. (c) The power to review an award on merits is contrary to the object of the Act and international practice. (d) The in Western Geco (supra) would expand the court’s power, contrary to international practice. Hence, a clarification needs to be incorporated to ensure that the term ‘fundamental policy of Indian law’ is narrowly construed. The 536 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports applicability of Wednesbury principles to public policy will open the floodgates. Hence, Explanation 2 to Section 34(2)(b)(ii) has been proposed. After taking note of the supplementary report, the statement of objects and reasons of the Amendment Act, 2015, and the amended provisions of Sections 28, 34 and 48, this Court held: “34. What is clear, therefore, is that the expression public policy of India, whether contained in section 34 or in section 48, would now mean the fundamental policy of Indian law as explained in paras 18 and 27 of Associate Builders i.e. the fundamental policy of Indian law would be relegated to Renusagar’s understanding of this expression. This would necessarily mean that Western Geco expansion has been done away with. In short, Western Geco, as explained in Paras 28 and 29 of Associate Builders, would no longer obtain, as under the guise of interfering with an award on the ground that the arbitrator has not adopted a judicial approach the court’s intervention would be on the merits of the award, which cannot be permitted post amendment. However, in so far as principles of natural justice are concerned, as contained in sections 18 and 34(2)(a) (iii) of the 1996 Act, these continue to be the grounds of challenge of an award, as is contained in para 30 of Associate Builders. 35. ***** 36****** 37. In so far as domestic awards made in India are concerned, an additional ground is now available under sub-section (2-A), added by the Amendment Act, 2015 to section 34.