It is to be noticed that the States under Entries 8 and 51 of List II read with Entry 84 of List I have exclusive privilege to legislate on intoxicating liquor or alcoholic liquor for human consumption. Hence, so long as any alcoholic preparation can be diverted to human consumption, the States shall have the power to legislate as also to impose taxed etc. In this view, denaturation of spirit is not only an obligation on the States but also within the competence of the States to enforce. [ emphasis supplied] 44 [1997] 1 SCR 680 : (1997) 2 SCC 727 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1967 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Synthetics (7J) (supra). Justice B P Jeevan Reddy, writing for the two-Judge Bench held that the observations in paragraph 85 that Parliament has legislative competence over both potable and non- potable alcohol in view of the enactment of IDRA was a typographical error.45 The Bench further observed that Synthetics (7J) (supra) was mainly concerned with legislative competence over “denatured rectified spirit” (which was exclusively and wholly industrial alcohol) and not “rectified spirit” (which could be used directly for industrial purposes or denatured for industrial purposes or used to prepare liquor for human consumption. )46 This Court held that the line of demarcation must be drawn at the stage of clearance of the rectified spirit since it was used for the preparation of both potable alcohol (over which the State had competence under Entry 8 of List II) and non-potable alcohol (over which the State did not have competence under Entry 8 of List II): “23. The line of demarcation can and should be drawn at the stage of clearance/removal of the rectified spirit. Where the removal/clearance is for industrial purposes (other than the manufacture of potable liquor), the levy of duties of excise and all other control shall be of the Union but where the removal/clearance is for obtaining or manufacturing potable liquors, the levy of duties of excise and all other control shall be that of the States. This calls for a joint control and supervision of the process of manufacture of rectified spirit and its use and disposal.” 19. The decision further elucidated the realm of competence of the State and the Union with respect to (a) industries engaged in manufacturing rectified spirit meant exclusively for supply to industries; (b) industries engaged exclusively in manufacturing rectified spirit for production of potable alcohol; and (c) industries engaged in both of the above. This demarcation will be discussed in detail in the subsequent sections of the . To understand the manner in which Bihar Distillery (supra) interpreted the in Synthetics (7J) (supra), it is sufficient at this stage to know that the demarcation of the competence was based on the purpose for which the rectified spirit was used. 45 (1997) 2 SCC 727 [12] 46 (1997) 2 SCC 727 [23] 1968 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 20. In Government of Haryana v. Haryana Brewery,47 a two-Judge Bench noted the dissonance in multiple decisions interpreting the in Synthetics (7J) (supra) and directed that the papers may be placed before the Chief Justice for listing the matters before the Constitution Bench.