13. Subsequent to the publication of the final selection list, the unsuccessful candidates challenged the selection process. The challenge was made on two grounds. Firstly, such of the candidates who had obtained CCC certificate after the last date of advertisement i.e. 30th September 2014 could not have been selected. Secondly, the candidates who did not possess the CCC certificate as awarded by DOEACC/ NIELIT but submitted certificates from private institutions with the self-certification about their equivalence to CCC certificate issued by DOEACC/NELIT could also not be selected. 14. It will be relevant to refer to the conclusions arrived at by the learned Single Judge of the High Court in its and dated 7th October 2017, which read thus: “CONCLUSIONS In the end, the Court records the following conclusions:- 1. A recognised qualification is an essential facet of Article 16 of the Constitution. 2. No rights can be recognised in a candidate aspiring to enter public service on the strength of an unrecognized qualification or one granted by an institution which is not conferred the authority to grant the same in accordance with law. 3. The qualification as prescribed by the respondents does not merit interference at the behest of the petitioners. 4. The decision of the Board of Directors of the Corporation dated 23 November 2015 was an act of ratification and therefore does not merit interference. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 437 Mukul Kumar Tyagi v. The State of Uttar Pradesh and Others 5. The Commission failed to undertalce any enquiry in respect of equivalence of qualifications. It undertook a wholly perfunctory exercise and that too prompted only by the interim directions of this Court. 6. Even in this exercise no accepted or legally sustainable norms were applied to adjudge the equivalence of certificates. 7. The equivalence of qualifications cannot be left to depend or rest upon a self certification of candidates. 8. No certificate can possibly be accorded equivalence unless an enquiry is addressed towards its course content and syllabus. 9. None of the candidates holding other than CCC certificates were shown to hold qualifications recognisable in law. Their inclusion in the select list has clearly tainted the recruitment exercise. It has resulted in the induction of candidates who were not entitled to be selected or offered appointment. 10. Since their inclusion in the select list is invalid and would consequently merit the select list being redrawn, the petitioners are not liable to be non suited on the basis of the cut off marks prescribed by the Commission. Accordingly and in light of the above discussion and the conclusions recorded above, the select list prepared by the respondents is rendered unsustainable and must in consequence be set aside. The writ petitions preferred by the non selected candidates are therefore allowed to the extent indicated below. The Court negatives the challenge to the decision of the Board of the Corporation dated 23 November 2015 and the condition of eligibility contained in the two advertisements. All interim s operating on the writ petitions shall stand discharged in to enable the Commission to proceed in the matter in light of the directions being issued herein after.