The Court held that if the power to decide who is to pay the tax is not an essential part of legislation, neither would the power to decide the rate of tax be so. The Court thus held that fixation of tax rate was not unqualified as the legislature had stipulated the maximum rate. The guidance rule was held as satisfied. 31. We are of the opinion that the enactment of subordinate legislation for levying tax on interest free/concessional loans as a fringe benefit is within the rule-making power under Section 17(2)(viii) of the Act. Section 17(2)(viii) itself, and the enactment of Rule 3(7)(i) is not a case of excessive delegation and falls within the parameters of permissible delegation. Section 17(2) clearly delineates the legislative policy and lays down standards for the rule-making authority. Accordingly, Rule 3(7)(i) is intra vires Section 17(2)(viii) of the Act. Section 17(2)(viii) does not lead to an excessive delegation of the ‘essential legislative function’. II. Is Rule 3(7)(i) arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution insofar as it treats the PLR of SBI as the benchmark? 25 8 AC 282 26 AIR (1967) SC 1895 27 [1965] 2 SCR 477 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 925 All India Bank Officers’ Confederation v. The Regional Manager, Central Bank of India and Others 32. Rule 3(7)(i) posits SBI’s rate of interest, that is the PLR, as the benchmark to determine the value of benefit to the assessee in comparison to the rate of interest charged by other individual banks. The fixation of SBI’s rate of interest as the benchmark is neither an arbitrary nor unequal exercise of power. The rule-making authority has not treated unequal as equals. The benefit enjoyed by bank employees from interest-free loans or loans at a concessional rate is a unique benefit/advantage enjoyed by them. It is in the nature of a ‘perquisite’, and hence is liable to taxation. 33. Rule 3(7)(i), it can be hardly argued, is arbitrary or irrational for the reason it benchmarks computation of the perquisite with reference to the SBI’s PLR. SBI is the largest bank in the country and the interest rates fixed by them invariably impact and affect the interest rates being charged by other banks. By fixing a single clear benchmark for computation of the perquisite or fringe benefit, the rule prevents ascertainment of the interest rates being charged by different banks from the customers and, thus, checks unnecessary litigation. Rule 3(7)(i) ensures consistency in application, provides clarity for both the assessee and the revenue department, and provides certainty as to the amount to be taxed. When there is certainty and clarity, there is tax efficiency which is beneficial to both the tax payer and the tax authorities. These are all hallmarks of good tax legislation. Rule 3(7)(i) is based on an uniform approach and yet premised on a fair determining principle which aligns with constitutional values. 34. It is also apposite to note that when it comes to uniform approach the laws relating to fiscal or tax measures enjoy greater latitude than other statutes.28 The Legislature should be allowed some flexibility in such matters and this Court would be more inclined to give judicial deference to legislative wisdom.29 Commercial and tax legislations tend to be highly sensitive and complex as they deal with multiple problems and are contingent.