In this regard, SEBI noted that the Forensic Audit conducted by the Economic Offence Wing (hereinafter, “EOW”) revealed that the Companies floated by the Petitioners were liable to refund Rs. 4700 crores, though as per the passed by the WTM the refund amount was initially Rs. 3049 crores only. It is also not in dispute that there are 498+13 immovable properties owned by the companies; the details whereof have been furnished before the MPID Court, Mumbai. The parties are broadly ad idem that the entire liability of each Company regarding refund of the due amount to all the investors as well as various statutory, foreseen or unforeseen liabilities, can be extinguished from the sale proceeds of some of the immovable properties, if not all of them. 4. Since the immovable properties owned by the companies are spread over different parts of the country, it was sensed unachievable for either the SEBI or the MPID Court at Mumbai, to liquidate all these assets through time-bound public auctions, for the reason that the process postulates various complex questions such as: (i) What is the exact location of the immovable property in metes and bounds? ; (ii) Whether or not such property is free from encumbrances? ; [2024] 7 S.C.R. 737 Balasaheb Keshawrao Bhapkar & Ors. v. Securities and Exchange Board of India & Ors. (iii) Whether the physical possession of the subject-property is with one of the companies or not; (iv) Whether any civil dispute regarding the title/ownership of such property is pending before a competent forum? ; (v) What is the market value of the property in the event of its sale in a transparent manner? ; (vi) Is there any lien of statutory tax, levy, duty, or any other charge attached to such property? ; (vii) What mechanism shall be evolved for the sale of each property, so as to fetch the best price? ; and (viii) What is the mandatory procedure to be followed in terms of local laws for the purpose of registration of the auctioned property and its mutation in favour of the auction purchaser, etc. 5. Since SEBI with its bona fide pursuits to liquidate the assets and generate funds to satisfy the claims of investors, has already auctioned some of the assets, it has taken a very fair stand through its learned Senior Counsel, agreeing to the constitution of a High-Powered Sale Committee (hereinafter, “HPSC”) to auction the immovable assets of the companies, to the extent they are required to satisfy the investors’ claims and liquidate all other statutory liabilities of the Companies. In this regard, the Petitioners, as well as SEBI, have submitted their comprehensive notes of suggestions to work out the modalities. 6. We have minutely considered the valuable suggestions given by learned Senior Counsel/Counsel for the parties for the constitution of HPSC and have also kept in view exigencies such as that: (a) Petitioner Nos.1 and 2 are languishing in jail as undertrials for over 8 years; (b) Innocent investors have been eagerly awaiting the refund of their hard-earned money for more than a decade; (c) Despite its best intentions and commitment, SEBI is facing an uphill task in conducting public auctions in a timebound manner; (d) SEBI or MPID Court, Mumbai do not have the readily available infrastructural and strategical facilities to identify each property, to have fair assessment of their market value, and then to auction them to fetch the true market value; 738 [2024] 7 S.C.R.