The dated 14.09.2020 is reproduced hereunder: “Today is fixed for cross-examination of PW 1, PW2 and PW 3. Sole accused Asim Akhtar is present by filing hazira. SR of summons are received after service. On behalf of the defacto complainant a petition has been filed praying for disposal of the application under section 319 CrPC with affidavit. Copy is seen by the PP in charge. On behalf of the PW 1 PW 2 and PW 3 a petition has been filed for an adjournment with xerox copy of prescription Copy is also seen by the PP in charge. Perused the petition. Heard both sides. Admittedly, the petition has been filed by the de facto complainant with an affidavit. The affidavit is sworn at Sealdah Court on 14.09.2020 before the Notary Public Sarbani Mitra but the said witness failed to appear before the court. That factum goes to show that the said witness wilfully disobeyed the of court. The application under section 319 CrPC is heard in presence of both sides. The will be passed after the examination of all the witnesses are over. Tomorrow for examination and cross examination of all the witnesses and to respect the application under section 319 CrPC.” 5. On 15.09.2020 again the witnesses remained absent and filed an application for adjournment. They also moved an application seeking four weeks’ time to bring appropriate s from the High Court regarding no adverse s being passed in case of non-appearance of parties owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Yet another application [2024] 10 S.C.R. 915 Asim Akhtar v. The State of West Bengal & Anr. was filed for giving a direction to the concerned authority to issue urgent certified copy of the passed by the High Court. 6. The Trial Court recorded in detail the past conduct of the PWs 1, 2 and 3 that despite the service of summons, they had not been appearing for cross-examination. It was also recorded that PW 1 – the complainant had come to the Court with a sworn affidavit in her application under section 319 CrPC but did not care to attend the trial proceedings and present herself for cross-examination. 7. The Trial Court further proceeded to record that although the complainant wants the trial to proceed but is not coming forward for being cross-examined and has only filed an application to the effect that the application under section 319 CrPC may be heard and decided before the cross-examination. Even the Public Prosecutor had opposed the application filed by the de facto complainant for hearing of the 319 CrPC application. He also stated that other witnesses are coming and returning because of the repeated absence of PWs 1,2 and 3. The Trial Court thus fixed 29.09.2020 for cross-examination and also recorded its displeasure and inclination to execute the bailable warrants of arrest against the witnesses. It directed the Public Prosecutor to ensure presence of the witnesses and also directed the Investigating Officer to remain present with the witnesses. 8. Again on 21.09.2020 the sole accused – appellant was present.