The court observed in that connection at pp. 940-41 and 946-47 thus : “Article 14 enshrines the fundamental right of equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India. It is available to all, irrespective of whether the person claiming it is a citizen or not. Article 15 prohibits discrimination on some special grounds — religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them. It is available to citizens only, but is not restricted to any employment or office under the State. Article 16 clause (1), guarantees equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State; and clause (2) prohibits discrimination on certain grounds in respect of any such employment or appointment. It would thus appear that Article 14 guarantees the general right of equality; Articles 15 and 16 are instances of the same right in favour of 1244 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports citizens in some special circumstances. Article 15 is more general than Article 16, the latter being confined to matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State. It is also worthy of note that Article 15 does not mention ‘descent’ as one of the prohibited grounds of discrimination, whereas Article 16 does. We do not see any reason why the full ambit of the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 16 in the matter of employment or appointment to any office under the State should be cut down by a reference to the provisions in Part XIV of the Constitution which relate to Services or to provisions in the earlier Constitution Acts relating to the same subject.... (pp. 940-41). There can be no doubt that Section 6(1) of the Act does embody a principle of discrimination on the ground of descent only. It says that in choosing the persons to fill the new offices, the Collector shall select the persons whom he may consider the best qualified from among the families of the last holders of the offices which have been abolished. This, in our opinion, is discrimination on the ground of descent only and is in contravention of Article 16(2) of the Constitution.” (pp. 946-47) (emphasis in original) 18. We are of the opinion that the claim made by the appellants for the relaxation of the Rules in their cases only because they happen to be the wards or children or relatives of the police officers has got to be negatived since their claim is based on “descent” only, and others will thereby be discriminated against as they do not happen to be the sons of police officers. Any preference shown in the matter of public employment on the grounds of descent only has to be declared as unconstitutional. The appellants have not [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1245 Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd. Etc. v. Nithu & Ors. Etc. shown that they were otherwise eligible to be recruited as Constables in the absence of the of relaxation on which they relied.