The provision, in no manner, seeks to control the exercise of quasi- judicial power by the state commissions based on directions issued by the state government. 19. Similarly, the findings of the APTEL on the limited scope of the review are also consistent with settled law. Section 94(f) of the Act provides that the state commission has the same powers as vested in a civil court under the CPC in respect of reviewing its decisions, directions and s. XLVII Rule 1 of the CPC provides for review on limited grounds. An cannot be made the subject of an appeal 980 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under the garb of a review. While reviewing an , the court or tribunal must be satisfied that there was an error apparent in its previous , which warrants the exercise of its power to review. While allowing the review petitions, the KSERC failed to explain how this threshold was met and did not point out any errors of that nature in its previous . Instead, sole reliance was placed on the subsequent directions of the State Government, which highlighted the purported ‘public interest’ that would be served by approving the PSAs. Therefore, there is no infirmity in the decision of the APTEL to set aside the of KSERC on the ground that it exceeded its jurisdiction under Section 94 of the Act. 20. We are in agreement with the judgement of the APTEL on the above aspects. However, having said so, it emerges from the earlier of APTEL dated 31 October 2023, that while permitting the appeal filed by the appellant to be withdrawn, APTEL had permitted the appellant to invoke the review jurisdiction of KSERC. APTEL, however, expressly made it clear that “the now passed … shall not disable the appellant, if need be later, from availing their appellate remedy against the original passed by the Commission dated 10.05.2023”. 21. Consequently, while we do not find fault with the impugned of APTEL insofar as it set aside the passed by KSERC, at the same time, the appropriate course of action would be to allow for restoration of the original appeal filed against the of KSERC dated 10 May 2023. This appeal, being Appeal No 518 of 2023, shall stand restored to the file of APTEL. 22. We, however, clarify that issues which are covered by the impugned of APTEL shall not be re-agitated. The appeal which has been restored to the file of APTEL shall, in other words, be considered on any other grounds that were raised before APTEL prior to the withdrawal of the appeal. 23. The appeals shall stand disposed of accordingly. 24. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Result of the Case: Appeals disposed of. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey