The CAG Report further states that the annual toll income of NTBCL during 2001-2016 was Rupees 892.51 crores. NTBCL has been making profits for the last 11 years; has no accumulated losses as of 31.03.2016; has paid dividends of Rupees 243.07 crores till 31.03.2016 to its shareholders; and repaid all its debt with interest. NTBCL had thus, by 31.03.2016, recovered the project costs, the maintenance costs, and a significant profit on its initial investment. There is no rhyme or reason for the collection of user fees/tolls to continue. 87. An exhaustive reading of the CAG Report highlights the extent to which the public has been defrauded. The general public has been forced to part with hundreds of crores by IL&FS and NTBCL, under the guise of providing necessary public infrastructure. This could not have been done but for the collusion of the then officers of the two State Governments and of NOIDA, who closed their eyes while the contractual obligations were incurred. Had Respondent No. 1 not been vigilant of their rights, the public funds would have continued to be misappropriated for private profiteering. Furthermore, the role played by IL&FS in this entire scheme is highly questionable. We say nothing except that the facts speak for themselves. Res ipsa loquiter. 88. That being said, since NTBCL has recovered the costs of the project and substantial profits thereon by virtue of imposition of user fees/ tolls and given the existing position of law, we find no error in the High Court’s and its directions in restraining the imposition and collection of user fees/tolls. 23 Institute of Law, Chandigarh v. Neeraj Sharma, (2015) 1 SCC 720. 24 Mandsaur Transport Assn. v. State of M.P., (2001) 9 SCC 328. 25 MSK Projects (I) (JV) Ltd. v. State of Rajasthan, (2011) 10 SCC 573. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2041 Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. v. Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association and Others G.6 Recovery of dues arising out of display of outdoor advertisements 89. The question pertaining to outdoor advertisements does not constitute the subject matter of the present appeal, where the matter assailed by the Respondent Welfare Association before the High Court was restricted to the imposition and levy of user fees or toll by NTBCL and concomitantly, the validity of certain provisions of the Concession Agreement. Regardless, Respondent No. 2, NOIDA, has alleged that NTBCL owes substantial dues to them, accrued through outdoor advertising, for which the license had been granted by NOIDA. 90. All that we thus observe, is that NOIDA shall be at liberty to initiate recovery proceedings as per the dispute resolution mechanism outlined in the Delhi Land Lease and NOIDA Land Lease Agreements. Such a process shall be subject to the defence and objections that may be available to NTBCL before the appropriate forum. Consequently, this issue does not fall within the scope of the instant appeal and therefore we have not expressed any opinion on its merits. H. conclusion AnD Directions 91. In light of the above analysis, it is held that there is no infirmity in the impugned judgement and we find no reason to interfere with it.