Moreover, the petitioner had no notice about the minimum cut-off for the viva-voce segment which was introduced just on the eve of the viva-voce test, well after the conclusion of written examination. If the candidate had been informed in advance, he could have prepared accordingly, ensuring a fair and predictable process. 30. The petitioner in this case, is on a similar footing as the petitioners in Sivandandan CT (supra) where it was noted as under: “13. In the above backdrop, it is evident that when the process of selection commenced, all the candidates were put on a notice of the fact that : (i) the merit list would be drawn up on the basis of the aggregate marks obtained in the written examination and viva voce; (ii) candidates whose marks were at least at the prescribed minimum in the written examination would qualify for the viva voce; and (iii) there was no cut-off applicable in respect of the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 899 Salam Samarjeet Singh v. The High Court of Manipur at Imphal & Anr marks to be obtained in the viva voce while drawing up the merit list in the aggregate.” 31. In the present case, no notice was given to the petitioner regarding the imposition of minimum 40% marks for interview. Prescribing minimum marks for viva voce segment may be justified for the holistic assessment of a candidate, but in the present case such a requirement was introduced only after commencement of the recruitment process and in violation of the statutory rules. The decision of the Full Court to depart from the expected exercise of preparing the merit list as per the unamended Rules is clearly violative of the substantive legitimate expectation of the petitioners. It also fails the tests of fairness, consistency, and predictability and hence is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 32. Before we conclude, we may also advert to the contention that after participating in the recruitment process, the unsuccessful candidates cannot turn around and challenge the recruitment process.6 We are of the view that it is equally well-settled that the principle of estoppel cannot override the law.7 Such legal principle was reiterated by the Supreme Court in Dr.(Major) Meeta Sahai Vs. Union of India8 where it was observed as under: “17. However, we must differentiate from this principle insofar as the candidate by agreeing to participate in the selection process only accepts the prescribed procedure and not the illegality in it. In a situation where a candidate alleges misconstruction of statutory rules and discriminating consequences arising therefrom, the same cannot be condoned merely because a candidate has partaken in it. The constitutional scheme is sacrosanct and its violation in any manner is impermissible. In fact, a candidate may not have locus to assail the incurable illegality or derogation of the provisions of the Constitution, unless he/she participates in the selection process.” 6 Madan Lal v. State of J&K (1995) 3 SCC 486; Dhananjay Malik v. State of Uttaranchal (2008) 4 SCC 171; Ramesh Chandra Shah v. Anil Joshi (2013) 11 SCC 309 ; Anupal Singh v State of Uttar Pradesh (2020) 2 SCC 173 7 Krishna Rai v Banaras Hindu University (2022) 8 SCC 713 8 [2019] 15 SCR 273 : (2019) 20 SCC 17 900 [2024] 8 S.C.R.