The original assessments were completed under Section 143(3) of the Act. Therefore, it was not possible to hold that the assessee had not furnished necessary details for completing the assessments at the time of original assessment. In such circumstances, Tribunal held that the case of the assessee squarely fell within the four corners of the proviso to Section 147. Consequently, the reassessments were held to be barred by limitation, thus without jurisdiction. While allowing the appeals of the assessee, Tribunal dismissed the cross objections filed by the revenue. 18. Against the aforesaid common of the Tribunal, the respondent preferred three appeals before the High Court under Section 260A of the Act, being IT Appeal Nos. 400, 557 and 558 of 2009 for the assessment years 1990-91, 1991-92 and 1992-93 respectively. All the three appeals were allowed by the High Court vide the common dated 12.10.2009. According to the High Court, the finding of the Tribunal that the assessee had disclosed fully and truly all material facts necessary for completion of the original assessments was not tenable. Holding that there was no material before the Tribunal to come to the conclusion that the assessee had disclosed fully and truly all material facts required for completion of original assessments, [2024] 1 S.C.R. 653 M/S Mangalam Publications, Kottayam v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Kottayam the High Court set aside the of the Tribunal and remanded the appeals back to the Tribunal to consider the appeals on merit after issuing notice to the parties. 19. It is against this that the assessee had filed the special leave petitions which on leave being granted have been registered as civil appeals. The related civil appeals have been filed by the partners of the assessee firm which would be dependent on the outcome of the present set of civil appeals. 20. Respondent has filed counter affidavit supporting the under appeal. It is contended that the High Court has correctly appreciated the facts and the law and thereafter given a reasoned as to why the reopening of assessment is valid. High Court has correctly held that the assessee had not disclosed fully and truly all the material facts necessary for completion of the assessments. Adverting to Section 139 (9) of the Act, it is submitted that, it is not mandatory for the assessing officer to treat a return as invalid even if the return is defective under any of the sub-clauses of Section 139 (9). It is the discretion of the assessing officer to issue notice. Since no notice was issued, the return and the assessment made thereon would be valid. 20.1. It is submitted that the assessee had not even had accounts pertaining to the advertisement receipts which is a major source of income of a publication entity; as a matter of fact, the assessee had shown the income from advertisements on estimation basis. 20.2. Though the assessee had been claiming that it did not maintain any books of account from the assessment years 1989- 1990 onwards, an audited balance sheet and profit and loss account submitted to the South Indian Bank were traced out and used as evidence against the assessee for reopening the assessment for the assessment year 1989- 1990.