Much prior to Shyoraj Singh’s decision, three different Division Benches of the Allahabad High Court by detailed s in the cases of Natthi, Narendra Road Lines and Yogesh Kumar had already affirmed the validity of invocation of the urgency clause in the land acquisition notifications for the integrated development plan of ‘Yamuna Expressway’ by respondent No.3-YEIDA. It is trite to mention that in Shyoraj Singh, the Division Bench failed to consider the earlier Division Bench s in the cases of Natthi, Narendra Road Lines and Yogesh Kumar. In thisbackground, the view taken by the Division Bench in the case of Shyoraj Singh is per incuriam, rather than that in Kamal Sharma. 36. At the cost of repetition, it may be mentioned that the Division Bench s rendered by the Allahabad High Court in the cases of Natthi, Narendra Road Lines and Yogesh Kumar have been affirmed by this Court with the dismissal of SLPs assailing the impugned s in those cases. CONCLUSION 37. In the wake of the above discussion, we have no hesitation in holding that the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court correctly interpreted the legal position while deciding the batch of writ petitions in the case of Kamal Sharma and the in the case of Shyoraj Singh does not lay down the correct proposition of law. 38. The issues framed above are answered in the following terms: (i) Whether the present acquisition is part of the integrated development plan of the ‘Yamuna Expressway’ undertaken by respondent No. 3-YEIDA? y Yes, the present acquisition forms part of the integrated development plan for the Yamuna Expressway initiated by YEIDA. As observed in the case of Nand Kishore, the development of land parcels for industrial, residential, 1096 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and recreational purposes is complementary to the construction of the Yamuna Expressway. The objective of the acquisition is to integrate land development with the Yamuna Expressway’s construction, thereby promoting overall growth serving the public interest. Consequently, the Expressway and the development of adjoining lands are considered to be inseparable components of the overall project. (ii) Whether the application of Sections 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act was legal and warranted in the instant case, thereby justifying the Government’s decision to dispense with the inquiry under Section 5-A of the Act? y Yes, the invocation of Sections 17(1) and 17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, was legal and justified in this case. The urgency clause was applied in accordance with the planned development of the Yamuna Expressway, as held in Nand Kishore. (iii) Whether the view taken by the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Kamal Sharma while relying on Nand Kishore lays down the correct proposition of law, or whether the Division Bench in Shyoraj Singh was justified in applying the principles laid down in Radhy Shyam and quashing the acquisition proceedings in question? y The view expounded by the Division Bench in Kamal Sharma, which relied upon Nand Kishore, sets forth the correct proposition of law, and the of the High Court in Shyoraj Singh, which relied on Radhy Shyam, did not present a correct legal interpretation.