and the same shall be forwarded to the Board or the Committee and all Child Care Institutions for their record. (4) The Probation Officer or the Child Welfare Officer or Case Worker or social worker, shall prepare a post [2024] 8 S.C.R. 607 In Re: Right To Privacy of Adolescents release plan and submit the same to the Board or the Committee, through the concerned committees on After Care, two months before the child is due to leave the Child Care Institution, recommending after care for such child, as per the needs of the child. (5) The Board or the Committee or the Children’s Court, while monitoring the post release plan will also examine the effectiveness of the aftercare programme, particularly whether it is being utilized for the purpose for which it has been granted and the progress made by the child as a result of such after-care programme. (6) Children who are placed in aftercare programme, shall be provided funds by the State Government for their essential expenses; such funds shall be transferred directly to their bank accounts. (7) The services provided under the after-care programme may include: (i) community group housing on a temporary basis for groups of six to eight persons; (ii) provision of stipend during the course of vocational training or scholarships for higher education and support till the person gets employment; (iii) arrangements for skill training and placement in commercial establishments through coordination with National Skill Development Programme, Indian Institute for Skill Training and other such Central or State Government programmes and Corporates, etc. ; (iv) provision of a counsellor to stay in regular contact with such persons to discuss their rehabilitation plans; (v) provision of creative outlets for channelising their energy and to tide over the crisis periods in their lives; 608 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (vi) arrangement of loans and subsidies for persons in after-care, aspiring to set up entrepreneurial activities; and (vii) encouragement to sustain themselves without State or institutional support. (emphasis added)” 33.2 Section 46, read with Rule 25, is one of the most critical provisions that needs to be effectively implemented. Thus, the JJ Act has adequate provisions to ensure the care, protection, treatment, and rehabilitation of the victim of an offence under the POCSO Act. The ultimate object is to integrate the child in need of care and protection into society to lead a dignified and meaningful life. 34. If sub-section (6) of Section 19 is implemented in relation to the victims of the offences under the POCSO Act and thereafter, the CWC strictly implements the provisions of the JJ Act which we have referred to above, no victim will face the situation which the victim in this case had to face. The JJ Act is a complete code that makes provisions for the care, protection, treatment, and development of children in need of care and protection. The JJ Act provides for making available their basic needs and protection. The Act takes care of all the needs of the victims under the POCSO Act who fall under the category of children in need of care and protection.