Having regard to the allegations and insinuations contained in the review petition, there is justification for action under the Contempt of Courts Act, against the petitioner. However, [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1157 Gulshan Bajwa v. Registrar, High Court of Delhi & Anr. considering his background as is apparent from the record of the case and the apparent frustration caused to the petitioner as a result of his losing his appeal before this Court, we do not propose to initiate any action under the said Act, since the respondent has preferred the review petition in-person. However, we notice that the petitioner is an Advocate and is practising as an Advocate-on-Record in this Court. The conduct of the petitioner in filing a review petition containing such baseless allegations and insinuations reflecting on the conduct of Judges of this Court does call for closer scrutiny, as to whether his conduct does no credit to the noble profession to which he belongs. However, since that matter is not within our jurisdiction and it is only the Bar Council of India which is empowered to take appropriate action, we refer this matter to the Bar Council of India for such action as it may consider appropriate.” (ii) In Suo Motu Contempt Case No. 16 of 2006, the appellant had filed transfer petitions seeking transfer of the underlying matter as well as the suo motu contempt proceeding before a different bench of the High Court. Admittedly, he had filed the transfer petition on grounds which were devoid of the writ petitioner’s knowledge. The transfer petitions filed by the appellant in this matter, along with the various other matters, were firstly placed before the then Acting Chief Justice of the High Court, and pursuant to his dated 24.08.2006, the matter was listed before the same Bench which issued notice in Suo Motu Contempt Case No. 16 of 2006 on 21.08.2006. It has to be stated here that the original writ petitioner in this writ petition was personally present in the Court on 29.08.2006 and stated that he had not read the content of the transfer petition nor did he sign the transfer petition. (iii) In a different writ petition before High Court, in which the appellant was appearing as a counsel, he had filed an application wherein he made allegations against the Judges of the High Court as well as this Court. He also alleged that the transfer petitions were never placed before the then Acting Chief Justice of the High Court, thus, causing injustice. 1158 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iv) In W.P. No. 245 of 1986 before the High Court, the appellant had filed a written submission, where he had made the following statement (we have deliberately redacted the names of the Hon’ble Judges of this Court and that of the High Court to maintain the decorum of these proceedings. The details are however, available in the impugned before us): ‘The following Hon’ble Judges declined to hear the personal matters of the petitioner— (1) ... (2) ... (3) ... (4) ... (5) ...