22. In our opinion, the subordinate authority’s power under Section 17(2)(viii), to prescribe ‘any other fringe benefit or amenity’ as perquisite is not boundless. It is demarcated by the language of Section 17 of the Act. Anything made taxable by the rule-making authority under Section 17(2)(viii) should be a ‘perquisite’ in the form of ‘fringe benefits or amenity’. In our opinion, the provision clearly reflects the legislative policy and gives express guidance to the rule-making authority. 23. Section 17(2) provides an ‘inclusive’ definition of ‘perquisites’. Section 17(2)(i) to (vii)/(viia) provides for certain specific categories of perquisites. However, these are not the only kind of perquisites. 19 [1968] 3 SCR 251 : (1968) SCC OnLine SC 13 922 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 17(2)(viii) provides a residuary clause that includes ‘any other fringe benefits or amenities’ within the definition of ‘perquisites’, as prescribed from time to time. The express delineation does not take away the power of the legislature, as the plenary body, to delegate the rule-making authority to subordinate authorities, to bring within the ambit of ‘perquisites’ any other ‘fringe benefit’ or annuities’ as ‘perquisite’. The legislative intent, policy and guidance is drawn and defined. Pursuant to such demarcated delegation, Rule 3(7) (i) prescribes interest-free/loans at concessional rates as a ‘fringe benefit’ or ‘amenity’, taxable as ‘perquisites’. This becomes clear once we view the analysis undertaken in Birla Cotton 7J (supra) viz. the ‘essential legislative function’ test. 24. Birla Cotton 7J (supra) refers to In Re. : The Delhi Laws Act 1912 ,20 wherein this Court held that an unlimited right of delegation is not inherent in the legislative power itself. The legitimacy of delegation depends upon its usage as an ancillary measure, which the legislature considers necessary for the complete and effective exercise of legislative powers. Provided that the legislative policy is enunciated with sufficient clearness or a standard is laid down, the courts should not interfere with the discretion that undoubtedly rests with the legislature itself in determining the extent of delegation necessary in a particular case. 25. Birla Cotton 7J (supra) refers to Raj Narain Singh v. Chairman, Patna Administration Committee,21 wherein this Court held that an executive authority can be authorised by a statute to modify either existing or future laws but not in any essential feature. What constitutes an essential feature cannot be enunciated in exact terms. However, it was held that modification could not include a change in policy, since the ‘essential legislative function’ consists of the determination of legislative policy and its formulation as a binding rule of conduct. In the context of Section 17(2)(viii) and Rule 3(7) (i), we are of the opinion that main legislation does not fall foul of the essential feature test. They do not modify an essential feature nor do they violate the condition of determining legislative policy or a binding rule of conduct. 20 [1951] 1 SCR 747 : (1951) SCC 568 21 [1955] 1 SCR 290 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 923 All India Bank Officers’ Confederation v. The Regional Manager, Central Bank of India and Others 26.