312 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is determined. The court cannot obviously say that the law should have adopted one principle and not the other, for it relates only to the question of adequacy. On the other hand, if a law lays down principles which are not relevant to the property acquired or to the value of the property at or about the time it is acquired, it may be said that they are not principles contemplated by Article 31(2) of the Constitution. If a law says that though a house is acquired, it shall be valued as a land or that though a house site is acquired, it shall be valued as an agricultural land or that though it is acquired in 1950 its value in 1930 should be given, or though 100 acres are acquired compensation shall be given only for 50 acres, the principles do not pertain to the domain of adequacy but are principles unconnected to the value of the property acquired. In such cases the validity of the principles can be scrutinized. The law may also prescribe a compensation which is illusory: it may provide for the acquisition of a property worth lakhs of rupees for a paltry sum of Rs 100. The question in that context does not relate to the adequacy of the compensation, for it no compensation at all. The illustrations given by us are not exhaustive. There may be many others falling on either side of the line. But this much is clear. If the compensation is illusory or if the principles prescribed are irrelevant to the value of the property at or about the time of its acquisition, it can be said that the legislature committed a fraud on power and, therefore, the law is bad. It is a use of the protection of Article 31 in a manner which the article hardly intended”.70 Thereafter, this Court summed up the position with the following words: “Briefly stated the legal position is as follows: If the question pertains to the adequacy of compensation, it is not justiciable; if the compensation fixed or the principles evolved for fixing it disclose that the legislature made the law in fraud of powers in the sense we have explained, the question is within the jurisdiction of the court”.71 70 1964 SCC OnLine SC 22, para 15. 71 1964 SCC OnLine SC 22, para 16. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 313 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. In short, the entire acquisition, nationalisation, distribution, etc., could never be properly implemented, or made effective for reasons of “inadequate compensation”. 40. In July 1969, the President promulgated an ordinance nationalising 14 banks. We would also like to reproduce the extracts from the speech of the then Prime Minister who addressed the Nation from the All India Radio on the day when the initial ordinance to nationalise banks was promulgated. The Prime Minister explained the decision of nationalising banks as follows: “...Ours is an ancient country but a young democracy, which has to remain ever vigilant to prevent the domination of the few over the social, economic or political systems… To the millions of small farmers, artisans and other self-employed persons, a bank can be a source of credit, which is the very basis for any effort to improve their meagre economic lot… What is sought to be achieved through the present decision to nationalise the major banks is to accelerate the achievement of our objectives.