Immunity under Article 105(2) is available only to give protection against liability for an act that follows or succeeds as a consequence of making the speech or giving of vote by an MP and not for an act that precedes the speech or vote and gives rise to liability which arises independently of the speech or vote; 13.4. The offence of criminal conspiracy is made out on the conclusion of an agreement to commit the offence of bribery and the performance of the act pursuant to the agreement is not of any consequence. Similarly, the act of acceptance of a bribe for speaking or giving a vote against the motion arises independently of the making of the speech or giving of the vote by the MP. Hence, liability for the offence cannot be treated as “in respect of anything said or any vote given in Parliament;” and 13.5. The international trend, including law in the United States, Australia and Canada, reflects the position that legislators are liable to be prosecuted for bribery in connection with their legislative activities. Most of the Commonwealth countries treat corruption and bribery by members of the legislature as a criminal offence. In the United Kingdom also there is a move to change the law in this regard. There is no reason why legislators in India should not be covered by laws governing bribery and corruption when all other public functionaries are subject to such laws. 14. GN Ray, J in a separate opinion concurred with the reasoning of Agarwal, J that an MP is a public servant under the PC Act and on the question regarding the sanctioning authority under the PC Act. However, on the interpretation of Article 105(2), GN Ray, J concurred with the of Bharucha, J. Hence, the opinion authored by Bharucha, J on the interpretation of Article 105(2) represents the [2024] 3 S.C.R. 485 Sita Soren v. Union of India view of the majority of three judges of this Court.10 The opinion authored by SC Agarwal, J on the other hand, represents the view of the minority.11 C. Submissions 15. Over the course of the hearing, we have heard Mr Raju Ramachandran, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, Mr R Venkataramani, Attorney General for India, Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India, Mr PS Patwalia, senior counsel, amicus curiae, Mr Gopal Sankarnarayanan, senior counsel, and Mr Vijay Hansaria, senior counsel, appearing on behalf of intervenors. This Court being a court of record, the submissions made by the learned advocates are briefly listed below. 16. Mr Raju Ramachandran, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant submitted that the of the majority in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) is squarely applicable to the present case. Further, he argued that the majority is well-reasoned and there are no grounds to reconsider the settled position of law. In this regard, he made the following submissions: 16.1. The overruling of long-settled law in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) is unwarranted according to the tests laid down by this court on overturning judicial precedents;12 16.2.