42 A L S P P L Subrahmanyan Chettiar v. Muthuswami Goundan (1940) 2 FCR 188; A S Krishna v. State of Madras [1957] SCR 399 [8]; 43 K C Gajapathi Narayan Deo v. State of Orissa (1953) 2 SCC 178 [11] 44 K C Gajapathi Narayan Deo (supra) [12] 1616 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 42. The Constitution has used specific expressions to resolve potential overlaps or conflicts between and among the entries in the three Lists. The entries in the Seventh Schedule have used different phraseologies to either subject or restrict their scope and ambit. Some of the legislative entries in the State List have been made subject to broad or specific limitations or restrictions with respect to the entries in the Union List or Concurrent List. This would emerge from the tabulation set out below: Phraseology used Entries in State List Subject to the provisions of any 37 law made by Parliament Subject to the provisions of entries 2, 17, 22, 24, 33 in List I Subject to a particular field of 23 legislation in List I Subject to the provisions of entries 26, 27, 57 in List III Subject to the provisions of List I 13 and List III Subject to any limitations imposed 50 by Parliament by law Other than 7, 12, 32, 63 Not including 1, 51, 54, 66 43. The above table is an indication of the extent to which the legislative powers of the States have been restricted, limited, or altogether precluded. The use of the expression “other than” or “not including” serves the purpose of redacting from the ambit of the legislative power of the States to the extent suggested. Where the Constitution intends to limit or preclude the legislative powers of the State to a particular extent, it has used specific terminologies such as “other than” and “not including”. 44. Where the entries have used the phrase “subject to”, the legislative power of the State is made subordinate to Parliament with respect to either the Union List or the Concurrent List. The expression “subject to” conveys the idea of a provision yielding place to another provision [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1617 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. or other provisions to which it is made subject.45 Therefore, where the Constitution intends to displace or override46 the legislative powers of the States, it has used specific terminology – “subject to”. However, the Constitution has also indicated the extent to which a particular legislative entry under List II is subordinated. For instance, the subjection is either with respect to provisions of List I or List III, or it can also be to the extent of “any limitations” imposed by Parliament by law. Thus, it is imperative that the entries in List II must be read and interpreted in their proper context to understand the extent of their subordination to Union powers. 45. There are numerous entries in the State List where the Constitution has imposed no restrictions on the exercise of the legislative powers of the States.47 With respect to such entries, the absence of any express limitations indicates that the Constitution did not intend to fetter the legislative powers of the States.