[Para 21 (d)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Clause (c) of sub- section (2) of section 32 – A part of first appellant’s (D) property was permitted to be developed by S under Development agreement – A MOU was also executed between the first appellant and M, by which first appellant agreed to sell another portion of property to M – Dispute arose – A consensus was reached between all the three parties to appoint a Arbitrator – Arbitral Tribunal had to deal with claims filed by both S and M – M’s claim culminated in an award on 06.05.2017 – [2024] 6 S.C.R. 763 Dani Wooltex Corporation & Ors. v. Sheil Properties Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. However, arbitral proceedings based on claim filed by S did not proceed – First Appellant filed an application invoking the Arbitral Tribunal power under Clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 32 of the Arbitration Act contending that S had abandoned arbitral proceedings – Following, the Arbitral Tribunal terminated arbitral proceedings – However, the Single Judge of the High Court directed the tribunal to continue with the proceedings – Propriety: Held: The question is whether S abandoned its claim filed before the Arbitrator – S had regularly attended meetings held to hear M’s claim – During the period during which the claim of M was heard, at no stage, the Arbitrator suggested that the claim of S could be heard simultaneously – On the contrary, from the conduct of the parties and the Arbitrator, an inference can be drawn that M’s claim was given priority – In any case, there is no express abandonment – Even if it is to be implied, there must be convincing circumstances on record which lead to an inevitable inference about the abandonment – In the facts of the case, there was no abandonment either express or implied – In a case where the claim is abandoned, the Arbitrator can take the view that it would be unnecessary to continue the proceedings based on the already abandoned claim – In this case, the inference of the abandonment has been drawn by the Arbitrator only on the grounds that S did not challenge the M award and took no steps to convene the meeting of the Arbitral Tribunal – The failure to challenge the award on M’s claim will not amount to abandonment of the claim filed by S – In the claim submitted by S, a prayer was made in the alternative for passing an award in terms of money against the first appellant – Therefore, there was absolutely no material on record to conclude that S had abandoned its claim or, at least, the claim against the first appellant. [Para 20] Case Law Cited NRP Projects Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. Hirak Mukhopadhyay & Anr., 2012 SCC OnLine Cal 10496; Kothari Developers v. Madhukant S Patel, Arbitration Petition (L) No.29362 of 2022; Lalitkumar V Sanghavi & Anr. v. Dharamdas V Sanghavi & Ors. [2014] 3 SCR 558 : 2014 (7) SCC 255; Godrej and Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited v. Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai & Ors.