The importance which was attached to the payment of pension is clear from the fact that pensionary payments are charged on the Consolidated Fund of India under Article 112(d)(3). 26. These provisions of the Constitution have been curated with care, based on the overarching need to preserve judicial independence. 27. The principle of non-discrimination which animates Article 14 of the Constitution applies a fortiori to the manner in which sitting and former judges of the High Court are to be treated, irrespective of the source from which they are drawn. This principle of non-discrimination was underscored in the decision of this Court in P Ramakrishnam Raju Vs Union of India,9 where the Court held : “19. When persons who occupied the constitutional office of Judge, High Court retire, there should not be any discrimination with regard to the fixation of their pension. Irrespective of the source from where the Judges are drawn, they must be paid the same pension just as they have been paid same salaries and allowances and perks as serving Judges…. 20. The fixation of higher pension to the Judges drawn from the subordinate judiciary who have served for shorter period in contradistinction to Judges drawn from the Bar who have served for longer period with less pension is highly discriminatory and breach of Article 14 of the Constitution. The classification itself is unreasonable without any legally acceptable nexus with the object sought to be achieved. 9 [2014] 4 SCR 562 : (2014) 12 SCC 1 1056 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 22. In most of the States, the Judgeship of the High Court is offered to advocates who are in the age group of 50-55 years, since pre-eminence at the Bar is achieved normally at that age. After remaining at the top for a few years, a successful lawyer may show inclination to accept Judgeship, since that is the culmination of the desire and objective of most of the lawyers. When persons holding constitutional office retire from service, making a discrimination in the fixation of their pensions depending upon the source from which they were appointed is in breach of Articles 14 and 16(1) of the Constitution. One rank one pension must be the norm in respect of a constitutional office.” 28. This was reiterated recently in a decision of this Court in Union of India Vs Justice (Retd) Raj Rahul Garg,10 where the Court held: “30. Acceptance of the submission of the Union of India would discriminate against Judges of the High Court based on the source from which they are drawn. A member of the Bar is entitled to the addition of ten years of service by virtue of the provisions of Section 14A. On the addition of the years of service, their pensionary benefits would be computed on the basis of the last drawn salary as a Judge of the High Court. However, if the argument of the Union of India is accepted, the pension of a Judge who was a former District Judge would be computed on the basis of their salary as a District Judge.