789 Satyendar Kumar Jain v. Directorate of Enforcement appellant. Shri Vaibhav Jain in his statement under Section 50 had also stated that the cash was provided by the appellant himself and had also explained about the modus operandi of transferring the cash from Delhi to Kolkata through Hawala operators and as to how in lieu of cash, accommodation entries were layered and received from Kolkata based shell companies into the companies owned by the appellant, and agricultural lands were purchased from the said funds. (iv) From the documents obtained from the Income Tax Department it was revealed that the appellant had submitted the application before the income tax authorities requesting that the income tax paid by Vaibhav Jain and Ankush Jain under IDS, 2016 be adjusted against the demands raised in his individual assessments by the IT authorities, which established that the IDS declaration made by Vaibhav Jain and Ankush Jain were made for the appellant and that the amount paid in IDS as well as the tax paid thereon belonged to the appellant Satyendar Kumar Jain. (v) The Special Court having taken the cognizance of the PMLA case vide the dated 29.07.2022 and having held that there was prima facie evidence incriminating about the involvement of the appellant Satyendar Kumar Jain was sufficient to show the existence of the scheduled offence and also the existence of proceeds of crime. (vi) The appellant Satyendar Kumar Jain was the main person behind the bogus shell companies based in Kolkata, which never did any real business. He had either incorporated them or was having majority shareholdings alongwith his wife. The accommodation entries of Rs. 16.50 crores (approx.) were received in the said companies during the financial years 2010- 11, 2011-12 and 2015-16 with the modus operandi as revealed from the statements of the Auditor/Chartered Accountant Shri J.P. Mohta as well as the accommodation entry provider Shri Rajendra Bansal and also from the statement of Vaibhav Jain. (vii) Though the principle of company being a separate legal entity from its shareholders is an established principle of Company law, the lifting of corporate veil has been upheld in the cases where the corporate structures have been used for committing 790 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports fraud, economic offences or have been used as a facade or a sham for carrying out illegal activities. (viii) The bogus nature of IDS declarations was substantiated by the fact that the entire amount of Rs.16.50 Crores received as accommodation entry was split between Vaibhav Jain and Ankush Jain. The said declarations showed their modus operandi to shield Satyendar Jain and his family members, and assume the entire liability upon themselves to give it a colour of a tax evasion simplicitor, rather than a criminal activity relating to disproportionate assets. This modus operandi also showed that the appellants themselves had disregarded the corporate entities of these companies. (ix) The disproportionate pecuniary resources earned by the appellant by the commission of scheduled offence, were used as accommodation entries for concealing and layering the tainted origins of the money, and therefore would qualify to be the proceeds of crime as defined under Section 2(1)(u) of the PMLA.