Further, the grounds on which the Registrar may refuse to receive a petition have been [2024] 2 S.C.R. 773 M/S Brahmaputra Concrete Pipe Industries Etc. Etc. v. The Assam State Electricity Board and Others enumerated in Rule 5 of XV of the 2013 Rules. In the under appeal, the aforesaid Rule has been referred to. But this Rule does not empower the Registrar to decline registration of a curative petition on the ground as disclosed in declining registration of the present curative petition. Hearing of a review petition in open Court cannot be brought within the ambit of the expression “that it discloses no reasonable cause” as employed in Rule 5 of XV of the 2013 Rules. That factor would be, at best, a technical shortcoming. Considering the importance of the question raised before it, in the case of Union Carbide (supra) the Constitution Bench of this Court chose to examine the curative petition in spite of there being dismissal of the review petition in open Court hearing though ultimately the curative petition stood dismissed. 19. Now we shall turn to the question as regards the course open to the Registry after it finds a curative petition lacking the averment to the effect that the grounds mentioned therein had been taken in the review petition and that it was dismissed by circulation. We have referred to two precedents where this Court chose to invoke its curative jurisdiction after the respective review petitions were dismissed in open Court. Registry cannot be vested with power to decide whether a review petition, after being dismissed in open Court hearing, merited relook through the curative jurisdiction. As we have already observed, that would be a judicial exercise. The Registry in a situation of this nature, cannot keep the matter pending as “defective” either, as is done in the cases of delayed filing of petition unaccompanied by applications for condonation of delay. We are referring to this context by way of an illustration only. In such a situation, filing of an application for condonation of delay would cure the initial defect and it would be for the Court to decide as to whether the delay has to be condoned or not. In cases like the present one, curing the defect would not be within the Registry’s jurisdiction. We also do not think an appeal under XV Rule 5 of the 2013 Rules would be the proper course, as under that Rule situations in which Registry can refuse to entertain a petition have been clearly expressed. Failure to make averment in terms of Rule 2(1) of XLVIII of the 2013 Rules is not one of the conditions which vests the Registry to refuse to receive a curative petition in itself. 20. In our opinion, the course to be followed by the Registry in a proceeding of this nature is contained in LV Rule 2 of the 774 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2013 Rules. This was the submission of the learned Amicus Curiae and we quote below the said Rule:- “ LV POWER TO DISPENSE AND INHERENT POWERS .