[2024] 11 S.C.R. 1737 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 108. In Azeez Basha (supra), this Court recognised the efforts of the Muslim community towards the establishment of AMU’s predecessor, the MAO College, as well as towards the enactment of the AMU Act but held that the central imperial legislature established AMU, and not the Muslim community. In effect, it held that the enactment of the AMU Act rendered any previous action undertaken by the Muslim community towards the establishment of AMU irrelevant. 109. The reasoning of the Court hinged on the fact that the Muslim minority could have established a university and awarded degrees but could not have insisted upon governmental recognition of its degrees. The Court held that the fact that AMU was brought into existence by a statute which mandated the recognition of its degrees meant that the central imperial legislature established it. Since the correctness of the reasoning of the Court is being considered in these proceedings, it is extracted below: “22. There was nothing in 1920 to prevent the Muslim minority, if it so chose, to establish a university; but if it did so the degrees of such a university were not bound to be recognised by Government. … The Aligarh University was also in the same way established by legislation and it provided under Section 6 of the 1920 Act that “the degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions granted or conferred to or on persons by the University shall be recognised by the Government as are the corresponding degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions granted by any other university incorporated under any enactment”. It is clear therefore that even though the Muslim minority could have established at Aligarh in 1920 a university, it could not insist that degrees granted by such a university should be recognised by Government. Therefore when the Aligarh University was established in 1920 and by Section 6 its degrees were recognised by Government, an institution was brought into existence which could not be brought into existence by any private individual or body for such individual or body could not insist upon the recognition of the degrees conferred by any university established by it. The enactment of Section 6 in the 1920 Act is a very important circumstance which shows that the Aligarh University when it came to be established in 1920 1738 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports was not established by the Muslim minority, for the minority could not insist on the recognition by Government of the degrees conferred by any university established by it. 23. … There was no Aligarh University existing till the 1920 Act was passed. It was brought into being by the 1920 Act and must therefore be held to have been established by the Central Legislature which by passing the 1920 Act incorporated it. The fact that it was based on the M.A.O. College, would make no difference to the question as to who established the Aligarh University. The answer to our mind as to who established the Aligarh University is clear and that is that it was the Central Legislature by enacting the 1920 Act that established the said University.