The legislature was of the view that nationalisation was 154 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports necessary because private contract carriages were being operated in a manner “detrimental to the public interest” and the nationalisation of the carriages would prevent misuse and provide better facilities. The legislation contained a declaration stating that it is in furtherance of the principles contained in Articles 39(b) and (c) and thus protected by Article 31-C. The Karnataka High Court struck down the legislation as unconstitutional on various grounds, including inter alia that it was not protected by Article 31-C. 180. As noted earlier in this judgement, the majority decision, authored by Justice Untwalia, upheld the constitutional validity of the legislation but did not discuss the question of whether the legislation was in furtherance of Article 39(b) and thus, protected by Article 31- C. However, the contours of Article 39(b) were discussed in the concurring opinion authored by Justice Krishna Iyer (on behalf of himself and two other judges), and it was held that legislation was saved by Article 31-C. Justice Krishna Iyer framed the questions with regard to Article 39(b) in the following terms: “50. […] 2. What are the pervasive ambience and progressive amplitude of the “directive principle” in Article 39(b) and (c) in the context of nationalisation of public utilities? 2 (a). Can State monopoly by taking over private property be a modus operandi of distribution of ownership and control of the material resources of the community to subserve the common good, within the framework of Article 39 (b)? 2(b). Are distribution and nationalisation antithetical or overlapping? 2 (c). What is the connotation of the expression “material resources”? Can private buses be regarded as material resources of the community?” 181. Justice Krishna Iyer held that the purpose behind the provision is to allow for the “restructuring of the social ” and each word in the provision contributes to this “social mission”. He warned against a “ritualistic construction” of the provision which would weaken this purpose. He observed: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 155 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. “80. […] The key word is “distribute” and the genius of the Article, if we may say so, cannot but be given full play as it fulfils the basic purpose of restructuring the economic . Each word in the article has a strategic role and the whole article a social mission. It embraces the entire material resources of the community. Its task is to distribute such resources. Its goal is so to undertake distribution as best to subserve the common good. It re- organizes by such distribution the ownership and control. 83. Two conclusions strike us as quintessential. Part IV, especially Article 39(b) and (c), is a futuristic mandate to the State with a message of transformation of the economic and social . Firstly, such change calls for collaborative effort from all the legal institutions of the system: the legislature, the judiciary and the administrative machinery. Secondly and consequentially, loyalty to the high purpose of the Constitution viz.