As is the case in any adversarial exercise, to an extent, the Court needs to reconcile the varying approaches. The in Azeez Basha [supra] ought to be understood in the correct historical perspective in to ascertain if it lays down the proposition - that whenever a University is established by way of an enactment, it cannot be a minority institution. 188. From a proper reading presented above, it is incorrect to suggest that the Court in Azeez Basha [supra] adopts an approach which this Court has not adopted in future cases. It is also crucial to note that apart from Azeez Basha [supra] this Court has, in no other case, ever dealt with a situation where a University, which was established by the Legislative Council during the British period, has claimed minority status. In that sense, the in Azeez Basha [supra] and present bench are faced with a unique situation. It is for this reason, the Court in Azeez Basha [supra] had to adopt a suitably modulated approach. 189. The notion that Azeez Basha [supra] categorically prohibits minorities from establishing universities due to statutory requirements is unfounded. The in Azeez Basha [supra] underscores the importance of legislative intent and the specific provisions within statutes in determining the character of an institution at the time of its establishment. The AMU’s founding legislation, according to Azeez Basha [supra], did not designate it as a minority institution, either in character or administration. 190. Furthermore, the in Azeez Basha [supra] correctly emphasizes the absence of UGC regulations at the time of the AMU’s establishment and underscores the need to consider historical circumstances highlighting the supreme importance of Government recognition of degrees at the said time. In essence, the judgement in Azeez Basha [supra] provides crucial insights into the contextual factors influencing the establishment of educational institutions, 2002 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports emphasizing the need for interpretative clarity while considering pre- Constitution and pre-UGC institutions status as minority institutions, especially Universities. It would be unfair to judge the approach of a judgement rendered almost six decades back for the alleged lack of verbosity. 191. The in Azeez Basha [supra] does not preclude minorities from establishing universities but rather highlights the importance of legislative intent and statutory provisions in determining an institution’s character. As a matter of law, it is within the purview of the Legislature to enact legislation for the establishment of a minority university, provided that such legislation fulfills the criteria of constituting a statute for a minority university. In such a scenario, the concerned legislation must incorporate provisions that clearly indicate the establishment of the institution by the minority community and confer administrative authority to the minority community. I. BalancIng conflIctIng narratIVes 192. There is an inherent problem in the study of history. Since the events in history that have already occurred can be highlighted or dimmed depending upon the proclivities of the writer, the ‘correct’ version of history often remains elusive. Many modern history writers adopt an approach which is known as Complex Adaptive System, where the world is seen as an unruly unorganised place in which the sequence of events is complex and unpredictable.