On appeal, the appellant contended that the selection committee, an expert body, was entitled to apportion marks, and that the appellant had experience in Government/Autonomous medical institutions. The writ petitioner had contended that no explanation was furnished for dividing the marks and bifurcating the same. This Court while allowing the appeal in para 19 held as under: “19. It is in this background that we need to determine whether the marks allotted to the appellant in the category of experience and personality are arbitrary. The appellant at the time of submitting the application had a one year work experience in Bapuji Medical College, Devanagere (a private institution) and three years of work experience with the first respondent. On the other hand, the respondent at the time of the application, had six months’ experience of working under a doctor who was undertaking private practice. Not only did the appellant have more years of work experience, he had work experience in a governmental institution. Hence, the marks awarded to the third respondent and the appellant bore a nexus to the yardstick determined by the Selection Committee. It is not the case of the third respondent that the appellant was given more marks for experience despite having less work experience. On a comparison of the marks allotted to both the candidates with reference to the yardstick determined by the Selection Committee, no mala fides could be imputed to the Selection Committee. Nor is there an obvious or glaring error or perversity. The Court does not sit in appeal over the decision of the Selection Committee.” 32. In the present case too, we find no glaring error or perversity in the criterion adopted on the peculiar facts of the present case. No mala fide could also be attributed to the State and the Selection Committee. 33. Satya Dev Bhagaur (supra) was a case wherein the State of Rajasthan had issued a notification providing that such of the candidate who had worked under the Government, Chief Minister BPL Life Saving Fund, NRHM Medicare Relief Society, AIDS Control 214 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Society, National TB Control Program, Jhalawar Hospital and Medical College Society, Samekit Rog Nirgrani Pariyojna or State Institute of Health Family Welfare would be entitled to bonus marks as per the experience attained. It was provided that for one year of experience, the bonus marks will be 10, for two years of experience the bonus marks will be 20 and for three years of experience it will be 30. This notification was challenged by certain persons who had experience of working in NRHM Scheme on contract basis in States other than Rajasthan. They sought a direction to accept their experience certificate so as to entitle them to obtain the bonus marks. While the Single Judge allowed the Writ Petitions, the Division Bench reversed the same and the aggrieved Writ Petitioners were in Appeal. Examining the question whether bonus marks would be available to employees of NRHM Scheme in other States, this Court while repelling the contention held that in matters of policy, Courts should be slow in interfering, unless the policy is found to be palpably discriminatory and arbitrary.