10. Section 36(2) of the Arbitration Act indicates that where an application to set aside an arbitral award has been filed under Section 34, the filing of such an application shall not, by itself, render that award unenforceable, unless the Court grants a stay on the enforcement of the arbitral award in terms of sub-section (3). The provision indicates that a separate application must be made for this purpose. Sub- section (3) of Section 36 stipulates that where such an application has been filed, the Court may, subject to such conditions as it may deem fit, grant stay of the operation of the award for reasons to be recorded in writing. Following the amendments brought about by the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act 2015, the first proviso 2 “CPC” 1508 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to sub-section (3) stipulates that the Court shall, while considering an application for grant of stay in the case of an arbitral award for payment of money, have due regard to the provisions related to the grant of stay of a money decree under the CPC. The second proviso provides for a situation in which the Court may grant unconditional stay. Section 36(3) and its provisos are reproduced below: “36. Enforcement – … (3) Upon filing of an application under sub-section (2) for stay of the operation of the arbitral award, the Court may, subject to such conditions as it may deem fit, grant stay of the operation of such award for reasons to be recorded in writing: Provided that the Court shall, while considering the application for grant of stay in the case of an arbitral award for payment of money, have due regard to the provisions for grant of stay of a money decree under the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908). Provided further that where the Court is satisfied that a Prima facie case is made out that, – (a) the arbitration agreement or contract which is the basis of the award; or (b) the making of the award, was induced or effected by fraud or corruption, it shall stay the award unconditionally pending disposal of the challenge under section 34 to the award. Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that the above proviso shall apply to all court cases arising out of or in relation to arbitral proceedings, irrespective of whether the arbitral or court proceedings were commenced prior to or after the commencement of the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (3 of 2016).” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1509 International Seaport Dredging Pvt Ltd v. Kamarajar Port Limited 11. In the present case, there is an arbitral award to the tune of approximately Rs 21 crores in favour of the appellant. The High Court, while issuing a direction for furnishing of a bank guarantee, dealt with only one of the claims which was awarded by the arbitral tribunal, namely, that which pertained to the refund of the cess under the Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Cess Act 1996.3 In this regard, the High Court observed that the Deputy Chief Labour Commissioner, by its dated 6 November 2019, held that the Cess Act was not applicable to the appellant which was therefore not required to pay cess under that statute.