In other words, this Court has only gone so far as to lay down what is permissible within the four corners of these principles and by no stretch of imagination has this Court in any manner held that such postulations are stricto-sensu required to be complied with. 98. The various decisions of this Court have only developed upon the principles of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ by explaining the criterions that may be postulated within the framework of these principles for the purpose of promotion. The scope of the aforesaid principles is summarized below: - I) The principle of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ postulates that: - i. Minimum requirement of merit and suitability which is necessary for the higher post can be prescribed for the purpose of promotion. ii. Comparative Assessment amongst the candidates is not required. iii. Seniority of a candidate is not a determinative factor for promotion but has a predominant role. iv. Upon fulfilling the minimum qualifications, promotions must be based on inter-se seniority. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1129 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. II) The principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ postulates that: - i. Merit plays a predominant role in and seniority alone cannot be given primacy. ii. Comparative Assessment of Merit is a crucial, though not a mandatory, factor. iii. Only where merit is equal in all respects can inter-se seniority be considered. Meaning that a junior candidate can be promoted over the senior if the junior is more meritorious. 99. The underlying reason why the afore-stated postulations ought not be understood as mandatory stems from the very fact that they are not a result of a legislative creation, but rather one of judicial interpretation whilst dealing with different promotion policies, different service conditions, the varied nature and requirement of posts and more importantly different sets of rules. Since, these postulations have been laid down in different context and varied facts, it would be preposterous to say that such postulations will apply uniformly to all services and matters of promotion including the judicial services. 100. The principles of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ should by no means be regarded as rigid or inflexible in nature, otherwise, these judicial connotations would effectively assume the character of statutory stipulation laid down through various judicial pronouncements and would become applicable to all types of services, posts and promotions. This would lead to the transgression by the judiciary into the realms of policy making. 101. This Court in Lt. Gen. Rajendra Singh Kadyan (supra) whilst explaining the intricacies between the principles of ‘Merit-cum- Seniority’ and ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ made a pertinent observation that selection for promotion is based on different criteria depending upon the nature of the post and requirements of service, and that such criteria could be said to fall into three categories which include ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’. 102. In Palure Bhaskar Rao (supra) and Kavita Kamboj (supra) this Court equated the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ and ‘Seniority- cum-Merit’ as modes or methods of promotion. However, modes of promotion should not be conflated with modalities of promotion.