But if a higher grade is open in the touchable school service, no untouchable teacher can be thrust into that grade. He must wait till a vacancy occurs in the untouchable service! Such is the ethics of the Hindu social life.” 176. Dr. Ambedkar in to fight against the inhuman treatment of untouchables, who were not even allowed to draw water from the common place, held an agitation at Mahad known as “Mahad Satyagraha” on 20th March 1927 so that the untouchables could be permitted to draw water from a public tank at Mahad. 177. Dr. Ambedkar also led agitations for opening the doors of places of worship to the untouchables. One such agitation which he led was in Nashik and was popularly known as “Kalaram Temple Satyagraha”. 178. Dr. Ambedkar was of the view that if untouchables come out of that stigma and participate in nation-building, they will only contribute to the progress of the nation. He was of the view that the movement for removal of untouchability is in true sense a movement for nation- building and fraternity. 179. I can gainfully refer to the collection of views of Dr. Ambedkar as put together lucidly by Anurag Bhaskar in the book appropriately titled as “The Foresighted Ambedkar”,20 which reads thus: 20 Anurag Bhaskar, The Foresighted Ambedkar: Ideas that shaped Indian constitutional Discourse (Viking by Penguin Random House 2024). [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1553 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. “He asserted that the issue of temple entry or access to public resources is an issue of equality. He stated: “Another argument these Touchables give is that even if they do not allow the Untouchables into their temples, all are free to build a temple for themselves. I would like to ask those so-called learned ones why they object to Railways for having separate coaches for Whites and Indians? …There is only one answer to this and that is: it is not a matter of travel only, it is a matter of equality! … The Untouchables have the same reason for demanding the right to worship God in the same temple. They want to prove that the temple is not defiled by their entry ….. The Untouchables are not servants … On the basis of this alone they should accept the rights of the Untouchables. And when there are rights there is no question of custom of usage.”21 He further added that public property cannot be used as the private property of the oppressor castes. He noted: “Legally, the right to public property is not required to be established by any deed; it is available automatically to everybody. Even if he has no usage or it was not continuous, it does not deprive him of that right. Suppose, somebody did not walk on a particular road, does that mean he can never use that road? Therefore, it would be quite idiotic to say that since Untouchables never went to the temple or never drew water from the public wells, so now they cannot do that.”22 Dr. Ambedkar also dismissed the contention of the oppressor castes that the Untouchables should wait for them to change and allow equal rights.