This reasoning was also adopted by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in Mazurek v FM Ins Company, Jamestown.65 In that case, an 1857 statute allowed individuals to sue insurers in the county where the insured property was located. The 1857 statute was repealed by a 1921 law, but Section 344 of the 1921 law preserved the jurisdiction of individuals to sue insurers in the jurisdiction where the insured property was located. The 1921 law was later invalidated, and a question arose as to whether the 1857 law and the preservation of jurisdiction by Section 344 could still be given effect. Justice Maxey held that it could be: 65 320 Pa 33 (Pa. 1935) (25 November 1935, Supreme Court of Pennsylvania) 80 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “The only question is whether where, as here, an act expressly repeals another act and provides a substitute for the act repealed and the substitute is found unconstitutional, is the other act so expressly repealed, to be judicially accepted as repealed. Such a construction is not warranted unless it clearly appears that the legislature would have passed the repealing clauses even if it had not provided a substitute for the acts repealed. Not only was there no such intention on the part of the legislature in the present case, but it is apparent that exactly the opposite was intended. The precise question now being discussed has not heretofore been passed upon by this court. However, other courts have enunciated the principle that a repealing clause expressly repealing a prior statute is itself ineffective where the substitute for the prior statute provided in the repealing statute is unconstitutional, and where it does not appear that the legislature would have enacted the repealing clause without providing a substitute for the act repealed [citations omitted]. There is no doubt that the legislature in enacting section 344 of the Act of 1921 intended to preserve to courts of countries in which insured properties were located the jurisdiction in insurance cases created by the Act of 1857. It is a legitimate inference that the Act of 1857 would not have been repealed by the Act of 1921 if the legislature had known that section 344 of that act would be declared invalid for defect in the title of the act.” (emphasis supplied) The above extracts make it evident that the appropriate test in cases of substitution is whether the legislature intended to repeal the law if they knew that the law they were enacting would not have legal effect. Looked at from another perspective, the question is, would the legislature have given effect to the repeal if they did not also simultaneously intend to enact an alternative provision or statute. These decisions from the United States of America are of particular relevance, as like in India, courts in the United States have long followed the doctrine of judicial review and invalidation of both primary and secondary legislation. Therefore, the experience of American [2024] 11 S.C.R. 81 Property Owners Association & Ors.