Referring to the provisions of the UP Excise Act, 1910 and the definitions therein on the different types of liquor, this Court speaking through Bharucha, J. (as he then was) observed in paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 as under: “9. It is convenient now to note the of a Bench of seven learned Judges of this Court in Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. v. State of U.P. [(1990) 1 SCC 109] This Court stated that it had no doubt that the framers of the Constitution, when they used the expression “alcoholic liquors for human consumption”, meant, and the expression still means, that liquor which, as it is, is consumable in the sense that it is capable of being taken by human beings as such as a beverage or drink. Alcoholic or intoxicating liquors had to be understood as they were, not what they were 2088 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports capable of or able to become. Entry 51 of List II was the counterpart of Entry 84 of List I. It authorised the State to impose duties of excise on alcoholic liquors for human consumption manufactured or produced in the State. It was clear that all duties of excise save and except the items specifically excepted in Entry 84 of List I were generally within the taxing power of the Central Legislature. The State Legislature had limited power to impose excise duties. That power was circumscribed under Entry 51 of List II. It had to be borne in mind that, by common standards, ethyl alcohol (which had 95 per cent strength) was an industrial alcohol and was not fit for human consumption. The ISI specifications had divided ethyl alcohol (as known in the trade) into several kinds of alcohol. Beverages and industrial alcohols were clearly and differently treated. Rectified spirit for industrial purposes was defined as spirit purified by distillation having a strength not less than 95 per cent by volume of ethyl alcohol. Dictionaries and technical books showed that rectified spirit (95 per cent) was an industrial alcohol and not potable as such. It appeared, therefore, that industrial alcohol, which was ethyl alcohol (95 per cent), by itself was not only non-potable but was highly toxic. The range of potable alcohol varied from country spirit to whisky and the ethyl alcohol content thereof varied between 19 to about 43 per cent, according to the ISI specifications. In other words, ethyl alcohol (95 per cent) was not an alcoholic liquor for human consumption but could be used as a raw material or input, after processing and substantial dilution, in the production of whisky, gin, country liquor, etc. In the light of experience and development, it was necessary to state that “intoxicating liquor” meant only that liquor which was consumable by human beings as it was. 10. What the State seeks to levy excise duty upon in the Group ‘B’ cases is the wastage of liquor [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2089 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons after distillation, but before dilution; and, in the Group ‘D’ cases, the pipeline loss of liquor during the process of manufacture, before dilution.