Protecting donor privacy is not a legitimate purpose. There is no legitimate expectation of informational privacy to political contributions. The argument that it lies at the heart of privacy conflates speech with money. Secrecy of voting cannot be equated to political donations because while the former is an expression of political equality, the latter is contrary to political equality because it depends on the economic capacity of the contributor; 470 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports li. Political funding is made to influence public policy. They are public acts which are by their very nature subject to public scrutiny; and ili. Even if donor privacy is necessary, on a balance, the public interest in free and fair elections trumps the private interest in confidentiality. Further, this Court has to balance between the possibility of victimization on the disclosure of information and the infringement of the right to know; and 1. The amendment to Section 31 of the RBI Act is unconstitutional because of excessive delegation since it does not set out the contours of the Scheme. 32. Mr Shadan Farasat, learned counsel made the following submissions: a. The Scheme does not effectively curb black money. Clause 14 of the Electoral Bond Scheme prohibits de jure trading of the bonds. However, trading is de facto permissible. Nothing prevents person A from purchasing the bond and trading it with person B who pays through cash; The right to information on political funding which is traceable to Article 19(1)(a) can only be restricted on the grounds stipulated in Article 19(2). The purposes of curbing black money and recognizing donor privacy is not traceable to the grounds in Article 19(2); Even if the purposes are traceable to Article 19(2), the Scheme is unreasonable and disproportionate to the purpose of “increasing political funding through banking channels and reducing political funding through non-banking channels” because: i. The purpose is not satisfied: The regime still permits cash funding up to Rupees two thousand. The operation of the Scheme increases anonymous funding through electoral bonds at the cost of contributions through regular banking channels; ii. There is no rational nexus between the means and the purpose; iil. | Other less restrictive means of contributing through banking channels are available; and [2024] 2 S.C.R. 471 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. ५. Union of India & Ors. iv. The fifth prong of the proportionality analysis as laid down in Gujarat Mazdoor Sabha v. State of Gujarat®’ and Ramesh Chandra Sharma v. State of Uttar Pradesh” that the legislation should have sufficient safeguard to prevent abuse has also not been satisfied. The statutory amendments and the Scheme are manifestly arbitrary because (i) large scale corruption and quid pro quo arrangements would go unidentified due to the non-disclosure of information about political funding; (1) they enable capture of democracy by wealthy interests; and (1) they infringe the principle of ‘one person-one vote’ because a selected few overpower the voice of the masses because of their economic wealth; The deletion of the limit on corporate contributions is manifestly arbitrary?