1 for its “commercial purpose”. 18. As regards the defects in the car, both the sides have heavily placed reliance upon the correspondence which took place between them after the purchase of the car by the respondent no. 1 and after the defects were detected in the car. The said correspondence has also been tabulated by National Commission in the impugned from which it appears that within a very short time after the purchase of the car in question on 31.03.2003, one of the directors of the respondent-company namely Mr. Ashok Khanna had taken the car out from Delhi for going to Chandigarh and Dehradun in April, 2003 and found that “sitting at the back seat, the center hump on the floor over the drive shaft of the vehicle was excessively heated and particularly so on the left side of the center hump”. The said defect was immediately reported to the appellant and the respondent no. 2, however after examining the vehicle they had reported that everything was fine and nothing unusual was observed. Since, the said complaint of heating persisted, the respondent-complainant again requested the appellant to rectify the defect. Thereafter, several correspondences ensued between the parties. It is pertinent to note that in the letter dated 21.08.2003, it was stated by the appellant that “although the area (center hump) was observed to be warm, it is not a defect”. In its letter dated 02.07.2004, the respondent [2024] 7 S.C.R. 431 M/s Daimler Chrysler India Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s Controls & Switchgear Company Ltd. & Anr. no. 2 who happened to be the dealer of the appellant required the complainant-company with regard to the center hump to keep it under observation over a longer distance and to report the matter in case of any abnormalities, had confirmed that the AC control unit was found to be defective. Thereafter, on the respondent-company having made the complaint of excessive heating on the center hump more prominently on long drives out of station, the car was once again inspected by the engineers of the appellant-company, who had informed the respondent-complainant vide letter dated 03.12.2004 that “on account of the catalytic converter fitted underneath the car, these cars do heat a lot”, and advised that “the matter could be resolved by adjusting the rear air-conditioning vents suitably”. It appears that thereafter repeated requests/complaints having been made by the respondent-complainant, the respondent no. 2 wrote vide the letter dated 22.12.2004 that the exhaust pipe of the car needed replacement. The respondent-complainant again wrote to the appellant vide the letter dated 23.12.2004 that though they were offering to replace the exhaust pipe, it was not only the center portion which was heating up but the entire floor was heating up with excessive heat and therefore, the vehicle needed to be replaced. The respondent-complainant ultimately wrote a letter dated 21.03.2005 to the appellant reiterating the persisting problem of hump heating despite a catena of experiments carried out towards rectification of the malfunctioning of the car and requested for the replacement of the vehicle.