A number of decisions of this Court have clarified that even those cases where a person assumes the responsibility of discharging the debt of some other person, and in furtherance thereof draws a cheque on an account maintained by him, which subsequently gets dishonoured upon being presented before the drawee, would be covered by Section 138 if the payee is able to establish that there was some sort of an arrangement by way of which the debt was assumed by the drawer. 53. This Court in the case of Anil Sachar and Another v. Shree Nath Spinners Private Limited and Others reported in (2011) 13 SCC 148 observed thus: “15. Upon perusal of the record, we find that the complainants had established before the trial court that there was an understanding among the complainants and the accused that in consideration of supply of goods to M/s Shree Nath Spinners (P) Ltd., M/s AT Overseas Ltd. was to make the payment. The aforestated understanding was 1984 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports on account of the fact that Directors in both the aforestated companies were common and the aforestated companies were sister concerns. In the circumstances, it can be very well said and it has been proved that in consideration of supply of goods to M/s Shree Nath Spinners (P) Ltd., M/s AT Overseas Ltd. had made the payment. In view of the above fact, in our opinion, the trial court was not right when it came to the conclusion that there was no reason for M/s AT Overseas Ltd. to give the cheques to the complainants. xxx xxx xxx 17. The trial court materially erred while coming to a conclusion that in criminal law no presumption can be raised with regard to consideration as no goods had been supplied by the complainants to M/s AT Overseas Ltd. The trial court ought to have considered the provisions of Section 139 of the Act, which reads as under: “139. Presumption in favour of holder.—It shall be presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that the holder of a cheque received the cheque, of the nature referred to in Section 138 for the discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt or other liability.” 18. According to the provisions of the aforestated section, there is a presumption with regard to consideration when a cheque has been paid by the drawer of the cheque. In the instant case, M/s AT Overseas Ltd. paid the cheque which had been duly signed by one of its Directors, namely, Munish Jain. Munish Jain is also a Director in M/s Shree Nath Spinners (P) Ltd. As stated hereinabove, both are sister concerns having common Directors. Extracts of books of accounts had been produced before the trial court so as to show that both the companies were having several transactions and the companies used to pay on behalf of each other to other parties or their creditors. The above fact strengthens the presumption to the effect that M/s AT Overseas Ltd. had paid the cheques to the complainants, which had been signed by Munish Jain, in consideration of goods supplies to M/s Shree Nath [2024] 12 S.C.R.