127. It is amply clear from the aforesaid decision that this Court intended to achieve two-fold objectives – (i) First, to ensure that unlike the traditional promotion policy under which seniority alone was considered for promotion, a new policy should be devised under which seniority would be considered for promotion, but only for those candidates who possessed the minimum necessary standard of suitability for the post, and; (ii) Secondly, to prevent loss of motivation amongst the relatively junior members of the service, a third category for promotion to the Higher Judicial Service should be created, wherein promotions would be given strictly on the basis merit, to [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1139 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. be ascertained through a limited departmental competitive examination. 128. Thus, while the comparison of inter-se merit to determine the most meritorious candidates was the procedure to be adopted for filling up the seats under the newly created category, it was never the intention of this Court in the aforesaid decision to mandate the comparative assessment of merit in the category of regular promotions based on seniority. The only additional requirement which was provided for by the aforesaid decision for this category of candidates was the possession of certain minimum objectively determinable standard of suitability. As long as a candidate possesses this standard of suitability, it cannot be said that this Court intended, by the aforesaid decision, to subject such a candidate to a mandatory comparative merit assessment akin to the limited departmental competitive examination and disregard the seniority of such a candidate to prefer those candidates who may have scored a few marks more than him in the suitability test. 129. The objective sought to be achieved by the introduction of a suitability test in the regular promotional category was limited to the assessment of a minimum standard of suitability. It would be incorrect to say that the marks scored by a candidate in the suitability test are proportional to the merit of the candidate. This can be understood with the aid of an illustration – take a case wherein the minimum marks required to be obtained in the suitability test is ‘x’; then for the purpose of 65% promotional quota, as soon as a candidate obtains ‘x’ marks in the suitability test, such a candidate becomes eligible for being considered for promotion in that category subject to their seniority vis-à-vis the other suitable candidates. It cannot be said that a candidate who obtains (x + 10) marks is more meritorious or more suitable than those candidates who obtain ‘x’ or (x + 5) marks in the suitability test. Every candidate who scores higher than or equal to ‘x’ marks in the suitability test is considered equally suitable and equally meritorious for the purpose of 65% promotional category. 130. We have discussed in detail in the foregoing paragraphs that the concepts of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ or ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ are flexible in nature and do not prescribe any fixed or strait-jacket definitions.