[Paras 16, 18, 20, 23, 34, 39] Passport Act, 1967 – s. 12(b) – Whether there was a violation of s.12(b) of the Passports Act, 1967: Held: Section 12(b) categorically states that, whoever knowingly furnishes any false information or suppresses any material information, with a view to obtaining a passport or travel document under this Act or without lawful authority, alters or attempts to alter or causes to alter the entries made in a passport or travel document – As discernible from the language of the provision, what must be established is that the accused knowingly furnished false information or suppressed material information with the intent of obtaining a passport or travel document – In the instant case, it is crucial to consider that the State FSL report explicitly stated that the alleged forgery of respondent No. 2’s signatures on the passport application was inconclusive – Moreover, the cognizance of such like offence can be taken only at the instance of the Prescribed Authority – No complaint to that effect has been disclosed against the Appellants – The Court cannot proceed on the basis of conjectures and surmises. [Paras 35, 36] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 173 (8) – Respondent no. 2 invoked s.173(8) Cr.P.C. and sought further investigation of the offences u/ss. 468 and 471 IPC in the concerned FIR – Trial Magistrate allowed respondent no. 2’s prayer for further [2024] 1 S.C.R. 625 Mariam Fasihuddin & Anr. v. State by Adugodi Police Station & Anr. investigation – Pursuant thereto, the investigating agency filed a supplementary charge-sheet against the appellants – Propriety: Held: It is a matter of record that in the course of ‘further investigation’, no new material was unearthed by the investigating agency – Instead, the supplementary charge-sheet relies upon the Truth Lab report dated 15.07.2013, obtained by respondent no. 2, which was already available when the original chargesheet was filed – The term ‘further investigation’ stipulated in s.173(8) Cr.P.C. obligates the officer-in-charge of the concerned police station to ‘obtain further evidence, oral or documentary’, and only then forward a supplementary report regarding such evidence, in the prescribed form – The provision for submitting a supplementary report infers that fresh oral or documentary evidence should be obtained rather than re-evaluating or reassessing the material already collected and considered by the investigating agency while submitting the initial police report, known as the chargesheet u/s. 173(2) Cr.P.C. – In the absence of any new evidence found to substantiate the conclusions drawn by the investigating officer in the supplementary report, a Judicial Magistrate is not compelled to take cognizance, as such a report lacks investigative rigour and fails to satisfy the requisites of s.173(8) Cr.P.C. – The investigating agency acted mechanically, in purported compliance with the Trial Magistrate’s . [Paras 26 and 27] Penal Code, 1860 – Cheating – Components of: Held: It is paramount that in to attract the provisions of s.420 IPC, the prosecution has to not only prove that the accused has cheated someone but also that by doing so, he has dishonestly induced the person who is cheated to deliver property – There are, thus, three components of this offence, i.e., (i) the deception of any person, (ii) fraudulently or dishonestly inducing that person to deliver any property to any person, and (iii) mens rea or dishonest intention of the accused at the time of making the inducement – There is no gainsaid that for the offence of cheating, fraudulent and dishonest intention must exist from the inception when the promise or representation was made.