2007 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons petitioners relied on s of the US Supreme Court to substantiate the submission that the State Legislature can legislate on all liquids containing alcohol. The High Court, upon an analysis of s noted that they only hold that ‘intoxicating liquor’ could cover drinks that contain a small percentage of alcohol, even if it does not produce an intoxicating effect. The Court further noted that the s of the US Courts hold that the State cannot regulate the legitimate use of non-beverage, and medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol, but only regulate their use for noxious purposes. Upon the analysis of the decisions, the High Court held that the State: (a) has the competence to legislate on alcoholic liquids which are not normally consumed as drinks; (b) cannot legislate on the “legitimate” use of alcoholic preparations which are not beverages; and (c) cannot legislate on the use of medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol. 77. The appeals against the of the High Court were allowed by a Constitution Bench of this Court in FN Balsara (supra). This Court noticed the meaning of the word ‘liquor’ by referring to its dictionary meaning and also assessed the meaning assigned to it in various enactments including the National Prohibition Act 1919 in the USA, the Licensing (Consolidating) Act 1910 and the Spirits Act 1880 in England. It also referred to the Indian enactments, namely, the Bombay Abkari Act 1878, the Bengal Excise Act 1909, the Punjab Excise Act 1914 and the UP Excise Act 1910. The , authored by Justice Fazl Ali, was careful to clarify that the Court was not suggesting that the definition of ‘liquor’ in the Bombay Prohibition Act was borrowed from the statutes in the USA or England but that they were referred to show that the term was “capable of being used in a wide sense”.135 Based on its analysis, this Court observed that: a. While ‘liquor’ was commonly understood to mean a drink or beverage produced by fermentation or distillation, the various enactments referred to indicated that the phrase extended to liquids which were not, strictly speaking, beverages;136 b. The definitions of ‘liquor’ and ‘intoxicating liquor’ in the provincial statutes consistently included liquids containing alcohol. The 135 (1951) SCC 860 [43] 136 (1951) SCC 860 [41] 2008 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports framers of the 1935 Act were aware of the ‘accepted sense’ of the meaning assigned to the term in the various provincial laws;137 and c. Therefore, the term ‘intoxicating liquors’ in Entry 31 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the 1935 Act included not only beverages which intoxicate but also all liquids containing alcohol. While this may not have been the meaning attributed to ‘intoxicating liquors’ in common parlance, the numerous statutory definitions made it clear that the expression in Entry 31 of List II of the 1935 Act was broad and included all liquids containing alcohol.138 78. The Constitution Bench also approached the question from the perspective of the entries on ‘public health’ and ‘public ’, and Article 47139 of the Constitution.