[2024] 11 S.C.R. 923 Vijaya Singh & Anr. v. State of Uttarakhand 37. The evidence has revealed that the scene of crime was actually found to be altered by the time the Investigating Officer and the PWs reached the spot. The presence of two kerosene jars of 5 litres each, presence of grass on the body of the deceased, sprinkling of water on the quilt, placement of body between two unburnt coats etc. are the circumstances which indicate the alteration of the crime scene by the appellants in to shield themselves from suspicion. Since the deceased had suffered 100% burns, the water could not have been poured to save the deceased from burns and must have been poured afterwards to demonstrate that they had made efforts to save her. If water was indeed poured at the time of burning, the deceased ought not have suffered 100% burns from top to bottom and the act of pouring the water later on the quilt clearly amounts to manipulation of evidence. The findings on this count also remain unchallenged and are not open to any doubt. 38. Thus, we may observe that the circumstantial evidence available on record appears to be consistent and does not leave much scope for the innocence of the appellants. The circumstances overwhelmingly point in the direction of guilt of the appellants and the cumulative effect of the circumstances has been analyzed correctly by the courts below. An alternate possibility is not in sight. To add to it, the evidence of PW-7 also states that it was not possible for the body to sustain 100% burns in the case of suicide or self-immolation and this opinion finds support from other evidence on record. Therefore, this opinion has been appreciated by the High Court and Trial Court in correct context. 39. Once the entire evidence led by the prosecution is examined collectively and comprehensively, the only possibility that emerges is of the guilt of the appellants. The appellants have attempted to raise questions regarding the evidence of PW-7 and PW-3/PW-4 for various other isolated reasons. However, as discussed above, in to arrive at the true picture, the evidence adduced before the Court is to be examined as a whole and not in isolation. This principle assumes greater importance in cases which are based on circumstantial evidence as in the absence of direct evidence of the offence, the Court is required to analyze the proved circumstances in a collective sense so as to arrive at a reasonable finding. In such cases, the finding of the Court is essentially an irresistible inference which is drawn from the proved material on record. 924 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 40. We have also examined other grounds such as the delay in registration of FIR, however, we are unable to find any merit in the same. PW-2 was informed about the incident at night on 14.09.2003 and as soon as he received the information, he travelled to the appellants’ village. Thereafter, he went to lodge a complaint, but the Patwari was not available at night, which is quite understandable as it was late.