The High Court assumed that the non-disclosure of a vehicle registered in the name of a candidate or his dependent family members was sufficient in itself to constitute 410 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports undue influence. In this context, the High Court placed reliance on the provisions of the Act of 1988 and the decision of this Court in Naveen Kumar (supra). Section 2(30) of the Act of 1988 defines the owner of a vehicle as under: ‘ “owner” means a person in whose name a motor vehicle stands registered, and where such person is a minor, the guardian of such minor, and in relation to a motor vehicle which is the subject of a hire-purchase, agreement, or an agreement of lease or an agreement of hypothecation, the person in possession of the vehicle under that agreement;’ In Naveen Kumar (supra), a 3-Judge Bench of this Court was dealing with the issue as to who would be the owner of an offending vehicle in the context of the Act of 1988 when a claim arises from an accident involving the said vehicle. ‘Owner’, as defined under Section 2(30) of the Act of 1988, was considered and it was opined that the person in whose name a vehicle stands registered would be the owner of the vehicle for the purposes of the Act. Reference was made to Section 50 of the Act of 1988, which deals with transfer of ownership, and to various earlier decisions in that regard and it was observed thus: ‘13. The consistent thread of reasoning which emerges from the above decisions is that in view of the definition of the expression “owner” in Section 2(30), it is the person in whose name the motor vehicle stands registered who, for the purposes of the Act, would be treated as the “owner”..……In a situation such as the present where the registered owner has purported to transfer the vehicle but continues to be reflected in the records of the Registering Authority as the owner of the vehicle, he would not stand absolved of liability. Parliament has consciously introduced the definition of the expression “owner” in Section 2(30), making a departure from the provisions of Section 2(19) in the earlier 1939 Act. The principle underlying the provisions of Section 2(30) is that the victim of a motor accident or, in the case of a death, the legal heirs of the deceased victim should not be left in a state of uncertainty. A claimant for compensation ought not to be burdened with following a trail of successive transfers, which are not registered [2024] 4 S.C.R. 411 Karikho Kri v. Nuney Tayang and Another with the Registering Authority. To hold otherwise would be to defeat the salutary object and purpose of the Act. Hence, the interpretation to be placed must facilitate the fulfilment of the object of the law. In the present case, the first respondent was the “owner” of the vehicle involved in the accident within the meaning of Section 2(30).