WHETHER THE ASSETS OF THE CORPORATE DEBTOR WERE PART OF CIRP IN RESPECT OF ACIL – CORPORATE GUARANTOR 20. Now, we will deal with the submissions made by the appellant that the assets of the 2nd respondent-corporate debtor were also a part of the CIRP in respect of ACIL. This submission was made on the ground that according to the appellant, the information memorandum published in accordance with Section 29 of the IBC indicates taking over of the business of ACIL and the 2nd respondent- corporate debtor. Clause 3, under the heading “SEZ Business” in the information memorandum, specifically mentions that ACIL has acquired, through its subsidiary (2nd respondent-corporate debtor), [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2167 BRS Ventures Investments Ltd. v. SREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd. & Anr. 296 hectares of land for setting up the SEZ project. It is further stated that the entire project cost of SEZ, inclusive of land acquisition, was financed through equity and unsecured loans contributed by ACIL. It further records that SEZ is a separate company. However, it is stated that the financial obligations of the SEZ units are on ACIL. As SEZ is stated to be a separate company, it is not included in the resolution plan, which was duly approved. As rightly found by the NCLAT, the resolution plan takes care only of the investments of ACIL in the subsidiaries and not the assets of subsidiaries. As indicated in the subsequent paragraphs, considering the scheme of the IBC, assets of a subsidiary company cannot be part of the resolution plan of the holding company. 21. It is necessary to take notice of the two critical provisions of the IBC, which are Sections 18 and 36. Section 18 and Section 36 read thus: “18. Duties of interim resolution professional.- The interim resolution professional shall perform the following duties, namely: - (a) collect all information relating to the assets, finances and operations of the corporate debtor for determining the financial position of the corporate debtor, including information relating to- (i) business operations for the previous two years; (ii) financial and operational payments for the previous two years; (iii) list of assets and liabilities as on the initiation date; and (iv) such other matters as may be specified; (b) receive and collate all the claims submitted by creditors to him, pursuant to the public announcement made under sections 13 and 15; (c) constitute a committee of creditors; (d) monitor the assets of the corporate debtor and manage its operations until a resolution professional is appointed by the committee of creditors; 2168 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (e) file information collected with the information utility, if necessary; and (f) take control and custody of any asset over which the corporate debtor has ownership rights as recorded in the balance sheet of the corporate debtor, or with information utility or the depository of securities or any other registry that records the ownership of assets including – (i) assets over which the corporate debtor has ownership rights which may be located in a foreign country; (ii) assets that may or may not be in possession of the corporate debtor; (iii) tangible assets, whether movable or immovable; (iv) intangible assets including intellectual property; (v) securities including shares held in any subsidiary of the corporate debtor, financial instruments, insurance policies; (vi) assets subject to the determination of ownership by a court or authority; (g) to perform such other duties as may be specified by the Board.