Apart from this, there was no effort made by the respondent to bring any authenticated material on record. Thus, in the absence of any evidence to prove that the insured-deceased possessed some insurance policies from other insurance companies, the State Commission upheld the decision of the District Forum in setting aside the repudiation of the claim by the respondent. 49. Before the NCDRC, the respondent again provided the aforesaid tabulation of policies of the insured-deceased. The respondents in their affidavit stated that the insured-deceased had taken multiple insurance policies before taking the policy from them. The NCDRC however accepted the averment of the respondents, without demanding corroborative documentary evidence in support of the said fact. The NCDRC, on the contrary, also held that the fact about multiple policies was not dealt with by the appellant in her complaint or evidence affidavit and this therefore proved that the insured had indeed taken the policies from multiple companies as claimed by the respondents. 50. The aforesaid approach adopted by the NCDRC is, in our view, not correct. The cardinal principle of burden of proof in the law of evidence is that “he who asserts must prove”, which means that if the respondents herein had asserted that the insured had already taken fifteen more policies, then it was incumbent on them to prove this fact by leading necessary evidence. The onus cannot be shifted [2024] 4 S.C.R. 755 Mahakali Sujatha v. The Branch Manager, Future Generali India Life Insurance Company Limited & another on the appellant to deal with issues that have merely been alleged by the respondents, without producing any evidence to support that allegation. The respondents have merely provided a tabulation of information about the other policies held by the insured-deceased. The said tabulation also has missing information with respect to policy numbers and issuing dates and bears different dates of births. Further, this information hasn’t been supported with any other documents to prove the averment in accordance with law. No officer of any other insurance company was examined to corroborate the table of policies said to have been taken by the deceased policy holder, father of the appellant herein. Moreover, the table produced is incomplete and contradictory as far as the date of birth of the insured is concerned. Therefore, in our view, the NCDRC could not have relied upon the said tabulation and put the onus on the appellant to deal with that issue in her complaint and thereby considered the said averment as proved or proceeded to prove the stance of the opposite party. A fact has to be duly proved as per the Evidence Act, 1872 and the burden to prove a fact rests upon the person asserting such a fact. Without adequate evidence to prove the fact of previous policies, it was incorrect to expect the appellant to deal with the said fact herself in the complaint or the evidence affidavit, since as per the appellant, there did not exist any previous policy and thus, the onus couldn’t have been put on the appellant to prove what was non-existent according to the appellant.