Any share of the expenditure stated above and the ratio for the same shall be decided by BML from time to time at its sole discretion. 4.10 The FRANCHISEE shall be solely liable and responsible, at its business premises, for the safety and storage of all pre paid start up kits, recharge cards and other material in respect of the Pre Paid Services. BML shall not be liable for any loss, pilferage or damage to the items as stated here above and the FRANCHISEE shall indemnify BML from all loss caused to BML arising out of any loss, pilferage or damage to the items as stated here above. xx xx xx 4.12 The liability to insure and keep insured the items as stated in Clause 4.10 at the business establishment of the FRANCHISEE shall be of the FRANCHISEE and the liability for any loss or damage due to any fire, burglary, theft, etc. will be that of the FRANCHISEE. xx xx xx 4.14 The FRANCHISEE shall be responsible for collection of all necessary agreement/contract forms and other related forms, and for obtaining the signature of the customer on these forms. The FRANCHISEE shall forward all such forms, duly completed in all respects and signed by customers to BML for its verification and records. xx xx xx 5.1 From time to time, BML will review with the FRANCHISEE minimum subscription, targets for the Pre Paid Services, 1024 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports taking into account the market development and market potential and other relevant factors. The achievements of these prescribed targets by the FRANCHISEE is a material obligation of the FRANCHISEE under this Agreement. xx xx xx 6.2 The FRANCISEE shall employ a fully trained service staff whose training has been completed in accordance with the standards set out by BML. xx xx xx 8.1 The FRANCHISEE’s price and payment for services will be specified by BML from time to time. The rates are subject to variation during the terms of this Agreement at the sole discretion of BML and shall be intimated to the Distributor from time to time. xx xx xx 8.3 All other tax liabilities arising in connection with or out of the agreement transactions pertaining to the FRANCHISEE shall be the responsibility of the FRANCHISEE. xx xx xx 10.1 The FRANCHISEE accepts for all purposes that all trademarks, logos, trade names or identifying marks and slogans used by BML in respect of the Service and the Pre Paid Services, whether registered or not, constitute the exclusive property of BML or their affiliated companies as the case may be, and cannot be used by the FRNCHISEE except in connection with the promotion and marketing of the Services of BML and that too with the express written consent of BML. The FRANCHISEE shall not contest, at any time, the right of the BML or its affiliated companies to any such Trademark or trade name used or claimed by BML or such affiliated companies in respect of the Service or Pre Paid Services.