The type of construction that should be permissible in such resorts would be in tune with the natural environment. (v) The number and type of resorts that should be permitted within the close proximity of the protected areas. What restriction to be imposed on such resorts so that they 292 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports are managed in tune with the object of protecting and maintaining the ecosystem rather than causing obstruction in the same. (vi) As to within how much areas from the boundary of the protected forest there should be restriction on noise level and what should be those permissible noise levels. (vii) The measures that are required to be taken for effective management and protection of Tiger Reserves which shall be applicable on a Pan India basis. (viii) The steps to be taken for scrupulously implementing such recommendations. E. The CBI is directed to effectively investigate the matter as directed by the High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital in its and dated 6th September 2023, passed in Writ Petition No.178 of 2021. F. The present proceedings shall be kept pending so that this Court can monitor the steps taken by the Authorities as well as the investigation conducted by the CBI. G. We will consider issuing appropriate directions after the recommendations are received by this Court from the aforesaid Committee. We request the Committee to give its preliminary report within a period of three months from today. H. The CBI shall submit a report to this Court within a period of three months from today. We request the learned ASG to communicate this to the Director, CBI. I. The State of Uttarakhand is directed to complete the disciplinary proceedings against the delinquent officers as expeditiously as possible and in any case, within a period of six months from today. The status report in this regard shall be submitted to this Court within a period of three months from today. 162. We place on record our appreciation for the assistance rendered by Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned ASG, Mr. A.N.S. Nadkarni, learned Senior Counsel, Mr. Gaurav Kumar Bansal, applicant-in-person. However, we will be failing in our duty if we do not make a special mention of the valuable assistance rendered by Mr. K. Parameshwar, learned Amicus Curiae. His in-depth research and meticulous [2024] 3 S.C.R. 293 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal formulations have immensely assisted us in deciding this issue, which is of paramount importance to environmental and ecological justice. We direct the State of Uttarakhand to pay an amount of Rs.10,00,000/- (Rupees Ten lakh) to Mr. K. Parameshwar, learned Amicus Curiae, as honorarium. 163. The matter is stand over for Twelve (12) weeks. Headnotes prepared by : Bibhuti Bhushan Bose Result of the case : Directions issued.