498 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports D. ISSUES FOR DETERMINATION 26. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the following questions of law fall for our consideration: a. Whether the provisions of XXI Rule 90 of the Code of Civil Procedure would apply to the writ proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution? b. Whether the Additional Commissioner, Konkan Division, Maharashtra had the jurisdiction to decide the two appeals filed by the respondent nos. 1 and 6 respectively under Section 247 of the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, 1966? E. RELEVANT STATUTORY PROVISIONS OF THE REVENUE CODE 27. Before adverting to the rival submissions canvassed on either side, it is necessary for us to look into few relevant provisions of the Revenue Code: “S. 69. Settlement of assessment to be made with holder directly from State Government.—The settlement of the assessment of each portion of land, or survey number, to land revenue, shall be made with the person who is primarily responsible to the State Government for the same. xxx xxx xxx S. 169. Claims of State Government to have precedence over all others.—(1) The arrears of land revenue due on account of land shall be a paramount charge on the land and on every part thereof and shall have precedence over any other debt, demand or claim whatsoever, whether in respect of mortgage, -decree, execution or attachment, or otherwise howsoever, against any land or the holder thereof. (2) The claim of the State Government to any monies other than arrears of land revenue, but recoverable as a revenue demand under the provisions of this Chapter, shall have priority over all unsecured claims against any land or holder thereof. xxx xxx xxx [2024] 7 S.C.R. 499 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. S. 178. When notice of demand may issue.—(1) A notice of demand may be issued on or after the day following that on which the arrear accrues. (2) The Commissioner may from time to time make s for the issue of such notices, and with the sanction of the State Government shall fix the costs recoverable from the defaulter as an arrear of revenue, and direct by what officer such notices shall be issued. S. 179. Occupancy or alienated holding for which arrear is due may be forfeited.—The Collector may declare the occupancy or alienated holding in respect of which an arrear of land revenue is due, to be forfeited to the State Government, and subject to rules made in this behalf, sell or otherwise dispose of the same under the provisions of section 72 or 73 and credit the proceeds, if any, to the defaulter’s accounts : Provided that, the Collector shall not declare any such occupancy or alienated holding to be forfeited– (a) unless previously thereto he shall have issued a proclamation and written notices of the intended declaration in the manner provided by sections 192 and 193 for sales of immovable property, and (b) until after the expiration of at least fifteen days from the latest date on which any of the said notices shall have been affixed as required by section 193. xxx xxx xxx S. 192.