The High Court further observed that whether the certificate is to be stamped or not would be the responsibility of the successful auction purchaser. 10. The appellant herein also raised an objection before the High Court that as the Respondent No.1 had not challenged the of the Company Judge dated 13-4-1999, the same had attained finality and the directions of the Registrar being in consonance with the said , the same could not have been challenged by way of a writ petition. The High Court rejected the said objection and held that in view of the limited ambit of the controversy, it thought fit to consider them in the writ proceedings. 11. In view of the above, the High Court directed that the original sale certificate be handed over to the Respondent No.1 and a copy of the same be sent to the Sub-Registrar under Section 89(4) of the Registration Act. It further directed that the stamp duty deposited by the Respondent No.1 be refunded within a period of one month. 12. Aggrieved by the aforesaid, the State of Punjab is in appeal before us. 13. The short question that falls for our consideration in this appeal is whether it is mandatory for the successful auction purchaser to deposit the stamp duty for the sale certificate to be issued to it in view of the provisions of the Stamp Act and the Registration Act. 14. This Court in Municipal Corporation of Delhi v. Pramod Kumar Gupta reported in AIR 1991 SC 401, after examining the relevant provisions of XXI of the Code of Civil Procedure, observed that the title to the property put on auction sale passes under the law when the 1340 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports sale is held. The owners and certain other interested persons are afforded opportunity under the CPC to assail the sale and make a prayer for setting aside the sale on certain enumerated grounds. However, once such objections are disposed of without disturbing the sale, the sale stands confirmed under XXI Rule 92 of the CPC. Thereafter, the sale certificate is issued under XXI Rule 94. The Court observed that this chronology of events made it clear that the transfer becomes final when an under Rule 92 of XXI is made and the issuance of a sale certificate under Rule 94 is only a formal declaration of the effect of such confirmation. Such issuance of certificate does not create or extinguish any title and thus would not attract any stamp duty which is applicable qua an instrument of sale of immovable property. 15. In Smt. Shanti Devi L. Singh v. Tax Recovery Officer and Others reported in AIR 1991 SC 1880, this Court observed that since the certificate of sale is not a compulsorily registrable document in lieu of Section 17(2)(xii) of the Registration Act, the transfer of title in favour of the auction purchaser would not be vitiated on account of non-registration of the sale certificate. 16. In B. Arvind Kumar v. Govt.