She has deposed about having received the case properties, consisting of a skull with mandible on 10.09.2008. The mandible was attached with the skull by means of a spring. For the purpose of identification, she had two identical colour photographs of a male individual sent to her in a sealed envelope as Item Nos. 2 and 3. The photographs were enlarged to the size of a self- portrait. Using the computer aided video superimposition technique, she had examined the skull and mandible viz. the photographs. For the purposes of the examination, the flesh thickness and the anthroposcopic landmarks in the face were also taken into consideration. C. Pushparani (PW-29), Scientific Assistant Grade II, Anthropology Division, Forensic Sciences Department, Chennai opined that the landmarks on the face matched well with those of the skull. She submitted her forensic report dated 20.01.2009 with analysis on the anthroposcopy and superimposition test (Exhibit P-25). The skull, as per C. Pushparani (PW-29), Scientific Assistant Grade II, Anthropology Division, Forensic Sciences Department, Chennai belonged to the male individual seen in the photograph at serial no.4. With the report, Exhibit P-25, C. Pushparani (PW- 29), Scientific Assistant Grade II, Anthropology Division, Forensic Sciences Department, Chennai had enclosed the computer laser printouts taken by her at the time of examination to establish and prove that the photographs of deceased – Rajini @ Rajinikanth match with the mandible and the skull (Exhibits P-26 to P-28). We have carefully examined the computer laser print outs, and are of the opinion that the findings of the High Court affirming the of the trial court are justified. 14. On behalf of the appellant – Perumal Raja @ Perumal, it is submitted that as per Dr. S. Diwakar (PW-24), Senior Medical Officer, Department of Forensic Medicine, Government General Hospital, Puducherry no definite cause of death could be ascertained due to decomposition of the body. However, it is pertinent to note that Dr. S. Diwakar (PW-24), Senior Medical Officer, Department of Forensic Medicine, Government General Hospital, Puducherry has also deposed that the deceased could be between 25-30 years of age and probable 100 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS death could have occurred six months prior to the autopsy. It must be further noted that the deceased – Rajini @ Rajinikanth was about 30 years of age and he had been missing for about six months prior to the date on which the autopsy was conducted. 15. It has been submitted with considerable emphasis that Dr. S. Diwakar (PW-24), Senior Medical Officer, Department of Forensic Medicine, Government General Hospital, Puducherry has accepted that the lower jaw (mandible) was not found. Whereas, deposition of C. Pushparani (PW-29), Scientific Assistant Grade II, Anthropology Division, Forensic Sciences Department, Chennai and the photo superimposition done by her specifically refer to the lower jaw. We have examined this contention. Dr. S. Diwakar (PW-24), Senior Medical Officer, Department of Forensic Medicine, Government General Hospital, Puducherry, in his examination-in-chief, has testified that the police had sent the skull, sternum and right femur which were preserved by him from the autopsy material.