He is also required to give reasonable opportunity to all persons affected thereby of being heard and make such modifications in the draft development plan as he may consider necessary. He is also required to submit, not later than six months after the publication of the draft development plan, the plan so modified, to the State Government for approval together with all connected documents, plans, maps and charts. 44. Under Section 20 of the TCP Act, after the development plan under Section 19 is submitted to the State Government, it may either approve the development plan or it may approve it with such modifications as it may consider necessary or may return it to the Director to modify the same or to prepare a fresh plan in accordance with such directions as it may issue in this behalf. Under sub-section (2) thereof, where the State Government approves the development plan with modifications, the State Government shall, by a notice, published in the Official Gazette, invite objections and suggestions in respect of such modifications within a period of not less than thirty days from the date of publication of the notice in the Official Gazette. Under sub-section (3) thereof, after considering objections and suggestions [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1001 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another and after giving a hearing to the persons desirous of being heard, the State Government may confirm the modification in the development plan. Sub-section (4) thereof requires the State Government to publish the development plan as approved, under the foregoing provisions in the Official Gazette and shall along with the plan publish a public notice, in such manner as may be prescribed, of the approval of the development plan and the place or places where the copies of the approved development plan may be inspected. Sub-section (5) thereof provides that the development plan shall come into force from the date of publication thereof in the Official Gazette and as from such date shall be binding on all Development Authorities constituted under this Act and all local authorities functioning within the planning area. Sub-section (6) thereof provides that after the coming into operation of the development plan, the interim development plan shall stand modified or altered to the extent the proposals in the development plan are at variance with the interim development plan. B. Nature of functions/powers of the Authorities under Chapter-IV of the TCP Act. 45. A perusal of the aforesaid provisions, leaves no manner of doubt, that Chapter-IV of the TCP Act is a complete code, providing for preparation of draft development plan, publication of draft development plan with a publication of its notice, inviting objections and suggestions, giving reasonable opportunity to all persons affected of being heard, making modifications in the draft development plan as may be considered necessary by the Director and thereafter submitting it to the State Government. 46. Under Section 20 of the TCP Act, the State Government is empowered to either approve the development plan or may approve it with such modifications as it may consider necessary or may return it to the Director to modify the same or to prepare a fresh plan in accordance with such directions as it may issue in this behalf.