805 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. Court in the case of Union of India & Anr v. Mohit Minerals Pvt. Ltd..14 The entire GST regime has been so designed that the credit of tax paid at every stage of value addition from the point of manufacture to the point of consumption could be availed at the next stage. It provides for seamless transfer of ITC from one stage to another. Moreover, GST is a destination-based tax on consumption, and accordingly, the final burden of the tax must be borne by the customers and not the businesses. If the entire scheme of the CGST Act is perused, except for clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5), the ITC is not denied when the transaction is from business to business. b. The assessees pay substantial amounts for the construction of immovable properties and are levied CGST on the same. However, since they are not permitted to avail of the CGST paid as ITC, it gets added to the price of services they supply, i.e., renting/leasing/letting out, etc. Further, CGST is leviable on the supply of these services, resulting in tax on tax or the cascading effect of tax. Moreover, due to the denial of ITC, the assessees have to bear the tax burden. Thus, the interpretation put by revenue to clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5), as per which ITC is denied to assessees on construction expenditure, results in the cascading effect of taxes and denial of credit for business expenditure, which is in direct contradiction of the objects of GST Law as elaborated previously. It is submitted that ITC cannot be denied solely because immovable properties are created in the assessee’s business. The primary condition for availing of ITC is the nexus between the assessee’s input and output business activities, which exists in the assessee’s case. Direct corelation with input services or output services is not necessary to avail of the benefit of ITC. c. It is submitted that the phrase “on its own account” should be read down and given a purposive construction instead of a myopic one. The phrase should be deemed to mean when construction is done for personal use and not for services, i.e., credit should be denied only when goods and services are utilised for the construction of immovable property for his own 14 [2022] 9 SCR 300 : (2022) 10 SCC 700 806 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports purposes, like an office building or factory building. In such a case, no further GST on the sale of such a building occurs and, therefore, a chain of taxability breaks. However, when such immovable property is not being used by the assessee itself but is used for other supplies, such as renting property or supply of hotel accommodation services, etc., the same should not be covered by the expression ‘on his own account’. Therefore, when an immovable property itself is a means by which business is being carried out, like letting out for short-term purposes by a hotel, the embargo under Section 17(5)(d) on ITC will not apply as it cannot be construed on his own account.