Virupakshappa”), the appellant therein was accused in a private complaint before the Civil Judge (Junior Division) and JMFC, on which the learned Magistrate took cognizance, registered Criminal Case No.74 of 2009 and issued summons to the appellant therein. The offences alleged were under Sections 323, 324, 326, 341, 120, 114, 506 read with Section 149 of the IPC. The appellant therein moved the High Court under Section 482 of the CrPC which was declined by the impugned therein. The main contention of the appellant therein was that the learned Magistrate could not have taken cognizance of the alleged offences and issued process to the appellant without sanction from the State Government under Section 197 of CrPC, and on that sole ground, the High Court should have quashed the proceedings. It was alleged that the appellant therein exceeded in exercising his power during investigation of a criminal case and assaulted the respondent therein in to extract some information with regard to the death of a person, and in that connection, the respondent therein was detained in the police station for some time. Therefore, the allegation of the appellant therein had an essential connection with the discharge of the official duty and therefore, the previous sanction was necessary. The issue of “police excess” during investigation and requirement of sanction for prosecution in that regard, was also a subject-matter in State of Orissa vs. Ganesh Chandra Jew (2004) 8 SCC 40 (“Ganesh Chandra Jew”) which was relied upon. There was also reliance on Om Prakash vs. State of Jharkhand (2012) 12 SCC 72 (“Om Prakash”). The Court held that the ratio of the aforesaid two s squarely apply to the case of the appellant therein and having regard to the factual matrix of that case, it was observed that the offensive conduct was reasonably connected with the performance of the official duty of the appellant therein. Therefore, the learned Magistrate could not have taken cognizance of the case without the previous sanction of the State Government and the High 1614 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Court had missed this crucial point in the impugned . This Court observed that in case such sanction is obtained and the same is produced before the learned Magistrate, the matter could be proceeded further before the learned Magistrate in accordance with law. b) In Abdul Wahab Ansari vs. State of Bihar (2000) 8 SCC 500 (“Abdul Wahab Ansari”), the facts were that the son of the deceased, who was respondent No.2 therein, had filed a complaint before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, alleging commission of offences by the appellant therein under Sections 302, 307, 380, 427, 504, 147, 148 and 149 of the IPC as well as Section 27 of the Arms Act. The Chief Judicial Magistrate was of the opinion that the provisions of Section 197 of the CrPC would have no application to the facts of the case. Further, there was sufficient evidence available to establish a prima facie case and therefore had directed issuance of non-bailable warrants against the appellant therein and other accused persons.