Digital Supreme Court Reports “In case of marriage to Indian national, registered marriage certificate and Spouse valid Indian Passport photo page and Address page (holding Indian citizenship. (Marriage certificates issued Outside India is to be affixed with Apostille or endorsed by the concerned Indian Mission abroad). On the day of submission of application the couple must present. (only those whose marriage is registered and has subsisted for a continuous period of not lessen two years are eligible for OCI on the basis of marriage to Indian).” 12. The above would indicate that on the day of submission of application, the couple must be present. For appreciating the requirement of physical/virtual presence projected by the learned ASG, we have also perused the Visa Manual issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and the relevant Clauses in Chapter 21 of the Visa Manual have been considered. 13. Para 21.25(vi) of the Visa Manual provides thus: “With a view to curb practice of entering into marriage of convenience just to obtain OCI cards by foreign nationals, a mandatory verification step of personal interview (either physical or through video conference) of all OCI applicants who apply for registration as OCI cardholder under section 7A(1)(d) of Citizenship Act, 1955 (i.e. spouse basis) has been introduced. This personal interview shall be conducted by the Indian Mission/Post/FRRO concerned at the time of document verification stage itself and the OCI application on spouse basis shall be acknowledged on the online system only after the personal interview has been held and the Indian Mission/Post/FRRO concerned have satisfied themselves about the suitability of the applicant for the registration as OCI cardholder. A report on the personal interview along with recommendation of the Indian Mission/Post/FRRO concerned shall also be uploaded on the online system. During such personal interview, the Indian Mission/ Post/ FRRO may put random questions to the foreign applicant and his/her spouse separately to elicit information which may help in ascertaining the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 827 Union of India v. Bahareh Bakshi genuineness of the marital status of the applicant. The information provided during the personal interview maybe tallied with the information, if any, provided in the application form with reference to similar questions”. [emphasis supplied] 14. Other provisions of the Visa Manual were also brought to our notice which, inter alia, provided that as a further step, a declaration should be given by the husband that in case of death or divorce, he would surrender the OCI Card to the authorities. As noted above, during the personal interview of the applicant, the concerned Officer may put random questions to the foreign applicant and his/her spouse separately, to elicit information which may help in ascertaining the genuineness of the marital status of the applicant. This suggests that the presence of the spouse of the applicant either physically or through the virtual mode is mandatory for effective consideration of the application for an OCI Card. 15. The Learned Counsel for the Respondent argued that the Visa Manual or even the checklist is only a delegated legislation and there is no such condition in Section 7A(d) of the Citizenship Act,1955 mandating an interview.