c. Constitutional Courts, in the ordinary course, should refrain from fixing a time-bound schedule for the disposal of cases pending before any other Courts. Constitutional Courts may issue directions for the time-bound disposal of cases only in exceptional circumstances. The issue of prioritising the disposal of cases should be best left to the decision of the concerned Courts where the cases are pending; and d. While dealing with the prayers for the grant of interim relief, the High Courts should take into consideration the guidelines incorporated in paragraphs 34 and 35 above. 38. We clarify that in the cases in which trials have been concluded as a result of the automatic vacation of stay based only on the decision in the case of Asian Resurfacing1, the s of automatic vacation of stay shall remain valid. 39. The reference is answered accordingly. We direct the Registry to place the pending petitions before the appropriate Benches for expeditious disposal. 986 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Pankaj Mithal, J. 1. Concurring with the opinion expressed by my brother Justice Oka for himself and other puisne Judges, including the Hon’ble Chief Justice, I would like to add that in Asian Resurfacing of Road Agency Private Limited & Anr. vs. Central Bureau of Investigation1, this Court while deciding the issues arising therein went ahead in observing and directing that where a challenge to an framing charge is entertained and stay is granted, the matter must be decided on day to day basis so that the stay may not continue for an unduly long time. It was further observed that though no mandatory time limit may be fixed for deciding such a challenge, the stay may not normally exceed two to three months or a maximum of six months unless it is extended by specific speaking . Further directions were issued that in all pending matters before the High Court or other Courts relating to Prevention of Corruption Act or all other civil or criminal cases where stay is operating in pending trials, it will automatically lapse after six months unless a speaking is passed extending the same. The Trial Court may, on expiry of the above period resume the proceedings without waiting for any intimation unless express extending the stay is produced before the Court. 2. The above directions in Asian Resurfacing issued in exercise of power of doing complete justice under Article 142 of the Constitution of India are analogous to the constitutional provision as contained in clause (3) of Article 226 of the Constitution of India which has been inserted with effect from 1.8.1979 vide the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978. It reads as under: “(3) Where any party against whom an interim , whether by way of injunction or stay or in any other manner, is made on, or in any proceedings relating to, a petition under clause (1), without— (a) furnishing to such party copies of such petition and all documents in support of the plea for such interim ; and (b) giving such party an opportunity of being heard, 1 [2018] 2 SCR 1045 : (2018) 16 SCC 299 [2024] 2 S.C.R.