[…]” (Emphasis supplied) 62. Similarly, a Constitution Bench of this Court in State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar reported in (1952) 1 SCC 1, held that procedural law confers very valuable rights on a person, and their protection must be as much the object of a Court’s solicitude as those conferred under the substantive law. Few pertinent observations are extracted hereinbelow: “27. The argument that changes in procedural law are not material and cannot be said to deny equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws so long as the substantive law remains unchanged or that only the fundamental rights referred to in Articles 20 to 22 should be safeguarded is, on the face of it, unsound. The right to equality postulated by Article 14 is as much a fundamental right as any other fundamental right dealt with in Part III of the Constitution. Procedural law may and does confer very valuable rights on a person, and their protection must be as much the object of a court’s solicitude as those conferred under substantive law.” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 311 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. 63. It was also sought to be argued by Mr. Luthra that the issue at hand has already been dealt with and decided by a three-Judge Bench of this Court in Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra). It was contended that the dictum laid therein is that an anticipatory bail application filed by an accused in a different case, while he is in custody in one case, would not be maintainable. However, we are unable to agree with such submission of the appellant. In the said case, the Petitioners therein, who were arrayed as accused in multiple FIRs registered at various police stations across the country, had invoked the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 praying for an for bail in the nature as prescribed under Section 438 of the CrPC. The crux of the grievance of the Petitioners was that although they had secured an of bail in one case yet they were being detained in prison on the strength of a production warrant in another matter. This, according to the petitioners, was violative of Article 21 as they were deprived of their liberty despite having been granted bail in one of the cases. 64. The aforesaid contention of the Petitioners in the said case was ultimately rejected by this Court on the ground that even if the Petitioners could be said to have been deprived of their liberty, such deprivation was in accordance with the due process of law. Having observed thus, this Court dismissed the Writ Petition filed by the Petitioners as no infraction of Article 21 was established. 65. Evidently, this Court in the aforesaid case had no occasion to go into the question of maintainability of an application for grant of anticipatory bail by an accused who is already in judicial custody in relation to some offence. On the contrary, this Court in Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra) examined the issue whether a blanket in the nature of anticipatory bail could be passed by this Court in exercise of its Writ Jurisdiction, wherein the Petitioner was arrayed as an accused in multiple criminal proceedings.