Within the expression of each specie each expression denotes different kinds of impost depending on the purpose for which they are levied. This power can be exercised in any of its manifestations only under any law authorising levy and collection of tax as envisaged under Article 265 which uses only the expression that no “tax” shall be levied and collected except authorised by law. It in its elementary meaning conveys that to support a tax legislative action is essential, it cannot be levied and collected in the absence of any legislative sanction by exercise of executive power of State under Article 73 by the Union or Article 162 by the State. 22. Under Article 366(28) “Taxation” has been defined to include the imposition of any tax or impost whether general or local or special and tax shall be construed accordingly. “Impost” means compulsory levy. The well- known and well-settled characteristic of “tax” in its wider sense includes all imposts. Imposts in the context have following characteristics: 41 D K Trivedi and Sons v. State of Gujarat, 1986 Supp SCC 20 [33] 42 [2009] 8 SCR 983 : (2009) 10 SCC 755 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1515 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. (i) The power to tax is an incident of sovereignty. (ii) “Law” in the context of Article 265 means an Act of legislature and cannot comprise an executive or rule without express statutory authority. (iii) The term “tax” under Article 265 read with Article 366(28) includes imposts of every kind viz. tax, duty, cess or fees. (iv) As an incident of sovereignty and in the nature of compulsory exaction, a liability founded on principle of contract cannot be a “tax” in its technical sense as an impost, general, local or special.” 32. The Seventh Schedule to the Constitution differentiates between taxing entries and general entries. Subjects pertaining to the levy of taxes must be traced to specific taxing entries enumerated in either List I or List II.43 In addition, Parliament has the residuary power under Article 248 read with Entry 97 of List I to legislate on matters not enumerated in List II or List III, including on matters of taxation. The power of the legislature to levy fees is dealt with under separate heads: (i) Entry 96 of List I empowers Parliament to levy fees in respect of any matters in List I; (ii) Entry 66 of List II empowers the State legislatures to levy fees in respect of any matters in List II; and (iii) Entry 47 of List III empowers both Parliament and the State legislatures (subject to Article 254) to levy fees for any matter enumerated in List III. Parliament has prescribed an enrolment fee under Section 24(1)(f) of the Advocates Act under Entry 96 of List I. 33. The legislature can delegate its power to levy fees.44 Since a fee is an impost and a compulsory exaction of money, the power of a delegate to levy fees must flow from the express authority of law.