Moreover, to qualify even for a learner’s license to drive a ‘transport vehicle’, Section 7(1) stipulates that a candidate must have held a driving license for a ‘Light Motor Vehicle’, for at least one year. 9.4. Section 8(3) mandates that an individual applying for a learner’s license for a transport vehicle, must submit a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner, attesting to the applicant’s physical fitness to operate a transport vehicle. However, such a requirement is absent in the case of a Light Motor Vehicle for which only a self-declaration is sufficient. Additionally, the second proviso to Section 15 of MV Act stipulates that a medical certificate is also necessary for the renewal of a driving license for ‘transport vehicles’. Section 9(4) requires that the applicant for a ‘transport vehicle’ license must possess a driving certificate from a driving school or establishment. It was further submitted that the 1994 amendment to Section 10 merged four classes of (i) ‘medium goods vehicle’, (ii) ‘medium passenger vehicle’, (iii) ‘heavy goods vehicle’ and (iv) ‘heavy passenger vehicle’, into a single class of ‘transport vehicle’ under Section10(2)(e) of MV Act. Section 10(2)(d) on the other hand provides for a separate class of ‘Light Motor Vehicle’. Therefore, the retention of the separate classes of ‘transport vehicle’ and ‘light motor vehicle’ under Section 10(2) by the 1994 Amendment, implies that the two classes are not co-equals, and the license holder of a ‘Light Motor Vehicle’ is not eligible to drive a ‘Transport Vehicle’. A separate license would be mandatory is the argument of the counsel. 9.5. Mr. Jayant Bhushan, learned Senior Counsel argued that Mukund Dewangan (2017) erred in two significant respects. The overlooked Section 3, which mandates a separate [2024] 11 S.C.R. 563 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. endorsement for driving a ‘transport vehicle’. Reliance was placed on the decision in Nathi Devi v. Radha Devi Gupta,7 where it was held that ‘effort should be made to give effect to each and every word used by the Legislature.’ Therefore, it was projected that the Court should not disregard any part of Section 3 in its interpretation. 9.6. The other reason why Mukund Dewangan (2017) was incorrect according to Mr. Bhushan, was because it focused on the general law, rather than the special provisions within the MV Act. It was therefore argued that it is a well-known principle that the general will not override the special (Generalia Specialibus Non Derogant) and the special will override the general (Specialia Generalibus Derogant). It was pointed out that Section 10(2) explicitly distinguishes between ‘Transport Vehicles’ and LMV, treating them as separate categories. Mukund Dewangan (2017) erroneously subsumed ‘transport vehicles’ under the broader category of ‘Light Motor Vehicles’. It was also contended that the requirements for obtaining a transport vehicle license are distinct and more rigorous because the drivers of transport vehicles are entrusted with the safety of passengers including school children and strangers, who repose their trust in the driver of the transport vehicle.