Land use of SDZ (special development zone) The permissible break-up of the total land area under SDZ for different activities shall be as under: %age of total area of SDZ A. Core Activity Sports Not less than 35% (including road & open spaces) B. Other activities (i) Commercial Not more than 20% (ii) Institutional & amenities Not less than 5% (iii) Roads, open and Not less than 25% Circulation areas (iv) Residential including Not less than 15% Group Housing and Plotted Development Area ” 30. A bare perusal of the aforesaid clause makes it clear that while the development of roads and open spaces which was to constitute 35% of the land area was considered to be the core activity, the allied activities such as commercial, institutional & amenities, roads, open and circulation areas, residential including group housing and plotted development areas were to constitute the remaining 65% of the land under the SDZ. Hence, undeniably, the authorities were 31 In short, ‘Policy’ 32 In short ‘SDZ’. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1093 Kali Charan and Others v. State of U.P. and Others required to develop the entire SDZ in an integrated manner. This aspect was precisely taken note of by this Court in the case of Nand Kishore. The relevant extracts from the of Nand Kishore are reproduced hereinbelow for the sake of ready reference: - “57. The Expressway is a work of immense public importance. The State gains advantages from the construction of an expressway and so does the general public. Creation of a corridor for fast-moving traffic resulting into curtailing the travelling time, as also the transport of the goods, would be some factors which speak in favour of the Project being for the public purpose. Much was stated about the 25 million sq m of land being acquired for the five parcels of land. In fact, in our opinion, as has rightly been commented upon by the High Court, the creation of the five zones for industry, residence, amusement, etc. would be complementary to the creation of the Expressway. 58. It cannot be forgotten that the creation of land parcels would give impetus to the industrial development of the State creating more jobs and helping the economy and thereby helping the general public. There can be no doubt that the implementation of the Project would result in coming into existence of five developed parcels/centres in the State for the use of the citizens. There shall, thus, be the planned development of this otherwise industrially backward area. The creation of these five parcels will certainly help the maximum utilisation of the Expressway and the existence of an Expressway for the fast-moving traffic would help the industrial culture created in the five parcels. Thus, both will be complimentary to each other and can be viewed as parts of an integral scheme. Therefore, it cannot be said that it is not a public purpose.” 31. Learned counsel for the landowners sought to draw a distinction, urging that Nand Kishore only dealt with the issue as to whether the acquisition was for public purpose and not with the issue as to whether the invocation of the urgency clause for commercial, residential, industrial purpose was justified.