When public resources are being utilised for common good, there is no violation of Article 14 and 19 of the Constitution of India and consequently there is no requirement of Article 31-C. As we have already referred in the preceding paragraphs, the unamended Article 31-C to the extent its validity has been upheld in Kesavananda Bharati still stands as a part of the Constitution and exists as a protective umbrella to the laws which are made in pursuance of Article 39 (b) and (c) of the Constitution of India. The unamended Article 31-C to the extent held valid in Kesavananda Bharati is a part of the Constitution and protects the laws made in pursuance of Article 39 (b) and (c). This has also been discussed in detail in Minerva Mills, Waman Rao & Others v. Union of India (1981) 2 SCC 362 and also in Sanjeev Coke. 20. During the Constituent Assembly debates, an amendment was moved by one of the members, Mr. K. T. Shah, who proposed to elaborate as to what would be “material resources of the community”. According to him, these would include all the natural resources, minerals, etc. This amendment was turned down by the Assembly. Dr. Ambedkar while denying this amendment also gave his reasons, which were that it is always better to keep some expressions in general terms since these are being incorporated in a Constitution. In case one elaborates the phrase “material resources”, the Constituent Assembly would be arresting and limiting its meaning. From this it can also be deducted that according to Dr. Ambedkar, a generalised term would include the entire resources of the community, including private property, and that also seemed to be the general consensus. The precise reasons given by Dr. Ambedkar while disagreeing with the proposed amendment were as under: 288 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “I think the language that has been used in the Draft is a much more extensive language which also includes the particular propositions which have been moved by Professor Shah, and I therefore do not see the necessity for substituting these limited particular clauses for the clauses which have been drafted in general language deliberately for a set purpose. I therefore oppose his second and third amendments”.46 What is important here is that, in turning down the proposed amendment of Shri Shah, the Constituent Assembly did not think it correct to limit “material resources” to specified resources alone and it was deliberately left as a broad-based term – “material resources of the community”. In doing so, Dr. B. R. Ambedkar showed great wisdom and acumen as the Chairman of the Drafting Committee of the Constitution. He understood well that the Constituent Assembly is not in the process of making an ordinary statute, it was the Constitution which was being made. A Constitution has to be drafted in a manner to withstand the test of several years and generations, and therefore, by necessity certain provisions and words have to be in general terms, which is referred to as ‘Majestic Generalizations’.