ii) Whether the 7 Objectors were entitled to a notice for the meeting of 08.09.2002 in view of their disqualification under Section 15 of the Registration Act? iii) Whether lack of notice to the said 7 Objectors would vitiate the entire election meeting of 08.09.2002? iv) Whether invalid members had signed the requisition dated 20.08.2002 and had been elected to the Executive Committee? v) Whether the private respondents had the locus to be heard before any forum or to file an appeal/petition against the of the Joint Charity Commissioner? 14. It is not in dispute that in the meeting of the Executive Body held on 01.07.1997, the then President on account of his ill health had got a resolution passed that Mr. Wasade would thereon be the Working President and will look after the day-to-day affairs and management of the Society. The said resolution of 01.07.1997 was not put to any challenge by any of the Trustees or the members of the General Body. It is also not in dispute that before 20.08.2002, the President, the Secretary, the Vice-President and the Joint-Secretary were not alive. In the absence of the office bearers authorised under the bye-laws who could convene the meeting, the only option left for convening the meeting could either be with the Working President on his own or upon the requisition made by the members to convene a meeting. 15. There is a doctrine of necessity where under given circumstances an action is required to be taken under compelling circumstances. One of the earlier proponents of the Doctrine of necessity in Common Law was William Blackstone, who in his book, “Commentaries on the Laws of England” Book 1 of the Rights of Persons, discusses the meeting of the convention-parliament before Charles II’s return, noting that it was an extraordinary measure taken out of necessity. He describes the use of the doctrine of necessity to justify actions that would otherwise be outside the norm due to the urgent need to restore . He describes another instance during the Glorious [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1073 Adv Babasaheb Wasade & Ors. v. Manohar Gangadhar Muddeshwar & Ors. Revolution when the lords and commons assembled and acted without the usual royal summons, justified by the extraordinary circumstance of a perceived vacant throne and the urgent need to address the governance of the country. “It is also true, that the convention-parliament, which restored king Charles the second, met above a month before his return; the lords by their own authority, and the commons in pursuance of writs issued in the name of the keepers of the liberty of England by authority of parliament: and that the said parliament sat till the twenty ninth of December, full seven months after the restoration; and enacted many laws, several of which are still in force. But this was for the necessity of the thing, which supersedes all law; for if they had not so met, it was morally impossible that the kingdom should have been settled in peace.