7. Learned Counsel for the Appellant, by making reference to additional documents submitted that there has been violation of the right of equality relating to consideration for appointment under the ex-gratia policy, as it is asserted that in similar factual matters the benefit of appointment on compassionate grounds had been granted. It has been asserted that since the Appellant is similarly placed, he should be granted the same benefit. A reference in this regard has been made to Annexures A-1 appended along with the Appeal. 8. A perusal of the above would indicate that the said benefit of appointment on attaining the age of majority, irrespective of the period having lapsed from the date of death of the parent, had been granted prior to 22.03.1999 when an outer limit of three years for attainment of the age of majority from the date of death of the deceased government employee was introduced by the instructions. Further, in those matters, the age of attainment of majority was also prior to the coming into force of instructions dated 22.03.1999. 9. That apart, the claim as has been stated above, cannot be accepted being not supported with any statutory backing. This is required for 1 [1994] 3 SCR 893 : (1994) 4 SCC 138 718 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports making any claim including a claim for compassionate appointment, which is an exception to the general rule of appointment requiring a proper advertisement and selection process to be followed as per rules which is an accepted norm. If some wrong benefit has been conferred or some benefit which is contrary to the scheme has been granted, it would not bestow a right upon the others to claim it as a right of equality by reference to Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 10. There are catena of s of this Court that clearly lay down the principles which govern such claims. Some of which are Shanti Sports Club v. Union of India,2 Chandigarh Administration v. Jagjit Singh,3 R Muthukumar v. TANGEDCO,4 Basawaraj & Anr v. Special Land Acquisition Officer.5 11. The very idea of equality enshrined in Article 14 is a concept clothed in positivity based on law. It can be invoked to enforce a claim having sanctity of law. No direction can, therefore, be issued mandating the State to perpetuate any illegality or irregularity committed in favour of a person, an individual, or even a group of individuals which is contrary to the policy or instructions applicable. Similarly, passing of an illegal wrongfully conferring some right or claim on someone does not entitle a similar claim to be put forth before a court nor would court be bound to accept such plea. The court will not compel the authority to repeat that illegality over again. If such claims are entertained and directions issued, that would not only be against the tenets of the justice but would negate its ethos resulting in the law being a causality culminating in anarchy and lawlessness.