[Paras 29, 30, 33, 34, 39] 290 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Criminal Jurisprudence – Criminal jurisprudence is essentially based on the promise that no innocent shall be condemned as guilty – All the safeguards and the jurisprudential values of criminal law, are intended to prevent any failure of justice – The principles which come into play while deciding an appeal from acquittal could be summarized as: Held: (i) Appreciation of evidence is the core element of a criminal trial and such appreciation must be comprehensive – inclusive of all evidence, oral or documentary; (ii) Partial or selective appreciation of evidence may result in a miscarriage of justice and is in itself a ground of challenge; (iii) If the Court, after appreciation of evidence, finds that two views are possible, the one in favour of the accused shall ordinarily be followed; (iv) If the view of the Trial Court is a legally plausible view, mere possibility of a contrary view shall not justify the reversal of acquittal; (v) If the appellate Court is inclined to reverse the acquittal in appeal on a re-appreciation of evidence, it must specifically address all the reasons given by the Trial Court for acquittal and must cover all the facts; (vi) In a case of reversal from acquittal to conviction, the appellate Court must demonstrate an illegality, perversity or error of law or fact in the decision of the Trial Court. [Para 36] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – Appellate Power – Qualified Power of the High Court: Held: In the exercise of appellate powers, there is no inhibition on the High Court to re-appreciate or re-visit the evidence on record – However, the power of the High Court to re-appreciate the evidence is a qualified power, especially when the under challenge is of acquittal – The first and foremost question to be asked is whether the Trial Court thoroughly appreciated the evidence on record and gave due consideration to all material pieces of evidence – The second point for consideration is whether the finding of the Trial Court is illegal or affected by an error of law or fact – If not, the third consideration is whether the view taken by the Trial Court is a fairly possible view – A decision of acquittal is not meant to be reversed on a mere difference of opinion – What is required is an illegality or perversity. [Para 25] Criminal Jurisprudence – Two-views theory – Reiterated. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 291 Mallappa & Ors. v. State of Karnataka Case Law Cited Selvaraj v. State of Karnataka, [2015] 9 SCR 381 : (2015) 10 SCC 230; Sanjeev v. State of H.P., (2022) 6 SCC 294; Sanwat Singh v. State of Rajasthan, [1961] 3 SCR 120 : AIR 1961 SC 715; Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra, [1985] 1 SCR 88 : (1984) 4 SCC 116 – relied on. List of Acts Penal Code, 1860; Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. List of Keywords Murder; Acquittal; Testimonies; Chain of circumstances; Reasonable doubt; Appreciation of evidence; Illegality, error of law or of fact; Qualified Power of the High Court; Criminal Jurisprudence; Two-views theory; Material pieces of evidence.