14. At the outset, learned senior counsel appearing for respondent No.13, Sri Sidharth Luthra contended that a writ petition does not lie against the final of this Court, thus the petitioners could have only filed a Curative Petition. He further submitted as follow: i) In this regard reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in Rupa Ashok Hurra, wherein it was held that a writ petition under Article 32 assailing a final of this Court is not maintainable. That since the Review Petition against the dated 13.05.2022 has been dismissed by this Court, similar contentions cannot be re-agitated in the guise of the present writ petition. Reliance was also placed on the decision of this Court in Naresh Shridhar Mirajkar vs. State of Maharashtra, AIR 1967 SC 1 (“Naresh Shridhar Mirajkar”), wherein it has been held that a writ shall not lie against an of a Constitutional Court. It was thus submitted that the dated 13.05.2022 has attained finality and cannot be questioned by way of a 808 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports writ petition under Article 32. Furthermore, in view of the Rules framed by this Court, XLVIII thereof lays down how an of this Court can be questioned by means of a Curative Petition and thus, a natural corollary is that the same cannot be done through a writ petition. ii) As regards the issue of appropriate government and appropriate policy, learned senior counsel Sri Luthra submitted that the said issues stood settled in view of this Court’s dated 13.05.2022. The s of this Court in Rashidul Jafar vs. State of U.P., 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1201 (“Rashidul Jafar”); State of Haryana vs. Raj Kumar, (2021) 9 SCC 292 (“Raj Kumar”) and Hitesh vs. State of Gujarat (Writ Petition(Crl.) No.467/2022)(“Hitesh”) were pressed into service wherein it had been held that the policy as on the date of conviction would apply, and therefore, the 1992 Policy of the State of Gujarat will apply for the grant of remission in the present case. iii) Learned senior counsel thereafter raised the plea that in India, a reformative/rehabilitative and penal sentencing policy is followed and not one which is punitive in nature. The same was reiterated when the Model Prison Act, 2023 was finalized which aims at “reforming prison management and ensuring the transformation of inmates into law-abiding citizens and their rehabilitation in society.” Furthermore, in the case of Vinter vs. The United Kingdom (Applications Nos.66069/09, 130/10 and 3896/10), (2016) III ECHR 317(“Vinter “) in the context of rehabilitation and reformation it was held by the European Court of Human Rights that, “Moreover, if such a person is incarcerated without any prospect of release and without the possibility of having his life sentence reviewed, there is the risk that he can never atone for his offence: whatever the prisoner does in prison, however exceptional his progress towards rehabilitation, his punishment remains fixed and unreviewable.”Learned senior counsel submitted that respondent No.13 had exhibited unblemished behaviour in prison and there was no criminality attached to his conduct in prison.