[See section E (iv)(a) of this ]. This Court held that the expression must be given a wide meaning precisely because it recognised the potentiality of the wide use of alcohol for industrial purposes and its consequent misuse; and b. The Constitution itself recognises the industrial use of alcohol. Entries 84 of List I (before the amendment in 2016) and 51 of List II specifically refer to medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol. Thus, the use of alcohol for industrial preparations was well within the knowledge of this Court in FN Balsara (supra). 118. This Court in Synthetics (7J) (supra) did not determine the meaning of the expressions ‘intoxicating’ or ‘liquors’ or ‘intoxicating liquors’ independently. It did not compare the difference in the language used to describe alcohol or liquor in different provisions of the Constitution to understand the significance of the difference. Only Article 47 was referred to in the following terms: “77. Article 47 of the Constitution imposes upon the State the duty to endeavour to bring about prohibition of the consumption except for medicinal purpose of intoxicating drinks and products which are injurious to health. If the meaning of the expression “intoxicating liquor” is taken in the wide sense adopted in Balsara case, it would lead to an anomalous result. Does Article 47 oblige the State to prohibit even such industries as are licensed under the IDR Act but which manufacture industrial alcohol? This was never intended by the above judgements or the Constitution.” 119. Although Article 47 was mentioned, the distinction between the purpose of a constitutional provision in Part IV and a legislative entry was not appreciated. This leads to an incorrect inference, namely, that holding Entry 8 of List II includes non-potable alcohol would amount to placing an obligation on the state to prohibit non-potable alcohol in terms of Article 47. There is no doubt that Article 47 refers only to intoxicating drinks which means potable alcohol. However, an analysis of the differences in the terminologies without appreciating that the reference in Article 47 is made in the context of consumption leads to an erroneous conclusion. 2030 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 120. Further, in Synthetics (7J) (supra), this Court concluded that the impugned fees are in the nature of a tax. In that case, the only entries that this Court ought to have dealt with are Entries 84 of List I and Entry 51 of List II. Entry 8 deals with regulatory power and is not a taxing entry. It is a settled principle that a tax cannot be levied under a general entry.195 121. In spite of holding that the fee charged was a tax and that the State Legislature does not have the competence to levy tax on industrial alcohol, the Bench proceeded to analyse the relationship between Entry 52 of List I196 and Entry 8 of List II in paragraph 84 of the . The Bench noted that the “levy of impost” is not possible in view of the occupation of the field by IDRA and that in view of IDRA, the power to issue licences to manufacture both potable and non-potable alcohol is vested in the Central Government.197 These observations are erroneous for the following reasons: a.