Therefore, they supported the levy. It was submitted that the vend fee on denatured alcohol or denatured spirit or what is known as “industrial alcohol” has been challenged on mainly two grounds, namely, (a) States lack legislative competence, and (b) after the enactment of the IDRA, the States’ power is completely lost. 9.1.10 The contention of the State was that there is no dichotomy between ethyl alcohol to be used for beverages and to be used for “industrial purposes”. The levy, in any case, was on manufacture of ethyl alcohol and not on its use. The levy was stipulated jointly or severally both under Entries 8 and 51 - List II; Entry 33 - List III, and as per police powers, regulatory and other incidental charges were collected. That levy was a regulatory power under Articles 19(6) and 19(6)(ii) of the Constitution. 9.1.11 According to the State, Parliament has no power to legislate on “industrial alcohol”, since “industrial alcohol” was also “alcoholic liquors for human consumption”. It was contended that Entry 84 - List I expressly excludes alcoholic liquors for human consumption and therefore, the residuary Entry 97 - List I will not operate as against its own legislative interest. The aforesaid submissions were made on the assumption that “industrial liquor” or “ethyl alcohol” is fit for human consumption. 9.1.12 This Court stated that the expression must be understood in its common and normal sense. “Industrial alcohol” as it is, is incapable of being consumed by a normal human being. The expression ‘consumption’ [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2081 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons must also be understood in the sense of direct physical intake by human beings in this context. That utilisation in some form or the other is consumption for the benefit of human beings if “industrial alcohol” is utilised for production of rubber tyres, etc. It was held that the utilisation of those tyres in the vehicles used by human beings cannot, in the context in which the expression has been used in the Constitution, be understood to mean that alcohol has been for human consumption. 9.1.13 This Court observed that when the framers of the Constitution used the expression “alcoholic liquors for human consumption”, they meant and still the expression means, that “liquor which as it is consumable in the sense capable of being taken by human beings as such as a beverage or a drink” and Entry 84 - List I must be understood in that sense. It was contended that denatured spirit could also be by appropriate cultivation or application or admixture with water etc., transformed into ‘alcoholic liquors for human consumption’ and as such, transformation would not entail any process of manufacture as such. There is no organic or fundamental change in this transformation. However, this aspect was not examined, the reason being that the Constitutional provisions specially dealing with the delimitation of powers in a federal polity must be understood in a broad commonsense point of view as understood by common people for whom the Constitution is made.