5.2 Under Section 3(1), NIA has been constituted as “a special agency” for the investigation and prosecution of offences under the enactments specified in the Schedule to the NIA Act. Importantly, Section 6 provides for the initiation of investigation of Scheduled Offences by the NIA. While sub-sections (1) to (4) lay down the framework for initiation of investigation by NIA after a report is received from the State Government by the Central Government, an exception to the procedure found in sub-sections (1) to (4) is provided by sub-section (5). By way of Section 6(5), the Parliament has entrusted overriding power to the Central Government to suo motu direct NIA to investigate an offence if the Central Government is of the opinion that a Scheduled Offence has been committed under the NIA Act and that such Scheduled Offence is required to be investigated by NIA. 5.3 Sub-section (1) of Section 3 begins with a non-obstante clause as notwithstanding anything in the Police Act, 1861, the Central Government may constitute a special agency to be called the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for investigation and prosecution of offences under the Acts specified in the Schedule. 5.4 Sub-section (2) of Section 3 states that subject to any s which the Central Government may make, NIA shall have throughout India and subject to any international treaty or domestic law of the concerned authority, in relation to the investigation of Scheduled Offences and arrest of persons concerned in such offences, all the powers, duties, privileges and liabilities which police officers have in connection with the investigation of offences committed therein. Sub-section (3) of Section 3 states that subject to any s which the Central Government may make, any officer of the NIA, of or above the rank of a Sub-Inspector, may exercise 1766 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports throughout India, any of the powers of the officer-in-charge of a police station in the area in which he is present for the time being and when so exercising such powers shall, subject to any such s as aforesaid, be deemed to be an officer-in-charge of a police station discharging the functions of such an officer within the limits of his station. 5.5 The superintendence of the NIA vests in the Central Government vide sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the NIA Act. The NIA is headed by Director General appointed by the Central Government akin to the powers exercised by a Director General of Police in respect of the police force in a State, as the Central Government may specify in that behalf vide sub-section (2) of Section 4. 5.6 Sub-sections (1) to (4) of Section 6 relate to receipt of information and recording thereof under Section 154 of the CrPC relating to any Scheduled Offence under the NIA Act by any officer-in-charge of a police station being forwarded to the State Government. The State Government would then forward the report to the Central Government and on receipt of such a report from the State Government, the Central Government would determine whether the offence is a Scheduled Offence or not and having regard to the gravity of the offence and other relevant factors, whether it is a fit case to be investigated by the NIA.