In our view, this course of action was impermissible having regard to the authorities noted above. ‘Reading down’ can be resorted to whenever a provision, which is questioned, is found to be ultra vires by the court but there is scope for the court to read the same down in a manner so as to save it from being declared constitutionally invalid. The Division Bench without even recording any prima facie opinion, much less final opinion, that Reg.10(f)(iii) is ultra vires, chose to sidestep the issue of examining the vires by observing what we have noted above. The line of reasoning weighing with the Division Bench that the need to examine the challenge would [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1833 Allahabad University Etc. v. Geetanjali Tiwari (Pandey) & Ors. Etc. Etc. stand obviated if Reg.10(f)(iii) were construed in the manner it did is, thus, plainly erroneous. 43. Moving on, we have no hesitation to hold that in construing Reg.10(f) (iii) in the manner it did and observing that Reg.10 has no application in relation to appointment on the post of Assistant Professor (since reference to past services in Tables 3A and 3B appears to be surplusage and serves no purpose in the scheme of the 2018 Regulations), the Division Bench of the High Court has clearly exceeded its jurisdiction by resorting to a sort of judicial legislation. Once Reg.10 specifically refers to counting of previous regular service, whether national or international, inter alia as Assistant Professor, the Division Bench in the exercise of its judicial review powers could not have held that Reg.10 has no application to one aspiring for appointment as an Assistant Professor. Law is well settled that courts cannot add words to a statute or read words into it, which are not there; at the same time, it cannot also read a statute in a manner that results in deletion of words which are there. This is for the simple reason that the court has no power to legislate; hence, it cannot rewrite the legislation. Bearing this principle in mind, the Division Bench was wholly unjustified in its approach. 44. That apart, clause (f) and other clauses of Reg.10 lay down the conditions to be satisfied for an aspirant to claim marks for past service, read with Tables 3A and 3B. If what the Division Bench has held regarding past service is upheld, that is, past service as Assistant Professor, or whatever other nomenclature, is a surplusage, that would result in candidates answering all the conditions referred to in clauses (a)-(g) being deprived of marks for teaching experience. Certainly, this could not have been the intention of the UGC while it framed the 2018 Regulations. We have been shown that even the predecessor regulations had similar such provisions for shortlisting of candidates. It is, therefore, as a matter of policy, that the UGC has laid down qualifications mandatory in nature for eligibility as well as marks for teaching experience earned from past service of the nature ordained which, of course, is in the nature of a desirable quality and is such that the 2018 Regulations permit for being taken into consideration for shortlisting of candidates, more particularly when the proportion of candidates applying for the number of posts available is quite high.