o All eligible persons who were being allotted the land would have to file an affidavit agreeing to the conditions and stipulations. o No person who was allotted a plot shall alienate or transfer it using the instrument of General Power of Attorney11 within a period of 10 years from the date of allotment. • Committees and sub-committees were formed to process allotment applications. • Government would allot land to HUDA at the basic rate, and as already noted above, HUDA would develop layouts in the five blocks at the respective locations. • The allottees were to pay the actual cost of the plot, i.e., the basic value plus cost of development, as worked out by HUDA, in three equal instalments, within six months from the date of allotment. • The plot will not be handed over and registered till full payment is made by the allottee to HUDA. • In case of default, the Screening Committee could recommend the Government to delete such names from the list. • Construction of houses was to commence within a period of two years from the date of handing over the plot to the individual allottee. 11 For short, “GPA”. 1384 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10. GoM No. 522 dated 04.05.2006, was challenged by Mr. V.S. Bose, Dr. Rao V.B.J. Chelikani and Mr. O.M. Debara in the High Court in Writ Petition No. 13730 of 2006. It was submitted that: • Land worth Rs. 700 crores was sought to be allotted to the specified categories at a throw-away price compared to the market value. • The government, as a trustee of the public land, cannot dispose of land except by way of a policy which was consistent with Articles 14, 38 and 39(d) of the Constitution of India. • Majority of the beneficiaries were affluent persons with good social standing. • Land prices have escalated substantially and hence, land allotment at basic value without auction was detrimental to public interest. • There was no rational basis or object which was sought to be achieved through such a land allotment policy. • Lastly, there was no justification for allotting the land to preferred individuals at a fraction of the market value. • GoM No. 243 had completely prohibited allotment of land to individuals who had already received benefit of concessional allotment from the Government. This requirement was deleted/ removed through GoM No. 522. The policy also permitted allotment of land to those who own or possess land in their own name or in the name of their spouse or children. Reference was made to the amendment made vide GoM No. 1424 dated 28.09.2006. 11. The Writ Petition was allowed by dated 08.10.2007. At the outset, we must notice that the of the Division Bench specifically recorded that the petitioners therein had not questioned the vires of GoM Nos. 242, 243 and 244, which established the policy, categories, and guidelines for land allocation. Therefore, the validity of these GoMs was not examined.