iii. To generate scientific evidence in the Indian agro-climatic situation of the environment release. 2040 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports iv. As a precautionary mechanism, post-environmental release, conduct the field demonstration studies with respect to the effect of GE mustard on honeybees and other pollinators, as recommended in the 136th GEAC meeting within two years under supervision of ICAR, as per its guidelines and other extant rules, guidelines and regulations and the report be submitted to GEAC. However, the above is subjected to stringent terms and conditions to ensure environmental safeguards. 18.19 On the TEC Report, learned Attorney General submitted that though HT crops were not a part of terms of reference, the five-member TEC report has referred to the same and recommended against the use thereof in India. The Union of India too had filed objections stating that this recommendation was beyond the scope of terms of references and such a decision must be left to the regulatory system. In any case, the focus in the instant matter is only on DMH-11, which is not an HT crop. According to the learned Attorney General, since 2012, the regulatory regime has been strengthened to ensure that a comprehensive transparent and science-based framework of GM crops is in place for ERA of GM crops. 18.20 Finally, it was contended that mustard is the most important edible oil and seed meal crop of India and at present, 55-60 percent of the edible oil demand is met through imports. It was stated that canola oil is made from GM canola seeds; and soyabean oil largely comprises GM soyabean oil. Thus, the petitioners have voiced unfounded fears of adverse impact of GM crops, even when India is already importing and consuming oil derived from said GM crops. The transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 has shown an increase per-hectare yield by 25-30 per cent over the traditional varieties due to exploitation of hybrid vigour. As mustard is one of the highest oil-bearing of oilseeds utilised in India, the domestic production of edible oil would considerably increase if DMH-11 hybrid technology is employed. Hence, learned Attorney General sought for dismissal of the writ petitions. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2041 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Submissions of Learned Solicitor General: 19. Learned Solicitor General Sri Tushar Mehta, while supporting the arguments of the learned Attorney General, at the outset contended that any ban on commercial/public release of GM crops in India will be against public and national interest. 55-60 percent of the edible oil in India is imported and mustard oil is one of the most important edible oils. In to ensure food security and reduction of foreign dependency, it is necessary to strengthen the plant breeding programmes in India, including use of new genetic technologies such as GE technology. 19.1 Drawing our attention to statistics regarding the demand for total edible oil in India, it was submitted that 55.76 per cent of the total demand of edible oil is made through import, out of which palm oil, soyabean oil, sunflower oil and a small quantity of canola quality mustard oil are being imported.