20. The upshot of the aforesaid discussion is that although section 24 of the 1910 Act prescribes no period of limitation, it does allow the licensee to discontinue supply of energy upon a consumer neglecting to pay charges that are demanded by raising a bill, irrespective of the fact that a suit for recovery of unpaid charges would be barred if not instituted within three (3) years of the liability accruing. There appears to be no limitation as regards the period within which notice under section 24(1) has to be issued, evincing the intention of the licensee to disconnect supply for non-payment of claimed dues. However, if in case, despite the consumer not paying the charges demanded and the notice thereunder is not issued within a reasonable period or at any time within which a suit for recovery could be instituted, whether the right of the licensee to claim the unpaid charges would lapse will have to be decided by the court before whom the lis is brought upon consideration of the defence that is raised and the explanation for the delay. We only say that it must depend on the facts of each particular case whether the demand by reason of mere delay should be interdicted or not. 21. Be that as it may, in this case, no suit was instituted within the period of limitation or beyond. We need not examine here whether the remedy by way of a suit for the appellants stood foreclosed, because of the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 357 The Madhya Pradesh Madhya Kshetra Vidyut Vitran Company Limited & Ors. v. Bapuna Alcobrew Private Limited & Anr. contention of the first respondent that no demand had been raised and the show cause notices cannot be construed as demands. However, did issuance of the second show cause notice (on 07th January, 2009) afford a fresh cause of action for the first respondent to invoke the writ jurisdiction of the High Court and did it turn out to be fatal for the appellants? We shall endeavour to find an answer to this question by first reading the show cause notices issued by the appellants. 22. The operative portion of the first show cause notice (dated 14th July, 2000) is extracted hereinbelow: “On going through the past consumption, i.e. w.e.f. June 1996 to till date it is observed that units consumed by you are not up to the mark as units worked out on 35% or 39% load factor as and when applicable. It shows that you fails (sic, failed) to fulfil the condition no.5 of the said permission letter dt. 30.5.96 by not consuming units equivalent to units worked out on load factor as above. The consumption found is on The consumption found is on lower side in various months. The liability accrued on this account comes to Rs. 70.50.lacs. Statement of liability is enclosed. Therefore, please take this as Notice of Show Cause as to why not the supplementary demand towards less consumption, as per statement enclosed, be raised against your HT connection.