It could thus be seen that, this Court approved the steps indicated by the High Court of Gujarat in paragraph 69 of its in the case of Tamannaben Ashokbhai Desai v. Shital Amrutlal Nishar6 for considering and giving effect to both vertical and horizontal reservations. In the said case, this Court was considering horizontal reservation for the female candidates. It was observed 6 2020 SCC OnLine Guj 2592 924 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that a meritorious reserved category candidate who is entitled to the General category of the said horizontal reservation on his own merit, will have to be allotted a seat from the said General category of the horizontal reservation. Meaning thereby such a candidate cannot be counted in a horizontal seat reserved for the category of vertical reservation like SC/ST. 13. It will also be apposite to refer to the following observations made by S. Ravindra Bhat, J. in his concurring : “66. I would conclude by saying that reservations, both vertical and horizontal, are method of ensuring representation in public services. These are not to be seen as rigid “slots”, where a candidate’s merit, which otherwise entitles her to be shown in the open general category, is foreclosed, as the consequence would be, if the State’s argument is accepted. Doing so, would result in a communal reservation, where each social category is confined within the extent of their reservation, thus negating merit. The open category is open to all, and the only condition for a candidate to be shown in it is merit, regardless of whether reservation benefit of either type is available to her or him.” [emphasis supplied] 14. It could thus be seen that the learned Judge clearly observed that the horizontal as well as the vertical reservation would not be seen as rigid “slots”, where a candidate’s merit, which otherwise entitles her or him to be shown in the open general category, is foreclosed. It was observed that by doing so, it would result in communal reservation, where each social category is confined within the extent of their reservation, thus negating merit. It was observed that the open category is open to all, and the only condition for a candidate to be shown in it is merit, regardless of whether reservation benefit of either type is available to her or him. 15. The said view was reiterated by this Court in the case of Sadhana Singh Dangi and Others v. Pinki Asati and Others.7 7 (2022) 12 SCC 401 : 2021 INSC 907 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 925 Ramnaresh @ Rinku Kushwah and Others v. State of Madhya Pradesh and Others 16. In view of the settled position of law as laid down by this Court in the case of Saurav Yadav (supra) and reiterated in the case of Sadhana Singh Dangi (supra), the methodology adopted by the respondents in compartmentalizing the different categories in the horizontal reservation and restricting the migration of the meritorious reserved category candidates to the unreserved seats is totally unsustainable.