This aspect shall be looked into by the trial court at the time when the suit is taken up for final adjudication as regards the rights of the parties. 1364 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 45. Quite often, in these types of litigations, it is sought to be argued that an injunction restraining the defendant from transferring the suit property was absolutely unnecessary as no post-suit transfer by the defendant can adversely affect the result of the suit because of the provisions of Section 52 of the T. P. Act whereunder all such transfers cannot but abide by the result of the suit. It is true that the doctrine of lis pendens as enunciated in Section 52 of the T. P. Act takes care of all pendente lite transfers; but it may not always be good enough to take fullest care of the plaintiffs interest vis-a-vis such a transfer. We may give one appropriate illustration of a suit for specific performance of contract based on an agreement of sale. In a suit wherein the plaintiff prays for specific performance and if the defendant is not restrained from selling the property to a third party and accordingly a third party purchases the same bona fide for value without any notice of the pending litigation and spends a huge sum for the improvement thereof or for construction thereon, the equity in his favour may intervene to persuade the Court to decline, in the exercise of its discretion, the equitable relief of specific performance to the plaintiff at the trial and to award damages only in favour of the plaintiff. It must be noted that Rule 1 of 39 of the Code clearly provides for interim injunction restraining the alienation or sale of the suit property and if the doctrine of lis pendens as enacted in Section 52 of the T. P. Act was regarded to have provided all the panacea against pendente lite transfers, the Legislature would not have provided in Rule 1 for interim! injunction restraining the transfer of suit property. Rule 1 of 39, in our view, clearly demonstrates that, notwithstanding the Rule of lis pendens in Section 52 of the T. P. Act, there can be occasion for the grant of injunction restraining pendente lite transfers in a fit and proper case. (See: Sm. Muktakesi Dawn and Ors. v. Haripada Mazumdar and Anr. reported in AIR 1988 Cal 25) 46. In the aforesaid context, we may refer to one old decision of the Calcutta High Court in Promotha Nath Roy v. Jagannath Kisore Lal Singh Deo reported in (1912) 17 Cal LJ 427 where it has been observed that a Court will in many cases interfere and preserve property in status quo during the pendency of a suit in which the rights to it are to be decided and though the purchaser pendente lite would not gain title, the Court will prevent by injunction the embarrassment that would be caused to the original purchaser in his [2024] 11 S.C.R.