Digital Supreme Court Reports prioritize environmental protection and sustainable development, thereby addressing the root causes of climate change and safeguarding the wellbeing of present and future generations. It is imperative for states like India, to uphold their obligations under international law, including their responsibilities to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions, adapt to climate impacts, and protect the fundamental rights of all individuals to live in a healthy and sustainable environment.” 48.6 In this context, I would also like to refer to the relevant Articles of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to the Convention on Biological Diversity which specifically deals with living modified organisms to mean any living organism that possesses a novel combination of genetic material obtained through the use of modern biotechnology (Article 3g) as well as Articles 15 and 16 of the said Protocol which deal with risk assessment and risk management respectively. It is necessary to refer to the said Articles as India is a signatory to the said Protocol and Convention. I may further refer to the Convention on Biological Diversity and particularly, on Article 8(g) which states that each contracting party shall, as far as possible and as appropriate establish or maintain means to regulate, manage or control the risks associated with the use of release of living modified organisms resulting from biotechnology which are likely to have adverse environmental impacts that could affect the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, taking also into account the risks to human health. 48.7 It is too late in the day to even entertain the proposition that the protection of our natural environment and ecology is not a constitutional imperative. The evolution of the right to a safe and healthy environment and the concomitant duty of the State to uphold public trust and abide by inter-generational equity and the precautionary principle in environmental regulation is the bedrock of environmental constitutionalism. The environmental rights regime is a product of decades of environmental litigation by civil society, social movements, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2137 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. affected communities and the general citizenry. In that sense, environmental constitutionalism is a facet of transformative constitutionalism touching upon the socio-economic lives of citizens. In other words, the affected communities must have a substantive role in environmental governance. 48.8 While this court in T.N. Godavarman has crystallised the role of environmental regulators and the Executive arm of the State since it mandates adequate technical capacity and effectiveness so as to attain optimal environmental performance, a weak regulatory regime can render environmental rights illusory. At the same time, technical capacity and effective regulation cannot be realised without democratic engagement, dialogue and deliberation. The aspiration of transformative environmental governance cannot be realised merely through an effective bureaucracy and sound technical expertise. Environmental democracy and environmental rights are two sides of the same coin. In this regard, the facts of this case shed light on the salience of the legislative role in preserving environmental democracy. 48.9 Environmental decision-making in a rapidly changing climate requires healthy contestation of alternative worldviews, interests and rights.