[Para 56(V)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Duty of the Court: Held: [Per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.] The power to ensure that the arbitration agreement is compliant of the public policy requirement of establishing an independent and impartial tribunal is always of the Court – This principle is recognised and statutorily incorporated in the Contract Act and the Arbitration Act – It is the duty of the court to ensure that the arbitration agreement inspires confidence and it will enable establishment of an independent and impartial arbitral tribunal. [Para 56(VI)] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2179 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Maintaining a panel of arbitrators: Held: [Per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.] Neither public policy considerations under the Contract Act or the Arbitration Act restrain the parties to the arbitration from maintaining a panel of arbitrators in any manner – However, arbitration agreements enabling one of the parties to unilaterally constitute arbitral tribunal do not inspire confidence of independence and may violate the public policy requirement of constituting an independent and impartial tribunal – The court will, therefore, scrutinise the agreement and hold them to be invalid if it considers it appropriate. [Para 56(VII)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – No two agreements are the same and it is necessary for the court to examine the text and context of the agreement: Held: [Per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.] The occasion for the court to examine the constitution of the independent and impartial tribunal under the arbitration clause will arise when one of the parties makes an application under Sections 11, 14 or 34 – It is not permissible for the court to give an advance declaration that all such agreements which enable one of the parties to unilaterally constitute the arbitral tribunal would be void per se – No two agreements are the same and it is necessary for the court to examine the text and context of the agreement. [Para 56(VIII)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Test of establishment of an independent and impartial tribunal: Held: [Per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.] All applications pending before the courts challenging the unilateral appointment clauses will be disposed of applying the test as to whether such a clause enables establishment of an independent and impartial tribunal. [Para 56(IX)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s.18 – Applicability of: Held: [Per Hrishikesh Roy, J.] Section 18 applies to all stages of arbitration including the stage of appointment of an arbitrator – The Arbitration Act does not provide for any special treatment to the government irrespective of whether the arbitration is by or against the government. [Para 43(a)] 2180 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Unilateral appointment of Arbitrators is permissible as per the legislative scheme: Held: [Per Hrishikesh Roy, J.] Unilateral appointment of Arbitrators is permissible as per the legislative scheme of the Arbitration Act – There is a distinction between ‘ineligibility’ and ‘unilateral’ appointment of arbitrators – As long as an arbitrator nominated by a party is eligible under the Seventh Schedule of the Act, the appointment (unilateral or otherwise), should permissible – It is only in cases of a complete lack of consensus that the court should exercise its power under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act to appoint an independent and impartial arbitrator as per Section 11(8) read with Section 12 and 18 of the Arbitration Act – At the appointment stage, the scope of judicial intervention is otherwise extremely narrow.