Section 21(1) empowers the Council to establish a Disciplinary Directorate for making investigations into the complaints received by it. The head of this authority is designated as Director (Discipline). Section 21(2) provides that the Director (Discipline), on receipt of any information or complaint, shall arrive at a prima facie opinion on the occurrence of the alleged misconduct. Section 21(3) states that should the Director (Discipline) arrive at a prima facie opinion that the member is guilty of professional misconduct, he shall refer the matter to the Board of Discipline or the Disciplinary Committee, depending on whether the alleged misconduct falls within the First Schedule or the Second Schedule or both. If the alleged misconduct 206 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports falls within the First Schedule, the matter is placed before the Board of Discipline and if it falls within the Second Schedule or in both the Schedules, the matter is placed before the Disciplinary Committee. Section 21(4) provides that the procedure for investigation would be as prescribed under the relevant rules.1 In the event where the Complainant wishes to withdraw his/her complaint, Section 21(5) provides that the Director (Discipline) shall place the request for withdrawal before the Board of Discipline or the Disciplinary Committee, as the case may be, and the Board or Committee would take a final call in this regard. 14. The Board of Discipline is constituted under Section 21A of the Act. The Director (Discipline) is to function as the Secretary of the Board, as per Section 21A(1)(c) of the Act. Section 21A (2) provides that the Board shall follow a summary procedure in dealing with cases referred to it. Where the Board finds that a member is guilty of professional or other misconduct mentioned in First Schedule, it may resort to imposing any of the three punishments enumerated in Section 21A (3). 15. Section 21A (4) requires the Director (Discipline) to submit all information and complaints to the Board, where he is of the opinion that there is no prima facie case in the complaint. It further provides that if the Board agrees with the opinion of the Director (Discipline), it may close the matter and if it disagrees with the opinion, it may advise the Director (Discipline) to further investigate into the complaint. 16. Similar scheme to deal with complaints relating to misconduct as prescribed in the Second Schedule is found in Section 21B (1) to (4). 17. Section 29A is titled ‘Power of Central Government to make rules’. Section 29A (1) enables the Central Government ‘to make rules to carry out the provisions of this Act’. Section 29A (2) sets out enumerated heads under which rules may be made. Rule 9(3), which is part of Rules, 2007 appears to have been made under Section 29A(2)(c). It is relevant to note that the power to make rules under sub-section (2) of Section 29A is ‘without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power’ provided for in Section 29A(1). 1 Chartered Accountants’ (Procedure of Investigation of Professional and Other Misconduct and Con- duct of Cases) Rules, 2007 [2024] 2 S.C.R.