Placing reliance on the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals, it was submitted that the factual matrix recorded therein discloses that the Subsequent Transferee had acquired a clear title and possession of the said property prior to the said decision and the Sale Certificate issued in lieu thereof. Since the Bank had already issued a No Dues certificate, provided a No Objection certificate, executed the Release Deed for its charge over the Secured Asset and handed over the original title deeds thereto, the Subsequent Transferee is said to have obtained a clear title of the property. He further argued that since there was a second charge over the said property, the Bank could have only confirmed a conditional sale of the Secured Asset. Consequently, even if the auction was completed, the said property would not have been free from all encumbrances and the petitioner would have been required to redeem the second charge to acquire a clear title. Since it is the Subsequent Transferee who undertook the necessary steps to redeem the second charge, it is said to have acquired a clear title both in law and in equity. 87. It was submitted that the Subsequent Transferee was constrained to prefer the Special Civil Suit No. 5 of 2023 as the petitioner herein had attempted to take forceful possession of the Secured Asset. It was further submitted that the said suit had to be filed to protect its right and prevent its dispossession without following the due process of law. However, in terms of the undertaking given to this Court during the course of proceedings on 18.10.2024, it was submitted that the Subsequent Transferee has instructed its counsel to unconditionally withdraw the aforesaid suit. 1658 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 88. He further submitted that the petitioner and the Bank are seeking to expand the scope of the present proceedings by claiming physical possession as a relief in the present contempt matter, when in fact such relief was never prayed in the Main Appeal. As the substantive relief seeking physical possession of the Secured Asset was not sought in the Main Appeals, the said relief cannot be obtained in the present contempt petitions. 89. He also submitted that the auction process with respect to the Secured Asset was only on the basis of symbolic possession and not physical possession of the said property and as such the parties while transacting as part of an auction process are bound by the process and the mandatory terms laid down therein. Even the Bank in the present miscellaneous application has admitted that it only had symbolic possession, and not the actual physical possession of the said property. 90. He further submitted that the process for obtaining physical possession of the Secured Asset is only by way of initiating a subsequent and completely different proceeding in terms of the statutory procedure laid down in Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act which was never the subject matter before this Court and as such the Subsequent Transferee ought not to be dispossessed without following due process/ procedure laid down in law as per SARFAESI Act/ Rules.