The sensor gauge fixed by the opposite party was 1 mm above while the sensor gauge provided by the complainant was fixed on the mat. The same can be seen with the help of photographs taken by the parties. 2. While traveling in the car the temperature recorded by the sensor gauges generally showing the increasing tendency. 3. There is a variation of 5 - 9 degree temperature between the temperatures noted down from the two sensor gauges provided by the parties. 4. On perusing the temperature chart, it is found that the temperature recorded by both the sensor gauges is higher than ambient temperature throughout the journey.” 22. It is further pertinent to note that pending the said proceedings before the National Commission, the appellant had made two applications, one on 12.10.2006 seeking permission to make one more effort by providing additional insulation to address the concerns of the complainant in regard to the high temperature at the left hand side of the hump felt by it, and the other application seeking prayer to permit to test the complainant’s car by an appropriate laboratory, or in the alternative to dispose of the matter with direction to provide an additional insulation to the hump of the cars being used by the complainant or in the alternative to hold that the used car be resold by the complainant to the appellant (opponent no. 1) for present market value/book value. The respondent-complainant having not 434 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports agreed to the said proposals made in the said applications, the National Commission vide the dated 06.02.2007 had rejected the said applications. 23. From the afore-discussed documents/applications produced on record before the National Commission, it was clearly established by the respondent-complainant that an excessive heat was generated in the car, and particularly, the center hump on the floor over the drive shaft was felt excessively heated as also the left side of the center hump. As rightly submitted by the learned counsel for the respondent-complainant, after continuous trial and error method of rectification conducted to remove the defect of overheating, since the said complaint persisted, the appellant had moved the applications seeking permission of the Commission to make one more effort by providing additional insulation, and also for permitting the appellant to repurchase the car in question for the market value/book value as it existed at the relevant time in 2007. The market value of the car in question as on 25.11.2006 was stated to be Rs. 34 lakhs, and the book value thereof as on 31.12.2006 was stated to be about Rs. 36 lakhs. The appellant though not admitted specifically about the said defects in the car, had indirectly stated in the said application seeking permission to provide additional insulation to the effect that the warm surface of hump/tunnel was a natural physical characteristic of the car and hence could not be altered to a large extent and that the additional insulation could be fitted by a minor modification.