The relevant observations read as under: - “... As held by this Court in Delhi Development Authority v. Skipper Construction Co. (P) Ltd. and another, and going a step further, the Court has a duty to issue appropriate directions for remedying or rectifying the things done in violation of the s. In that regard, the Court may even take restitutive measures at any stage of the proceedings. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 222. Similarly, a Three-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of State Bank of India & Ors. v. Dr. Vijay Mallya reported in 2022 SCC Online SC 826, in clear terms said that apart from punishing the contemnor for his contumacious conduct, the majesty of law may demand that appropriate directions be issued by the Court so that any advantage secured as a result of such contumacious conduct is completely nullified. The approach may require the Court to issue directions either for reversal of the transactions in question by declaring said transactions to be void or passing appropriate directions to the concerned authorities to see that the contumacious conduct on the part of the contemnor does not continue to enure to the advantage of the contemnor or anyone claiming under him. 223. In view of the aforesaid, we pass the following s and directions: - (i) The legality and validity of the 9th auction proceedings conducted pursuant to the notice of sale dated 12.06.2022 is upheld. The sale of the Secured Asset to the petitioner is hereby confirmed and the title conferred through the Sale Certificate dated 27.09.2023 is declared to be absolute. (ii) The Borrower and the Bank shall immediately take steps for the cancellation of the Release Deed dated 28.08.2023 within a period of one week from the date of pronouncement. (iii) The Borrower shall also unconditionally withdraw the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 pending before the DRT within a period of one week from the date of pronouncement. 1742 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (iv) The Assignment Agreement dated 28.08.2023 is hit by lis pendens and hereby declared void. The Subsequent Transferee shall hand over the peaceful physical possession of the Secured Asset along with its original title deeds to the Bank within a period of one week from the date of pronouncement of this . In the event of any further hinderance or any obstruction that may be caused by the Borrower or the Subsequent Transferee while taking over the possession of the property then in such circumstances the Bank shall take the assistance of police. (v) The Subsequent Transferee shall also withdraw the police complaint dated 17.01.2024 lodged by it within a period of one week from the date of pronouncement of this . (vi) We clarify that the Subsequent Transferee is not entitled to recover the amount paid by it towards redeeming the second charge over the Secured Asset or any other dues or amount paid in respect of the same from the petitioner herein. (vii) The Bank shall refund the amount of Rs.