However, in our considered view even in a case where no such undertaking is given, a party to a litigation may be held liable for such contempt if the court is induced to sanction a particular course of action or inaction on the basis of the representation of such a party and the court ultimately finds that the party never intended to act on such representation or such representation was false. In other words, if on the representation of the respondent herein the Court was persuaded to pass the dated 5-10-1995 extending the time for vacation of the suit premises, he may be held guilty of contempt of court, notwithstanding non-furnishing of the undertaking, if it is found that the representation was false and the respondent never intended to act upon it. [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 193. The Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee/the alleged contemnors herein placing reliance on the decision of this Court in Patel Rajnikant (supra) have contended that in the absence of any disobedience or wilful breach of a prohibitory no contempt could be said to have been committed. It has been further canvased that this Court in the Main Appeals never issued any specific direction either to the Borrower or the Subsequent Transferee, & therefore no contempt could be said to have been committed. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1727 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. 194. In Patel Rajnikant (supra) this Court upon examining Section 2(b) of the Act, 1971 held that to hold a person guilty of having committed contempt, there must be a , , direction etc. by a court, there must be disobedience of such , , direction etc and that such disobedience must be willful. The relevant provisions read as under: - “58. The provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 have also been invoked. Section 2 of the Act is a definition clause. Clause (a) enacts that contempt of court means “civil contempt or criminal contempt”. Clause (b) defines “civil contempt” thus: “2. (b) ‘civil contempt’ means wilful disobedience to any , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court or wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court;” Reading of the above clause makes it clear that the following conditions must be satisfied before a person can be held to have committed a civil contempt: (i) there must be a , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court (or an undertaking given to a court); (ii) there must be disobedience to such , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court (or breach of undertaking given to a court); and (iii) such disobedience of , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court (or breach of undertaking) must be wilful.” 195. However, the subsequent observations made by this Court in Patel Rajnikant (supra) are significant. It observed that the court should not hesitate in wielding the potent weapon of contempt, it is for the proper administration of justice and to ensure due compliance with the s passed by it in to uphold and maintain the dignity of courts and majesty of law.