These decisions directly or indirectly touch upon “material resources of the community”. Will we be 318 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports correct in saying today that, private resources are not a part of the “material resources of the community”. Can this be said in the light of the present times since ‘Constitution is a living document’! 44. The Constitution is indeed a living document. The words and meanings in the Constitution are not frozen in time, they change and evolve. The Constitution cannot be limited to the vision of its founding fathers.75 To borrow a phrase from Anatole France if we do that then the dead would be the living and the living the dead.76 “The judge has an important role in the legislative project: The judge interprets statutes. Statutes cannot be applied unless they are interpreted. The judge may give a statute a new meaning, a dynamic meaning, that seeks to bridge the gap between law and life’s changing reality without changing the statute itself. The statute remains as it was, but its meaning changes, because the court has given it a new meaning that suits new social needs. The court fulfils its role as the junior partner in the legislative project. It realizes the judicial role by bridging the gap between law and life.” 77 However, the meaning can change to an extent and no further. It can expand to an extent and evolve to a limit. Words and expressions cannot have an entirely opposite meaning to what was initially prescribed to them. In Video Electronics Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Punjab (1990) 3 SCC 87, Justice Sabyasachi Mukharji had said: “Constitution is a living organism and the latent meaning of the expressions used can be given effect to only if a particular situation arises. It is not that with changing times the meaning changes but changing times illustrate and illuminate the meaning of the expressions used. The connotation of the expressions used takes its shape and colour in evolving dynamic situations.” 78 75 Aharon Barak, Hermeneutics and Constitution Interpretation, 14 cardOzO l. rev. 767 (1992-93), Pg. 772. 76 anatOle france et. al., crainQueBille (Dodd, Mead & Co., Inc., 1922), Pg. 171. “The precise reference is from the following sentence “That which is written by the dead will be erased by the living. Were it not so, the will of those who have passed away would impose itself upon those who yet survive; and the dead would be the living and the living the dead”. 77 aharOn Barak, the JudGe in a deMOcracy (Princeton University Press, 2006), Pgs. 4-5. 78 (1990) 3 SCC 87, para 36. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 319 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 45. We have earlier referred to the existing philosophy of the day, the purpose of Directive Principles and the speech of Dr. Ambedkar on inequality in the country when the Constitution was being framed. Has our world changed? Has the inequality in the country decreased?