Boghara Polyfab (supra) went to the extent of identifying three categories of preliminary issues that may arise for consideration in an application under Section 11. Of these, in the first category which had to be mandatorily decided by the referral Court, the question whether there was an arbitration agreement and whether the party who has applied under Section 11 of the Act, 1996 is a party to such an agreement, was also included. • The insertion of Section 11(6A) through the 2015 Amendment to the Act, 1996 stipulated that the Courts under Section 11 shall confine their examination to the ‘existence’ of an arbitration agreement. It legislatively overruled the decisions in SBP & Co. (supra) and Boghara Polyfab (supra) by virtue of its non- obstante clause. • Duro Felguera (supra), in clear terms, clarified the effect of the change brought in by Section 11(6A) and stated that all that the Courts need to see is whether an arbitration agreement exists - nothing more, nothing less. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 937 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. • Vidya Drolia (supra) endorsed the prima facie test in examining the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement both under Sections 8 and 11 respectively. However, it was clarified that in cases of debatable and disputable facts and reasonably good arguable case, etc. the Court may refer the parties to arbitration since the arbitral tribunal has the authority to decide disputes including the question of jurisdiction. It was further stated that jurisdictional issues concerning whether certain parties are bound by a particular arbitration under the group-company doctrine etc. in a multi-party arbitration raise complicated questions of fact which are best left to the tribunal to decide. • In In Re: Interplay (supra) the position taken in Vidya Drolia (supra) was clarified to state that the scope of examination under Section 11(6) should be confined to the “existence of the arbitration agreement” under Section 7 of the Act, 1996 and the “validity of an arbitration agreement” must be restricted to the requirement of formal validity such as the requirement that the agreement be in writing. Therefore, substantive objections pertaining to existence and validity on the basis of evidence must be left to the arbitral tribunal since it can “rule” on its own jurisdiction. • Krish Spinning (supra) cautioned that the Courts delving into the domain of the arbitral tribunal at the Section 11 stage run the risk of leaving the claimant remediless if the Section 11 application is rejected. Further, it was stated that a detailed examination by the courts at the Section 11 stage would be counterproductive to the objective of expeditious disposal of Section 11 application and simplification of pleadings at that stage. • Cox and Kings (supra) specifically dealt with the scope of inquiry under Section 11 when it comes to impleading the non-signatories in the arbitration proceedings. While saying that the referral court would be required to prima facie rule on the existence of the arbitration agreement and whether the non-signatory party is a veritable party to the arbitration agreement, it also said that in view of the complexity in such a determination, the arbitral tribunal would be the proper forum.