P.C. for registering a FIR No. 519/2019 under the section of 420, 120B IPC against 1. Ziyauddin S/o Gyasudding aged about 70 years 2. Zamaluddin S/o Gyasuddin aged about 65 years 3. Kamaluddin S/o Gyasuddin aged about 50 years 4. Rahisuddin S/o. Unknown 5. Imran aged about 36 years S/o Zamaluddin 6. Kahsif S/o Zamaluddin aged about 31 all are residence of Mohalla Ktarmal, kasba Chandpur, Chanpur, Bijnor, UP. the crime under section 420, 120B IPC is proved against the Ziyauddin S/o Gyasudding, Zamaluddin S/o Gyasuddin, Kamaluddin S/o Gyasuddin, Rahisuddin S/o Unknown, Imran S/o Zamaluddin, Kahsif S/o Zamaluddin. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 121 Sharif Ahmed and Another v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another Hence, filing this charge sheet before the Hon’ble court and requesting to this Hon’ble court to punish the all the accused.” ● By an dated 10.05.2021, the Allahabad High Court granted interim anticipatory bail to the appellant till 03.01.2022, in terms of the conditions mentioned in the , and observed that the appellant herein may approach the High Court again if so advised, in case of a change in circumstances. ● On 23.03.2022, Allahabad High Court dismissed the Criminal Misc. Anticipatory Bail Application No.2235/2022 filed by the appellant, on the grounds of non-bailable warrants having been issued against the appellant and the chargesheet having been filed. ● Hence, the appellant has filed the present appeal. 41. We have already referred to the facts and also to the ingredients of the offence under Section 420 IPC. The assertions made in the FIR allege that the accused are frauds who have taken bainama (earnest money on the property), but thereafter are making excuses. The complainant had visited the accused at their house who had then threatened them to implicate them in false cases. They denied having received the money. 42. We allow the present appeal and direct that in the event of the appellant being arrested, he shall be released on bail by the arresting officer/investigating officer/trial court on the terms and conditions to be fixed by the trial court. 43. However, what is surprising and a matter of concern in the present case, is that the police had initially rightly not registered the FIR, which had prompted the complainant to approach the Court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chandpur, Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh, alleging that he is an honest and respected person in the society and is well established in business, while the accused are fraudulent individuals. The Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate had subsequently ed for the FIR to be registered on the basis of the written complaint. 44. We would also like to emphasise on the need for a Magistrate to be cautious in examining whether the facts of the case disclose a civil or a criminal wrong. Attempts at initiating vexatious criminal 122 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports proceedings should be thwarted early on, as a summoning , or even a direction to register an FIR, has grave consequences for setting the criminal proceedings in motion.27 Any effort to settle civil disputes and claims which do not involve any criminal offence, by way of applying pressure through criminal prosecution, should be deprecated and discouraged.28 C. Appeal arising out of SLP (Crl.)