Upon investigation by the opposite party, it was found that the insured had substantial life insurance cover with other insurance companies, even prior to the date of his application. After an evaluation of all facts and documents submitted and circumstances of the case, the opposite party came to the conclusion that the replies to the questions in the application form were incorrect, in as much as the opposite party held documentary proof in support of the same. They observed that had such information been disclosed, their underwriting decision would have materially changed. It was further remarked that the contract of insurance is based on the principle of utmost good faith and the company relies on the information provided by the life insured in the application for insurance. Thus, the claim was held to be not valid and the liability to pay under the policy was repudiated by the insurer. 3.5. Being aggrieved by the repudiation of the claim, the complainant approached the concerned District Forum by way of a consumer complaint, bearing CC No.8 of 2014. The District Commission at Vijaywada, Krishna District, by dated 27.08.2014, allowed the consumer complaint, on the ground that no documentary evidence was available to show that the deceased-insured had taken various insurance policies from various other companies. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 731 Mahakali Sujatha v. The Branch Manager, Future Generali India Life Insurance Company Limited & another The Commission found deficiency of services on the part of the opposite party in repudiating the claim filed by the complainant and therefore directed the opposite parties to pay the insurance amount of Rs.7,50,000/- + Rs.9,60,000/- under two policies jointly and severally with interest at the rate of 6% per annum from 31.12.2011, i.e., the date of repudiation of the claim of the complainant, till realisation, along with costs of Rs. 2000/- to the complainant. 3.6. Being aggrieved, the insured/opposite party filed an appeal bearing FA No.94 of 2015 before the concerned State Consumer Forum at Vijaywada. The State Commission observed that there was absolutely no material produced by the opposite party before the Forum to prove the allegation of suppression. The documents attempted to be produced were neither original nor certified nor authenticated. However, even assuming that there were existing policies, still the non-disclosure of pre-existing policies does not amount to suppression of material facts. Reliance for the same was placed on some previous s of the NCDRC. Hence, the claim could not have been said to be vitiated by fraud. The opposite parties were not right in repudiating the claim. The State Commission therefore, by its dated 11.12.2018, dismissed the appeal of the opposite party and upheld the of the District Commission. 3.7. The opposite party thereafter approached the NCDRC through Revision Petition No.1268 of 2019, challenging the passed by the State Commission in FA No.94 of 2015. The NCDRC, vide impugned , agreed with the opposite party that the deceased-insured had withheld the information in respect of several insurance policies which he had taken from other insurers.