The Court thereafter illustratively referred to three fundamental juristic principles, namely, (a) that in every determination that affects the rights of a citizen or leads to any civil consequences, the court or authority or quasi- judicial body must adopt a judicial approach, that is, it must act bona fide and deal with the subject in a fair, reasonable and objective manner and not actuated by any extraneous consideration; (b) that while determining the rights and obligations of parties the court or tribunal or authority must act in accordance with the principles of natural justice and must apply its mind to the attendant facts and circumstances while taking a view one way or the other; and (c) that its decision must not be perverse or so irrational that no reasonable person would have arrived at the same. 40. In Associate Builders (supra), a two-Judge Bench of this Court, held32 that audi alteram partem principle is undoubtedly a fundamental juristic principle in Indian law and is enshrined in Sections 1833 nand 34 (2)(a)(iii)34 of the 1996 Act. In addition to the earlier recognized principles forming fundamental policy of Indian law, it was held that disregarding: (a) s of superior courts in India; and (b) the binding effect of the of a superior court would also be regarded as being contrary to the fundamental policy of Indian law.35 Further, elaborating upon the third juristic principle (i.e., qua perversity), as laid down in Western Geco (supra), it was observed that where: (i) a finding is based on no evidence; or (ii) an arbitral tribunal takes into account something irrelevant to the decision which it arrives at; or (iii) ignores vital evidence in arriving at its decision, such decision would necessarily be perverse.36 To this a caveat was added by observing that when a court applies the ‘public policy test’ to an arbitration award, it does not act as a court of appeal and, 32 See paragraph 30 of the in Associate Builders (supra) 33 Section 18. Equal treatment of parties. -- The parties shall be treated with equality and each party shall be given a full opportunity to present his case. 34 See Footnote 18 35 See paragraph 27 of the in Associate Builders (supra) 36 Paragraph 31 of the in Associate Builders (supra) 532 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports consequently, errors of fact cannot be corrected; and a possible view by the arbitrator on facts has necessarily to pass muster as the arbitrator is the ultimate master of the quantity and quality of evidence to be relied upon when he delivers his arbitral award. It was also observed that an award based on little evidence or on evidence which does not measure up in quality to a trained legal mind would not be held to be invalid on that score. Thus, once it is found that the arbitrator’s approach is not arbitrary or capricious, it is to be taken as the last word on facts.37 2015 Amendment in Sections 34 and 48 41.