The question was specifically referred to the bench of five judges in the three-judge bench . However, the five-judge bench did not decide the question about the survival of Article 31-C and instead referred the case to a larger bench on the question of the interpretation of Article 39(b). Similarly, even the seven-judge bench did not answer the Article 31-C question and only referred the Article 39(b) question to this bench. Therefore, the 31-C question has remained unanswered. iii. Several judgements of this Court post-Minerva Mills have proceeded on the assumption that Article 31C (as upheld in Kesavananda Bharati) remains part of the Constitution. However, none of these decisions directly deals with the legal question of its survival. These decisions are addressed in further detail in Part C below. This Court must provide certainty on questions of law that have remained unanswered over prolonged periods of time, particularly, when the question has a direct bearing on the reference before it. In the event that this Court concludes that Article 31C is not revived, it will impact numerous legislations that have been protected by this provision. Therefore, it is incumbent on this Court to decide this significant constitutional question at the earliest occasion. A bench of nine judges is best suited to carry out this exercise and bring finality to this question of law. B. Issues 31. In view of the above, the scope of this can be tied down to determining two issues: a. Article 31C: Whether Article 31C (as upheld in Kesavananda Bharati) survives in the Constitution after the amendment to the provision by the forty-second amendment was struck down by this Court in Minerva Mills; and b. Article 39(b): Whether the interpretation of Article 39(b) adopted by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy and followed in Sanjeev Coke must be reconsidered. Whether the phrase [2024] 11 S.C.R. 45 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. ‘material resources of the community’ in Article 39(b)can be interpreted to include resources that are owned privately and not by the state. 32. All other issues, including the constitutionality of the MHADA Act, are not being determined in the present . Parties are at liberty to raise submissions on these issues before the regular bench that will decide the underlying appeal. 33. A Writ Petition challenging inter alia the standard rent provisions of the Bombay Rent Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act 1947 and the Maharashtra Rent Control Act 1999 has also been tagged with the underlying appeals.28 The petitioners contend that the provisions of these legislations contravene the decision of this Court in Malpe Vishwanath Acharya vs. State of Maharashtra.29 A determination of the constitutionality of these individual enactments does not form part of our analysis in this judgement and may be determined by a regular bench after this Court answers the present reference. 34. Further, several intervenors before this Court, including the State of West Bengal are parties to a pending batch of appeals before this Court relating to the constitutionality of the West Bengal Land Reforms Act 1955 and the amendments made to the Act in 1981 and 1986.30Akin to the declaration in the MHADA Act, the West Bengal Land Reforms Act 1955 also contains a declaration that it has been enacted to give effect to the “policy of the State towards securing the principle specified in Clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution”.