Therefore, the appellants’ plea of adverse possession is untenable in law. The appellants’ possession, as evidenced by the Misal Hakiyat of 1879-80 (Exhibit DW10/1), was permissive and conditional. The entry describes the possession as “Bikhar Bahali Kaza,” meaning till the existence of an orchard. Such permissive possession cannot be the basis for a claim of adverse possession. 12. Furthermore, the acts relied upon by the appellants—such as placing bitumen drums, erecting temporary structures, and constructing a boundary wall in 1980—do not constitute adverse possession. Adverse possession requires possession that is continuous, open, peaceful, and hostile to the true owner for the statutory period. In this case, the appellants’ possession lacks the element of hostility and the requisite duration. 13. The appellants last contention that the High Court overstepped its jurisdiction under Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure by reappreciating evidence and interfering with findings of fact also has 1268 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports no legs to stand. The High Court had framed substantial questions of law regarding whether the State can claim adverse possession against its own citizens and whether taking the plea of adverse possession implies admission of the plaintiffs’ title. These are substantial questions of law that justify the High Court’s interference. The High Court found that the First Appellate Court had ignored material evidence and legal principles, leading to a perverse . Therefore, the High Court was justified in exercising its jurisdiction under Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure. 14. The findings of the First Appellate Court’s are flawed for various reasons. The court erroneously placed the burden of proving ownership on the plaintiffs, despite the defendants’ admission of their title by pleading adverse possession. The court disregarded the jamabandi entries and other revenue records without valid justification. The court’s conclusion that the plaintiffs are “land grabbers” is not supported by evidence and appears to be based on conjecture. Therefore, the High Court rightly set aside the First Appellate Court’s , which suffered from legal infirmities and misappreciation of evidence. 15. In view of the above analysis, we find no merit in the appellants’ contentions. The High Court’s is based on sound legal principles and correct appreciation of evidence. The plaintiffs have established their ownership of the suit property, and the State cannot claim adverse possession against its own citizens. 16. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed. Result of the case: Appeal dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Adeeba Mujahid, Hony. Associate Editor (Verified by: Abhinav Mukerji, Sr. Adv.)