During this two and half hours, when was my brother kept in the Karanj Bhavan I could not know about the same. However he was taken upstairs and was made to climb the steps about which fact I am aware. I am not aware as to which floor he was taken. The police persons who had brought my brother downstairs, had told that Jeeva was taken before Sureliya Sir….. 14….Ex-14 is the copy of the telegram wherein it has been stated that, “when my brother was produced PI Shri Vyas Saheb had beaten up him severely with stick.”….. 19. …..It is true that I have not seen if my brother had been beaten up by Sureliya Sir. In the Karanj Bhavan, Sureliya Sir had beaten up my brother, if such fact has been stated in the telegram then the same is false. It is true that I have not seen taking my brother to Stadium. It is true that I had filed complaint against the present two accused persons and Sureliya Sir. 20…..It is true that prohibition cases have been filed against my mother, myself and Pappu…..” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 383 Vinod Jaswantray Vyas (Dead) Through Lrs v. The State of Gujarat Examination-in-Chief of Dhanlakshmi Vaiyapuri(PW-2) “2. Thereafter in the night at eleven or quarter to eleven hours PI Shri Vyas making my brother Jeeva to stand facing the wall and keeping hands up as support, PI Shri Vyas had beaten up my brother. He delivered blows with stick on the palm of his hand, on the back on the waist, on the thigh, on the ankle and pushed with stick in the chest. He continued to beat up my brother in this manner for around half an hour. Thereafter my brother fainted and had fallen down and thereafter two police persons had come and lifting my brother they had thrown him on the wooden bench. Thereafter at night at quarter to two or two hours, SP Shri Patel had come there. He had come down from the second floor. Thereafter he made my brother to stand up facing the wall with hands up and Shri C.G. Patel had beaten up Jeeva on the palm of his hand, on the back, on the side, on the buttock, on the thigh and on the ankle with stick and pushed with stick in the chest. The C.G. Patel was the SP……. 3……Thereafter on that day at two hours in the noon PSI Shri Rana along with one police persons taking out from the police station my brother and Anna, they were sitting in the auto rickshaw and they had come in the office of DCP Shri Sureliya Sir. His office is at Lal Darwaja. After this rickshaw, in another auto rickshaw we had gone after Shri Rana Saheb. Thereafter, Rana Sir had taken my brother and Anna in the Office of DCP Shri Sureliya Sir. At 5.45 hours in the evening he was brought downstairs……. 3.…..Thereafter my brother Jeevo was talking in Tamil language told to my sister crying.