Section 2(1) sub-clause (d) of the POCSO defines the term “child” to mean any person below the age of eighteen years. Thus, the definition of the term “child” used under the POCSO is denuded of any gender i.e., the term is both gender neutral and gender fluid and as such will include any person who is below the age of 18-years. The relevant provision reads as under: - “2. Definitions. – (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, – (d) “child” means any person below the age of eighteen years;” 48. Section 2(1)(da) defines the term “child pornography” to mean and include any visual depiction of a child involved in any sexually explicit conduct such as photograph, video, image generated digitally or by a computer which is indistinguishable from an actual child i.e., any self-generated image of an actual child or any other image that has been created, adapted or modified, that appears to depict a child. The relevant provision reads as under: - “2. Definitions. – (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, – (da) “child pornography” means any visual depiction of sexually explicit conduct involving a child which include photograph, video, digital or computer generated image indistinguishable from an actual child and image created, adapted, or modified, but appear to depict a child;” 194 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 49. Section 15 of the POCSO delineates and provides when the storage or possession of pornographic material involving a child shall be a punishable offence under the POCSO and further prescribes the punishment for such storage or possession of pornographic material involving a child. The relevant provision reads as under: - “15. Punishment for storage of pornographic material involving child. – (1) Any person, who stores or possesses pornographic material in any form involving a child, but fails to delete or destroy or report the same to the designated authority, as may be prescribed, with an intention to share or transmit child pornography, shall be liable to fine not less than five thousand rupees and in the event of second or subsequent offence, with fine which shall not be less than ten thousand rupees. (2) Any person, who stores or possesses pornographic material in any form involving a child for transmitting or propagating or displaying or distributing in any manner at any time except for the purpose of reporting, as may be prescribed, or for use as evidence in court, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both. (3) Any person, who stores or possesses pornographic material in any form involving a child for commercial purpose shall be punished on the first conviction with imprisonment of either description which shall not be less than three years which may extend to five years, or with fine, or with both and in the event of second or subsequent conviction, with imprisonment of either description which shall not be less than five years which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.” 50.