In Jaipal’s case, this Court has considered the characteristic features of death caused by poisoning through aluminum phosphide. Review of scholarly literature and research papers suggests that the nature 264 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS of this substance (aluminum phosphide) is such that it is not conducive for deceitful administration since it carries a pungent garlic-like odour, which cannot go unmissed. It was suspected that the substance was mixed in tea and served to the deceased since 200ml brownish liquid was found in her stomach as per the PMR. We find it doubtful that the deceased would have been made to consume tea deceitfully given the nature of the substance. Forceful administration of this substance also seems doubtful since there are no injury marks suggestive of a scuffle. In light of the evidence on record, even assuming for a moment that the appellant and Rani Kaur were present, it still cannot be said with certainty that it was a case of homicide and not suicide. The main principle to be satisfied in a case of conviction based on circumstantial evidence is that the proved circumstances must be complete and incapable of explanation of any other hypothesis than that of the guilt of the accused but should be inconsistent with his innocence- in other words, the circumstances should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved. In this case, it cannot be said that the proved circumstances, even if presence was proved, taken with other circumstances would lead to an unfailing conclusion that the appellant and Rani Kaur were guilty of murdering his wife. There was alive a strong hypothesis that the deceased had committed suicide, which explanation was led by the appellant in his statement under Section 313 CrPC, and it is sufficient to create a doubt in our minds. 31. This Court has held that the standard of proof to be met by an accused in support of the defence taken by him under Section 313 of Code of Criminal Procedure is not beyond all reasonable doubt, as such, a burden lies on the prosecution to prove the charge. The accused has merely to create a doubt and it is for the prosecution then to establish beyond reasonable doubt that no benefit can flow from the same to the accused. [See: Pramila vs State of Uttar Pradesh 2021 SCC OnLine SC 711] 32. Learned Counsel for the respondent-State has argued that no specific plea of alibi was taken in the statement of the appellant recorded under Section 313 CrPC. In fact, it is submitted that there is an implicit admission as to his presence in the house. It [2024] 1 S.C.R. 265 DARSHAN SINGH v. STATE OF PUNJAB is too well settled that the statement of an accused under Section 313 CrPC is no ‘evidence’ because, firstly, it is not on oath and, secondly, the other party i.e. the prosecution does not get an opportunity to cross examine the accused. [ Sidhartha Vashisht Vs. State of NCT of Delhi, AIR 2010 SC 2352] 33.