The one is concerned with the rights of citizens vis-à-vis the state while the other is concerned with the duties of the state vis-à-vis the body of citizens. In the words of Ambedkar, the Fundamental Rights make India a political democracy and the Directive Principles would make it a social and economic democracy.” It is in the Directive Principles of State Policy that we find a vision of the social revolution that the framers had in mind for our Country. It aimed at making people of India free in a positive sense, “free from the passivity engendered by centuries of coercion by society and by nature, free from the abject physical conditions that had prevented them from fulfilling their best selves”.33 15. In the beginning of our functioning as a new Republic, the non- enforceability of Directive Principles vis-à-vis the Fundamental Rights weighed with the Courts as well as some prominent “Legal Scholars”,34 which resulted in the importance and significance of Directive Principles being undermined. In State of Madras v. Champakam Dorairajan, 1951 SCC OnLine SC 30, this Court held as under: “…..The Directive Principles of State Policy which by Article 37 are expressly made enforceable by a court cannot override the provisions found in Part III which, notwithstanding other provisions are expressly made enforceable by appropriate writs, s or directions 33 Granville austin, the indian cOnstitutiOn: cOrnerstOne Of a natiOn (Oxford University Press, New Delhi, Second Impression 2000), Pg. 51. 34 H.M. Seervai has been extremely critical of the role of directive principles, to the extent of considering it almost superfluous and unnecessary. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 281 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. under Article 32. The Chapter on Fundamental Rights is sacrosanct and not liable to be abridged by any legislative or executive act or except to the extent provided in the particular Article in Part III. The Directive Principles of State Policy have to conform to and run subsidiary to the Chapter on Fundamental Rights. In our opinion that is the correct way in which the provisions found in Parts III and IV have to be understood….” 35 16. A subtle change is seen later in the interpretation of Directive Principles, where the Court could see that an attempt should be made to harmoniously construct Directive Principles with Fundamental Rights. In In Re: Kerala Education Bill, 1957, 1958 SCC OnLine SC 8, this Court states as under: “….The directive principles of State policy have to conform to and run as subsidiary to the Chapter on Fundamental Rights… nevertheless, in determining the scope and ambit of the fundamental rights relied on by or on behalf of any person or body the court may not entirely ignore these directive principles of State policy laid down in Part IV of the Constitution but should adopt the principle of harmonious construction and should attempt to give effect to both as much as possible.” 36 In Mohd. Hanif Quareshi and others v. State of Bihar and others, 1957 SCC OnLine 629, this Court again stresses on harmonious interpretation: “…….a harmonious interpretation has to be placed upon the Constitution and so interpreted it means that the State should certainly implement the directive principles but it must do so in such a way that its laws do not take away or abridge the fundamental rights.” 37 17.