In Varimadugu Obi Reddy v. Sreenivasulu and Ors.,5 this Court while interpreting Rule 9(4) of the Rules observed that it refers to a period of 15 days for deposit of balance sale consideration or such extended period for which no outer limit has been prescribed. Therefore, it appears that the time stipulated therein is not sacrosanct and the period can be extended as agreed upon in writing by the parties. A similar view has also been expressed in an earlier decision of this Court in General Manager, Sri Siddeshwara Cooperative Bank Ltd. and Anr. v. Ikbal and Ors.6 wherein referring to Rule 9(4) of the Rules, it was held that the time for deposit stipulated therein is not sacrosanct and may be extended if there is a written agreement between the parties. 16. In the case at hand, the correspondence between the parties reveals that the respondents only sought extension of time for the reason that the appellant-Bank itself was not in a position to accept the amount as there was a complaint to the CBI, an advisory of the ED and a stay from the High Court. The silence on part of the appellant-Bank in either immediately revoking the sale confirmation or refusing to extend the time, impliedly amounted to extension of time in writing with consent. 17. Secondly, the non-deposit of the balance sale consideration within the time limit prescribed under Rule 9(4) was not attributable to the respondents so as to call them defaulters within the meaning of the provisions of Rule 9(4) and (5) of the Rules. 18. The correspondence on record clearly reveals that the respondents were always ready and willing to deposit the balance auction amount of Rs.1,06,50,000/- and had rather submitted a bank draft dated 15.10.2022 of the said amount and had requested for the issuance of the sale certificate and possession of the auction property. The said 5 [2022] 16 SCR 1108 : (2023) 2 SCC 168 6 [2013] 8 SCR 532 : (2013) 10 SCC 83 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1379 IDBI Bank Ltd. v. Ramswaroop Daliya and Ors. correspondence clearly establishes the bona fide of the respondents and it was only the appellant-Bank who had avoided the issuance of the sale certificate. There is no material on record to justify non- acceptance of the balance sale consideration from the respondents within 15 days of the confirmation of the sale and whatever pleas have been taken by the appellant-Bank to avoid acceptance are all subsequent and are not very material. 19. In these facts and circumstances, reason for the non-issuance of the sale certificate is solely attributable to the appellant-Bank and that there were no latches, negligence or default on part of the respondents in offering to deposit the balance auction amount. Since there is no default on their part, non-deposit of the said amount within the stipulated period would not be fatal within the meaning of sub-Rules (4) and (5) of Rule 9 of the Rules. 20. It is pertinent to mention here that the cancellation of the auction sale vide communication dated 24.12.2019 is purely unilateral in nature without any notice or opportunity of hearing to the respondents.