(6) Where, under an appointment procedure agreed upon by the parties, - (a) a party fails to act as required under that procedure; or (b) the parties, or the two appointed arbitrators, fail to reach an agreement expected of them under that procedure; or (c) a person, including an institution, fails to perform any function entrusted to him or it under that procedure, A party may request the Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court or any person or institution designated by such Court to take necessary measure, unless the agreement on the appointment procedure provides other means for securing the appointment.” 35. In terms of the legislative scheme in Section 11, parties are free to agree on a procedure for appointing the arbitrator or arbitrators. The procedure for appointment agreed by the parties is subject to the power of the Supreme Court or the High Courts under Section 11(6) to appoint an arbitrator in cases where the parties do not agree on a procedure or if the parties or the arbitrator fail to act following the agreed procedure. Thus, Section 11(6) allows judicial involvement as a default mechanism and not as an independent basis for choosing the arbitrators irrespective of the parties’ agreement. Further, parties can invoke Sections 11(3), 11(4) or 11(5), as the case may be, only upon the failure of the agreed procedure for appointment of arbitrators. 2214 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 36. Party autonomy is the governing feature of the constitution of the arbitral tribunal.67 The process of selecting a tribunal allows parties to choose arbitrators with peculiar experience or expertise.68 Parties are free to agree either on a specified individual or individuals as arbitrators or on a procedure for the selection of arbitrators. Most international arbitration statutes give primacy to the agreement of parties for the constitution of the arbitral tribunal.69 The genesis of this international consensus could be traced to the Geneva Protocol on Arbitration Clauses 1923 which stated that the “arbitral procedure, including the constitution of the arbitral tribunal, shall be governed by the will of the parties and by the law of the country in whose territory the arbitration takes place.”70 37. When appointing an arbitrator under Section 11, the appointing authority has to ensure the appointment of independent and impartial arbitrators in terms of Section 11(8): “(8) The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court or the person or institution designated by such Court shall seek a disclosure in writing from the prospective arbitrator in terms of sub-section (1) of section 12, and have due regard to – (a) any qualifications required for the arbitrator by the agreement of the parties; and (b) the contents of the disclosure and other considerations as are likely to secure the appointment of an independent and impartial arbitrator.” 38. Section 11(8) requires an appointing authority to have due regard to the qualifications required for the arbitrator as agreed by the parties. For instance, if the agreement only allows a professional of a particular class such as a chartered accountant to serve as an arbitrator, the appointing court should normally abide by this requirement.