9.10. Mr. P.B. Suresh, learned Counsel representing the Intervenor - The Society Against Drunken Driving, an NGO argued that road [2024] 11 S.C.R. 565 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. safety is considered a fundamental right. He argued that the decision in Mukund Dewangan (2017) has led to unsafe roads by permitting untrained drivers to operate transport vehicles. It was submitted that Section 7 of the MV Act requires an individual to hold a driver’s license for at least one year to obtain a learner’s license for a transport vehicle, which is a critical safety measure. 9.11. Mr. Shivam Singh, learned Counsel argued that motor vehicle insurance policies had ensured adequate risk coverage only when accidents were caused by vehicles for which, drivers had valid licenses. However, in Mukund Dewangan (2017), this court referred to the weight of the vehicle, rather than vehicle usage, as a relevant marker for statutory purposes. Consequently, insurance coverage through judicial decisions had to be extended to cases where drivers with LMV licenses were driving vehicles outside their licensing permits. C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF CLAIMANTS 10. On behalf of the Claimants, we have heard learned Senior Counsel, Ms. Anitha Shenoy, and the respective submissions of Mr. Devvrat, Mr. Kaustubh Shukla and Mr. Anuj Bhandari learned Counsel. While supporting the interpretation in Mukund Dewangan (2017) the Counsel would contend that the vehicles under the MV Act are differentiated according to their weight. They argue that the definition of ‘light motor vehicle’ in Section 2(21) is an inclusive definition which encompasses multiple variety of vehicles including transport vehicles, the weight of which does not exceed 7500 kg. 10.1. The learned Counsel, Mr. Devvrat contended that the licensing system under the MV Act, categorises motor vehicles into two primary groups i.e. Light and Heavy categories—LMV and HMV respectively. It was argued that if a motorcycle used for hire, weighing less than 200kg falls under the class of transport vehicles, countless drivers operating on platforms like Rapido, a bike-or-hire service, would be required to obtain fresh licenses if Mukund Dewangan (2017) is overruled. 10.2. Mr. Anuj Bhandari, learned Counsel arguing for the Claimants, took us through the history of the inclusion of “transport vehicles” as a class, under the MV Act. It was submitted that for the last 566 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 34 years, licenses have been granted in the country on the basis of weight of the vehicle. Even today, Form 2 specifies the grant of licenses based on weight, with exceptions being made for vehicles like road rollers, e-rickshaws, or a motorcycle. He pointed out that the original legislation identified four types of vehicles: (i) medium goods vehicles, (ii) medium passenger vehicles, (iii) heavy goods vehicles and (iv) heavy passenger vehicles. With the 1994 amendments to the MV Act, these categories were clubbed into a single classification of “transport vehicles.” Building on this, Mr. Bhandari contended that “transport vehicles” under the MV Act meant medium and heavy vehicles.