Explanation. — For the purpose of this section, “children” means a person who has not completed the age of 18 years.” 150. A conjoint reading of Section(s) 67 and 67A viz-a-viz 67B would reveal that unlike the former which penalizes only the publication or transmission of any obscene material or pornographic material, the scope and ambit of Section 67B is much wider inasmuch as it recognizes and penalizes five different forms / categories of actus reus, being: - (i) Section 67B sub-section (a): - a. Section 67B sub-section (a) of the IT Act pertains to the dissemination of child pornography and penalizes the publication or transmission of any material involving a child in any sexually explicit act or conduct, and the direct or indirect involvement in aiding or facilitating the dissemination of such material. b. In , to constitute an offence under this provision, there must be an actual publication or transmission of any child pornographic material, though the said publication or transmission may be done either by the accused himself or [2024] 10 S.C.R. 245 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. be caused through someone else at the instance or behest of the accused. In other, words Section 67B sub-section (a) punishes any person who is involved in a process, in any manner that leads to the publication or transmission of any child pornographic material. c. Thus, twin-conditions as prescribed under Section 67B(a) of the IT Act, need to be satisfied in to constitute an offence: - (I) the actual publication or transmission of any child pornographic material AND (II) the involvement of the accused in such publication or transmission process in any manner. (ii) Section 67B sub-section (b): - a. It penalizes the creation of any text or image-based content in any electronic form, that depict children in any obscene or indecent or sexually explicit manner. It further penalizes the collection, solicitation, browsing i.e., online viewing, or downloading of such material. Thus, even the mere viewing of any child pornographic material that is stored in a mobile phone would tantamount to ‘browsing’ of such material in electronic form. Lastly, it also penalizes the advertising, promotion, exchange or distribution of any such material. Here again, what is punishable is only the actual commission of any of the above-mentioned acts. b. The scope of Section 67B sub-section (b), is more expansive than the preceding sub-section because, (i) first, the term ‘material’ here includes any electronic content depicting children in sexually explicit acts as well as in obscene or indecent contexts, and (ii) secondly, the actus reus encompasses not just the act of disseminating but also the acts of creating, propagating, or engaging with or using such material. c. In other words, Section 67B sub-section (b) penalizes the actual commission of any of the following: - i. the act of producing or creating any text or digital image based electronic material (incl. videos) that depict children in any obscene, indecent or sexually explicit manner; 246 [2024] 10 S.C.R.