841 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others from the definition of the expression appropriate Government in clause (b) of sub-section (7) of Section 432. If the intention of the Parliament was that irrespective of the Court before which the trial and conviction had taken place, the of remission can be considered by the Government within whose territorial jurisdiction the offence has been committed or the offender is imprisoned, the same would have been indicated by the definition. On the contrary, the definition of appropriate Government is otherwise. The intention of the Parliament is that the Government of the State within which the offender was tried and sentenced, is the appropriate Government to consider either under sub-section (1) of Section 432 of the CrPC or on an application made by the convict for remission of the sentence under sub-section (2) of Section 432 of the CrPC. This places emphasis on the place of trial and sentence of the offender rather than the place or location where the crime was committed. Such an interpretation would also include a situation, such as in the present case, where not only the investigation but also the trial of respondents No.3 to 13 herein was transferred from the State of Gujarat to the State of Maharashtra and particularly to the Special Court at Mumbai. Thus, the aforesaid definition also takes within its scope and ambit a circumstance wherein the trial is transferred by this Court for reasons to be recorded and which is in the interest of justice from one State to another State. 33.5. There may be various reasons for transferring of a trial from a competent Court within the territorial jurisdiction of one State to a Court of equivalent jurisdiction in another State, as has been done in the instant case. But what is certain is that the transfer of the trial to a court in another State would be a relevant consideration while considering as to which State has the competency to pass an of remission. Thus, the definition of appropriate Government in sub-section (7) of Section 432 clearly indicates that the Government of the State within which the offender is sentenced, is the appropriate Government to pass an of remission. 33.6. In almost all cases, the court before which the offender was sentenced is located within the territory of a State Government wherein the offence occurred and, therefore, in such a case, 842 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports there can be no further doubt about the meaning of the expression appropriate Government. But according to us, even in a case where the trial has been transferred by this Court from a court of competent jurisdiction of a State to a court in another State, it is still the Government of the State within which the offender was sentenced which is the appropriate Government which has the jurisdiction as well as competency to pass an of remission under Section 432 of the CrPC. Therefore, it is not the Government of the State within whose territory the offence occurred or the convict is imprisoned which can assume the power of remission.