[2024] 2 S.C.R. 473 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. These examples underscore the global consensus on transparency in the political funding process. 35. Mr Sanjay R. Hegde, learned senior counsel made the following submissions: a. Public listed companies are subject to scrutiny since they raise funds from the public. Information pertaining to the company is essential to be brought to the public domain. This will enable informed debates and discussions regarding the use of money by such companies. Such information must particularly be made available to shareholders to enable them to make an informed choice with regard to trading of securities. Thus, the amendment to the Companies Act which removes the requirement of disclosure of information about political contributions is violative of the right to information of shareholders which flows from Article 19(1)(a); Public listed companies should not be allowed to make contributions without the consent of the majority of the shareholders or the consent of three-fourths of shareholders; Non-disclosure of information about political funding denies shareholders the right to choice that flows from Article 21. Shareholders are incapacitated from making a choice about whether they wish to invest in shares of a company which has contributed to a political party whose ideology that shareholder does not agree with; and The amendment to Section 182(3) perpetuates the pre-existing inequality in power between shareholders and the Board/ Promoters/management and puts the shareholders in an even weaker position violating the right to substantive equality under Article 14. 36. Mr PB Suresh, learned counsel made the following submissions: a. The Scheme and amendments violate Articles 14 and 15 by disproportionately impacting regional political parties and political parties which represent marginalised and backward sections of the society. The representation of the backward classes is low in the corporate sector. Thus, the Scheme has a disparate impact on parties whose social base is derived from the SC/ STs and backward classes; 474 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The presumption of constitutionality does not apply in full rigour to electoral laws because the incumbent legislators have a vested interest in shaping the laws that would make it easier for them to be re-elected; The removal of the cap on corporate donations has strengthened the position of major political parties and created more barriers for the entry of new political parties; and Political parties have a right to know the funding sources of rival political parties to enable them to critique it before the public. Submissions of Union of India 37. Thelearned Attorney General for India made the following submissions: a. Political parties are an integral product of a free and open society and play an important role in the administration of the affairs of the community. Accordingly, they are entitled to receive all support, including financial contributions; The Electoral Bond Scheme allows any person to transfer funds to political parties of their choice through legitimate banking channels instead of other unregulated ways such as direct transfer through cash; The Scheme ensures confidentiality of the contributions made to political parties.