We therefore direct that the following guidelines be interpreted to expand effective implementation of the preventive measures under PCMA analysed in Part V(A)(iii) of this . 211. We must not be understood to discourage prosecution of those who commit illegal acts. However, the aim of the law enforcement machinery must not be solely focused on increasing prosecutions without making the best efforts to prevent and prohibit child marriage. The focus on penalisation reflects a harms-based approach which waits for a harm to occur before taking any steps. This approach has proven to be ineffective at bringing about social change. We therefore direct as follows: A. Legal Enforcement 1. Appointment and accountability of CMPO 1.1. State Governments and Union Territories (UTs) must appoint officers solely responsible for discharging the functions of CMPO at the district level. These officers should not be burdened with additional duties that could impede their focus on preventing child marriage; 1.2. If a CMPO believes that they lack the necessary resources to safely and comprehensively fulfil their functions, they 1616 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports must submit a request to the relevant State Ministry of Women and Child Development. The Ministry shall conduct an assessment and address the resource needs within three months of the date on which the request was made; 1.3. To enable personal accountability and ensure immediate preventive measures are taken against any planned solemnization of child marriages - each State and UT is directed to upload quarterly reports from CMPOs on their official websites. These reports should detail the steps taken to prevent child marriages and the outcomes of investigations; 1.4. The Ministry of Women and Child Development and Ministry of Home in each State/UT shall conduct quarterly performance reviews of CMPOs and law enforcement agencies to assess: 1.4.1. The effectiveness of child marriage prevention initiatives; 1.4.2. Response times and outcomes of reported case; 1.4.3. The level of cooperation and communication between CMPOs and local law enforcement agencies; 1.4.4. The engagement with communities and stakeholders in prevention efforts; 1.4.5. The status of CMPOs regarding deployment to additional duties, including the reasons for such assignments, to ensure that their primary focus on child marriage prevention is not compromised; and 1.4.6. Recommendations for improvements based on the assessments, including identifying areas requiring additional support or resources. 1.5. The Ministry of Women and Child Development is directed to execute mandatory training refreshers for CMPOs every six months. These refreshers will ensure that all personnel are updated on: [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1617 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 1.5.1. Legal changes relevant to child marriage prevention; 1.5.2. Best practices and effective strategies for combating child marriage; 1.5.3. Community engagement techniques to foster collaboration with local stakeholders; 1.5.4. Advocacy skills to effectively promote child rights and raise awareness about the negative impacts of child marriage; 1.5.5. Cultural sensitivity training to address the social factors contributing to child marriage, ensuring a nuanced understanding of local contexts and practices; and 1.5.6.