Rathore, Ms. Deeksha Gaur, Sagar Pahune Patil, Ms. Pranjal Chapalgaonkar, Ms. Gautami Yadav, Mrs. Sangeeta S. Pahune Patil, Abhinav Raghuvanshi, Kushagra Pandey, Avinash Tripathi, Mukesh Kumar, Yashaswi Sk Chocksey, Ankit Singh, Sushant, Vijay Rajput, Yashish Chandra, Ms. Neha Rai, Madhup Kumar Tiwari, Rajnish Kumar Singh, Abhilash M.R., Sayooj Mohandas, Tom Jospeh, Gautam Kumar Laha, Arun Kumar, Ms. Sandra Jaison, M/s. M.R. Law Associates, Dr. Gaurav Gupta, Ashwin Kumar Nair, Ritik Gupta, Sunil Gupta, Mrs. Sheetal Gupta, Puneet Khanna, Mayank Aggarwal, Pradeep Kumar Aggarwal, Vineet Yadav, Amir Yadav, Ms. Anna Oommen, Ms. Anne Mathew, Sanchit Garga, Namit Saxena, Divik Mathur, Nikhil Jain, Ms. Divya Jain, Bijo Mathew Joy, Ms. Gifty Marium Joseph, Dinny Thomas, Ms. Swathi H Prasad, Ms. Anzu K Varkey, Jasbir Singh Malik, Ms. Chandni Sharma, Abhishek Pareek, 962 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Varun Punia, Kailash Prashad Pandey, Hitesh Kumar Sharma, Amit Kumar Chawla, S.K. Rajora, Akhileshwar Jha, Mahi Pal Singh, Ms. Manisha Chawla, Ms. Niharika Dewivedi, Ms. Yamini Sharma, Ms. Ritika Raj, Neeeraj Shrivsatav, Varun Varma, Prahkar Sukla, Ajay Mishra, Harender K Sangwan, Akash, Ms. Chanchal, Shashank Gusain, Advs. for the appearing parties. Petitioner-in-Person. / of the Supreme Court 1. The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (UG)1 2024 examination was conducted by the National Testing Agency2 on 5 May 2024. The results were declared on 4 June 2024. 2. The examination was conducted at 4,750 centres comprised within 571 cities, besides 14 cities overseas. About 23,33,297 candidates appeared for the examination. They are competing for 1.08 lac medical admissions at the under-graduate level, of which approximately 56,000 seats are in government hospitals while the balance 52,000 seats are in privately managed institutions. 3. The 50th percentile represents the cut-off for qualification. The examination consists of 180 questions, each carrying four marks, thus making a total of 720 marks overall. One negative mark is assigned for an incorrect answer. Based on the result of the NEET (UG) 2024, the 50th percentile has worked out to 164 marks out of 720. Candidates who have attained this threshold are eligible to be considered for admission but are not guaranteed admission into the MBBS program. Seats are allocated both among the unreserved category of students and the reserved category, consisting of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections. 4. In this batch of cases, the petitioners assert that a direction should be issued for convening a re-test on the ground that (i) there was a leakage of the question paper; and (ii) there are systemic deficiencies in the modalities envisaged for the conduct of the examination. 1 “NEET (UG)” 2 “NTA” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 963 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India and Others 5. The submission which has been urged on behalf of the petitioners is that the leak which took place in the course of the NEET (UG) examination is systemic in nature and, coupled with the structural deficiencies in the conduct of the examination, the appropriate course of action in view of the previous decisions of this Court, including in Tanvi Sarwal vs Central Board of Secondary Education and Others3 and Sachin Kumar and Others vs Delhi Subordinate Service Selection Board (DSSSB) and Others,4 is to direct a re-test.