867 Bank of Rajasthan Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax the Department is academic. It was submitted that the decision of this Court in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 is per incuriam as it was rendered in ignorance of the decisions of this Court in the case of Cocanada Radhaswami Bank Ltd.4 Reliance was also placed on the Central Board of Direct Taxes (for short, “the CBDT”) Circular No. 665 of 1993. g. It was also pointed out that though Banks are required to maintain SLR by investing amounts in specified securities, as long as Banks maintain a specified percentage of reserve, they are permitted to buy and sell such securities, irrespective of their categorisation. There is no embargo on the Bank to hold security in SLR up to the maturity date of the security. It was submitted that Banks always treat interest income from all securities as profit or loss, irrespective of the categorisation of investments. The interest on securities held by Banks is always taxed under the head “income from business or profession”. This contention is raised by HDFC Bank. It was submitted that in accordance with the well-settled and accepted method of accounting, the amount of broken period of interest which is debited in the profit and loss account of the Bank is claimed as a deduction while computing the income from business under the head “income from business and profession” as the entire interest income is offered to tax under the said head. h. Reliance was placed on the RBI Circular dated 1st July 2009, which permits the debit of broken period interest to the profit and loss account. Reliance was also placed on a Circular dated 2nd November 2015 issued by the CBDT. The Circular provides that the investments made by a Banking company are a part of the business of the Bank. Therefore, income from such investments is attributable to the business of Banking falling under the head “profit and gain of business and profession”. i. It was submitted that assuming that as per the mandate of the 1949 Act, the securities are treated as investments in the books of accounts, it cannot be held that even for the purposes of the IT Act, securities would continue to be investments and not stock-in-trade. It was submitted that this Court has repeatedly held that the entries in the books of accounts are not relevant for determining the taxability under the provisions 868 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the IT Act. Reliance is placed on the RBI Circular dated 1st July 2009, which provides that broken period interest is not to be capitalised as part of the cost and is required to be debited to the profit and loss account. j. It is submitted that as required by the Banking Regulation Act, all three categories of securities are treated in the same manner, and there is no distinction between the securities which are HTM and the other two categories of securities. It was submitted that Banks can always shift the securities falling in the category of HTM to the other two categories.