2418 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports jurisdiction is wider, though the fetters in terms of Section 45 of the PML Act have to be met. Special Court would have to independently apply its mind, without being influenced by the opinion recorded in the “reasons to believe”. To adjudicate on a bail application, pleas and arguments of Arvind Kejriwal and the DoE, including the material that can be relied on and the inferences possible shall be examined. The court will have to undertake the balancing exercise. 67. It has been strenuously urged on behalf of Arvind Kejriwal that the arrest would falter on the ground that the “reasons to believe” do not mention and record reasons for “necessity to arrest”. The term “necessity to arrest” is not mentioned in Section 19(1) of the PML Act. However, this expression has been given judicial recognition in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar,57 which lays down that “necessity to arrest” must be considered by an officer before arresting a person. This Court observed that the officer must ask himself the questions – why arrest? ; is it really necessary to arrest? ; what purpose would it serve? ; and what object would it achieve? 68. This Court in Mohammed Zubair v. State of NCT of Delhi,58 has held that power to arrest is not unbridled. The officer must be satisfied that the arrest is necessary. Where the power is exercised without application of mind, and by disregarding the law, it amounts to abuse of the law. 69. In Joginder Kumar v. State of Uttar Pradesh,59 the distinction between the power to arrest and the necessity and need to arrest,60 is explained in the following terms: “20…No arrest can be made because it is lawful for the police officer to do so. The existence of the power to arrest is one thing. The justification for the exercise of it is quite another. The police officer must be able to justify the arrest apart from his power to do so. Arrest and detention in police lock-up of a person can cause incalculable harm 57 [2014] 8 SCR 128 : (2014) 8 SCC 273 58 [2022] 18 SCR 494 : (2022) SCC OnLine SC 897 59 [1994] 3 SCR 661 : (1994) 4 SCC 260 60 Necessity to arrest is not a precondition and safeguard mentioned in Section 19 of the PML Act, albeit treated as a part of the general law and exercise of the power to arrest. The legislature being aware of this interpretation has not excluded the application of this principle in Section 19 of the PML Act. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2419 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement to the reputation and self-esteem of a person. No arrest can be made in a routine manner on a mere allegation of commission of an offence made against a person. It would be prudent for a police officer in the interest of protection of the constitutional rights of a citizen and perhaps in his own interest that no arrest should be made without a reasonable satisfaction reached after some investigation as to the genuineness and bona fides of a complaint and a reasonable belief both as to the person’s complicity and even so as to the need to effect arrest.