The evidence on record contrarily shows that the appellant aimed the gun towards the roof and then fired. It was an unfortunate case of misfiring. The appellant of course cannot absolve himself of the conclusion that he carried a loaded gun at a crowded place where his own guests had gathered to attend the marriage ceremony. He did not take any reasonable safety measure, like to fire the shot in the air or towards the sky, rather he invited full risk and aimed the gun towards the roof and fired the shot. He was expected to know that pellets could cause 384 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports multiple gunshot injuries to the nearby persons even if a single shot was fired. The appellant is, thus, guilty of an act, the likely consequences of which including causing fatal injuries to the persons being in a close circuit, are attributable to him. The offence committed by the appellant, thus, would amount to “culpable homicide” within the meaning of Section 299, though punishable under Section 304 Part 2 IPC.” 16. There can be no qualm about the fact that the Appellant opened fire in a crowded place i.e., a marriage ceremony without taking reasonable measures for safety, which led to the unfortunate demise of the Deceased. 17. In this context, keeping in view the totality of circumstances of the case i.e., especially the fact that (i) there was no previous enmity between the Deceased; (ii) no intention may be attributed to the Appellant as may be culled out from the record to cause death of the Deceased; and (iii) position of law enunciated by this Court in Kunwar Pal Singh (Supra) and subsequently, followed in Bhagwan Singh (Supra), we find that the Appellant is guilty of commission of ‘culpable homicide’ within the meaning of Section 299 IPC i.e., punishable under Section 304 Part II of the IPC. 18. In view of the aforesaid, the conviction and sentence of the Appellant under Section 302 IPC is set aside. The Appellant is convicted for an offence under Section 304 Part II of the IPC. The appellant has already undergone approximately 8 years of incarceration. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, we award a sentence equivalent to the period already undergone. The conviction and sentence awarded to the Appellant under Sections 25 & 27 of the Arms Act remains unaltered. Resultantly, the Appellant be released forthwith, if not required in any other case. 19. The appeal is allowed accordingly, in part. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Result of the case: Mukund P Unny, Hony. Associate Editor Appeal partly allowed. (Verified by: Liz Mathew, Sr. Adv.)