9. It is quite well settled that the Horizontal Reservation is of two types: - (i) Compartmentalised Horizontal Reservation, and (ii) Overall Horizontal Reservation. The Compartmentalised Horizontal Reservation is such wherein the proportionate vacancies are reserved in each vertical reserved category. However, in case of Overall Horizontal Reservation, the Reservation is provided on the total post advertised i.e. such reservation is not specific to each vertical category. As per the advertisement dated 22.07.2021, the vacancies in case of women candidates were classified/identified for each category i.e. General, OBC, SC, ST, MBC whereas for the Persons with benchmark disabilities, no such vacancies were mentioned in the said categories. Further, in the three-tier process of the Examination Scheme, the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 497 Rekha Sharma v. The Rajasthan High Court, Jodhpur & Anr. number of candidates to be admitted to the Main Examination were fifteen times the total number of vacancies (category wise) and the candidates had to qualify themselves by securing the minimum percentage of marks fixed for each of the categories in the Preliminary Examination. Therefore, the Persons with benchmark disabilities falling under the Overall Horizontal Reservation had to qualify for the Mains Examination by securing minimum cut off marks fixed for the concerned category in which he/she had applied. 10. Apart from the fact that there was nothing provided in the advertisement for the fixation of cut off marks for the Persons with benchmark disabilities, who fall under the Overall Horizontal Reservation, the learned counsels for the appellant have also failed to point out from the Rajasthan Judicial Services Rules, 2010 under which the recruitment process was undertaken, that such fixation of cut off marks for the Persons with benchmark disabilities was mandatory. The reliance placed by the learned counsels for the appellants on the notification dated 14.10.2021 issued by the Rajasthan Government is also not helpful to them in as much as the said notification was given effect to, in the notification dated 16.04.2024 amending the RJS Rules, 2010, providing relaxation in age and concession of 5% in marks in favour of Persons with benchmark disabilities. None of the said notifications or amendment in the RJS Rules, 2010 make it mandatory on part of the respondents to declare separate cut off marks for the Persons with benchmark disabilities. 11. It cannot be gainsaid that the said Act of 2016 is a social legislation enacted for the benefit of the Persons with disabilities and its provisions must be interpreted in to enhance its objectives, so that the Persons with disabilities enjoy the right to equality, life with dignity and respect for his or her integrity equally with others as contemplated under the Act. However, there is no such provision either in the said Act of 2016 or in the Rules of 2018 framed by the State of Rajasthan, which could be said to have been violated by the respondents by not fixing the cut off marks for the Persons with benchmark disabilities. 12. Undisputedly, the reservation for the Persons with disabilities has been treated as Horizontal Reservation i.e.