Works (P) Ptd. (supra). 11.7.9 Much reliance was placed by the Revenue on the T.T.G. Industries Ltd. (supra) in which this Court, by relying on the permanency test as also applied in the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (supra) held that if the article cannot be shifted without first being dismantled and thereafter re-erected at another site, it cannot be considered to be a movable property but an immovable property. In the aforesaid case, the machinery was erected at the site on a specially made concrete floor at a very high level of 25 feet from the ground level and the sheer weight, even without being fastened by nuts and bolts, rendered it incapable of being 1572 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports shifted to another site without dismantling and re-erecting. Given these facts, this Court held that it can be said to be immovable property. In Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (supra) this Court observed as follows: “32. The tanks, though, are resting on earth on their own weight without being fixed with nuts and bolts, they have permanently been erected without being shifted from placed to place. Permanency is the test. The chattel whether is movable to another place of use in the same position or liable to be dismantled and re-erected at the latter place? If the answer is yes to the former it must be a movable property and thereby it must be held that it is not attached to the earth. If the answer is yes to the latter it is attached to the earth.” 11.7.10 In T.T.G. Industries Ltd. (supra), this Court also placed reliance on Quality Steel Tubes and Mittal Engineering works Ltd. (supra). This Court in T.T.G. Industries Ltd. (supra) held as follows: “27. Keeping in view the principles laid down in the s noticed above, and having regard to the facts of this case, we have no doubt in our mind that the mudguns and the drilling machines erected at site by the appellant on a specially made concrete platform at a level of 25 feet above the ground on a base plate secured to the concrete platform, brought into existence not excisable goods but immovable property which could not be shifted without first dismantling it and then re-erecting it at another site. We have earlier noticed the processes involved and the manner in which the equipments were assembled and erected. We have also noticed the volume of the machines concerned and their weight. Taking all these facts into consideration and having regard to the nature of structure erected for [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1573 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune basing these machines, we are satisfied that the judicial member of the CEGAT was right in reaching the conclusion that what ultimately emerged as a result of processes undertaken and erections done cannot be described as “goods” within the meaning of the Excise Act and exigible to excise duty. We find considerable similarity of facts of the case in hand and the facts in Mittal Engineering and Quality Steel Tubes (supra) and the principles underlying those decisions must apply to the facts of the case in hand.