One such industry is the Kitex run by Kitex Sabu. The one who made Kitex Sabu to move to Telangana from Kerala was Srinijan. It was with Srinijan’s consent that authorities used to pester Kitex and being a close friend to the CM Pinarayi Vijayan, Sabu had to come out to deal with the issue which made Sabu to leave the state and move his entire industry into Telangana. This is the situation of an entrepreneur who gave jobs to millions and Srinijan is solely responsible for it. To destroy the enterprise, he made the employees get arrested in false charges, killed a person. The authorities were haunting the enterprise. It is said as Kadambrayar waste water, but investigation hasn’t been fruitful. But we know that the waste is being generated from the Bhramapuram Plant which was later burnt. Now the dust and ashes are going to the Kadambrayar Lake. No one has a complaint about it. He made a businessman to move out of the State who was providing jobs to millions. Srinijan has many other allegations against him. Srinijan’s father-in-law was the Chief Justice of Supreme Court. There are allegations that during those days he made crores illegally which were even raised by the CPM. Reason for Srinijan’s sudden growth in wealth is due to corruption has been come to knowledge. But no one has the guts to start an investigation against him. Because he has high connections even in the judiciary. Even an audio clip came out that he had used his relations in judiciary to bring down the Kitex Industry. The first was the account of Srinijan’s destruction of the sports sector in to bring it under his jurisdiction. The second was the conspiracy to drive out a businessman out of the State. Viewers might remember the news I have given out about Prithviraj where it talked about the legal notice he had sent me. After receiving the legal notice, I have studied [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1097 Shajan Skaria v. The State of Kerala & Anr. in depth about the film industry. From what I have learnt, there are some shocking facts related to it. I am just waiting for more proof. Knowingly or unknowingly Srinijan has a presence in the film industry. It is not as we thought, we can see Srinijan at most film sites. Srinijan is the middle man in film industry for many. Which means he is the one who provides funds the most in the film industry. But he does this with legal security. We are gathering evidences and as we find it true we will publish it. Just focus on one thing. When Srinijan gave affidavit for participating in the competition he had to struggle to gather money because he had lots of black money. If he were to use it, he would get caught. So, he needed money in his account, so it is said that he borrowed money from some movie producers to show in record. I investigated some of the movie producers listed in the records.