On an infringement of either of these two rights the detained person has a right to approach the court and complain that there has been an infringement of his fundamental right and even if the infringement of the second part of the right under Article 22 (5) is established he is bound to be released by the court”. 468 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. In the light of the above, we cannot accept the contention of the learned counsel for the respondents that there was no duty to supply the documents mentioned above to the detenus. The decisions relied on by the learned counsel for the respondent for the proposition that the documents sought for in the instant cases need not be granted cannot be accepted as the same are rendered on different sets of facts. In as much as the documents sought has been relied upon in the detention s, the same ought to have been furnished to the detenus when they requested for the same. The learned counsel for the petitioners is also right in relying on the following s for canvassing the same position that the relevant electronic info to be provided in the same format: 1. 2016 (3) KHC – Reshmi v. Union of India 2. 2019 KHC 914 – Hajira N.K. v. Union of India 3. 2020 KHC 167 – Beevikunju v. Union of India 4. 2021 KHC 303 – Waheeda Ashraf v. Union of India In the light of the discussion above, we are convinced that the non-supply has vitally affected the right of the detnus under Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India. We, accordingly, hold that the detention is bad for the non-supply of these documents sought for in Ext. P12.” 11. After observing the aforesaid, the Coordinate Division Bench of the same High Court held that non-supply of the documents had vitally affected the right of the detenus to make an effective representation and the detention came to be quashed on the said ground. 12. In the present case also, the detenue had sought the copies of the said WhatsApp chats. However, the Division Bench of the High Court in the present case, while rejecting the case of the detenue, observed that the detaining authority had arrived at a subjective satisfaction on the basis of various documents and that non-supply of the WhatsApp chats would not vitiate the detention . It, therefore, held that the findings of the Coordinate Bench of the same High Court in the cases of Nushath Koyamu (supra) and [2024] 8 S.C.R. 469 Shabna Abdulla v. The Union of India & Ors. other connected matters in respect of other detenus could not be followed in the present case. 13. We may gainfully refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Official Liquidator vs. Dayanand and others2: “90. We are distressed to note that despite several pronouncements on the subject, there is substantial increase in the number of cases involving violation of the basics of judicial discipline.