Our endeavour is to infuse transparency, independence, fairness, and impartiality so as to ensure that the persons possessing the highest level of competence and integrity and are capable of leading the University by example are shortlisted. In this regard, we have made an effort to shortlist experts who are eminent scientists, educationists, jurists, subject experts, and administrators in their own right. We have further attempted to set out that nominees of the Chancellor, Chief Minister, UGC, State Government, the Higher Education Department of West Bengal the intervenors etc. are adequately represented. 11. While shortlisting the experts for composition of the Search-cm- Selection Committee, we have been further guided by the nature of subjects and disciplines in which education is being imparted in [2024] 7 S.C.R. 77 The State of West Bengal v. Dr. Sanat Kumar Ghosh and Ors. different Universities. We find that, broadly, all the Universities can be categorized as follows: i) Universities with faculties predominantly in arts and science: a) West Bengal State University b) Sidho Kanhi Birsha University c) Burdwan University d) Jadavpur University e) Gour Banga University f) Bankura University g) Presidency University h) Cooch Behar Panchanan Barma University i) Sadhu Ram Chand Murmu University of Jhargram j) Alipurduar University k) Raiganj University l) Diamond Harbour Women’s University m) Murshidabad University n) Mahatma Gandhi University o) Dakshin Dinajpur University ii) Universities with faculties predominantly in commerce and science: a) North Bengal University b) Kalyani University iii) Universities with faculties predominantly in arts: a) Kanyashree University b) Rabindra Bharati University c) Harichand Guruchand University d) Hindi University e) Biswa Bangla Biswabidyalaya 78 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports f) Darjeeling Hills University iv) Universities with faculties predominantly in science: a) Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad University of Technology b) Aliah University c) West Bengal University of Health Sciences d) West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences e) Kazi Nazrul University f) Rani Rashmoni Green University v) Other miscellaneous and multi-disciplinary universities: a) Calcutta University b) Sanskrit College and University c) Baba Saheb Ambedkar Education University d) Vidyasagar University e) Netaji Subhas Open University f) Uttar Banga Krishi Vishwavidyalaya g) Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwavidyalaya 12. We hereby appoint Hon’ble Mr. Justice Uday Umesh Lalit, Former Chief Justice of India as Chairperson of the Search-cum-Selection Committees for all the Universities. 13. Following is the list of eminent educationists, scientists, jurists, subject experts and administrators etc. who have been short-listed for the purpose of empanelment on Search-cum-Selection Committee(s): (i) Arts & Humanities a) Prof. Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhury, Ex. V.C., Rabindra Bharti University. Address: 56A, BT Road, Kolkata - 700500. b) Prof. Siuli Sarkar, Principal, Lady Brabourne College. c) Prof. Sibaji Pratim Basu, Professor, Vidyasagar University. Address: Department of Political Science with Rural Administration, Vidyasagar University, Midanpore – 721102. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 79 The State of West Bengal v. Dr. Sanat Kumar Ghosh and Ors. d) Professor Ujjwal K Singh, Department of Political Science, University of Delhi. Email: ujjwalksingh@gmail.com; Phone no: 8800788862. (ii) History a) Prof. Tapati Guha Thakurta, Prof. in Social Sciences, Centre for Studies in Social Sciences.