Explanation.—For the purposes of clauses (c) and (d), the expression “construction” includes 828 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports re-construction, renovation, additions or alterations or repairs, to the extent of capitalisation, to the said immovable property; (e) goods or services or both on which tax has been paid under Section 10; (f) goods or services or both received by a non- resident taxable person except on goods imported by him; (fa) goods or services or both received by a taxable person, which are used or intended to be used for activities relating to his obligations under corporate social responsibility referred to in Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013); (g) goods or services or both used for personal consumption; (h) goods lost, stolen, destroyed, written off or disposed of by way of gift or free samples; and (i) any tax paid in accordance with the provisions of Section 74 in respect of any period up to Financial Year 2023-24. (6) The Government may prescribe the manner in which the credit referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2) may be attributed. Explanation.—For the purposes of this Chapter and Chapter VI, the expression “plant and machinery” means apparatus, equipment, and machinery fixed to earth by foundation or structural support that are used for making outward supply of goods or services or both and includes such foundation and structural supports but excludes— (i) land, building or any other civil structures; (ii) telecommunication towers; and (iii) pipelines laid outside the factory premises.” (emphasis added) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 829 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. Section 17(5) begins with a non-obstante clause. A non-obstante clause is a device used by the legislature that is usually employed to give an overriding effect to certain provisions over some contrary provisions that may be found in the same or some other enactments. Such a clause is used to indicate that the said provision should prevail despite anything to the contrary in the provisions mentioned in the non-obstante clause. It is pertinent to note that in view of the non- obstante clause used at the beginning of sub-section (5), it seeks to override both sub-section (1) of Section 16 and sub-section (1) of Section 18. As noted earlier, sub-section (1) of Section 16 lays down the eligibility and conditions for taking ITC. Sub-section (1) of Section 18 deals with the availability of ITC in special circumstances. Therefore, in the cases covered by sub-section (5), ITC is not available. In a sense, sub-section (5) of Section 17 carves out an exception to the provisions of sub-section (1) of Sections 16 and 18, which confer the benefit of ITC. ANALYSIS OF CLAUSES (c) AND (d) 31. Now, we analyse clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5). Clause (c) applies when works contract services are supplied for constructing immovable property. The definition of “works contract” under Section 2(119) is extensive. It reads thus: “2.Definitions:- .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. (119) “works contract” means a contract for building, construction, fabrication, completion, erection, installation, fitting out, improvement, modification, repair, maintenance, renovation, alteration or commissioning of any immovable property wherein transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some other form) is involved in the execution of such contract;” Thus, in the case of works contract services supplied for the construction of immovable property, the benefit of ITC is not available.