A “fit person” mentioned in Rule 103 is referable to Rules 39 and 40. It is contended by Shri Raval, learned Additional Solicitor General that a person fit to be appointed as Judge Advocate is such officer who does not suffer from any ineligibility or disqualification in terms of Rule 39 alone. It is further contended that Rule 40 does not refer to disqualifications. 192 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports We cannot agree with this general proposition made on behalf of the appellant inasmuch as sub-rule (2) of Rule 40 specifically provides that Members of a Court Martial for trial of an officer should be of a rank not lower than that of the officer facing the trial unless such officer is not available regarding which specific opinion is required to be recorded in the convening . Rule 102 unambiguously provides that “an officer who is disqualified for sitting on a Court Martial, shall be disqualified for acting as a Judge Advocate at that Court Martial”. A combined reading of Rules 39, 40 and 102 suggests that an officer, who is disqualified to be a part of a Court Martial, is also disqualified from acting and sitting as a Judge Advocate at the Court Martial. It follows, therefore, that if an officer lower in rank than the officer facing the trial cannot become a part of the Court Martial, the officer of such rank would be disqualified for acting as a Judge Advocate at the trial before a GCM. Accepting a plea to the contrary would be invalidating the legal bar imposed upon the composition of the Court in sub-rule (2) of Rule 40. 20. The purpose and object of prescribing the conditions of eligibility and qualification along with desirability of having Members of the Court Martial of the rank not lower than the officer facing the trial is obvious. The law- makers and the rule-framers appear to have in mind the respect and dignity of the officer facing the trial till guilt is proved against him by not exposing him to the humiliation of being subjected to trial by officers of lower rank. The importance of the Judge Advocate as noticed earlier being of a paramount nature requires that he should be such person who inspires confidence and does not subject the officer facing the trial to humiliation because the accused is also entitled to the opinion and services of the Judge Advocate. Availing of the services or seeking advice from a person junior in rank may apparently be not possible ultimately resulting in failure of justice.” 10. The legal position is thus well settled in Charanjit Singh Gill (supra) that non recording of reasons of appointment of an officer junior in rank as a Judge Advocate in the convening invalidates the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 193 Union of India & Ors. v. Lt. Col. Rahul Arora Court Martial proceedings. The High Court has not committed any error of law in holding so in the facts and circumstances of the case.