The further contention of the Corporate Debtor that name of UCO Bank, the financial creditor, is not specifically mentioned in the relied upon entry in the balance sheet was rejected by NCLT by referring to the Explanation to Section 7(1) of the Code providing that the proceedings thereunder get triggered even in the case of a default by debtor in respect of any financial creditor other than the applicant. 5. Aggrieved by the admission of Section 7 application, initiation of CIRP and appointment of IRP, the appellant preferred an appeal to the NCLAT, Principal Bench. The same arguments were advanced before the NCLAT and having considered the same in detail, the NCLAT dismissed the appeal with the following reasoning: “11.5 Therefore, in the instant case, the balance sheet that has been brought on record in the instant case before the Adjudicating Authority shall be taken into consideration while deciding the question of limitation and default on the part of the Corporate Debtor. The said documents cannot be ignored simply on the premise that it is not pleaded in the Application filed in Form-1 for initiation of the Corporate Insolvency Process. 11.6 We find that the balance sheet for the financial year ending on March 31 2017, was part of the record before the learned Adjudicating Authority and was annexed with Section 7 Application, which was also duly admitted by the Appellant during the hearing. Subsequently, the balance sheet for the financial year ending will March 31 2019, 1466 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was annexed with the reply filed by Respondent No. 1 before this Hon’ble Tribunal on March 02, 2020. However, as the practice and procedure of this Hon’ble Tribunal, the same was not accepted at the filing counter without the specific mention of this Hon’ble Tribunal. Accordingly, a copy of the Application for the additional document is also annexed as Annexure A. Subsequently; this Hon’ble Tribunal permitted such additional documents to be taken on record vide its dated July 15 2020. 11.7 The Company’s balance sheet is prepared in the statutory format as per Schedule 3rd of the Companies Act 2013, which does not provide for giving the specific name of every secured or unsecured creditor. 11.8 It is further observed that the Corporate Debtor has not denied that there are no outstanding dues to the UCO Bank. A perusal of extract of register of charges submitted with ROC, at Sr. No. 3, shows that a charge of rupees one hundred and seventy-five crores created by the Corporate Debtor has not been satisfied and remains outstanding. 11.9 After the judgement of Hon’ble Supreme Court in case Asset Reconstruction Company (India) Limited v. Bishal Jaiswal (supra), it is settled that entries in books of accounts and/or balance sheets of a Corporate Debtor would amount to an acknowledgement under Section 18. 11.10 In the instant case, we also find that the Corporate Debtor issued a letter dated June 07 2016 (Annexure A Page 11 of their reply affidavit of R-1) wherein it has given OTS proposal.