Furthermore, the carrier Constable who transmitted the samples to the FSL was also not examined by the prosecution; (viii) No document pertaining to deposit of the samples at the Police Station and the transmission thereof to the FSL was exhibited on record. The samples were forwarded to the FSL after a gross delay of more than two months and hence, the FSL report cannot be read in evidence because the required link evidence is missing. 14. Learned counsel representing A-3 and A-4 urged that these accused were not found present at the spot at the time of seizure. They were arrested on 30th May, 2009 merely on the basis of the interrogation notes of A-1 and A-2 and were charged for offence under Section 8 read with Section 20(b)(ii)(c) of NDPS Act. As the prosecution never came out with a case that the contraband was recovered from the possession of these two accused, their conviction for the offence under Section 8 read with Section 20(b)(ii)(C) of the NDPS Act is ex facie illegal and unsustainable on the face of the record. Arguments on behalf of State : 15. Per contra, learned counsel representing the State, vehemently and fervently opposed the submissions advanced by learned counsel for the appellants. He urged that two Courts, i.e., the trial Court as well as the High Court, have recorded concurrent findings of facts for convicting the appellants and for affirming their conviction and hence, this Court in exercise of the jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India should be slow to interfere in such concurrent findings of facts. He thus implored the Court to dismiss the appeals. 30 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Discussion and Conclusion : 16. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at the Bar and have gone through the impugned and the evidence available on record. 17. Before discussing the prosecution evidence, we would like to note that the case as set up by the prosecution is regarding recovery of narcotics from a vehicle which was stopped during transit. Thus, the procedure of search and seizure would be governed by Section 43 read with Section 49 of the NDPS Act which are reproduced below:- “43. Power of seizure and arrest in public place.—Any officer of any of the departments mentioned in Section 42 may— (a) seize in any public place or in transit, any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance or controlled substance in respect of which he has reason to believe an offence punishable under this Act has been committed, and, along with such drug or substance, any animal or conveyance or article liable to confiscation under this Act, any document or other article which he has reason to believe may furnish evidence of the commission of an offence punishable under this Act or any document or other article which may furnish evidence of holding any illegally acquired property which is liable for seizure or freezing or forfeiture under Chapter V-A of this Act; (b) detain and search any person whom he has reason to believe to have committed an offence punishable under this Act, and if such person has any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance or controlled substance in his possession and such possession appears to him to be unlawful, arrest him and any other person in his company.