18. He further submitted that the issue is not that of a ‘Right’ but of a ‘Remedy’ i.e. dismissal of a writ petition filed by the appellants on the ground of maintainability would not lead to extinguishment of the rights of the appellants and only the forum for adjudication of their dispute would change. Any alleged violations of Articles 14 or 16 of the Constitution of India are simply grounds for claiming relief which can well be agitated before any other appropriate forum. 19. Learned senior counsel further submitted that appellants’ rights, if any, are protected by the specific liberty granted to them by the High Court vide the impugned and if a Court of competent jurisdiction 948 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was to hold in their favour, the same would be enforceable against the employer-respondent No. 3(AIL). 20. He further contended that the appellants employees approached the writ Court after significant delay, since the cause of action arose between 2007 to 2010 and captioned writ petitions came to be filed before the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court between 2011 to 2013 and implored the Court to dismiss the appeals. 21. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced by learned counsel for the parties and have gone through the impugned and the material placed on record. Questions of law posed for adjudication: - 22. The questions of law presented for adjudication of this Court are: (i) Whether respondent No.3(AIL) after having been taken over by a private corporate entity could have been subjected to writ jurisdiction of the High Court? (ii) Whether the appellants herein could have been non-suited on account of the fact that during pendency of their writ petitions, the nature of the employer changed from a Government entity to a private entity? (iii) Whether the delay in disposal of the writ petition could be treated a valid ground to sustain the claim of the appellants even against the private entity? Discussion and Conclusion: - 23. The thrust of submissions of learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants was based on the of the Division Bench of Calcutta High Court in the case of Ashok Kumar Gupta (supra) wherein, it was held in para 32(reproduced supra) that the cause of action crystallized at a point of time when the authority was subjected to the writ jurisdiction. 24. Ashok Kumar Gupta’s case (supra) was distinguished by the learned Single Judge of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Kalpana Yogesh Dhagat (supra). The relevant excerpts from the said are reproduced hereinbelow for the sake of ready reference: - “50. There is no doubt that if the dictum, as explained by the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court (Ashok [2024] 6 S.C.R. 949 Mr. R.S. Madireddy and Anr. etc. v. Union of India & Ors. etc. Kumar Gupta vs. Union of India, (2007) SCC OnLine Cal 264) is applied in the case in hand, then probably, the writ application could be said to be maintainable.