But these s were delivered while interpreting the provisions of Section 197 of 1973 Code. The requirement of previous sanction contemplated in Section 197 of the 1973 Code comes at the stage of taking cognizance of an offence. Thus, a judicial authority, in such a context has the advantage of coming to some form of opinion as to whether the offending acts can be said to have been committed in discharge of his official duty or not. In the case of Dr. S.M. Mansoori(Dead) Through Legal Representatives -vs- Surekha Parmar and Others [(2023) 6 SCC 156], the complaint related to offences punishable under Sections 498-A and 506 read with Section 34 of IPC as well as Sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961. The police personnel had entered the house of the appellant therein without any previous sanction and the charges framed against the accused were quashed by the High Court on the ground that prior sanction under Section 197 of 1973 Code was not taken. In that context, it was held by a Coordinate Bench of this Court that looking at the nature of allegations in the complaint, at that stage it was impossible to conclude that the acts alleged to have been done by the accused were committed by her while in discharge of official duty. The High Court was set aside and it was opined by the Coordinate Bench in the facts of that case, that a final view on that issue would be taken only after the evidence was recorded. 564 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17. So far as the provision of Section 197 of the 1973 Code is concerned, the requirement for deciding the question on obtaining sanction is at the stage of taking cognizance. Thus, some element of application of mind is necessary while examining that issue. In the case of Matajog Dobey -vs- H. C. Bhari (AIR 1956 SC 44), there was use of force when a tax raiding party was resisted from conducting a search. This gave rise to two complaints, which were sent to two magistrates for judicial enquiry. Summonses were issued against the income tax officials and the accompanying policemen over use of force. Matajog Dobey (supra), the resistor, contended that use of such force was not in discharge of official duty. Objection was raised against the issuance of summons on the ground of lack of sanction as contemplated in Section 197 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which was prevalent at that point of time (1950). Negating such a contention, a Constitution Bench of this Court observed:- “20. Is the need for sanction to be considered as soon as the complaint is lodged and on the allegations therein contained? At first sight, it seems as though there is some support for this view in Hori Ram case and also in Sarjoo Prasad v. King-Emperor. Sulaiman, J. says that as the prohibition is against the institution itself, its applicability must be judged in the first instance at the earliest stage of institution.