50. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 265 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. society; inequality of wealth, income and status. India’s freedom struggle therefore was as much a struggle to overthrow the colonial yoke, as it was to remove inequality and poverty from a deeply caste ridden society. Nothing articulates this idea better than the closing speech of Dr. B. R. Ambedkar in the Constituent Assembly on November 25, 1949. This is what he had said: “……We must begin by acknowledging the fact that there is complete absence of two things in Indian Society. One of these is equality. On the social plane, we have in India a society based on the principle of graded inequality which means elevation for some and degradation for others. On the economic plane, we have a society in which there are some who have immense wealth as against many who live in abject poverty. On the 26th of January 1950, we are going to enter into a life of contradictions. In politics we will have equality and in social and economic life we will have inequality. In politics we will be recognizing the principle of one man one vote and one vote one value. In our social and economic life, we shall, by reason of our social and economic structure, continue to deny the principle of one man one value. How long shall we continue to live this life of contradictions? How long shall we continue to deny equality in our social and economic life? If we continue to deny it for long, we will do so only by putting our political democracy in peril. We must remove this contradiction at the earliest possible moment or else those who suffer from inequality will blow up the structure of political democracy which this Assembly has so laboriously built up.” 3 6. The Constitution of India has deep roots in our freedom struggle and its Part III and Part IV are the embodiment of the hope that one day the tree of true liberty would bloom in India.4 Our effort here should be to find the true meaning of the expression “material resources of the community”, from its historical perspective as well, and not to limit this analysis to legalism alone, considering the 3 cOnstituent asseMBly deBates, vOl. Xi, Pg.979. 4 Granville austin, the indian cOnstitutiOn: cOrnerstOne Of a natiOn (Oxford University Press, New Delhi, Second Impression 2000), Pg. 50. 266 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports nature of the case. Also we have to go beyond textual interpretation. Not because text is not important. It is important, but it is only the starting point, not the end point. The meaning of the text has to be located within the general context.5 This Bench has to answer whether private properties or privately owned resources are included in the phrase “material resources of the community”, given in Article 39(b) of the Constitution of India. This question has engaged much attention of our Court already.