However, this was assailed by the aggrieved parties, following which the Division Bench on 29.05.2013, remitted the matter back, observing that the selected candidates were to be heard and the matter be decided afresh by the Single Judge. Annulment of Selection Process by the Single Judge 5. As per the directions of the Division Bench, the matter was heard afresh by the learned Single Judge. Upon reconsideration, it was observed that the appointment process was marred by irregularities and lacked transparency, with no rules or instructions specifying the criteria adopted for shortlisting candidates for the interview stage. In fact, no material had been placed on record and no deliberations made by the Selection Committee made available, to demonstrate the criteria fixed for shortlisting candidates for the next stage i.e., the interview. Further, the learned Single Judge further held that shortlisting candidates to the extent of 63 times the number of vacancies was not justified either. 6. The learned Judge observed that several candidates that had been shortlisted for the interview stage had secured very low marks in the written test, and were therefore low on merit. This revealed a disparity in the selection process as no merit list was prepared on the basis of the written test results either. 7. The Court noticed the pattern of marks awarded for practical experience and interview for posts where the eligibility criterion was only matriculation. Awarding marks on these criteria would naturally depend on the subjective satisfaction of the members of an Interview Board, and therefore, vitiate part of the selection process as well. However, considering the fact that scrapping the entire selection process might prejudice those who had applied and subsequently 102 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports became over-aged and the fact that the written test for shortlisting was found to have been carried out in a bona fide manner, the learned Single Judge noted that candidates should be shortlisted as per the marks scored in the written examination to the extent of five times the number of vacancies, with marks assigned for qualification, experience, knowledge of science practical equipments and interview in such a proportion that they are not more than 1/3rd of the total marks. 8. Therefore, the learned Single Judge set aside the selection while directing the PSEB to publish a revised selection list i.e., to participate in a limited fresh exercise as per the following directions: “(i) Candidates five times the number of vacancies be called for second stage of selection in the of merit as per the test conducted for shortlisting of candidates. (ii) The minimum marks can still be prescribed even if the result is that some vacancies remain unfilled as the same is in the interest of general merit [Reference S. Vinod Kumar’s case (supra)]. (iii) The criteria for award of marks for rural area is set aside. (iv) The marks assigned for qualification, experience, knowledge of science practical equipments and interview should be in such proportion that marks for knowledge of science practical equipments and interview are not more than 1/3rd of the total marks.” Division Bench’s Reversal: Selection Not Mala Fide 9.