These include (i) the creation of a Financial Redress Agency that handles investor grievances across sectors; (ii) easing and centralizing the process for recovering unclaimed private property, which is currently spread across agencies, either through the aegis of the Financial Stability and Development Council or even by appropriate legislation; (iii) creation of a framework for a multi-agency committee to investigate complex enforcement matters. The same must have [2024] 1 S.C.R. 207 VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS a temporary shelf life which ends upon initiation of prosecution. It may only be used in cases involving serious cross-sectoral repercussions which would need multi-disciplinary skill sets to act in coordination; and (iv) following the doctrine of separation within SEBI in its quasi-judicial, and executive arm. 65. SEBI has addressed these recommendations in its affidavit dated 10 July 2023. SEBI has inter alia submitted that its existing framework already accounts for the recommendations of the Expert Committee on effective enforcement policy, judicial discipline, settlement policy, and surveillance & market administration measures. SEBI has opposed the recommendations with respect to laying down timelines on the ground that the time taken to form a prima facie opinion and conduct an investigation is contingent on many variable factors which render the process and time taken subjective. SEBI submits that they cannot be uniformly bound to a time limit. Further, as noted above, SEBI has submitted that creation of financial redressal agency, central unclaimed property authority, and framework to set up a multi-agency committee would require multiple regulators and the Government may need to look into these recommendations. SEBI argues that it is not competent to enforce the same and requires the Government of India to consider them. 66. The Expert Committee has made the above suggestions after applying its mind to the wealth of information collected from SEBI, market participants, invitees and from their own expertise. These suggestions merit favourable consideration with a positive intent. We direct the Government of India and SEBI to consider these suggestions and to take the benefit of the efforts put in by the Expert Committee. We may add that the approach in considering these suggestions must not be defensive but constructive. The Committee has favourably noted some of the measures that SEBI has taken in reaction to the events and learnings from the market. The same attitude of advantaging from the perspectives should be taken by the Government of India and SEBI. The Union Government and SEBI would be at liberty to interact with the Committee so as to take this forward. Since a member of the Bar who was a member of the Committee has been appointed to the Bench since the submission of the report, the Chairperson of the Committee will be at liberty to nominate a member with legal expertise and domain knowledge for the purpose of interacting with the Union Government and SEBI. 208 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS G. Conclusion 67. In a nutshell, the conclusions reached in this judgement are summarized below: a.