In Clause 20.3.3, under the Computation of percentage Speech Disability, the following table is provided:- “20.3.3. Computation of percentage Speech Disability (a) Speech Intelligibility Test: The verbal output of person should be evaluated using Perceptual Speech Intelligibility Rating Scale [AYJNISHD (D), 2022] (Appendix IV) and percentage of Speech Intelligibility Affected (SIA) to be measured based on score as the table given below: 692 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Point Description of Speech Sample Percentage Scale of Disability 1 Normal 0-15 2 Can understand without difficulty, 16-30 however, feel speech is normal 3 Can understand with little effort 31-39 occasionally need to ask for repetition 4 Can understand with concentration 40-55 and effort especially by sympathetic listener, require a minimum of two or three repetition. 5 Can understand with difficulty and 56-75 concentration by family but not others 6 Can understand with effort if content 76-89 is known 7 Cannot understand at all even when 90-100 content is known (Emphasis supplied) To illustrate, it will be seen that a person with 40 to 55% speech disability is one who “Can understand with concentration and effort” especially by a sympathetic listener; require a minimum of 2 or 3 repetitions. In fact, for the entire range, this is the criterion. 40. It is in matters like this that the principles of reasonable accommodation should come into full play. Section 2(y) of the RPwD Act, defines “reasonable accommodation” to mean necessary and appropriate modification and adjustments, without imposing a disproportionate or undue burden in a particular case, to ensure to persons with disabilities the enjoyment or exercise of rights equally with others. The concept of reasonable accommodation would encompass within itself the deployment of a purposive and meaningful construction of the NMC Regulations of 13.05.2019 read with the Appendix H-1 guidelines in a manner as to further the objectives of the RPwD Act. The reasonable accommodation as defined in Section 2(y) of the RPwD Act should not be understood narrowly to mean only the provision of assisting devices and other tangible substances which will aid persons with disabilities. If the mandate of the law is to ensure a full and effective participation of persons with disabilities in the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 693 Omkar Ramchandra Gond v. The Union of India & Ors. society and if the whole idea was to exclude conditions that prevent their full and effective participation as equal members of society, a broad interpretation of the concept of reasonable accommodation which will further the objective of the RPwD Act and Article 41 of the Directive Principles of State Policy is mandated. 41. This concept of reasonable accommodation has come in for judicial interpretation in Vikash Kumar v. UPSC & Others (2021) 5 SCC 370 wherein this Court held that the principle of reasonable accommodation captures the positive obligation of the State and private parties to provide additional support to persons with disabilities to facilitate their full and effective participation in society. In Para 44, it was held as under.