Therefore, in these two categories of securities, the benefit of deduction of interest for the broken period will be available to Banks. 20. If deduction on account of broken period interest is not allowed, the broken period interest as capital expense will have to be added to the acquisition cost of the securities, which will then be deducted from the sale proceeds when such securities are sold in the subsequent years. Therefore, the profit earned from the sale would be reduced by the amount of broken period interest. Therefore, the exercise sought to be done by the Department is academic. 21. The securities of the HTM category are usually held for a long term till their maturity. Therefore, such securities usually are valued at cost price or face value. In many cases, Banks hold the same as investments. Whether the Bank has held HTM security as investment or stock-in-trade will depend on the facts of each case. HTM Securities can be said to be held as an investment (i) if the securities are actually held till maturity and are not transferred before and (ii) if they are purchased at their cost price or face value. 22. At this stage, we may refer to a decision of this Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax (Central), Calcutta v. Associated Industrial Development Company (P) Ltd., Calcutta.10 In the said decision, this Court held that whether a particular holding of shares is by way of investments or forms part of the stock-in-trade is a matter which is within the knowledge of the assessee. Therefore, on facts, if it is found that HTM Security is held as an investment, the benefit of broken period interest will not be available. The position will be otherwise if it is held as a trading asset. 23. Now, we turn to the factual aspects. As far as Civil Appeal No. 3291-94 of 2009 is concerned, the Tribunal, in a detailed , recorded the following conclusions: a. Interest income on securities right from assessment year 1989-90 is being treated as interest on securities and is taxed under Section 28 of the IT Act; 10 (1972) 4 SCC 447 890 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b. Since the beginning, securities are treated as stock-in-trade which has been upheld by the Department right from the assessment year 1982-83 onwards; c. Securities were held by the respondent Bank as stock-in-trade. The findings of the Tribunal have been upset by the High Court. The impugned proceeds on the footing that the decision in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 case would still apply. Thus, as far as Civil Appeal Nos. 3291-3294 of 2009 are concerned, as a finding of fact, it was found that the appellant Bank was treating the securities as stock-in-trade. The said view was upset by the High Court only on the ground of the decision of this Court in the case of Vijaya Bank Ltd.1 As the securities were held as stock-in-trade, the income thereof was chargeable under Section 28 of the IT Act.