(13) On payment of the full amount, the sale shall stand completed, the liquidator shall execute certificate of sale or sale deed to transfer such assets and the assets shall be delivered to him in the manner specified in the terms of sale. (emphasis added) 35.2 Originally, Rule 12 read as follows : “(12) On the close of the auction, the highest bidder shall be invited to provide balance sale consideration within fifteen days of the date when he is invited to provide the balance sale consideration. On payment of the full amount, the sale shall stand completed, the liquidator shall execute certificate of sale or sale [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1301 V.S. Palanivel v. P. Sriram, CS, Liquidator, Etc. deed to transfer such assets and the assets shall be delivered to him in the manner specified in the terms of sale.” Vide notification dated 25th July, 2019,50 two Rules were carved out from Rule 12, i.e., Rule 12 and Rule 13 that have been extracted above. 35.3 It is the submission of learned senior counsel for the appellant that Rule 12, Schedule I as above, is mandatory and non- adherence to the timelines set down in the said rule would result in cancellation of the sale. It has been argued that the period of 90 days available to the Auction Purchaser to provide the balance sale consideration had expired on 25th March, 2020. The first proviso to Rule 12 stipulates that if the payment is made after 30 days, then the successful bidder would have to pay interest on the amount payable at the rate of 12 per cent. The second proviso to Rule 12 stipulates the outer limit for payment and states that if the payment is not received within 90 days, then the sale shall stand cancelled. 35.4 To test the argument advanced by learned counsel for the appellant that the word used in Rule 12 of Schedule I is “shall” and not “may” and therefore, the prescriptions laid down in Rule 12 ought to be treated as mandatory and not directory in character, we may usefully refer to the observations made in Sharif-ud-din (supra) where a distinction was drawn between a mandatory rule and a directory rule in the following words: “9. The difference between a mandatory rule and a directory rule is that while the former must be strictly observed, in the case of the latter substantial compliance may be sufficient to achieve the object regarding which the rule is enacted. Certain broad propositions which can be deduced from several decisions of courts regarding the rules of construction that should be followed in determining whether a provision of law is directory or mandatory may be summarised thus: The fact that the statute uses the word “shall” while 50 Notification No.IBBI/2019-20/GN/REG.047 1302 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports laying down a duty is not conclusive on the question whether it is a mandatory or directory provision. In to find out the true character of the legislation, the court has to ascertain the object which the provision of law in question has to subserve and its design and the context in which it is enacted.