Even assuming that the accused person had watched child pornography video, that strictly will not fall within the scope of Section 14(1) of Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Since he has not used a child or children for pornographic purposes, at the best, it can only be construed as a moral decay on the part of the accused person.” (ii) Secondly, the High Court held that, to constitute an offence under Section 67B of the IT Act, the person accused must have published, transmitted or created material depicting children in sexually explicit act or conduct. It held that although the respondent no. 1 had admitted that he was addicted to watching pornography, yet mere watching or downloading of child pornography without any transmission or publication of the same does not fall within the purview of Section 67B of the IT Act. The relevant portion reads as under: - “6. This Court enquired the petitioner and he stated that his date of birth is 13.11.1995 and that he has an elder brother. After a lot of persuasion, the petitioner admitted that during his teens, he had the habit of watching pornography. However, the petitioner made it clear that he had never watched child pornography. That apart, he also stated that he had never attempted to publish or transmit any of the pornographic [2024] 10 S.C.R. 181 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. materials to others. He had merely downloaded the same and he had watched pornography in privacy. xxx xxx xxx 10. In to constitute an offence under Section 67-B of Information Technology Act, 2000, the accused person must have published, transmitted, created material depicting children in sexual explicit act or conduct. A careful reading of this provision does not make watching a child pornography, per se, an offence under Section 67-B of Information Technology Act, 2000. Even though Section 67-B of Information Technology Act, 2000, has been widely worded, it does not cover a case where a person has merely downloaded in his electronic gadget, a child pornography and he has watched the same without doing anything more.” (iii) Lastly, the High Court in light of its aforesaid discussion and by placing reliance on Section 292 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short, the “IPC”) took the view that although the pornographic content was found to have been downloaded and stored in the mobile phone of the respondent no. 1 yet in the absence of any material to show that the respondent no. 1 had transmitted or published the same, no offence whatsoever could be said to have been made out either under the POCSO, IT Act or the IPC and thus quashed the criminal proceedings. The relevant observations read as under: - “8. This Court had the advantage of going through the entire CD file. The mobile phone that was seized from the petitioner did contain pornographic materials. However, for the purposes of this case, only two videos were identified as child pornography.