Additionally, they placed reliance on the decision in Special Land Acquisition Officer and another v. M.K. Rafiq Saheb,2 where this Court held that sale deeds pertaining to smaller areas could be taken into consideration by applying a cut. 11. Conversely, Mr. Vikramjit Bannerjee, learned Additional Solicitor General of India, representing the Respondents, contended that the sale deeds produced by the Appellants could not be relied upon as they pertained to sale instances of tiny plots of land constituting only a few Marlas. More specifically, he argued that Ex. P3 was not reliable since it measured only 1 Kanal and 10.5 Marlas, making it significantly smaller in comparison to the acquired land. Similarly, with respect to Ex. P76, which was also heavily relied upon by the Appellants, he asserted that it ought to be discarded, not only 1 [1975] Supp. 1 SCR 403 : AIR 1975 SC 1670 2 [2011] 8 SCR 1088 : (2011) 7 SCC 714 1716 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports because it was subsequent to the Section 4 notification but also since the land therein was purchased for a commercial purpose by a private company for warehousing, and thus would not accurately reflect the market value of the acquired land. 12. Instead, Mr. Bannerjee urged that the sale instances placed on record by the Respondents should be relied upon despite having been recorded post the Section 4 notification, as they lend proper guidance for estimating the market value of the acquired land on the crucial date of 11.02.2021. Lastly, he asserted that even if the Court were to consider the sale instance of a smaller parcel of land, only those sale exemplars where the land has been used towards developmental purposes should be relied upon, and after applying the appropriate deduction towards development charges. c. issues 13. Having considered the factual background out of which the dispute has arisen and the contentions put forth, the questions that fall for our deliberation are set out as follows: i. Whether the Appellants are entitled to higher rate of compensation and if so, to what extent; and ii. How should the quantum of such compensation be calculated? D. AnAlysis 14. As already elucidated in the facts of this case, there has been a significant difference in the evaluations conducted by the Reference Court and, subsequently, the High Court. The High Court has reduced the valuation affixed by the Reference Court by half and, instead, restored the compensation amount granted by the LAC. Given the differences in the approaches adopted by these courts and the variation in outcomes faced by the Appellants, it becomes imperative for us to assess the evidence placed on record by both parties and determine whether sufficient grounds subsist for us to enhance the compensation so awarded. 15. In this regard, it would be appropriate to refer to the table prepared by the High Court, which, in its decision, has aptly summarised the different evidence produced by the parties as follows: [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1717 Horrmal (Deceased) Through His LRs & Ors.