The foot note of Form V also mentions that the proceedings shall be deemed to be judicial proceedings within the meaning of Section 193 and Section 228 of the IPC, and if the person summoned fails to give evidence as 130 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports mentioned in the Schedule, he would be liable to penal proceedings under the Act. Thus, there being specific procedure prescribed under the Statutory Rules of 2005 for summoning the person under sub- sections (2) and (3) of Section 50 of the Act, the same would prevail over any other procedure prescribed under the Code, particularly the procedure contemplated in Section 160/161, as also the procedure for production of documents contemplated in Section 91 of the Code, in view of the overriding effect given to the PMLA over the other Acts including the Cr.P.C. under Section 71 r/w Section 65 of the PMLA. 18. The submission made on behalf of Learned Counsels for the Appellants that the conferment of power upon the Authority under Section 50 of PMLA excluding the procedural safeguards would be contrary to the standard of “procedure established by law” under Article 21 of the Constitution, is also thoroughly misconceived. The validity of Section 50 was sought to be challenged in Vijay Madanlal on the ground of being violative of Article 20(3) and Article 21 of the Constitution and the Court upholding the validity observed as under: - “425. Indeed, sub-section (2) of Section 50 enables the Director, Additional Director, Joint Director, Deputy Director or Assistant Director to issue summon to any person whose attendance he considers necessary for giving evidence or to produce any records during the course of any investigation or proceeding under this Act. We have already highlighted the width of expression “proceeding” in the earlier part of this and held that it applies to proceeding before the Adjudicating Authority or the Special Court, as the case may be. Nevertheless, sub-section (2) empowers the authorised officials to issue summon to any person. We fail to understand as to how Article 20(3) would come into play in respect of process of recording statement pursuant to such summon which is only for the purpose of collecting information or evidence in respect of proceeding under this Act. Indeed, the person so summoned, is bound to attend in person or through authorised agent and to state truth upon any subject concerning which he is being examined or is expected to make statement and produce documents as may be required by virtue of sub-section (3) of Section 50 of the 2002 Act…. 426 to 430….. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 131 Abhishek Banerjee & Anr. v. Directorate of Enforcement 431. In the context of the 2002 Act, it must be remembered that the summon is issued by the Authority under Section 50 in connection with the inquiry regarding proceeds of crime which may have been attached and pending adjudication before the Adjudicating Authority. In respect of such action, the designated officials have been empowered to summon any person for collection of information and evidence to be presented before the Adjudicating Authority.