It must however be seen that the Shetty Commission report was in the backdrop of High Courts selecting candidates simply on the basis of viva voce without conducting written test. What is also essential to note is that the Shetty Commission recommended evaluation through grades instead of numerical marks, for the selection of judicial officers, whether in written exam or viva voce. It also suggested that there must be written guidelines for assigning marks at the time of the interview. VI. ISSUE WISE DISCUSSION Issue No.1) Whether the prescription of minimum marks for viva voce is in contravention of the law laid down by this Court in All 558 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports India Judges (2002) which accepted certain recommendations of the Shetty Commission? 33. The in All India Judges (2002), will now have to be analyzed in the above prefatory context. The Court therein accepted certain recommendations made by the Shetty Commission while modifying or rejecting a few others. In paragraph 27, the 3-judge bench speaking through Justice B.N. Kirpal specifically noted thus: “27. … At the same time, we are of the opinion that there has to be certain minimum standard, objectively adjudged, for officers who are to enter the Higher Judicial Service as Additional District Judges and District Judges. While we agree with the Shetty Commission that the recruitment to the Higher Judicial Service i.e. the District Judge cadre from amongst the advocates should be 25 per cent and the process of recruitment is to be by a competitive examination, both written and viva voce, we are of the opinion that there should be an objective method of testing the suitability of the subordinate judicial officers for promotion to the Higher Judicial Service.” [emphasis supplied] 34. The above would show that while dealing with the method of recruitment, this Court stressed the importance of an objective standard for recruitment and emphasized that the process of direct recruitment should be through a written and viva-voce examination. A careful reading of the entire would show that there is no direct discussion on the aspect of viva voce except the remark in paragraph 27 that there should be an objective method of testing suitability. The issue as to whether there should be minimum qualifying marks for viva-voce, did not engage the Court’s attention. Moreover, even the Shetty Commission report did not provide any specific reasoning as to why there should be no minimum marks for viva voce. For this discussion, we may benefit by referring to the recent decision of this Court in Dr.Kavita Kamboj v. High Court of Punjab and Haryana and Others12(for short “Kavita Khamboj”). Chief Justice, DY Chandrachud writing for the three-judge bench adverted to the 12 [2024] 2 SCR 1136 : 2024 SCC OnLine SC 254 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 559 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. earlier in All India Judges (2002) and specifically noted that the Court did not make any observation about the desirability or otherwise of a minimum cut-off generally.