The observations in NM Thomas (supra) do not go further to state that it is a homogenous class that cannot be classified further. In fact, Justice Mathew observed in the very next paragraph that there can be further classification within a class if there is an intelligible 165 NM Thomas (supra) [Justice Mathew, 82] 166 NM Thomas (supra) [Justice Iyer, 135] 167 NM Thomas (supra) [Justice Fazal Ali, 169] : “If, therefore, the members of the scheduled castes and the scheduled tribes are not castes, then it is open to the State to make reasonable classification in to advance or lift these classes so that they may be properly represented in the services under the State.” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1399 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. differentia separating a group within a class from another group.168 Additionally, the approach adopted in NM Thomas (supra) by this Court that the Scheduled Castes are a class because they comprise of a collection of castes must be read in the context of the nine- Judge Bench decision in Indra Sawhney (supra), where this Court held that caste is itself a class. Therefore, we are of the view that the inference drawn by Justice Hegde in Chinnaiah (supra) that the Scheduled Castes are a homogenous class based on the above observations in NM Thomas (supra) is erroneous. d. Article 341(1) read with Article 341(2) only proscribes exclusion from and inclusion in the Scheduled Castes List. 115. In Chinnaiah (supra), this Court held that sub-classification amounted to tinkering with the Presidential list by the State legislature, and was therefore, violative of Article 341(2) which exclusively vests power in Parliament. Article 341(2) prescribes the only manner in which the Presidential Notification under Article 341(1) may be altered. The provision stipulates that castes, races or tribes, or parts of or groups within them once notified by the President under Article 341(1) may be included in or excluded from the List only by Parliament. The latter half of the clause states by way of abundant caution that ‘save as aforesaid’, the notification shall not be varied. The provision reads as follows: “(2) Parliament may by law include in or exclude from the list of Scheduled Castes specified in a notification issued under clause (1) any caste, race or tribe or part of or group within any caste, race or tribe, but save as aforesaid a notification issued under the said clause shall not be varied by any subsequent notification.” (emphasis supplied) 116. Dr B R Ambedkar, while proposing the inclusion of Articles 300A and 300B of the Draft Constitution (which correspond to Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution), indicated that once notified, any elimination from the list or an addition to the list was to be made by Parliament and not by the President. This limitation, he noted was to eliminate “political factors” from disturbing the list: 168 NM Thomas (supra) [Justice Mathew, 83]. 1400 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “..The only limitation that has been imposed is this: that once a notification has been issued by the President, which, undoubtedly, he will be issuing in consultation with and on the advice of the government of each State, thereafter, if any elimination was to be made from the list so notified or any addition was to be made, that must be made by Parliament and not by the President.