The said provision reads as under: - “15. Bar of jurisdiction. — On and from the appointed day, no court or other authority shall have, or be entitled to, exercise any jurisdiction, powers or authority in relation to the matters referred to in sub-sections (1), (1A) and (1B) of section 13.” 31. Section 16 of the RCT Act provides that an application may be made to the Railway Claims Tribunal for any claim of compensation or refund from the railway administration as provided under Section 13 of the said Act. The said provision reads as under: - “16. Application to Claims Tribunal. — (1) A person seeking any relief in respect of the matters referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (1A) of section 13 may make an application to the Claims Tribunal. (2) Every application under sub-section (1) shall be in such form and be accompanied by such documents or other evidence and by such fee in respect of the filing of such application and by such other fees for the service or execution of processes as may be prescribed: Provided that no such fee shall be payable in respect of an application under sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of sub- [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1085 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. section (1) or, as the case may be, sub-section (1A)] of section 13.” 32. Section 23 of the RCT provides for a statutory appeal on both a question of fact and law, to the High Court against any passed by the Railway Claims Tribunal. The said provision reads as under: - “23. Appeals. — (1) Save as provided in sub-section (2) and notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) or in any other law, an appeal shall lie from every , not being an interlocutory , of the Claims Tribunal, to the High Court having jurisdiction over the place where the Bench is located. (2) No appeal shall lie from an passed by the Claims Tribunal with the consent of the parties. (3) Every appeal under this section shall be preferred within a period of ninety days from the date of the appealed against.” 33. Section 17 sub-section (2) of the RCT Act inter-alia provides that no application for claim of compensation or refund from the railway administration shall be entertained by the tribunal, until the expiry of three-months from the date on which the notice of claim was made in accordance with Section 78B of the erstwhile Act, 1890 (now Section 106 of the Act, 1989). The said provision reads as under: - “17. Limitation. — (1) The Claims Tribunal shall not admit an application for any claim— (a) under sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 13 unless the application is made within three years from the date on which the goods in question were entrusted to the railway administration for carriage by railway; (b) under sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of sub-section (1) 3[or, as the case may be, sub-section (1A)] of section 13 unless the application is made within one year of occurrence of the accident; 1086 [2024] 3 S.C.R.