As per the prosecution, an argy-bargy over spilling of drops of water over the roof of the appellant’s house [2024] 7 S.C.R. 183 Naresh Kumar v. State of Delhi while Laxmi, the sister of the deceased-Arun Kumar was cleaning the chajja (parapet) of their house resulted in the accurst incident, where the said Arun Kumar lost his life on 14.06.1995 at 08.45 pm. The case of the prosecution is that enraged by the dropping of water over the roof, the wife of the appellant, namely, Meena, hurled filthy words at Laxmi. Then the appellant came out and he, too, started abusing. Thereupon, the deceased asked him to stop abusing his sister and then the appellant exhorted his brother Mahinder Kumar to come out and finish them. Soon, Mahinder came out with a knife and the appellant-Naresh Kumar caught hold of Arun Kumar and Mahinder stabbed on his chest repeatedly with the knife. The necroscopic evidence in this case consists of the oral testimony of PW-17, Dr. LK Baruah and the postmortem report Ext.PW7/A, which disclosed that the deceased had sustained the following antemortem injuries: "1. Incised wound size 1.3 cm x 0.5 cm. On the left side front of chest. There is 1-1/2 medial to the left nipple placed abliquely. 2. Incised wound size .3 cm x 0.5 cm.x? on the middle of chest situated 1.5 cm. Right to the mid line and below a line drawn between two nipples. 3. Two incised wounds size 1.3 cm. And other 1.5 cm. In the right epigeastric region. 4. Incised wounds left side lower part of chest 9 cm. Below left nipple size 1.4 cm x 2.3 cm. 5. Abrasion on the dorsom left forearm and hand 6. Abrasion seen below left eye.” 3. Taking note of the said necroscopic evidence corroborating the events unfolded through the oral testimonies of the eye-witnesses viz., Anil Kumar (PW-7), Smt. Prem Devi (PW-8), Sanjay (PW-20), who are respectively the brother, mother and one cousin of the deceased and Smt. Madhu (PW-19) and Anand Kumar (PW-22) besides the other evidences, the trial Court found that the homicidal death of Arun Kumar amounts to murder and culpability was fixed on Mahinder Kumar, the first accused. We make it clear that we are not going to make any observation in respect of Sri Mahinder Kumar in this 184 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports appeal and reference about him was made solely for the purpose of disposing this appeal. 4. As noticed earlier, the conviction of the appellant under Section 302, IPC, was then made with the aid of Section 34, IPC, and upon which he was awarded imprisonment for life. The conviction of the appellant herein was confirmed under the impugned common dated 20.12.2016 in Criminal Appeal No.540/2000 (filed by the appellant herein), and Criminal Appeal No.764/2000 (filed by Mahinder Kumar). 5. Heard Sh. S.D. Singh, learned counsel appearing for the appellant and Ms. Sonia Mathur, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent State. 6. As noticed earlier, the thrust of the argument for the appellant was founded on prejudicial non-compliance of Section 313, Cr.PC, during the examination thereunder, qua the appellant.