Article 239-AA(3)(a) provides the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory with legislative competence over certain matters in the State List and the Concurrent list. Article 239-AA(3)(b) states that nothing in sub-clause (a) shall derogate from the powers of Parliament to make laws for the Union territory. This provision must be read in the context of Article 246(4) which provides Parliament the power to enact laws on matters enumerated in all three lists for Union territories. Article 239-AA(3)(b) states that the power conferred in clause (a) shall not impact the law making power of Parliament with respect to Union territories; c. Article 241(1) stipulates that Parliament may by law constitute a High Court for a Union territory. Clause (4) of Article 241 stipulates that nothing in the Article shall derogate from the power of Parliament to extend or exclude the jurisdiction of a High Court to, or from any Union territory. This provision must be read in the context of Entry 79 of List I which provides Parliament the power to legislate on the “extension of the jurisdiction of a High Court to, and exclusion of the jurisdiction of a High Court from, any Union territory.” Clause (4) states that Clause (1) does not impact the legislative competence exercised by Parliament under Article 245 read with Entry 79 of List I; and d. Article 371F(m) provides that no court would have the jurisdiction to deal with any dispute arising out of an agreement or treaty relating to Sikkim but that nothing in the provision shall be ‘construed to derogate from the provisions of Article 143’. Here, the phrase is used to ensure that the provision does not have any impact on the power under Article 143. 49 “(4) The power conferred on a High Court by this article shall not be in derogation of the power conferred on the Supreme Court by clause (2) of article 32.” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1263 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 38. Thus, the use of the phrases ‘notwithstanding’ and ‘shall not derogate from’ produce different effects. Article 11, when interpreted on the basis of the above analysis produces the following meaning: a. The legislative competence of Parliament to enact laws related to citizenship is traceable to Entry 17 of List I and not Article 11; and b. The provisions in Part II do not impact or limit the legislative competence of Parliament. 39. A non-obstante clause cannot be artificially read into Article 11. In Izhar Ahmed v. Union of India,50 the constitutional validity of Section 9(2) of the Citizenship Act and Rule 3 in Schedule III of the Citizenship Rules 1956 were challenged. Before dealing with the challenge, Justice Gajendragadkar writing for the Constitution Bench delineated the scope of the provisions in Part II of the Constitution. With respect to Article 11, the learned Judge observed that the provisions of the parliamentary law on citizenship cannot be challenged on the ground of a violation of the provisions in Part II.