The Public Trust Doctrine evolved by this Court may also help identify resources which fall within the ambit of the phrase “material resource of the community”. My view: I agree. In addition, I also reiterate my discussion and conclusion on how privately owned material resource can be transformed as “material resource of the community”. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 261 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. f. The term “distribution” has a wide connotation. The various forms of distribution which can be adopted by the state cannot be exhaustively detailed. However, it may include the vesting of the concerned resources in the state or nationalisation. In the specific case, the Court must determine whether the distribution “subserves the common good”. My view: The term “distribution” has no doubt a wide connotation but vesting in the State of a particular privately owned “material resource” or nationalisation of the same are only conditions precedent to distribution which have to comply with Article 300A of the Constitution. Further, a resource which has vested in the State or a resource retained by a State on nationalisation could be utilised by the State to subserve the common good as a material resource of the community.The public trust doctrine would apply to such material resources. Alternatively, the State could decide to actually distribute the “material resources of the community” to eligible and deserving persons by a way of assignment, lease, allotment, grant, etc. The same would also come within the scope and ambit of the expression “distribution”. 24. In my view, the s of this Court in Ranganatha Reddy, Sanjeev Coke, Abu Kavur Bai and Basantibai correctly decided the issues that fell for consideration and do not call for any interference on the merits of the matters and as explained above. The observations of the Judges in those decisions would not call for any critique in the present times. Neither is it justified nor warranted. 25. Reference is answered in the above terms. 26. The Registry to place the matters before Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India for seeking s for being listed before the appropriate Bench. 27. I must place on record my sincere appreciation to the learned Attorney General, learned Solicitor General and their teams, learned senior counsel and learned counsel appearing for the respective parties and learned instructing counsel for their valuable assistance to this Bench. 262 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Sudhanshu Dhulia, J. 1. I have the advantage of going through the well-researched and erudite of the learned Chief Justice D.Y. Chandrachud. During the hearing of the case itself, it was difficult to ignore the scope and ambit of the reference and that of Article 31-C in light of the amendments and judgements pronounced by this Court, as they had a crucial bearing on the question on Article 39(b) i.e. whether privately owned resources would be a part of “material resources of the community”. Logically, therefore, the arguments which were advanced at the bar, which were both long and scholarly, on both sides, were on these two crucial questions, and it is for this reason that the of learned Chief Justice Chandrachud is in two parts.