B. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT NO. 1 (ORIGINAL ACCUSED) 7. Mr. Siddharth Dave, the learned Senior counsel appearing for the original accused, vehemently opposed the present appeal and canvassed the following submissions: i. The legal maxim ubi jus ibi remedium i.e. where there is a right, there is a remedy, is recognised as a basic principle of jurisprudence. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Anita Kushwaha v. Pushap Sudan reported in (2016) 8 SCC 509 held that the right to access justice is so inalienable, that no system of governance can possibly ignore its significance, leave alone afford to deny the same to its citizens. It was 266 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports also held that the ancient Roman jurisprudential maxim ubi jus ibi remedium has contributed to the acceptance of access to justice as a basic and inalienable human right, which all civilized societies recognise and enforce. ii. The right of an accused to apply for pre-arrest bail under Section 438 of the CrPC is intrinsically linked to his right to access the competent courts to avail his remedies under the law. A person would thus be entitled to apply for pre-arrest bail under Section 438 of the CrPC in one case, even though he may be in custody in connection with some other case. iii. The right of an accused to protect his personal liberty within the contours of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, by applying for pre-arrest bail under Section 438 CrPC cannot be eliminated without a procedure established by law. Further, such procedure should also pass the test of fairness, reasonableness and manifest non-arbitrariness on the touchstone of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. iv. Under Section 438 of the CrPC, the pre-condition for a person to apply for pre-arrest bail is a “reason to believe that he may be arrested on accusation of having committed a non-bailable offence”. Therefore, the only pre-condition for exercising the said right is the apprehension of the accused that he may be arrested. v. The arrest of an accused in one case cannot foreclose his right to apply for pre-arrest bail in a different case, since there is no such stipulation in the language of Section 438 of the CrPC. The restrictions on the exercise of power to grant pre-arrest bail under Section 438 of the CrPC are prescribed under Section 438(4) of the CrPC which provides that the provisions of Section 438 shall not apply to cases involving arrest under Sections 376(3), 376AB, 376DA or 376DB respectively of the IPC. vi. A Constitution Bench of this Court, in Sushila Aggarwal (supra) while considering the statutory restrictions on Section 438 of the CrPC held that where the Parliament intended to exclude or restrict the powers of the Court under Section 438 of the CrPC, it did so in categorical terms (such as Section 438(4)). The omission on the part of the legislature to restrict the right [2024] 9 S.C.R. 267 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr.