Privileges and immunities are not gateways to claim exemptions from the general law of the land, particularly as in this case, the criminal law which governs the action of every citizen. To claim an exemption from the application of criminal law would be to betray the trust which is impressed on the character of elected representatives as the makers and enactors of the law. The entire foundation upon which the application for 528 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports withdrawal under Section 321 was moved by the Public Prosecutor is based on a fundamental misconception of the constitutional provisions contained in Article 194. The Public Prosecutor seems to have been impressed by the existence of privileges and immunities which would stand in the way of the prosecution. Such an understanding betrays the constitutional provision and proceeds on a misconception that elected members of the legislature stand above the general application of criminal law.” (emphasis supplied) 98. In Lokayukta, Justice Ripusudan Dayal (supra) criminal proceedings were initiated against administrative officers of the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly for allegedly engaging in corruption and financial irregularity. The Speaker of the Assembly initiated proceedings for breach of privilege against the Lokayukta and vigilance authorities. This Court while holding that initiation of criminal proceedings for corruption may not amount to a breach of privilege had opined that: “48. It is clear that in the matter of the application of laws, particularly, the provisions of the Lokayukt Act and the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, insofar as the jurisdiction of the Lokayukt or the Madhya Pradesh Special Establishment is concerned, all public servants except the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker of the Madhya Pradesh Vidhan Sabha for the purposes of the Lokayukt Act fall in the same category and cannot claim any privilege more than an ordinary citizen to whom the provisions of the said Acts apply. […]. 49. As rightly submitted by Mr K.K. Venugopal, in India, there is the rule of law and not of men and, thus, there is primacy of the laws enacted by the legislature which do not discriminate between persons to whom such laws would apply. The laws would apply to all such persons unless the law itself makes an exception on a valid classification. No individual can claim privilege against the application of laws and for liabilities fastened on commission of a prohibited act.” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 3 S.C.R. 529 Sita Soren v. Union of India 99. The principle which emerges from the above cases is that the privilege of the House, its members and the committees is neither contingent merely on location nor are they merely contingent on the act in question. A speech made in Parliament or Legislature cannot be subjected to any proceedings before any court. However, other acts such as damaging property or criminal acts may be subjected to prosecution despite being within the precincts of the House. Clause (2) of Article 105 grants immunity “in respect of anything” said or any vote given.