Aggrieved, the University carried the and allowing the Writ Petition in a Letters Patent Appeal. The Division Bench dismissed the appeal presented by the University on the ground that the of the learned Single Judge does not suffer from any illegality, thereby leaving the University still aggrieved. 5. Having perused the and of the Single Judge, since affirmed by the Division Bench, we have found the and of both the writ court as well as the appellate court to be rather cryptic. Exception cannot be taken to any merely on the ground of its brevity but if the is cryptic and conclusions are reached without proper analysis of facts and materials on record, the party aggrieved would be justified in seeking setting aside of such . It is, perhaps, for such reason notice had been issued by a coordinate Bench pursuant whereto the first respondent appeared; and, thereafter, the parties argued their cases fully. However, since focused consideration, due application of judicial mind and clarity of reasoning are the imperatives of a proper judicial decision, we have thought it fit to reflect on the issue arising for decision with the seriousness the same deserves. Contentions 6. The impugned has been assailed by the University on the grounds that: I. Paragraph 1 of Part I of the Outsourcing Policy stipulates that services may be outsourced as and when required partly or completely by the departments where posts have not been sanctioned. Part II deals with engagement of persons on contract basis where the regular posts exist. In the instant case, the first respondent was deputed in one of the universities through a service provider under Part I of the Outsourcing Policy. II. Since the first respondent was engaged in the University by the service provider, Lavnya, under the Outsourcing Policy 960 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for the requirements of office work and not appointed on any regular or sanctioned post of clerk, the experience acquired by her cannot be equated with the experience of working on a sanctioned post of clerk. III. Considering that the post was not a regular or sanctioned post, the first respondent cannot be deemed to have gained experience of working in the same or higher post, as required by the Advertisement. IV. Experience Certificate was not issued by the University but rather by Lavnya. Merely because it was countersigned by the Head of the Department does not make it a certificate issued by the University. Attention was drawn to the Circular dated 25.06.2014, which prohibits issuance of an experience certificate by any authority where persons are engaged through a service provider, i.e., under Part I of the Outsourcing Policy. V. The High Court overlooked the fact that the first respondent’s application described her engagement for the concerned time period as contractual employment and that her employer was the University, which is incorrect as the first respondent was neither appointed by the University nor ever worked with the University on any temporary or permanent post.