The ratio in all fours is applicable to the circumstances of the case. Therefore, by relying on the above s, it is held that the appellant, with a view to produce in evidence the agreement of sale in the suit, must pay the deficit stamp duty and penalty. We are confirming the findings of the High Court in this behalf. The next question for consideration is whether in the facts and the circumstances of the case, the penalty determined by the Court on the instrument instead of sending the instrument to the District Registrar for determination and collection of penalty as may be applicable is legal. Point II 16. Chapter IV of the Act is both mandatory and regulatory. Section 33 mandates every person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence and every person in charge of public office (for short, ‘Every Person/Court’) when an instrument insufficiently stamped is produced, the person is mandated to impound the insufficiently stamped instrument. In law, the word impound means to keep in custody of the law.10 Having taken legal custody of the insufficiently stamped document, the inter-play available between Sections 33, 34, 37, 38 and 39 of the Act, as the case may be, would start operating. Sub-section (2) of Section 33 of the Act fastens an obligation to examine the instrument on the duty payable, value etc. of the instrument. Unless it is duly stamped, Section 34 of the Act, prohibits Every Person/Court from admitting in evidence or act upon an insufficiently/improperly stamped instrument. The proviso to Section 34 of the Act, subject to deposit, of deficit stamp duty and penalty enables receipt of an instrument in evidence which is otherwise prohibited by Section 34 of the Act. 17. The object of the Act is not to exclude evidence or to enable parties to avoid obligations on technical grounds. Rather, the object is to obtain revenue even from such instruments which are at the first 10 (2003) 3 SCC 674 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 177 Seetharama Shetty v. Monappa Shetty instance unstamped or insufficiently stamped. The said objective has the twin elements of recovering the due stamp duty and penalty, and also the public policy of binding parties to the agreed obligations. It is apposite to refer to the declaration of law by a seven-judge bench’s judgement of this Court on the object of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. 17.1. In Re: Interplay Between Arbitration Agreements under Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and Stamp Act, 1899,11 a Seven-Judge Bench of this Court noted that Section 35 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (analogous to Section 34 of the Act) unambiguously requires an instrument chargeable with stamp duty to only be “admitted in evidence” if it is properly stamped. This Court further noted that improperly stamping the instrument does not render that instrument void or invalid. On the contrary, it is a defect which is curable upon payment of requisite stamp duty and penalty. The relevant paragraph reads thus: “54.