This Court categorically opined that there cannot be any impediment in the enforcement of the scheme. Section 22 of the 1985 Act provides for a safeguard against impediment that is likely to be caused in the implementation of the scheme. Section 22 was also held to be of wide import as regards suspension of legal proceedings from the moment, the inquiry is started till after the implementation of the scheme or disposal [2024] 5 S.C.R. 359 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited of the scheme under Section 25 of the 1985 Act. It was categorically held: “… it will be reasonable to hold that the bar or embargo envisaged in Section 22(1) of the Act can apply only to such of those dues reckoned or included in the sanctioned scheme….” The ratio laid down in the said decision, therefore, instead of assisting the respondent assists the appellant.” (Emphasis supplied) 80. The original defendants have strongly relied upon the decision of a two-judge bench of this Court in Bhoruka Textiles (supra). In the said case, the respondent therein, filed a suit for recovery against the appellant, a sick industrial company. The civil court decreed the suit in favour of the respondent therein with the finding that the transaction referred to took place subsequent to the reference of the appellant company to the BIFR and thus the suspension under Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act would not apply. The civil court also held that in the absence of any final declaring the appellant company as a sick company by the BIFR, mere reference of the said company to the BIFR would not bring the protection under Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act into effect. 81. This Court negatived both the findings noted above and held that the civil court committed a manifest error in holding that the transaction in question was subsequent to the reference, when from the admitted facts it was apparent that it took place prior to the referral. It was observed by the Bench thus: “7. Chapter III of the Act provides for reference, enquiries and schemes. Section 15 of the Act provides for reference to the Board in terms whereof the Board of Directors of the company is required to make a reference within 60 days from the date of the duly audited accounts of the company for the financial year as at the end of which the company has become a sick industrial company. Such reference is made for determination of the measures which may be adopted with respect to the company. The proviso appended thereto, however, entitles the Board of Directors to make a reference within 60 days from the 360 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports date of formation of the opinion that the company had become a sick industrial company before the audited accounts of the financial year in question are finalised. Section 16 of the Act empowers the Board to make such enquiry as it may deem fit for determining whether any industrial company has become a sick industrial company, inter alia, upon receipt of a reference with respect to such company under Section 15. xxx xxx xxx 10.