Justice Sinha, writing the concurring opinion made a passing observation that Article 341(1) creates a deeming fiction.163 However, this observation does not form the ratio decidendi of the . Thus, it needs to be analyzed if Article 341(1) creates a deeming fiction. 110. Article 341(1) consists of three parts. The first part lays down the procedure for notifying a caste as a Scheduled Caste. The President, in consultation with the Governor (if the notification is with respect to a State) is empowered to specify castes which shall be Scheduled Castes. In the second part, a provision similar to Article 366(26), provides some clarity on who could be notified as a Scheduled Caste: a caste, race, or tribe or parts of or groups within the caste, race or tribe. The third part, with the use of the words “for the purposes of this Constitution be deemed to be Scheduled Castes” includes a substantive provision. In the absence of the word “deemed”, the provision would have solely been a procedural clause, empowering the President to notify the Scheduled Castes. The use of the word “deemed” ensures that the castes or groups of castes shall be regarded as Scheduled Castes by the very act of notifying them. Thus, the inclusion of the word ‘deemed’ in Articles 341(2) and 342(2) does not create a legal fiction since it does not provide any artificial construction. To that extent, the observations of the three- Judge Bench of this Court in Punit Rai (supra) that Article 341(2) creates a deeming fiction are erroneous. 111. In Milind (supra), a Constitution Bench of this Court observed that the purpose of Article 341(1) is to recognize and identify the Scheduled Castes for the purpose of the Constitution and to prevent disputes as to who would constitute a Scheduled Caste for the purpose of the benefits under the Constitution.164 The Indian 162 [2003] Supp. 2 SCR 743 : (2003) 8 SCC 204 163 ibid [Justice Sinha, 25] 164 ibid, [35] [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1397 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. social consists of castes or groups which suffer from varying degrees of social backwardness, ranging from untouchability to occupational segregation. These castes are grouped into different classes by the Constitution, such as the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes, based on the degree of marginalization for the purpose of conferring benefits through affirmative action. A caste only becomes a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe or a socially and educationally backward caste when the President issues a notification to that effect in the exercise of the power under Articles 341, 342 and 342A respectively. Thus, it could be argued that the word “deemed” in the provision creates a legal fiction for creating a constitutional identity for the castes which are included in the lists. 112. Even if it is accepted that the deeming fiction is used for the creation of a constitutional identity, the fiction can neither be extended to other purposes nor can it create legal consequences that do not logically flow from the fiction.