i. Section 138 of the NI Act 33. Section 138 of the NI Act is contained in the Chapter XVII which was inserted vide Section 4 of the Banking, Public Financial Institutions and Negotiable Instruments Laws (Amendment) Act, 1988. Chapter XVII of the NI Act, which consists of Sections 138 to 147, inter alia provides for penalties in case of dishonour of certain cheques for insufficiency of funds in the accounts. Paragraph (xi) of the Statement of the Objects and Reasons specifies the legislative intent behind introduction of Chapter XVII to the NI Act in the following words: “(xi) to enhance the acceptability of cheques in settlement of liabilities by making the drawer liable for penalties in case of bouncing of cheques due to insufficiency of funds in the accounts or for the reason that it exceeds the arrangements made by the drawer, with adequate safeguards to prevent harassment of honest drawers.” 34. Section 138 of the NI Act reads as under: “138. Dishonour of cheque for insufficiency, etc., of funds in the account.— Where any cheque drawn by a person on an account maintained by him with a banker for payment of any amount of money to another person from out of that account for the discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt or other liability, is returned by the bank unpaid, either because of the amount of money standing to the credit of that account is insufficient to honour the cheque or that it exceeds the amount arranged to be paid from that account by an agreement made with that bank, such person shall be deemed to have committed an offence and shall, without prejudice to any other provision of this Act, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may be [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1971 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. extended to two years’, or with fine which may extend to twice the amount of the cheque, or with both: Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply unless— (a) the cheque has been presented to the bank within a period of six months from the date on which it is drawn or within the period of its validity, whichever is earlier; (b) the payee or the holder in due course of the cheque, as the case may be, makes a demand for the payment of the said amount of money by giving a notice; in writing, to the drawer of the cheque, within thirty days of the receipt of information by him from the bank regarding the return of the cheque as unpaid; and (c) the drawer of such cheque fails to make the payment of the said amount of money to the payee or, as the case may be, to the holder in due course of the cheque, within fifteen days of the receipt of the said notice. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “debt of other liability” means a legally enforceable debt or other liability.” 35. This Court in Kusum Ingots & Alloys Ltd. v. Pennar Peterson Securities Ltd. and Others reported in (2000) 2 SCC 745 explained the ingredients which are to be satisfied for making out a case under Section 138 of the NI Act in the following manner: “10.