The Court ought to only assess whether the deployment under challenge as implemented by the government, is fair or not.202 319. We therefore need to examine whether the Parliamentary enactment contravenes the constitutional principles for having expropriated natural resources in an unfair, wasteful or exploitative manner, such that larger collective or community rights have been undermined. 320. In our considered opinion, the mere fact that a sub-class of immigrants whose status has been legitimised by Section 6A also has access to these resources does not automatically imply a disruption of ecological balance or a violation of the original inhabitants’ rights to resource usage. This argument conflates the idea of “unfair usage” with “more usage”—a premise that cannot be accepted. 321. Sustainable development and population growth can coexist harmoniously and need not be mutually exclusive. A nation can accommodate immigrants and refugees, while simultaneously 201 M. C. Mehta v. Kamal Nath (1997) 1 SCC 388, para 34. 202 Natural Resources Allocation, In re, Special Reference No. 1 of 2012 (2012) 10 SCC 1, para 146. 1126 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports prioritizing sustainable development and equitable allocation of resources. By implementing policies that encourage environmental conservation, efficient resource management, and social integration, a country can effectively address the challenges posed by demographic changes while safeguarding its long-term prosperity. The logic underlying the Petitioners’ argument, if allowed, can tomorrow be extended to seek controls on even domestic inter-state movement. The Petitioners’ challenge on the basis of sustainable development under Article 21 therefore, must be rejected. ix. Article 326 and Section 6A 322. The Petitioners contended that the application of Section 6A on the State of Assam violates the Assamese people’s right to vote under Article 326 of the Constitution. It was asserted that the right to vote and the right to be registered on the electoral rolls is specific only to the citizens of India and not to illegal immigrants. They further contended that the process of Section 6A conferring political rights upon millions of Bangladeshi immigrants has resulted in the marginalisation of the political rights of the people of Assam, which, in turn, is not in the interest of the security and integrity of the State. They asserted that continuance of these immigrants on Indian soil poses severe threat to the identity of the indigenous people of Assam, as well as the security of the nation. 323. The Respondents argued that the contentions advanced by the Petitioners in the present case amount to a reverse reading of Article 326 of the Constitution. They submitted that considering the persons falling under Section 6A would be valid citizens, the right under Article 326 would therefore naturally follow to such ‘citizens’. Additionally, they also urged that Section 6A is not concerned with the preparation of the electoral roll and only deals with the grant of citizenship to the categories of persons covered thereunder. 324. Thus, in examining the purported violation of the Petitioners’ rights, it is imperative to first delve into the historical progression of adult suffrage in India, given that Article 326 explicitly addresses the conferment of voting rights upon Indian citizens.