In the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), (hereinafter referred to as the Customs Act), in section 2, in clause (34), after the words “Principal Commissioner of Customs or Commissioner of Customs”, the words and figure “under section 5” shall be inserted.” Section 87 - Substitution of new section for section 3 of the Act, 1962 “87. For section 3 of the Customs Act, the following section shall be substituted, namely: 3. Classes of officers of customs.- [2024] 12 S.C.R. 241 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. “There shall be the following classes of officers of customs, namely:-- (a) Principal Chief Commissioner of Customs or Principal Chief Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) or Principal Director General of Revenue Intelligence; (b) Chief Commissioner of Customs or Chief Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) or Director General of Revenue Intelligence; (c) Principal Commissioner of Customs or Principal Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) or Principal Additional Director General of Revenue Intelligence or Principal Commissioner of Customs (Audit); (d) Commissioner of Customs or Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) or Additional Director General of Revenue Intelligence or Commissioner of Customs (Audit); (e) Principal Commissioner of Customs (Appeals); (f) Commissioner of Customs (Appeals); (g) Additional Commissioner of Customs or Additional Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) or Additional Director of Revenue Intelligence or Additional Commissioner of Customs (Audit); (h) Joint Commissioner of Customs or Joint Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) or Joint Director of Revenue Intelligence or Joint Commissioner of Customs (Audit); (i) Deputy Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) or Deputy Director of Revenue Intelligence or Deputy Commissioner of Customs (Audit); (j) Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Assistant Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) or Assistant Director of Revenue Intelligence or Assistant Commissioner of Customs (Audit); 242 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (k) such other class of officers of customs as may be appointed for the purposes of this Act.” Section 88 - Amendment of section 5 of the Act, 1962 “88. In section 5 of the Customs Act,-- (a) after sub-section (1), the following sub-sections shall be inserted, namely:-- “(1A) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub- section (1), the Board may, by notification, assign such functions as it may deem fit, to an officer of customs, who shall be the proper officer in relation to such functions. (1B) Within their jurisdiction assigned by the Board, the Principal Commissioner of Customs or Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be, may, by , assign such functions, as he may deem fit, to an officer of customs, who shall be the proper officer in relation to such functions.”; (b) after sub-section (3), the following sub-sections shall be inserted, namely:- “(4) In specifying the conditions and limitations referred to in sub-section (1), and in assigning functions under sub-section (1A), the Board may consider any one or more of the following criteria, including, but not limited to-- (a) territorial jurisdiction; (b) persons or class of persons; (c) goods or class of goods; (d) cases or class of cases; (e) computer assigned random assignment; (f) any other criterion as the Board may, by notification, specify.