[2024] 1 S.C.R. 11 : 2024 INSC 8 Case Details Mary Pushpam v. Telvi Curusumary & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 9941 of 2016) 03 January 2024 [Vikram Nath* and Rajesh Bindal, JJ.] Issue for Consideration As regards the principles of judicial discipline, if the lower or subordinate Courts could contradict the decisions of higher courts. Headnotes Judicial Discipline – Rule and importance of: Held: Rule of ‘Judicial Discipline and Propriety’ promotes certainty and consistency in judicial decisions providing assurance to individuals as to the consequences of their actions – When a decision of a coordinate Bench of same High court is brought to the notice of the bench, it is to be respected and is binding subject to right of the bench of such co-equal quorum to take a different view and refer the question to a larger bench – Following the principles of judicial discipline, lower or subordinate Courts do not have the authority to contradict the decisions of higher courts – On facts, the trial court and the High Court, in the second round of litigation, violated the judicial discipline by adopting a position contrary to the High Court’s final dated 30.03.1990, from the first round of litigation – dated 30.03.1990 attained finality and should be regarded as the conclusive and binding from the initial litigation – Interpreting the said which was clear in itself any differently would clearly amount to judicial indiscipline – Also the Sub-Judge in its rightly observed that the trial court had no business to interpret the of the High Court dated 30.03.1990 in any other way than what was recorded therein – Thus, the impugned and of the High Court is set aside and that of the first appellate court is restored. [Paras 1, 15, 16, 20] * Author 12 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS Suit – Suit for possession – Accurate description of the actual boundary or the measurements of the property – Requirement: Held: Suit for possession has to describe the property in question with accuracy and all details of measurement and boundaries – When the same is lacking, the suit for possession with respect to such a property would be liable to be dismissed on the ground of its identifiability. [Para 23] Doctrines – Doctrine of merger – Basis of: Held: Doctrine of merger is rooted in the idea of maintenance of the decorum of hierarchy of courts and tribunals – Doctrine is based on the simple reasoning that there cannot be, at the same time, more than one operative governing the same subject matter. [Para 17] Doctrines – Doctrine of precedent – Rule of: Held: It promotes certainty and consistency in judicial decisions providing assurance to individuals as to the consequences of their actions – When a decision of a coordinate Bench of same High Court is brought to the notice of the bench, it is to be respected and is binding subject to right of the bench of such co-equal quorum to take a different view and refer the question to a larger bench – It is the only course of action open to a bench of co-equal strength.