Whether coming within the scope and ambit royalty is in the nature of Article 366(28) of the Constitution of tax? which defines taxation to include the imposition of any tax or impost, whether general or local or special and the word “tax” is to be construed accordingly. b. What is the scope of Entry Entry 50 - List II of the Seventh 50 - List II of the Seventh Schedule is, no doubt, a taxation Schedule? What is the Entry which deals with taxes on ambit of the limitations mineral rights. But this Entry is imposable by Parliament subject to any limitations imposed in exercise of its legislative by Parliament by law relating to powers under Entry 54 - mineral development. The use of List I? Does Section 9, the word “any” means the limitation or any other provision of could be in any form which can be the MMDR Act, contain imposed only by the Parliament by any limitation with respect law relating to mineral development. to the field in Entry 50 - In view of the use of the expression List II? “any limitations”, it must be given the widest possible meaning to include a limitation in the form of Sections 9 and 9A, 25 or any other provision of the MMDR Act, 1957 and Rules made thereunder which act as a limitation to Entry 50 - List II. 1842 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Question Issues My Conclusions c. Whether the expression The expression “subject to any “subject to any limitations limitations imposed by Parliament by imposed by Parliament law relating to mineral development” by law relating to mineral in Entry 50 - List II pro tanto subjects development” in Entry the Entry to Entry 54 - List I. The use 50 - List II pro tanto of the expression “any limitations” subjects the Entry to would mean that the taxing Entry Entry 54 - List I, which would be subject to a nontaxing or is a non-taxing general general Entry such as in Entry 54 - Entry? Consequently, is List I which could also be termed as there any departure from a regulatory Entry. Consequently, the general scheme of there is a departure from the general distribution of legislative scheme of distribution of legislative powers as enunciated powers as enumerated in MPV in MPV Sundararamier Sundararamier insofar as Entry 50 (supra)? - List II read with Entry 54 - List I is concerned which is unique to Entry 50 – List II. This is having regard to the significance of Entry 54 – List I which also overrides Entry 23 – List II. d. What is the scope of Entry 49 - List II deals with taxation Entry 49 - List II and of lands and buildings. It does not whether it covers a tax cover taxes on mineral bearing which involves a measure lands. The constitutional position is based on the value of the different qua mineral bearing lands produce of land? Would on account of Entry 50 - List II read the constitutional position with Entry 54 - List I and Section 2 of be any different qua the MMDR Act, 1957.