The appellants filed petitions under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. before the High Court seeking quashing of the FIR and the summoning dated 15.02.2021. The petitions having been dismissed by the composite passed by the High Court, the same are under challenge in the present appeals. ARGUMENTS OF THE APPELLANTS – 10. Mr. Kapil Sibal, Mr. Nakul Dewan and Ms. Anjana Prakash, learned senior counsels for the appellants submitted that the complainant who owns the company invested a sum of ₹5,16,00,000/- in Gulab Buildtech and ₹11,29,50,000/- in Verma Buildtech by acquiring equity shares thereof. Prior to the investment, a resolution was passed by the company in the meeting of the Board of Directors held on [2024] 1 S.C.R. 395 Dinesh Gupta v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. 25.03.2011, approving investment of ₹11,29,50,000/- in the equity shares of Verma Buildtech. Similarly, by a resolution dated 26.08.2011, investment in the equity shares of ₹5,16,00,000/- was approved in Gulab Buildtech. Hence, the complainant’s case that it was a short- term loan given by the company, was totally contrary to the record since a conscious decision had been taken by the company to make investments in the equity shares of Gulab Buildtech and Verma Buildtech. The above two resolutions are reproduced hereunder: First Resolution: “AUTHORIZATION TO INVEST INTO THE EQUITY SHARES OF M/S VERMA BUILDTECH & PROMOTORS PRIVATE LTD. The Chairman apprised the Board of Directors of the Company about the benefit of investment into the equity shares of M/s Verma Buildtech & Promoters Private Ltd offered by way of private placement. The Directors discussed about the same at length and the following resolutions were passed. “RESOLVED THAT the company be and is herewith authorized to make an investment of Rupees Eleven Crore Twenty Nine Lacs and Fifty Thousand only (Rs.11,29,50,000/-) in pursuance of the provision of the companies Act, 1956.” “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT Mr. Narender Kumar and Mr. Tarun Kumar Director of the company be and are hereby severally authorized to do the necessary act including the signing of the documents, deed and agreement and other necessary paper which are incidental and consequential to give effect to the above said resolution and collect the Share certificates.” Second Resolution: AUTHORIZATION TO INVEST INTO THE EQUITY SHARES OF M/S GULAB BUILDTECH PRIVATE LIMITED. The Chairman apprised the Board of Directors of the Company about the benefit of investment into the equity shares of M/S GULAB BUILDTECH PRIVATE LIMITED 396 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports offered by way of private placement. The Directors discussed about the same at length and the following resolutions were passed. “RESOLVED THAT the company be and is herewith authorized to make an investment of Rupees Five Crores Sixteen Lacs only (Rs.5, 16,00,000/-) in pursuance of the provision of the companies Act, 1956.” “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT Mr. Narender Kumar and Mr. Tarun Kumar Director of the company be and are hereby severally authorized to do the necessary act including the signing of the documents, deed and agreement and other necessary paper which are incidental and consequential to give effect to the above said resolution and collect the Share certificates.” 11.