The mere fact that the meeting of the Advisory Board had been held earlier was not a valid excuse for the detaining authority in not considering the representation of the detenu at all. 22 (1981) 1 SCC 416 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 343 Jaseela Shaji v. The Union of India & Ors. 10. It is well settled that in case of preventive detention of a citizen, Article 22(5) of the Constitution enjoins that the obligation of the appropriate Government or of the detaining authority to afford the detenu the earliest opportunity to make a representation and to consider that representation speedily is distinct from the Government’s obligation to constitute a Board and to communicate the representation, amongst other materials, to the Board to enable it to form its opinion and to obtain such opinion. In the instant case, there has been a breach of these constitutional imperatives.” [emphasis supplied] 50. This Court in unequivocal terms held that the delay of one month and five days in communicating the representation of the detenu from the jail to the detaining authority demonstrates the gross negligence and extreme callousness with which the representation made by the detenu was dealt with by the respondents or their agents. It has been further held that Article 22(5) of the Constitution enjoins that the obligation of the appropriate Government or of the detaining authority to afford the detenu the earliest opportunity to make a representation and to consider that representation speedily is distinct from the Government’s obligation to constitute a Board and to communicate the representation, amongst other materials, to the Board to enable it to form its opinion and to obtain such opinion. 51. It is thus clear that merely because the Advisory Board opined that the of detention was sustainable, it does not absolve the agents of the Detaining Authority/the Central Government to immediately forward the representation to the Competent Authority and the Detaining Authority or the Central Government to consider and decide such a representation speedily. 52. In the case of Rattan Singh vs. State of Punjab and others (supra), this Court found that the representation of the detenu made to the State Government was decided expeditiously. However, insofar as the said representation made to the Central Government is concerned, either it was not forwarded or someone tripped somewhere. The inevitable result was that the detenu was deprived of a valuable right to defend and assert his fundamental right to personal liberty. Chief Justice Y.V. Chandrachud, speaking for the Bench, observed thus: 344 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “4. There is no difficulty insofar as the representation to the Government of Punjab is concerned. But the unfortunate lapse on the part of the authorities is that they overlooked totally the representation made by the detenu to the Central Government. The representations to the State Government and the Central Government were made by the detenu simultaneously through the Jail Superintendent. The Superintendent should either have forwarded the representations separately to the Governments concerned or else he should have forwarded them to the State Government with a request for the onward transmission of the other representation to the Central Government.