List of Acts Constitution of India; Uttar Pradesh Industrial Area Development Act, 1976; NOIDA (Levy of Infrastructure Fee) Regulations, 1998. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2005 Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. v. Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association and Others List of Keywords Locus standi; Maintainability; Project; Construction; NOIDA; Contract; Doctrine of Severability; Public policy; Public interest litigation; Taxing statute; Interpretation; DND Flyway project; Delegated Legislation; State instrumentality; Maintainability of writ petition; Constitutional norms; Judicial intervention. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 14826 of 2024 From the and dated 26.10.2016 of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad in PIL No. 60214 of 2012 Appearances for Parties Ravindra Raizada, Sr. Adv./A.A.G., Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Gopal Jain, Parthiv K. Goswami, Ravindra Kumar Sr. Advs., Raunak Dhillon, Ms. Madhavi Khanna, Nihaad Dewan (for M/s. Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas), Ms. Diksha Rai, Mrs. Atiga Singh, Arijit Dey, Ms. Apurva Sachdev, Binay Kumar Das, Ms. Priyanka Das, Ms. Neha Das, Shivam Saxena, Raj Bahadur Yadav, Adarsh Upadhyay, Aman Pathak, Mrs. Pooja Kabra, Ms. Pallavi Kumari, Shashank Puchauri, Pradeep Misra, Daleep Dhyani, Suraj Singh, Manoj Kumar Sharma, Rakesh Chaterjee, M/s. Ap & J Chambers, Advs. for the appearing parties. K.R. Chitra, Adv. for the Intervenor. Respondent-in-person. / of the Supreme Court Surya Kant, J. Leave granted. 2. The NOIDA Toll Bridge Company Limited (NTBCL), has preferred the instant appeal questioning the judgement dated 26.10.2016 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad (High Court). The issue before the High Court concerned a challenge to the collection and levying of toll, as legitimised by the provisions enumerated in the 2006 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Agreement dated 12.11.1997 (Concession Agreement), executed between NTBCL, the New Okhla Industrial Development Authority (NOIDA) and the Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Limited (IL&FS). The Concession Agreement conferred upon NTBCL the rights necessary for the implementation of the Delhi NOIDA Bridge Project or the WDelhi-NOIDA Direct Flyway (DND Flyway/Project) and, in connection thereto, the collection and levying of toll. 3. The High Court has vide the impugned judgement held Articles 13 and 14 of the Concession Agreement to be bad in law and directed NTBCL to cease the imposition of user fees or toll upon commuters using the DND Flyway. A. FActs 4. Having laid out the observations of the High Court in brevi, it is essential at this juncture to delve into the facts of the instant case: 4.1. The controversy at hand concerns the toll levied on the users of the DND Flyway. The inception of this dispute can be traced to the 1980s when the State of Uttar Pradesh (State of UP) sought to construct a bridge connecting South Delhi and NOIDA, to improve connectivity between the two regions. However, the State of UP recognised that significant financial expenditure would be involved in this ambitious endeavour, which it could not undertake independently. 4.2. NOIDA and the Delhi Administration entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with IL&FS on 07.04.1992, intending to construct the DND Flyway.