The parties by way of Clause 1.1(w)(ix) agreed that all litigations pertaining to the business and assets being transferred to the Appellant that arose before or on the Closing Date would not be transferred to the Appellant and will remain with JAL. 25. The aforesaid aspect has been further elaborated under Clause 7 of the Scheme which is reproduced below: [2024] 9 S.C.R. 461 M/s Ultra-Tech Cement Ltd. v. Mast Ram & Ors. “7. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 7.1 All legal or other proceedings (whether civil or criminal, including before any statutory or judicial or quasi-judicial authority or tribunal) by or against the Transferor1 and /or the Transferor2, initiated on or arising and pending before the Effective Date, and relating to the JAL Business and the JCCL Business shall remain with the Transferor1 and/or the Transferor2, as the case may be. 7.2 In the event any case or matter pertaining to contingent liabilities being in the nature of disputed claims, not crystallized on the Closing Date or guarantees listed in Schedule III A and Schedule XI A or any similar instrument by whatsoever name called which have been advance against disputes related to the JAL Business or the JCCL Business existing on the Closing Date, or pertaining to NPV of afforestation charges in respect of mining land being Block 1, 2, 3, 4 and Ningha of Dalla Plant and Jaypee Super Plant, by force of law are transferred to the Transferee, then the Transferor1 and the Transferor 2, shall have full control in respect of the defence of such proceedings including filing the necessary appeals, revisions, etc.. provided that the Transferor1 and the Transferor2, as the case may be, shall not, take any action that is detrimental to the operation of the JAL Business and the JCCL Business. Provided that in respect of such cases pertaining to immovable properties which are part of the JAL Business or the JCCL Business, as the case may be the Transferee shall have a right to participate in such proceedings to ensure that no action detrimental to the operation of JAL Business and the JCCL Business is taken. It is clarified that: (a) any liabilities in respect of cases or matter referred to in this Clause 7.2 shall be paid by the Tranferor1 or the Transferor2 and if paid by the Transferee, the same shall be reimbursed by the Transferor1 or the Transferor2 within 7 (seven) days of such payment; and (b) the aforesaid bank guarantees provided by the Transferor1 and the Transferor2 in respect of the contingent liabilities being in the nature of disputed claims related to the JAL Business or the JCCL Business 462 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports shall continue wherever required and the Transferee shall have no obligation to replace such bank guarantees on the Closing Date and in the event the period of any such bank guarantee expires after the Closing Date, the Transferor1 and /or the Transferor2, as the case may be, shall renew or replace such guarantees wherever required.