512 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 30, the law which had been judicially expounded is incorporated by creating absolute power in a Hindu to dispose of his property by will. This power extends to creating restricted right in favour of a female. 2. Will under Indian Succession Act, applies to Hindu Succession Act as well, operates from the date of death of the testator. 3. Position of the property contemplated in Section 14(1) cannot include acquisition by will. 4. The expression, ‘any manner whatsoever’, will not include a will, which is specifically mentioned in Section 14(2). 5. Even though the instances in the explanation are not exhaustive, it cannot include disposition by way of a will under Section 14(2). 6. Parliament has never intended to confirm a higher right on a Hindu female, than what was enjoyed by a male Hindu. 7. Possession under Section 14(1) must be legal, therefore if the position is placeable to a will, then she cannot get a higher right than what is stipulated in the document. 8. A combined reading of the Sections is that when the law attempts to remove the disability imposed by customary Hindu law, it does not enlarge and exchange the right she will get under a will. 9. The judgement in the case of Thota (supra) is not relevant for interpretation. As in that case, the testator died before the Hindu Succession Act came into force and the widow was in possession as limited owner and her rights became absolute. 10. In the present case succession opened after the Act has come into force. 19. In the above referred decision of this Court in Gumpha (supra), the Court distinguishes the decision in Thota Sesharathamma (supra) [2024] 12 S.C.R. 513 Tej Bhan (D) Through Lr. & Ors. v. Ram Kishan (D) Through Lrs. & Ors. on the ground that the testator died before the commencement of the Hindu Succession Act. 20. The next important decision of this Court is Sadhu Singh (supra) the principle as formulated in this can be restated as under: 1. A hindu wife is entitled to be maintained by her husband u/s.18 HAMA and a hindu widow, being a dependent u/s.21 HAMA, is entitled to claim maintenance from heirs of her husband u/s.22 HAMA to the extent of the estate inherited by them. Further, s.28 HAMA entitles her to claim maintenance against a transferee even. However, this aforesaid entitlement nowhere allows her to create a charge on her husband’s property. In fact, s.27 HAMA expressly states to the contrary. 2. The test therefore is to look at the nature of right acquired by a female hindu - If she takes as an heir, she does it absolutely. But if it’s under a devise, then any restriction placed will apply in view of s.14(2). 3. S.30 is an affirmation to an owner’s right to deal with his property. Thus, when an owner executes a will, laying down the bequest with respect to his estate, the legatee takes subject to terms therein.