As is apparent from the rent deed, on which the prosecution itself has placed reliance, only the first floor was rented out of Ahmad Palace to the Appellant, and he was in exclusive possession thereof. This also raises some doubt with regard to the recovery of the material. 32. The Appellant was arrested on 12.07.2022. He has undergone custody for more than two years and four months. Chargesheet was filed on 07.01.2023 but till date charges have not been framed which is an admitted position. There are 40 accused and 354 witnesses cited by the prosecution to be examined. There can be no doubt that the trial is not likely to complete soon, and as has been laid down by various s of this Court as has been referred to above, the Appellant cannot be allowed to languish in jail indefinitely and that too without a trial. If such an approach is allowed Article 21 of the Constitution of India would stand violated. The ratio as laid down by this Court in Union of India v. K.A. Najeeb (supra) as also the other s in Javed Ghulam Nabi Shaikh v. State of Maharashtra and Anr. (supra) and Thwaha Fasal v. Union of India (supra) would be applicable to this case and would squarely apply entitling the Appellant for grant of bail. 33. The co-accused of the Appellant, Md. Jalaluddin has on similar grounds been granted the same benefit. In the said case, this Court in paragraph 21 has held as follows: “21. Before we part with the , we must mention here that the Special Court and the High Court did not consider the material in the charge sheet objectively. Perhaps the focus was more on the activities of PFI, and therefore, the appellant’s case could not be properly appreciated. When a case is made out for a grant of bail, the Courts should not have any hesitation in [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1107 Athar Parwez v. Union of India granting bail. The allegations of the prosecution may be very serious. But, the duty of the Courts is to consider the case for grant of bail in accordance with the law. Even in a case like the present case where there are stringent conditions for the grant of bail in the relevant statutes, the same rule holds good with only modification that the bail can be granted if the conditions in the statute are satisfied. The rule also means that once a case is made out for the grant of bail, the Court cannot decline to grant bail. If the Courts start denying bail in deserving cases, it will be a violation of the rights guaranteed under Article 21 of our Constitution.” (Emphasis Supplied) 34. In the light of the above, the impugned is set aside. The Appeal is accordingly allowed with a direction that the Appellant be enlarged on bail on the appropriate terms and conditions to be fixed by the Special Court. 35. The Appellant for this purpose shall be produced before the Special Court within a maximum period of 07 days from today.