The distribution was to be handled by the District Collectors, and assistance from ESIC could be sought if needed. The State of Madhya Pradesh was directed to file an affidavit detailing the rehabilitation steps for the 304 affected individuals identified by NHRC. The CPCB was also ed to file an affidavit on actions taken based on the Committee’s report on silicosis and pneumoconiosis in Godhra, Gujarat. 5.8 On 23.8.2016, the Court reviewed the affidavit filed by the District Collectors of the affected regions in the State of Gujarat and acknowledged their efforts in ensuring the compensation was received by the next of kins of the victims. The Court also reviewed the Additional Affidavit filed by the CPCB and observed that 16 out of 30 operational quartz grinding units in Gujarat were non-compliant with statutory mandates. The CPCB also made recommendations for the State Pollution Control Board4 to address deficiencies. The Court directed the SPCB to file an affidavit within four weeks on actions taken based on these recommendations and on closing down 14 non-operational units. It was further stated that if non-compliant units intend to restart, 3 ESIC 4 SPCB 106 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports they must meet mandatory requirements. SPCB must ensure compliance with mandatory pollution prevention measures and take steps to close non-compliant units. The CPCB also conducted an inspection of the quartz grinding units in the State of Gujarat and had made the following recommendations: “i. Adequate provision of dust extraction systems shall be made at potential sources such as jaw crusher hoppers, transfer points of materials from conveyor belts, disintegrators, transfer points of materials from bucket elevators to other plant equipment, rotary screens, magnetic separators, vibratory screens, etc. The dust extraction systems of such potential sources shall be routed through an Air Pollution Control Device (APCD). Stacks attached to APCDs are to be equipped with adequate monitoring facilities as per CPCB Emission Regulation, Part-III. ii. The height of the stack shall be maintained at a minimum of 2 meters above the roof level as prescribed by the Board. iii. Sheds provided for plant process machineries shall be closed properly, and provision of Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras shall be made rather than keeping small openings in the shed for frequent observations. iv. The internal roads shall be made of bitumen/concrete to reduce fugitive emissions by vehicular movement, with proper cleaning and wetting mechanisms. v. Provision of a green belt shall be made along the periphery of the individual units. vi. Provision shall be made for systematic water sprinkling at places of dust generation to reduce fugitive emissions, and records of water utilization shall be maintained. vii. A telescopic chute or any other system shall be adopted to reduce fugitive emissions while loading the products into trucks or fine dust in bags. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 107 Peoples Rights and Social Research Centre (Prasar) & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. viii. Provision of Personal Protective Equipment (dust masks, helmets, safety shoes, goggles, earplugs) and utilization by all workers during the operation of the plant shall be ensured.