6. In view of the above, we summarise our discussion as under: i. Firstly, the existing criteria for identification of private forests in the State of Goa are adequate and valid, hence, they require no alteration. The Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change guidelines, as well as the Scheduled Tribes & other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, are clear and unambiguous, as they have exempted the application of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, on areas that are less than 1 hectare and where not more than 75 trees have to be cut. Reference can be made to the communication dated 03.01.2005 of MoEF. Further, it can be noticed if the criteria i.e., the canopy density of 0.4 and minimum area of 5 ha is reduced to 0.1 and 1 ha as contended, respectively, it will result in the plantations of coconut, orchards, bamboo, palm, supari, cashew, etc., grown by farmers on their private lands into the category of ‘private forest’. The effect would be that even for a minor development on the concerned land, the permission of the Government under the FCA 1980, for the landholders, would become indispensable. It would be of necessity to note that none of the States have adopted the criteria proposed by the appellant, namely the 0.1 density criteria, as it would result in opening a pandora’s box, and it would result in all the States undertaking the task of reassessing the forest area all over again which has since been settled on the basis of existing criteria. ii. Secondly, it has been noticed that appellant is attempting to take a contrary stand on the issue of criteria for the identification of forests, namely, suggesting a change in criteria for the identification of deemed forests under private ownership. On the one hand, the appellant is challenging the criteria adopted by the Sawant and Karapurkar Committees for the identification of inter alia private forests and on the other hand has relied on the same criteria adopted by these two committees for the identification of forests, including private forests, before the Tribunal, as has been observed by the Tribunal in its judgement 742 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports rendered in O.A. No.22 of 2013 on 22/01/2015 in the matter of Goa Foundation v Union of India & Others and in O.A. No.479 of 2018 in the matter of Goa Foundation v State of Goa & Others. Thus, appellant cannot be permitted to approbate and reprobate. The appellant has also failed in its endeavour to have the second interim report of the Sawant Committee and the criteria laid down thereunder to be revisited in Tata Housing (supra) and before the Tribunal in Nisarga (supra). In fact, appellant and another NGO had argued before the Tribunal in Nisarga (supra) that the criteria ought to be 10% canopy density, which did not find favour with the Tribunal in the teeth of Tata Housing (supra), and said passed in Nisarga (O.A. No.19 of 2013) has attained finality.