24-25, paras 22-23) “22. … Presumptions are rules of evidence and do not conflict with the presumption of innocence, because by the latter, all that is meant is that the prosecution is obliged to prove the case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt. The obligation on the prosecution may be discharged with the help of presumptions of law or fact unless the accused adduces evidence showing the reasonable possibility of the non-existence of the presumed fact. 23. In other words, provided the facts required to form the basis of a presumption of law exist, no discretion is left with the court but to draw the statutory conclusion, but this does not preclude the person against whom the presumption is drawn from rebutting it and proving the contrary. A fact is said to be proved when, ‘after considering the matters before it, the court either believes it to exist, or considers its existence so probable that a prudent man ought, under the circumstances of the particular case, to act upon the supposition that it exists’. Therefore, the rebuttal does not have to be conclusively established but such evidence must be adduced before the court in support of the defence that the court must either believe the defence to exist or consider its existence to be reasonably probable, the standard of reasonability being that of the ‘prudent man’.” xxx 60. Having regard to the fact that the Tribunal in the notice to be sent to the proceedee is required to set out the main grounds; evidently the primary onus in relation thereto would be on the State. However, once the Tribunal 2360 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports satisfied itself about the existence of grounds, the burden of proof would be upon the proceedee. 61. In Sonowal I [(2005) 5 SCC 665] this Court clearly held that the burden of proof would be upon the proceedee as he would be possessing the necessary documents to show that he is a citizen not only within the meaning of the provisions of the Constitution of India but also within the provisions of the Citizenship Act.’ (emphasis supplied) 50. Evidently, our understanding and exposition of the law in the preceding paragraphs can be read with Sarbananda Sonowal I (supra) and Sarbananda Sonowal II (supra). It embodies meaning as to what is expected of the authorities till the stage of Section 9 of the Act arrives. The statutory burden would kick in thereafter. 51. 5 learned Judges of this Court in Union of India v Ghaus Mohammad, 1961 SCC OnLine SC 2 held: ‘6. Section 9 of this Act is the one that is relevant. That section so far as is material is in these terms: “xxx” It is quite clear that this section applies to the present case and the onus of showing that he is not a foreigner was upon the respondent. The High Court entirely overlooked the provisions of this section and misdirected itself as to the question that arose for decision.