In view thereof and particularly in the light of the authorities considered in the split verdict and those which have been cited in course of the debate that unfolded before us, calls for a relook at the relevant provisions [2024] 5 S.C.R. 975 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others and the precedents bearing in mind the respective approaches of the Hon’ble Judges in the split verdict: one of them has given public interest paramount importance, no matter what the law ordains; while the other has stuck to the law, no matter what public interest demands. 34. Power of the Supreme Court to review its own and/or has its genesis in Articles 137 and 145 of the Constitution read with XLVII of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 (“2013 Rules”, hereafter). Rule 1 of XLVII of the 2013 Rules, in no uncertain terms, lays down that no application for review in a civil proceeding will be entertained by this Court except on the ground mentioned in Rule 1 XLVII, CPC. Review in civil proceedings is governed by section 114 of the CPC read with XLVII thereof. It would, therefore, not be inapt to read section 114 and Rule 1 of XLVII, CPC once again: 114. Review.— Subject as aforesaid, any person considering himself aggrieved— (a) by a decree or from which an appeal is allowed by this Code, but from which no appeal has been preferred, (b) by a decree or from which no appeal is allowed by this Code, or (c) by a decision on a reference from a Court of Small Causes, may apply for a review of to the Court which passed the decree or made the , and the Court may make such thereon as it thinks fit. XLVII 1. Application for review of .— (1) Any person considering himself aggrieved— (a) by a decree or from which an appeal is allowed, but from which no appeal has been preferred, (b) by a decree or from which no appeal is allowed, or (c) by a decision on a reference from a Court of Small Causes, and who, from the discovery of new and important matter or evidence which, after the exercise of due diligence, was not 976 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports within his knowledge or could not be produced by him at the time when the decree was passed or made, or on account of some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record, or for any other sufficient reason, desires to obtain a review of the decree passed or made against him, may apply for a review of of the Court which passed the decree or made the . 35. Read in conjunction with section 114 of the CPC, XLVII Rule 1 thereof has three broad components which need to be satisfied to set the ball for a review in motion – (i) ‘who’, means the person applying must demonstrate that he is a person aggrieved; (ii) ‘when’, means the circumstances a review could be sought; and (iii) ‘why’, means the grounds on which a review of the /decree ought to be made.