This assertion was underscored by instances such as the failure to disclose crucial information, including the biosafety dossier, and the opaque nature of the consultation process, which impedes meaningful public participation. Further, the petitioner has emphasized the statutory obligations of GEAC to exercise its power of granting approvals for environmental release of GE products in a fair, transparent, and reasonable manner, especially considering the lack of any procedure laid down under the 1989 Rules for the exercise of its powers by 1974 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports GEAC. It is stated that the potential impact of the GM crops on health and environment can only be known after a long gestation period and therefore, a stricter scrutiny ought to have been undertaken. 8.11 Furthermore, the petitioner has criticized the sub-committee formed by GEAC, arguing that such delegation of statutory functions to another body is ultra vires the 1989 Rules. Additionally, concerns regarding the non-disclosure of the biosafety dossier despite assurances and directives from authorities has been raised, which undermine the transparency and integrity of the decision-making process. 8.12 The petitioner has also questioned the validity and adequacy of the AFES Report uploaded by GEAC, highlighting discrepancies in its findings, the lack of application of mind and the lack of comprehensive scientific scrutiny. It is averred that the said document was merely a 133-page summary document that does not explain to the public the data collected and the studies/tests conducted by the CGMCP. It is further pointed out from the AFES report that no study was conducted to examine the physiological impact of the transgene products from the transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 on the insects, no testing was done under the herbicide-sprayed conditions on an HT crop, and no testing was done on the honey quality, despite the questionable study of the impact on honey bees by the crop developers having vested interests in the subject. 8.13 Moreover, the restricted access to the biosafety dossier, despite assurances and directives to disclose it, has also been criticized, since it impedes meaningful public engagement and violates the rights of stakeholders to be informed and participate effectively in the consultation process. In terms of the consultation process, the petitioner has contended that GEAC ought to have adhered to the principles of fairness and transparency and ought not to have made a mockery of the entire process of public consultation to defeat the valuable rights of the general public to be informed about the critical date pertaining to the transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 crop. It was asserted that the present consultation process couldn’t be completed without making available to the public the critical scientific data. Further, the petitioner avers that it was also [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1975 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. highly arbitrary to expect all the interest stakeholders from all corners of the country to travel to New Delhi and conduct a physical examination of the 3000 odd pages at the premises of the MoEF&CC and submit meaningful inputs.