Mere appointment of the arbitral tribunal doesn’t in any way mean that the referral court is diluting the sanctity of “accord and satisfaction” or is allowing the claimant to walk back on its contractual undertaking. On the contrary, it ensures that the principal of arbitral autonomy is upheld and the legislative intent of minimum judicial interference in arbitral proceedings is given full effect. Once the arbitral tribunal is constituted, it is always open for the defendant to raise the issue of “accord and satisfaction” before it, and only after such an objection is rejected by the arbitral tribunal, that the claims raised by the claimant can be adjudicated. 118. Tests like the “eye of the needle” and “ex-facie meritless”, although try to minimise the extent of judicial interference, yet they require the referral court to examine contested facts and appreciate prima facie evidence (however limited the scope of enquiry may be) and thus are not in conformity with the principles of modern arbitration which place arbitral autonomy and judicial non-interference on the highest pedestal. 119. Appointment of an arbitral tribunal at the stage of Section 11 petition also does not mean that the referral courts forego any scope of judicial review of the adjudication done by the arbitral tribunal. The Act, 1996 clearly vests the national courts with the power of subsequent review by which the award passed by an arbitrator may be subjected to challenge by any of the parties to the arbitration. 120. The principle of subsequent judicial review has been enshrined in the US doctrine of “Second Look”. In a leading U.S. Supreme Court judgement of PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. v. Book reported in 538, U.S. 401 (U.S. S. Ct. 2003), it was held that the question [2024] 7 S.C.R. 905 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning of non-arbitrability should be considered in the first instance by the arbitral tribunal. The Court observed that, “since we do not know how the arbitrator will construe the remedial limitations, the question ... whether they render the parties’ agreements unenforceable is better left for initial arbitral consideration”. This doctrine has also been affirmed by judgements of the U.S. lower courts in cases of Dillon v. BMO Harris Bank, NA reported in 856 F.3d 330, 333 (4th Cir. 2017) and Escobar v. Celebration Cruise Operator, Inc. reported in 805 F.3d 1279, 1288-89 (11th Cir. 2015) wherein it was reasoned that the issues of U.S. statutory law and arbitrability should be submitted first to arbitration, with the possibility of subsequent judicial review in recognition and enforcement proceedings. 121. In a case with similar facts but where an arbitration agreement is not in existence, the claimant would have the recourse to approach a civil court with its claims. Even in such proceedings before the civil court, it would be open to the defendant to put forward the defence of “accord and satisfaction” on the basis of the discharge voucher. Similarly, it would be open to the claimant to allege that the voucher had been obtained under fraud, coercion or undue influence.