In the present case, it is not in dispute that when 2019 Amendment came into force and later when the FIR was registered, the aforesaid two videos were still stored in the mobile phone of the respondent no. 1. In such circumstances, Section 15 sub-section (1) could be said to be prima facie attracted. a. Plea of Ignorance of Law: Ignorance of Law viz-a-viz Incognizance of Law. 206. At this juncture, we may address yet another submission that was canvassed on behalf of the accused as regards the plea of bona- fide ignorance of law. It was contended that the accused was not aware of the fact that storing of child-pornography was a punishable offence under Section 15 of POCSO and that the child pornographic material which was found stored in his mobile phone was due to his unawareness of the law accompanied by a bona-fide belief that such storage was not an offence, and as such he ought not to be held liable. In this regard, reliance has been placed on two decisions of this Court in Chandi Kumar Das Karmarkar (supra) and Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills (supra). 207. In Chandi Kumar Das Karmarkar (supra), the facts of the case are as follows; there was a civil dispute inter-alia between the accused persons therein and the complainant as regards the ownership of a 278 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports water tank where fishes had been reared. The complainant therein had acquired possession of the said tank on the strength of an ex- parte decree against the accused persons. Eventually, that ex-parte decree was set-aside, however the final decision on the title was still pending. Although no application for restitution was preferred yet the accused, due to a bona-fide ignorance of law, was under the impression that he had regained possession of the said tank and again started catching fishes in the tank. The complainant lodged an FIR against the accused persons inter-alia alleging theft of fish from his tank. The accused therein in his defence pleaded ignorance of law stating that he was unaware that, the said tank and the fishes in that expanse of water under the law continued to be deemed to be the property of the complainant in the absence of any restitution or that the possession of the water reservoir had not reverted back to him. He further pleaded that; he was under a bona-fide belief that he had a right of possession of the said tank by virtue of the ex-parte decree being set-aside. This Court held that any claim of right due to a bona-fide ignorance of law, if reasonable will not constitute an act of theft. It further explained that a claim to such right means one which is not a false pretence but a fair pretence, and not a complete absence of claim but a bona-fide claim, however weak. The relevant observations read as under: - “6. The offence of theft consists in the dishonest taking of any moveable property out of the possession of another with his consent.