2395 Shyam Kumar Inani v. Vinod Agrawal & Ors. them from raising their defence and contesting the claim of the appellants. In this respect, reference has been made to the oral evidence of the defendants which has been dealt with at an appropriate stage later in this . Referring to the expert evidence relating to the genuineness of the signature of Sushila Devi on the Agreement to Sell dated 30.08.1990, it was submitted that even the expert witness introduced by the defendants, Shri N.C. Deshpande, DW-3 had stated in his report to the effect that this report would not go to establish that the Agreement to Sell was not signed by Sushila Devi. Thus, the defendants had failed to establish their claim that no Agreement to Sell had been executed by Sushila Devi. 21. On behalf of the respondents, the following submissions have been made which are summarised hereunder: - 21.1. The plaintiff-appellants failed to prove the Agreement to Sell dated 30.08.1990 as also the General Power of Attorney dated 04.09.1990. Our attention was drawn to the evidence led by the plaintiffs as also the defendants in support of the submis- sions which would be dealt with appropriately at a later stage while analysing the arguments. Reliance was placed upon the of this Court in the case of Thiruvengadam Pillai vs. Navaneethammal and Anr.3 21.2. Not only the plaintiffs failed to prove the execution of Agreement to Sell and General Power of Attorney, but they also failed to prove the contents of the Agreement to Sell and the General Power of Attorney. The submission that the contents of the General Power of Attorney and the Agreement to Sell were not read out and explained to the executor, namely Sushila Devi as she was an old illiterate lady, it was submitted that Sushila Devi would thus fall in the category of a Pardanashin lady and would be entitled to the protection available to the Pardanashin lady as explained and settled in the following s: - MST. Kharbuja Kuer vs. Jangbahadur Rai & Ors. (Supra) - Krishna Mohan Kul vs. Pratima Maity and ors. (para 17) 3 (2008) 4 SCC 530# (Para 19) # Ed. Note: “530” instead of “250” in terms of subsequent corrigendum. 2396 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 21.3. The plaintiffs did not enter the witness box and therefore could not have proved the Agreement to Sell executed on 30.08.1990. Execution of a document could be proved only by a person present at the time of the Agreement to Sell. Reliance is placed upon the following four s: - Vidyadhar Vishnupant Ratnaparkhi v. Manikrao Babarao Deshmukh and ors.4 - Janki Vashdeo Bhojwani & Anr. V. Indusind Bank Ltd. And Anr.5 - Man kaur vs. Hartar Singh Sangha6 - Rajesh Kumar vs. Anand Kumar7 21.4. The readiness and willingness were not proved by the plaintiff- appellants as they never made any efforts to get the sale deed executed and registered after getting the same typed out on the payable stamp duty.