The tests of arbitrary action which apply to executive actions do not necessarily apply to delegated legislation. In that delegated legislation can be struck down, such legislation must be manifestly arbitrary; a law which could not be reasonably expected to emanate from an authority delegated with the law-making power. In Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) (P) Ltd. v. Union of India [(1985) 1 SCC 641 : 1985 SCC (Tax) 121], this Court said that a piece of subordinate legislation does not carry the same degree of immunity which is enjoyed by a statute passed by a competent legislature. A subordinate legislation may be questioned under Article 14 on the ground that it is unreasonable; ‘unreasonable not in the sense of not being reasonable, but in the sense that it is manifestly arbitrary’. Drawing a comparison between the law in England and in India, the Court further observed that in England the Judges would say, ‘Parliament never intended the authority to make such Rules; they are unreasonable and ultra vires’. In India, arbitrariness is not a separate ground since it will come within the embargo of Article 14 of the Constitution. But subordinate legislation must be so arbitrary that it could not be said to be in conformity with the statute or that it offends Article 14 of the Constitution.” (Emphasis supplied) 26.13. In Shayara Bano v. Union of India & Ors. (5-Judge Bench),33 RF Nariman J., while dissenting with the majority, observed : “Manifest arbitrariness, therefore, must be something done by the legislature capriciously, irrationally and/ or without adequate determining principle. Also, when something is done which is excessive and disproportionate, such legislation would be manifestly arbitrary.” (Emphasis supplied) 33 [2017] 9 SCR 797 : (2017) 9 SCC 1 1898 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 26.14. Neither in the limited pleadings made before this Court nor in the extensive oral arguments advanced was the point of the rules being allegedly manifestly arbitrary, addressed adequately. On an independent analysis, I am unable to find any of the aspects of manifest arbitrariness to have been met, much less on the ground that bureaucratic influence taints the functioning of the GEAC. This aspect further stands amplified herein, later. 27. On a further count, this challenge, in my view fails. The 1989 Rules present a well-rounded mechanism to deal with GMOs and their introduction into fields of common usage. 27.1. Rule 4 of the 1989 Rules provide for the six different competent authorities to oversee the research and regulations in the field of GMOs, whose functions are elaborated herein. i. Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee (RDAC) is responsible to review developments in Biotechnology at national and international levels and recommend safety regulations in recombinant research, use and applications from time to time. ii. The committee - Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation (RCGM) - is made responsible to monitor the safety related aspect in respect of on-going research projects and activities involving genetically engineered organisms/hazardous microorganisms. It is further tasked with bringing out manuals of guidelines specifying procedure for regulatory process with respect to activities involving GMOs in research, use and applications including industry with a view to ensure environmental safety.