67 District Appropriate Authority under the PNDT Act and Chief District Health Officer v. Jashmina Dilip Devda & Anr. Laboratory or Genetic Clinic without issuing any such notice referred to in sub-section (1). 10. Bare reading of the aforesaid provisions makes it clear that Section 20(1) & (2) deals with both suspension or cancellation as the case may be, while Section 20(3) only deals with suspension in public interest. The authority, while exercising power under sub-sections (1) & (2) of Section 20 of PC&PNDT Act, may act suo moto or on a complaint and after notice to the Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory or Genetic Clinic for the reasons to show cause why its registration should not be suspended or cancelled, and affording reasonable opportunity of hearing and having regard to the advice of the Advisory Committee and on being satisfied that there was a breach of the provisions of the PC&PNDT Act or the Rules, without prejudice to any criminal action, may suspend or cancel its registration as the case maybe. Meaning thereby that for breach of the provisions of the PC&PNDT Act and the Rules, power of suspension for such period as may deem fit or of cancellation may be exercised parallelly by the appropriate authority. 11. Sub-Section (3) of Section 20 only deals with suspension and confers independent power to the appropriate authority irrespective and notwithstanding the power under sub-sections (1) or (2) of Section 20. The said power may only be exercised by the appropriate authority if the said authority is of the opinion that exercise of such power is necessary or expedient in public interest. Meaning thereby that the exercise of such power of suspension by appropriate authority is in a contingency where it is expedient or necessary to take immediate action in public interest. While exercising such power, it is incumbent on the authority to form an opinion for reasons to be recorded in writing to indicate the said public interest. The said power is not akin to the power as specified in sub-section 2 of Section 20 of PC&PNDT Act and the Rules thereto. 12. In the light of the discussion of the above provisions, it is required to be seen whether the of suspension passed on 25.10.2010 is really an under sub-section (2) or under sub-section (3) of Section 20 of the PC&PNDT Act. To understand the real intent of the , it would be proper to reproduce the dated 25.10.2010 as under: 68 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “No. DP/H/PNDT/Regn. Susp/Dr. Jasmina Devda/315/10 O/O Appropriate Authority, PNDT Act, 1994 & CDHO, District Panchayat, Health Branch, Ahmedabad Date: 25.10.2010 Read: 1. The facts of the observations by Appropriate Authority during the visit & the search & Seizure operation at clinic of Dr. Jasmina D. Devda, Dev Hospital, Vasna, Ahmedabad on 21st October, 2010. 2. Advice of the PNDT Advisory Committee meeting held on 22/10/2010. 3. Powers conferred under Section 20(1) & (2) of PC&PNDT Act, 1994 Office :- As per the points read above, a search & seizure operation was conducted at the clinic of Dr. Jasmina D. Devda, Dev Hospital, Kesariyaji Bus Stop, Dr. Jivraj Mehta Hospital Road, Vasna, Ahmedabad on 21st October, 2010.