Subsequently, vide registered lease deed dated 20.12.2019, the subject land has been taken on lease by the petitioner from the co-owners, including Sh. Dinesh Kumar and Sh. Leela Dhar. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1263 Pawan Kumar v. Union of India & Ors. XV. The said Special Leave Petition deserves to be allowed also because the Court case on the subject land has been amicably resolved between the co-owners by way of amicable out of court settlement and only after that the LOI has been issued in favour of the petitioner. As a matter of fact, pendency of civil dispute in respect of offered land does not ipso facto debar the candidate from applying for retail outlet dealership. The affidavits from all the co-owners were obtained as per Appendix III A of the said Brochure of 2018. Since the dispute was resolved and the court case was withdrawn, the land in question became free from any encumbrance and only after meticulous scrutiny of all the documents provided by the petitioner / selected candidate, his case was processed and has been issued the LOI by the answering respondent/BPCL absolutely in consonance with the said Brochure of 2018. XVI. The said Special Leave Petition deserves to be allowed also because immediately on the receipt of the complaint from the respondent No. 5, the selection process of the petitioner was stopped and explanation and supporting documents, were sought for from the petitioner. Only after being satisfied that the offered land was suitable for establishment of a retail outlet and the court case had been resolved amicably, the answering respondent/ BPCL proceeded to issue the LOI to the petitioner on 21.09.2019. In fact the petitioner /selected candidate provided to the answering respondent/BPCL all the relevant land documents, including consent from the co-owners which were checked by the concerned application scrutiny committee even prior to the complaint of the respondent No. 5. Moreover, any complaint against a candidate can be entertained only if it is made as per procedure prescribed under Clause 18 - Grievance Redressal System provided in the said Brochure of 2018. XVII. The said Special Leave Petition deserves to be allowed also because the respondent No. 5 subsequently made a representation through the PG Portal, which 1264 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports was duly replied vide the answering respondent/BPCL’s letter dated 10.08.2019. It is respectfully submitted that from the averments made in para 14 of his writ petition, it appears that the respondent No. 5 has misconceived and misunderstood the selection process described in the said Brochure of 2018. It is pertinent to mention that the Field Verification of Credentials (FVC) is to be carried out for the selected with respect to the details provided by him in the application form. The FVC was duly carried out by the FVC with the guidelines laid down in the said Brochure of 2018 and only thereafter the petitioner was recommended for issuance of the LOI. XVIII. The said Special Leave Petition deserves to be allowed also because before establishment of the retail outlet, it is required of the co-owners of the offered land to give their consent letter for establishment of the retail outlet prior to issuance of the LOI.