Building on this argument, the Court further stated that a minority would not enjoy the rights of administering the institution not established by it, merely because it might have been administering it before the Constitution came into force. The phrase “establish and administer” in Article 30 has to be read conjunctively and there is no precedent which holds that it can be read disjunctively. The Court further went on to hold that in 1920, there was nothing to stop the Muslim community from establishing a university if they so desired. The nucleus of AMU was Mohammedan Anglo-Oriental College16, an institution under the Allahabad University. The conversion of MAO College to AMU was not undertaken or effectuated by the Muslim community, but by the force of statute. Therefore, this Court declared that AMU was established by the Central Legislature of British India. 15 AMU Act, hereafter 16 MAO College, hereafter 1864 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 17. Through Azeez Basha (supra), this Court distinguished its earlier Constitution Bench decision in Re: Kerala Education Bill.17 An argument was raised therein that only minority institutions established post the commencement of the Constitution could be granted the protection under Article 30(1). This Court in Re: Kerala Education Bill (supra) held that any institution, whether established before or after the commencement of the Constitution,could be afforded the protection under Article 30(1) as Article 30(1) would lose much of its content if interpreted so narrowly. But it was pointed out that in Re: Kerala Education Bill (supra), this Court never held that the terms “administer” and “establish” can be read disjunctively. 18. The decision in Azeez Basha (supra) was doubted in Anjuman- e-Rahmania (supra), and was referred to a bench of 7 (seven) Judges for reconsideration. That proceeding germinated from an unconnected writ petition filed by an institution registered under the Societies Registration Act, 186018 and was hardly related to the issue of the minority character of AMU. In fact, the question of law arising for decision in the writ petition under Article 32, briefly captured in the dated 26th November, 1981, would show that there was no factual similarity with that in Azeez Basha (supra). 19. It is, therefore, considered proper to read the referral in its entirety for facility of proper understanding of what the bench of 2 (two) Judges in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) had in mind and what was the ultimate direction. The said reads as follows: “After hearing counsel for the Parties, we are clearly of the opinion that this case involves two substantial questions regarding the interpretation of Article 30(1) of the Constitution of India. The present Institution was founded in the year 1938 and registered under the Societies Registration Act in the year 1940. The documents relating to the time when the institution was founded clearly shows that while the institution was established mainly by the Muslim community but there were members from the non-muslim community also who participated in the establishment process. The point that arises is as 17 1959 SCR 995 18 Societies Act, hereafter [2024] 11 S.C.R.