41. We may, however, briefly mention that the grounds of arrest as conveyed to the Advocate are more or less a narration of facts picked up from the FIR which in itself does not indicate any particular incident or event which gave rise to the alleged offences. However, the law is well settled that the FIR is not an encyclopaedia and is registered just to set the process of criminal justice in motion. The [2024] 6 S.C.R. 695 Prabir Purkayastha v. State (NCT of Delhi) Investigating Officer has the power to investigate the matter and collect all relevant material which would form the basis of filing of charge sheet in the Court concerned. 42. Extensive arguments were advanced by Shri Sibal, with reference to the stipulations made in Sections 13, 16, 17, 18, 22C of the UAPA in to contend that even if the FIR and the grounds set out in the remand application are taken to be true on the face of the record, apparently, the same convey just a fictional web spun around conjectures and surmises. It was contended that though a reference is made in the FIR that the appellant and one Neville Roy Singham, a foreign national were found to be discussing how to create a map of India without Kashmir and to show Arunachal Pradesh as a disputed area but the fact remains that no such map was prepared or published or was found in possession of the appellant or on his devices till the date of his arrest. 43. Shri Sibal had also argued that the appellant was arrested without any indication as to how he was connected with the alleged incorrect map of India. He also urged that the FIR refers to farmers’ agitation without justifying as to how the appellant was connected with those incidents. He contended that not a single incident is mentioned in the FIR or the remand application which can give rise to the offences alleged and that the FIR was registered without any plausible reason or basis just to victimise the appellant. 44. We do not feel persuaded to examine these aspects at this stage because the same would require entering into the merits of the case. This would be within the domain of the Court examining the matter after the filing of the charge sheet. The core issue in this appeal is regarding the illegality of the process whereby the appellant was arrested and remanded to police custody which does not require examining the merits of the case. 45. It was the fervent contention of learned ASG that in the case of Ram Kishor Arora (supra), a two-Judge Bench of this Court interpreted the in the case of Pankaj Bansal (supra) to be having a prospective effect and thus the ratio of Pankaj Bansal (supra) cannot come to the appellant’s aid. Indisputably, the appellant herein was remanded to police custody on 4th October, 2023 whereas the in the case of Pankaj Bansal (supra) was delivered on 3rd October, 2023.