Being a signatory to the New York Convention, we must therefore adopt an internationalist approach20. What follows from the above is that there is a clear distinction between the standards of public policy applicable for domestic arbitration and international commercial arbitration. Proceeding with the aforedeclared proposition to have a narrow meaning to the doctrine of public policy and applying an international outlook, let us now hark back to whether a foreign Award can be refused enforcement on the ground of bias. 22. Even though the New York Convention does not explicitly mention “bias”, the possible grounds for refusing recognition of a foreign award are contained in Article V(1)(d)(irregular composition of arbitral tribunal), Article V(1)(b) (due process) and the public policy defence under Article V(2)(b). Courts across the world have applied a higher threshold of bias to prevent enforcement of an Award than the standards set for ordinary judicial review21. Therefore, Arbitral 19 Committee On International Commercial Arbitration, ‘Application Of Public Policy As A Ground For Refusing Recognition Or Enforcement Of International Arbitral Awards’ In International Law Association Report Of The Seventieth Conference(New Delhi 2000) 20 Fali Nariman and others, ‘The India Resolutions for the 1958 Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Awards’ in Dushyant Dave and others(ed) Arbitration in India (Kluwer 2021) 21 Reinmar Wolff (ed), A Review of New York Convention: Article-by-Article Commentary (2nd edn Beck/ Hart, 2019) 352 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 985 Avitel Post Studioz Limited & Ors. v. HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius) Limited (Previously Named Hpeif Holdings 1 Limited) awards are seldom refused recognition and enforcement, considering the existence of a heightened standard of proof for non – recognition and enforcement of an award, based on alleged partiality22. It invokes a higher threshold than is applicable in cases of removal of the arbitrator.23 This is for the reasons that, greater risk, efforts, time, and expenses are involved in the non-recognition of an award as against the removal of an arbitrator during the arbitral proceedings. 23. What is also essential to note is that Courts across the world do not adopt a uniform test while dealing with allegations of bias24. The standards for determining bias vary across different legal systems and jurisdictions25. English Courts26, for instance, adopt the “informed or fair minded” observer test to conclude whether there is a “real possibility of bias”. Australia27 adopts the “real danger of bias” test and Singapore28 prefers the standard of “reasonable suspicion” rejecting the “real danger of bias” test. Therefore, the outcome of a challenge on the ground of bias would vary, depending on domestic standards. 24. Cautioning against applying domestic standards at the enforcement stage, Gary Born29 emphasizing on the adherence to international standards, makes the following observation: “In light of developing sources of international standards with regard to arbitrators’ conflict of interest, it should be possible to identify and apply international minimum standards of impartiality and independence... More generally, in considering whether to deny recognition of an award under Article V, national courts should not apply domestic standards of independence and impartiality without regard to their international context.