Read in isolation, a literal interpretation of section 35 of the 1957 Act seems to make the position in law clear that once an instrument has been admitted in evidence, then its admissibility cannot be contested at any stage of the proceedings on the ground of it not being duly stamped. A fortiori, it would follow that any objection pertaining to the instrument’s insufficient stamping must be raised prior to its admission. 13. However, section 35 of the 1957 Act is not the only relevant section. It is preceded by sections 33 and 34 and all such sections are part of Chapter IV, tiled “Instruments Not Duly Stamped”. Certain obligations 326 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports are cast by section 33 on persons/officials named therein. Should the presiding officer of the court find the instrument to be chargeable with duty but it is either not stamped or is insufficiently stamped, he is bound by section 33 to impound the same. Section 34 places a fetter on the court’s authority to admit an instrument which, though chargeable with duty, is not duly stamped. The statutory mandate is that no such instrument shall be admitted in evidence unless it is duly stamped. 14. The presiding officer of a court being authorised in law to receive an instrument in evidence, is bound to give effect to the mandate of sections 33 and 34 and retains the authority to impound an instrument even in the absence of any objection from any party to the proceedings. Such an absence of any objection would not clothe the presiding officer of the court with power to mechanically admit a document that is tendered for admission in evidence. The same limitation would apply even in case of an objection regarding admissibility of an instrument, owing to its insufficient stamping, being raised before a court of law. Irrespective of whether objection is raised or not, the question of admissibility has to be decided according to law. The presiding officer of a court when confronted with the question of admitting an instrument chargeable with duty but which is either not stamped or is insufficiently stamped ought to judicially determine it. Application of judicial mind is a sine qua non having regard to the express language of sections 33 and 34 and interpretation of pari materia provisions in the Indian Stamp Act, 189911 by this Court. However, once a decision on the objection is rendered – be it right or wrong – section 35 would kick in to bar any question being raised as to admissibility of the instrument on the ground that it is not duly stamped at any stage of the proceedings and the party aggrieved by alleged improper admission has to work out its remedy as provided by section 58 of the 1957 Act. 15. Profitable reference may be made to the decision of this Court in Javer Chand and others v. Pukhraj Surana12. There, provisions of section 36 of the 1899 Act, which is pari materia section 35 of the 1957 Act, came up for consideration.