The objection of the petitioners to the report of IIT, Madras on the grounds of alleged bias would be considered in the course of the reasoned which will follow. At this stage, in to obviate any controversy, the Court has independently scrutinized the data which has been placed on the record by the NTA; (iv) At the present stage, there is an absence of material on the record to lead to the conclusion that the entire result of the examination stands vitiated or that there was a systemic breach in the sanctity of the examination; 6 “IIT” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 965 Vanshika Yadav v. Union of India and Others (v) Added to the absence of conclusive material on the record at the present stage, the data which has been produced on the record city-wise and centre-wise and the comparison of data for the years 2022, 2023 and 2024 are not indicative of a systemic leak of the question paper impacting the sanctity of the examination; (vi) In arriving at the ultimate conclusion, the Court is guided by the well-settled test of whether it is possible to segregate tainted students from those whose candidature does not suffer from any taint. If the investigation reveals the involvement of an increased number of beneficiaries over and above those who are suspects at the present stage, action shall be pursued against every student found to be involved in wrong doing at any stage, notwithstanding the completion of the counselling process. No student who is revealed to have engaged in acts of fraud or to have been the beneficiary of malpractice would be entitled to claim a vested right or interest in the continuation of the admission in the future by virtue of the findings in this ; and (vii) Directing a fresh NEET (UG) to be conducted for the present year would be replete with serious consequences for over two million students who have appeared in the examination. Adopting such a course of action would, in particular, (i) lead to a disruption of the admission schedule for the commencement of medical courses, setting back the entire process by several months; (ii) lead to cascading effects on the course of medical education; (iii) impact the availability of qualified medical professionals in the future; and (iv) cause a serious element of disadvantage to students belonging to marginalized communities and weaker sections for whom reservation has been made in the allocation of seats. 12. ing the cancellation of the entire NEET (UG) 2024 examination is not justified on the application of the settled tests which have been propounded in the decisions of this Court or on the basis of the data and material available on the record. 13. Apart from this, it is necessary to deal with another contention of the petitioners. One of the questions in the course of the NEET (UG) 2024 was in the following terms: 966 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “Given below are two statements: Statement I: Atoms are electrically neutral as they contain equal number of positive and negative charges.