It is also the stand of the appellant-landlady that the respondent-Bank did not pay her the use and occupation charges in respect of the subject premises from 16th August, 2004 till 20th February, 2006, after adjusting the security deposit of ₹85,875/- (Rupees Eighty five thousand eight hundred seventy five only) towards the rent payable for three months. 5. Aggrieved by the non-payment of rent by the respondent-Bank, the appellant filed an application before the Rent Tribunal, Jaipur City, Jaipur on 20th February, 2006 seeking eviction and recovery of the arrears of rent. It was after institution of the aforesaid petition by the appellant-landlady that the respondent-Bank handed over the keys of the premises to her before the Presiding Officer of the Rent Control Tribunal on 18th June, 2006. The petition filed by the appellant- landlady was contested to the hilt by the respondent-Bank who also filed a counter claim seeking refund of the security amount along with interest @ 24% per annum compounded quarterly, w.e.f. 17th August, 2004, till realization. Vide dated 10th April, 2008, the rent application filed by the appellant-landlady was decreed in her favour and the counter claim filed by the respondent-Bank was rejected. 6. Aggrieved by the aforesaid decision, the respondent-Bank filed an appeal before the Appellate Rent Tribunal which was allowed vide dated 05th March, 2009. As a consequence thereof, the decree passed in favour of the appellant-landlady was set aside and the counter claim filed by the respondent-Bank was allowed. The said was challenged by the appellant-landlady by filing a petition 284 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under Article 227 of the Constitution of India before the High Court which was dismissed by the learned Single Judge vide dated 09th January, 2012. Instead of approaching this Court for relief against the said , the appellant filed a misconceived intra court appeal that has been dismissed by the Division Bench of the High Court as not maintainable vide dated 30th July, 2015. Both the s are under appeal before us. 7. Ms. Shobha Gupta, learned Senior counsel appearing for the appellant-landlady submits that the learned Single Judge has erred in upholding the passed by the Appellate Rent Tribunal whereby the decree passed in favour of the appellant-landlady was set aside inasmuch as the Court failed to appreciate the fact that the notice dated 10th May, 2004 issued by the respondent-Bank referred to its proposal to handover possession of the subject premises on 16th August, 2004. It is urged that the security deposit could have been refunded to the respondent-Bank contemporaneous to handing over vacant and peaceful possession of the premises to the appellant- landlord, which in the instant case was not done. It is therefore, submitted that the obligation cast on the appellant-landlady to refund the security amount in terms of the lease agreement did not arise till the respondent-Bank actually vacated the subject premises which admittedly remain in its possession till 18th June, 2006. 8. Per contra, Mr. Sandeep P. Agarwal, learned Senior counsel appearing for the respondent-Bank seeks to rely on the terms and conditions of the lease agreement and, in particular clauses of the Deposit Agreement dated 13th October, 2000.