592 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11. By the Amendment Act 2018, several provisions more particularly the offences described under Section 7, 8, 9, 10 and 13 in the PC Act, 1988 were substituted with the new provisions; and several new provisions like Section 7A, 17A, 18A, 29A etc. were inserted. Certain provisions pertaining to the punishments of the offences under the Act were also amended. The newly added Section 17A being relevant for this Appeal, is reproduced as under: - “17A. Enquiry or Inquiry or investigation of offences relatable to recommendations made or decision taken by public servant in discharge of official functions or duties.— No police officer shall conduct any enquiry or inquiry or investigation into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant under this Act, where the alleged offence is relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by such public servant in discharge of his official functions or duties, without the previous approval— (a) in the case of a person who is or was employed, at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed, in connection with the affairs of the Union, of that Government; (b) in the case of a person who is or was employed, at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed, in connection with the affairs of a State, of that Government; (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office, at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed: Provided that no such approval shall be necessary for cases involving arrest of a person on the spot on the charge of accepting or attempting to accept any undue advantage for himself or for any other person: Provided further that the concerned authority shall convey its decision under this section within a period of three months, which may, for reasons to be recorded in writing by such authority, be extended by a further period of one month.” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 593 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. 12. Since the main issue involved in the present Appeal is in respect of the interpretation of the newly inserted provision Section 17A, let us regurgitate the basic principles of Statutory interpretation as propounded by this Court from time to time. It is well known rule of interpretation of statutes that the courts must look to the object which the Statute seeks to achieve while interpreting any of the provisions of the Act. A purposive approach for interpreting the Act is necessary9. The purport and object of the Act must be given its full effect10. The text and the context of the entire Act must be looked into while interpreting any of the expressions used in the Statue. If two views are possible, the view which most accords the object of the Act, and which makes the Act workable must necessarily be the controlling view.