[2024] 1 S.C.R. 239 THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. v. ASSOCIATION OF RETIRED SUPREME COURT AND HIGH COURT JUDGES AT ALLAHABAD & ORS 5.5 Addressing Non-Compliance: The court should evaluate instances of non-compliance, taking into account procedural delays or technical reasons. If the original lacks a specified compliance timeframe, it should consider granting an appropriate extension to facilitate compliance. 5.6 When the specifies a compliance deadline and difficulties arise, the court should permit the contemnor to submit an application for an extension or stay before the issuing court or the relevant appellate/higher court. 46. In a nutshell, the conclusions reached in this Judgement are as follows: a. The High Court did not have the power to direct the State Government to notify Rules proposed by the Chief Justice pertaining to post-retiral benefits for former Judges of the High Court. The Chief Justice did not have the competence to frame the rules under Article 229 of the Constitution. Further, the High Court, acting on the judicial side, does not have the power to direct the Government to frame rules proposed by it on the administrative side. b. The power of criminal contempt could not be invoked by the High Court against officials of the Government of Uttar Pradesh on the ground that the application for recall of the First Impugned was ‘contemptuous’. The actions of the officials do not meet the standard of both ‘criminal contempt’ and ‘civil contempt’. c. The conduct of the High Court in frequently summoning government officials to exert pressure on the government, under the threat of contempt, is impermissible. Summoning officials repeatedly, instead of relying on the law officers representing the government or the submissions of the government on affidavit, runs contrary to the scheme envisaged by the Constitution. d. The SOP on Personal Appearance of Government Officials in Court Proceedings framed by this Court in Para 45 of this Judgement must be followed by all courts across the country. All High Courts shall consider framing rules to regulate the appearance of Government officials in court, after taking into account the SOP which has been formulated above. 240 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 47. Both the Impugned s dated 4 April 2023 and 19 April 2023 are set aside and the appeals are disposed of. The High Court is at liberty to hear the writ petition, in view of the observations made in this judgement. 48. The Registry is directed to communicate the to the Registrar General of every High Court. 49. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain Result of the case: Appeals disposed of.