Section 2(b) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 defines civil contempt as meaning “wilful disobedience to any , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court or wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court”. Analysed, the definition provides for two categories of cases, namely, (1) wilful disobedience to a process of 17 [2008] 10 SCR 1169 : (2008) 14 SCC 561 18 [2006] 3 SCR 1068 : (2006) 11 SCC 114 432 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports court, and (2) wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court. As far as the first category is concerned, the word “any” further indicates the wide nature of the power. No distinction is statutorily drawn between an passed after an adjudication and an passed by consent. This first category is separate from the second and cannot be treated as forming part of or taking colour from the second category. The legislative intention clearly was to distinguish between the two and create distinct classes of contumacious behaviour. Interestingly, the courts in England have held that the breach of a consent decree of specific performance by refusal to execute the agreement is punishable by way of proceedings in contempt.” (emphasis added) 33. Citing the decisions in Patel Rajnikant Dhulabhai (supra) and Rama Narang (supra), this Court observed in Balwantbhai Somabhai Bhandari v. Hiralal Somabhai19 that : “62. Thus, it is evident that Section 2(b) of the Act, which defines civil contempt, consists of two different parts and categories, namely, (i) wilful disobedience to any , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court or (ii) wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court. The expression “any” used with reference to the first category indicates the wide nature of power given to the Court and that the statute does not draw a difference between an passed after adjudication or an passed by consent. The first part or category is distinct and cannot be treated as a part or taking colour from the second category. This Court consciously observed that the Courts in England have held that the breach of consent decree of performance by refusal to execute an agreement was punishable by way of contempt proceedings. With reference to the second part, in Rama Narang (supra) it was observed that giving of an undertaking is distinct from a consent recording 19 [2023] 11 SCR 1064 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1139 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 433 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others compromise. In the latter case of violation of compromise, no question of contempt arises, but the party can enforce the of compromise either by execution or injunction from a Court. However, in the former case, when there is wilful disobedience, contempt application and proceedings would be maintainable.” (emphasis added) 34. In Balwantbhai Somabhai Bhandari (supra), the Court further observed as under : “73.