v. State of Orissa 1991 Supp (2) SCC 451 – referred to. List of Acts Penal Code, 1860 List of Keywords Murder; Common intention; Witnesses; Corroboration; Sentence for life; Evidence; Eye-witnesses; Appreciation of evidence and law; Testimonies; Oral and documentary evidence; Scene of offence; Post-mortem report; Likely to cause death. Case Arising From CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No.2852 of 2023 From the and dated 26.04.2022 of the High Court for the State of Telangana at Hyderabad in CRLA No.308 of 2005 Appearances for Parties Gaurav Agrawal, D. Abhinav Rao, Ms. Prerna Robin, Rahul Jajoo, Devadipta Das, Advs. for the Appellants. Sirajudeen, Sr. Adv., Krishna Kumar Singh, Sri Harsha Peechara, Duvvuri Subrahmanya Bhanu, Ms. Pallavi, Ms. Kriti Sinha, Akshat [2024] 2 S.C.R. 3 Velthepu Srinivas and Others v. State of Andhra Pradesh (Now State of Telangana) and Anr. Kulshreshtha, Rajiv Kumar Choudhry, G.Seshagiri Rao, Gaichangpou Gangmei, Rahul Aggarwal, Amit Pratap Singh, Ms. Lothungbeni T. Lotha, Yimyanger Longkumer, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J. 1. This criminal appeal by appellants (accused 1 to 4) is against the concurrent conviction under Section 302 read with Section 34 and sentence for life imposed by the Trial as well as the Telangana High Court. For the reasons to follow, while we confirm the and sentence with respect to A-1, A-2 and A-4, the conviction and sentence of A-3 is however modified to Section 304 Part II and sentenced to 10 years imprisonment. The details of the crime, trial, decisions of the Courts, followed by our analyses and conclusions are as follows. 2. The case of the prosecution is that the accused 1 to 4 belonging to the same family, and the deceased, come from the same village - Janda Venkatpur, Asifabad, Telangana. It is alleged that the sister of the deceased and the wife of A-4 were political aspirants and they contested the Gram Panchayat elections. In the said elections, the sister of the deceased succeeded and the wife of A-4 lost and that, unfortunately, led to an animosity between the two groups, eventually leading to the murder of the deceased which is described as follows. 3. On 15.11.2001, at about 8AM, the deceased was going to Luxettipet on some work in an auto-rikshaw. In the same auto-rikshaw, one Sanga Swamy @ Thruputhi (PW-6) and Smt. Chetimala Rajitha (PW-9) were travelling as co-passengers. When the auto reached the house of A-4, it is alleged that A-1 stopped the auto-rickshaw and dragged the deceased out by pulling his legs. At the same time, A-2 joined A-1 and both the accused dragged the deceased towards the house of A-4. At that point, it is alleged that A-1 to A-4 attacked the deceased with an axe, a sword, a stone and a knife, thereby inflicting severe bleeding injuries leading to death of the deceased on the spot. 4. The son of the deceased, Kona Kiran Kumar, later examined as PW-1, being an eyewitness, proceeded to the police station and reported the incident at about 9PM by way of a complaint (Exhibit 4 [2024] 2 S.C.R.