[Para 2] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Application of Principle of Equal Treatment of Parties – Appoitment of Arbitrators: Held: [Per Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI for himself and J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] The principle of equal treatment of parties applies at all stages of arbitration proceedings, including the stage of appointment of arbitrators. [Para 169(a)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Does Arbitration Act prohibit PSUs from empanelling potential arbitrators: Held: [Per Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI for himself and J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] The Arbitration Act does 2176 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports not prohibit PSUs from empanelling potential arbitrators – However, an arbitration clause cannot mandate the other party to select its arbitrator from the panel curated by PSUs. [Para 169(b)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Unilateral clause in the appointment of arbitrators: Held: [Per Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI for himself and J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] A clause that allows one party to unilaterally appoint a sole arbitrator gives rise to justifiable doubts as to the independence and impartiality of the arbitrator – Further, such a unilateral clause is exclusive and hinders equal participation of the other party in the appointment process of arbitrators. [Para 169(c)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Mandating the other party to select its arbitrator from a curated panel of potential arbitrators is against the principle of equal treatment of parties: Held: [Per Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI for himself and J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] In the appointment of a three-member panel, mandating the other party to select its arbitrator from a curated panel of potential arbitrators is against the principle of equal treatment of parties – In this situation, there is no effective counterbalance because parties do not participate equally in the process of appointing arbitrators – The process of appointing arbitrators in Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. ECI-SPIC-SMOMCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company [2019] 16 SCR 1234 is unequal and prejudiced in favour of the Railways. [Para 169(d)] Constitution of India – Art. 14 – Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Whether unilateral appointment clauses in public-private contracts are violative of Article 14 of the Constitution: Held: [Per Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI for himself and J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] Unilateral appointment clauses in public-private contracts are violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. [Para 169(e)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act 2015 – s. 12(5) – Application of s.12(5) where the parties seek to waive the allegation of bias against an arbitrator appointed unilaterally by one of the parties: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2177 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company Held: [Per Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI for himself and J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] The principle of express waiver contained under the proviso to Section 12(5) also applies to situations where the parties seek to waive the allegation of bias against an arbitrator appointed unilaterally by one of the parties – After the disputes have arisen, the parties can determine whether there is a necessity to waive the nemo judex rule.