This is more pronounced where due to specific pronunciation habits or styles there can be different spellings for the same name in different languages viz. English/Hindi/ Urdu/Assamese/Bangla etc. 43. The appellant had produced a document showing that his father and mother had been resident of Village Dolur Pather since 1965; that his sibling had also been declared not to be a foreigner by the Tribunal, and; his elder brother and he were both voters as per the 1985 Electoral Roll relating to 41 Bhabanipur Legislative Assembly Constituency. Further, upon his marriage, the appellant came to Village Kasimpur in District - Nalbari, Assam where his name appeared in the Electoral Roll of 1997 for 61 Dharmapur Legislative Assembly Constituency. 2354 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 44. From an overall discussion on the Report/opinion of the Tribunal dated 16.11.2017, it is clear that there are minor discrepancy(ies) in the appellant’s documents, however their authenticity is not in doubt. In the considered opinion of this Court, the same would further buttress the appellant’s claim, that not being in the wrong, and being an ignorant person, he, truthfully and faithfully produced the official records as they were in his possession. We do not see any attempt by the appellant to get his official records prepared meticulously without any discrepancy. The conduct of an illegal migrant would not be so casual. 45. The debate has long been settled that penal statutes must be construed strictly [Tolaram Relumal v State of Bombay (1955) 1 SCR 158 at Para 8;6 Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti v Pilibhit Pantnagar Beej Ltd. (2004) 1 SCC 391 at Paras 57-58;7 Govind Impex Pvt. Ltd. v Appropriate Authority, Income Tax Dept. 6 ‘8. The question that needs our determination in such a situation is whether Section 18(1) makes punishable receipt of money at a moment of time when the lease had not come into existence, and when there was a possibility that the contemplated lease might never come into existence. It may be here observed that the provisions of Section 18(1) are penal in nature and it is a well-settled rule of construction of penal statutes that if two possible and reasonable constructions can be put upon a penal provision, the court must lean towards that construction which exempts the subject from penalty rather than the one which imposes penalty. It is not competent to the court to stretch the meaning of an expression used by the legislature in to carry out the intention of the legislature. As pointed out by Lord Macmillan in London and North Eastern Railway Co. v. Berriman [1946 AC 278, 295] “where penalties for infringement are imposed it is not legitimate to stretch the language of a rule, however, beneficient its intention, beyond the fair and ordinary meaning of its language”.’ 7 ‘57. Although the dictionary meaning of business may be wide, in our opinion, for the purpose of considering the same in the context of regulatory and penal statute like the Act, the same must be read as carrying on a commercial venture in agricultural produce.