(2) In computing the period of limitation for any application, the time during which the applicant has been prosecuting with due diligence another civil proceeding, whether in a [2024] 12 S.C.R. 179 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad court of first instance or of appeal or revision, against the same party for the same relief shall be excluded, where such proceeding is prosecuted in good faith in a court which, from defect of jurisdiction or other cause of a like nature, is unable to entertain it. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 2 of XXIII of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), the provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply in relation to a fresh suit instituted on permission granted by the court under rule 1 of that , where such permission is granted on the ground that the first suit must fail by reason of a defect in the jurisdiction of the court or other cause of a like nature. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,— (a) in excluding the time during which a former civil proceeding was pending, the day on which that proceeding was instituted and the day on which it ended shall both be counted; (b) a plaintiff or an applicant resisting an appeal shall be deemed to be prosecuting a proceeding; (c) misjoinder of parties or of causes of action shall be deemed to be a cause of a like nature with defect of jurisdiction.” 77. There is a body of decisions of this Court taking the view that by virtue of Section 43 of the Act, 1996, the Limitation Act is applicable to applications for appointment of arbitrator filed under Section 11(6) of the said Act. It thus follows that the benefit under Section 14 of the Limitation Act can be availed by an applicant subject to the fulfilment of the conditions specified therein. However, a bare perusal of the aforesaid provision indicates that sub-sections (1) and (2) respectively of Section 14 are materially different from each other. Thus, it is important to ascertain as to which provision would be applicable to an application for appointment of arbitrator under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996. 78. Under Section 14(1), in computing the period of limitation for any suit, the time during which the plaintiff has been prosecuting with due diligence another civil proceeding, whether in a court of first 180 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports instance or of appeal or revision, against the defendant shall be excluded, where the proceeding relates to the same matter in issue and is prosecuted in good faith in a court which, from defect of jurisdiction or other cause of a like nature, is unable to entertain it. Thus, the following ingredients need to be fulfilled for the applicability of Section 14(1): i. The subsequent proceeding must be a suit; ii. Both the earlier and the subsequent proceeding must be civil proceedings; iii. Both the earlier and subsequent proceedings must be between the same parties; iv.