No. 6/2017) [hereinafter “Banks”] have challenged the correctness of the Impugned dated 07.07.2008, whereby the National Commission has held that the charging of interest at rates beyond 30% by the banks/non-banking financial institutions, from credit card holders, upon delay or default in payment, constitutes an unfair trade practice and that penal interest could be charged only once for one period of default and the same shall not be capitalized. The conclusive observation under challenge, passed by the National Commission is as under: (i) Charging of interest rates in excess of 30% p.a. from the credit card holders by banks for the former’s failure to make full payment on the due date or paying the minimum amount due, is an unfair trade practice. (ii) Penal interest can be charged only once for one period of default and shall not be capitalized. (iii) Charging of interest with monthly rests is also an unfair trade practice 1490 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 4. The Appellants have contended that determining the reasonability and ‘fixing of the maximum or the minimum rates of interest’, is the exclusive function of the Respondent no.6, the Reserve Bank of India, a statutory authority responsible for the regulation of the Indian Banking system. The Appellants have assailed the observations of the National Commission, in light of the statutory bar under section 21A & 35A of the Banking Regulation Act, which expressly bars courts/tribunals to re-open transactions between banks, on the question that the rates of interest are excessive and empowers the Reserve Bank of India, to formulate directions, as befitting the public interest, proper management and banking policies of the country. The Appellants have urged that the encroachment of this statutory domain of the Reserve Bank of India, by the National Commission, is against the mandate of the Constitution and the legislative intent of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. The Appellants have further contended that the original complaint by the Respondent nos. 1-3 not only fails to meet the criterion of a Complaint u/s 12 r/w 13 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, but is a public interest litigation, guised as a consumer dispute which could not have been entertained by the National Commission, being beyond its inherent jurisdiction. 5. The Respondents nos. 1 to 3, the original Complainants [hereinafter “Complainants”] before the National Commission, have also preferred a cross-Appeal bearing CA. 6679/2008, against the Impugned dt. 07.07.2008 contending that the National Commission has only partly allowed their complaint, and ought to have adjudicated upon a benchmark restriction for the rates of interest charged by banks from credit card holders. It is contended that the rates of interest charged by the banks from its credit cardholders is usurious and exploitative in nature, and in contravention of the circulars issued by the Reserve Bank of India. The Complainants claim that they represent the public at large, as a voluntary consumer association voicing against the usurious rate of interest charged by the banks, which is a deficiency in service in banking and constitutes an unfair trade practice, in terms of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986.