In State of Haryana v Inder Prakash Anand HCS27, a Constitution Bench of this Court speaking through Chief Justice AN Ray observed that the High Court is acquainted with the capacity of work of the members already in service. Underlining the significance of the High Court’s ‘control’ over the appointments under Article 235, it was held that the High Court’s opinion will have a binding effect on the Governor according to the constitutional scheme. This Court noted as follows: “18. The control vested in the High Court is that if the High Court is of opinion that a particular judicial officer is not fit to be retained in service, the High Court will communicate that to the Governor because the Governor is the authority to dismiss, remove, reduce in rank or terminate the 26 Chandramouleshwar Prasad v. Patna High Court, [1970] 2 SCR 666 : (1969) 3 SCC 56 27 [1976] Supp. 1 SCR 603 : (1976) 2 SCC 977 1174 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports appointment. In such cases it is the contemplation in the Constitution that the Governor as the head of the State will act in harmony with the recommendation of the High Court. If the recommendation of the High Court is not held to be binding on the State consequences will be unfortunate. It is in public interest that the State will accept the recommendation of the High Court. The vesting of complete control over the subordinate Judiciary in the High Court leads to this that the decision of the High Court in matters within its jurisdiction will bind the State. “The Government will act on the recommendation of the High Court. That is the broad basis of Article 235.”” (emphasis added) 63. In State of Bihar v Bal Mukund Sah28, another Constitution Bench held that the constitutional scheme guaranteeing the independence of the Judiciary and the separation of power between the Executive and the Judiciary as basic features of the Constitution must be borne in mind. It was held that while Article 309 of the Constitution creates a permissible field of regulation by the Legislature, regarding conditions of service of already recruited judicial officers, it does not mean that the High Court’s opinion can be overlooked. The process of appointments to the District Judiciary was held to be insulated from interference by way of the ‘complete code’ for the purpose laid down under Articles 233 and 234. This intention to insulate the process, the Court observed, is clear from the fact that these provisions are not subject to any other law enacted by the Legislature.29 The Constitution intended to create a complete and insulated scheme of recruitment to the District Judiciary. Speaking in the context of the rules under Articles 234, 235 and 309 specifically, this Court observed that consultation with the High Court was indispensable. 64. The Court observed: “58... It is now time for us to take stock of the situation. In the light of the constitutional scheme guaranteeing independence of the Judiciary and separation of powers 28 [2000] 2 SCR.