Brief Facts: 4. The prosecution story, in brief, is that in the household of the deceased Ramachandran, there were four people residing. Apart from Ramachandran, there was his wife Latha, their daughter Chitra 920 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and Ramachandran’s mother Karthiayani Amma. The appellant, according to the prosecution, had, at an earlier point in time, illicit intimacy with Latha so much so that Latha even became pregnant, later leading to termination of pregnancy. It is the prosecution case that after Latha tried to distance herself, the appellant was seriously aggrieved, and they advert to an occurrence of 03.02.2005 when the appellant is supposed to have trespassed into the house where Latha lived and even tried to harm her. They rely on Ext. P-9 to Ext.P-11 complaints. 5. The macabre incident, out of which the present case arose, happened on the night intervening 03.11.2005 and 04.11.2005. It is alleged that the accused reached the house of the deceased late at night on 03.11.2005. Having reached the house, he made a hole in the eastern side wall of the house and gained access into the house. It is the prosecution case that, having gained access and being armed with 2 (two) knives and an iron rod, he caused the death of Ramachandran and Chitra with the iron rod in the upper floor room in the northern side of the house; that he caused serious injuries to Karthiayani Amma in the northern room on the ground floor (resulting in her death subsequently) and caused the death of Latha with multiple stab injuries in the hall near the stairs on the ground floor. 6. The prosecution case is that PW-1 Thankamani, the domestic help, who had seen the family hale and hearty the previous evening i.e., 03.11.2005, had come to sweep the house on the morning of 04.11.2005 at around 07:00 a.m. While sweeping the courtyard, she found that, unlike on normal days when the family would come out of the house in the morning, no one came out that day. While sweeping, she found that a hole had been dug on the eastern side wall of the house and to her horror also found that blood was dripping from a pipe adjoining the western side wall of the house. She raised an alarm resulting in the neighbours converging on the property. 7. It is PW-2 (Shyama Sundaran), a neighbour, who called the police after witnessing the commotion outside the house. PW-30 (KT Kumaran) the ASI rushed to the spot with his police party and reached at 08:25 AM. He also found a hole in the wall on the eastern side of the house and also that telephone cable was cut. He instructed PW-6 (Balan) & PW-23 (Rajan) to break open the door on the western side of the house first. PW-6 & PW-23 broke open the outer door but found that the inner door was also locked and it could not be opened. It [2024] 3 S.C.R. 921 Navas @ Mulanavas v. State of Kerala was then decided to break open the door on the front side of the house.