Explanation.- For the purpose of this section, effective hearing shall exclude the dates when the appeal is merely adjourned without being heard or argued.” ANALYSIS AND CONSIDERATION 7. The sum and substance of the case put forward by the appellant is that this case pertains not merely to court fees as an issue, but the larger issue of administration of justice, as that consequently, by virtue of Entry 11-A to the VII Schedule to the Constitution of India, the issue of refund of court fees, since it involves settlement of disputes by alternate mechanisms, which is an aspect of the administration of justice. Harmonious Construction needs to be adopted of all the provisions involved, i.e., CFA, 1870, MCFA 1959, LSA Act, 1987, and that the MCFA, 1959 being a State Legislation, cannot be allowed to override the Central Legislation(s). 8. Keeping in view the contentions raised, adjudication of this dispute would involve the analysis of the provisions cited from the lens of the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 879 Sanjeevkumar Harakchand Kankariya v. Union of India & Ors. doctrine of pith and substance and harmonious construction. Before proceeding to the merits of the instant case, it would be apposite to refer to certain pronouncements in this regard. 8.1 The Doctrine of Pith and Substance The examination of the application of this doctrine has arisen before this Court on numerous occasions. For instance, a Bench of five Judges in Girnar Traders (3) v. State of Maharashtra,13 observed thus: “173. The doctrine of pith and substance can be applied to examine the validity or otherwise of a legislation for want of legislative competence as well as where two legislations are embodied together for achieving the purpose of the principal Act. Keeping in view that we are construing a federal Constitution, distribution of legislative powers between the Centre and the State is of great significance. Serious attempt was made to convince the Court that the doctrine of pith and substance has a very restricted application and it applies only to the cases where the court is called upon to examine the enactment to be ultra vires on account of legislative incompetence. 174. We are unable to persuade ourselves to accept this proposition. The doctrine of pith and substance finds its origin from the principle that it is necessary to examine the true nature and character of the legislation to know whether it falls in a forbidden sphere. This doctrine was first applied in India in Prafulla Kumar Mukherjee v. Bank of Commerce Ltd. [(1946-47) 74 IA 23 : AIR 1947 PC 60] The principle has been applied to the cases of alleged repugnancy and we see no reason why its application cannot be extended even to the cases of present kind which ultimately relates to statutory interpretation founded on source of legislation. 175. In Union of India v. Shah Goverdhan L. Kabra Teachers’ College [(2002) 8 SCC 228] this Court held that in 13 [2011] 3 SCR 1 : (2011) 3 SCC 1 880 [2024] 12 S.C.R.