[2024] 7 S.C.R. 1473 Yash Developers v. Harihar Krupa Co-Operative Housing Society Limited & Ors. 37. Constitutional courts are fully justified in giving such directions as they are in a unique position of perceiving the working of a statute while exercising judicial review, during which they could identify the fault-lines in the implementation of a statute. This extraordinary capacity to assess the working of a statute is available to the judicial institution because of its unique position where, i) disputes, based on the statutory provisions unfold before it, ii) claims of rights or allegations of dereliction of duties are raised with varied, and sometimes, contradictory interpretations of the same text of the statute, iii) submissions of lawyers opens up a debate and as officers of the Court experienced lawyers would lay bare the fault-lines in the statutory scheme, iv) many a times court silently witnesses the play of statutory power relegating the deserving to the backseat, and the undeserving taking away all the benefits. 38. Laws that are made by Parliament or the legislative assemblies create rights, entitlements, duties or liabilities. Application of such empowerments or disabilities gives rise to competing claims or conflicting interests. For resolution of these disputes, constitutional courts provide public law remedies19 where claims and contestations are decided by High Courts on a case by case basis. Judicial review is generally episodic, and is intended to resolve the lis on a case- to-case basis. Though cases are decided on their own merit and the lis disposed of, what is left behind is the institutional memory of the Court about the working of the statute and its interpretation preserved as precedents. Over a period of time, a critical mass of adjudicatory determinations on the working of the statute is built. This critical mass, coupled with the experiences gained by the Judges and the Court on the working of the statute, is of immense value for auditing the working of the legislation. It enables the court to assess whether the purpose and object of the Act is being achieved or not. 19 Judicial control of administrative action in our country, the effective and the most prolific, has evolved from its classical scrutiny of ultra vires exercise of power, to a whole set of procedural and substantive principles, such as: legality, procedural propriety, reasonableness, legitimate expectation, proportionality, transparency, legal certainty, accountability, level playing field, consultation or participation etc. These principles are now well entrenched in our judicial review processes and are part of our administrative law. In fact, bulk of judicial review proceedings initiate before the High Courts examine if the power exercised is with its bounds. 1474 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 39. The traditional perception of the constitutional role of writ courts was confined to judicial review of executive and legislative action. In that role, the courts were to decide the vires of the legislative and executive actions based on constitutional parameters. Not only have the tools of judicial review been reinvented (the rise of the proportionality and arbitrariness doctrines) but also the breadth of the judicial power has substantially expanded to areas that were hitherto forbidden (review of policy decisions, constitutional amendments and continuing mandamus being prime examples).