Even prior to the amendment to the PC Act in 2017, Section 7 expressly delinked the offence of bribery from the actual performance 58 Justice GP Singh, Principles of Statutory Interpretation, 15th Ed. (2021), 136. 540 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the act for which the undue advantage is received. The provision read as follows: “7. Public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act. — Whoever, being, or expecting to be a public servant, accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person, for himself or for any other person, any gratification whatever, other than legal remuneration, as a motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do any official act or for showing or forbearing to show, in the exercise of his official functions, favour or disfavour to any person or for rendering or attempting to render any service or disservice to any person, with the Central Government or any State Government or Parliament or the Legislature of any State or with any local authority, corporation or Government company referred to in clause (c) of Section 2, or with any public servant, whether named or otherwise, shall be punishable with imprisonment which shall be not less than six months but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine. Explanations. — … (d) “A motive or reward for doing”. A person who receives a gratification as a motive or reward for doing what he does not intend or is not in a position to do, or has not done, comes within this expression. …” (emphasis supplied) 120. The unamended text of Section 7 of the PC Act also indicates that the act of “accepting”, “obtaining”, “agreeing to accept” or “agreeing to obtain” illegal gratification is a sufficient condition. The act for which the bribe is given does not need to be actually performed. This was further clarified by Explanation (d) to the provision. In explaining the phrase ‘a motive or reward for doing’, it was made clear that the person receiving the gratification does not need to intend to or be in a position to do or not do the act or omission for which the motive/reward is received. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 541 Sita Soren v. Union of India 121. In Chaturdas Bhagwandas Patel v. State of Gujarat59 a two- judge Bench of this Court reiterated that to constitute the offence of bribery, a public servant using his official position to extract illegal gratification is a sufficient condition. It is not necessary in such a case for the Court to consider whether the public servant intended to actually perform any official act of favour or disfavour. In the facts of the case, the public servant induced the complainant to give a bribe to get rid of a charge of abduction. It was later revealed that no complaint had even been registered against the complainant for the alleged abduction. However, the Court held that the mere demand and acceptance of the illegal gratification was sufficient, regardless of whether the recipient of the bribe performed the act for which the bribe was received.