An article manufactured or produced in the scheduled industry is nothing but a product of a scheduled industry. Therefore, the expression “the products of any scheduled industry” comes within the scope and ambit of the expression “article or class of articles” relatable to any scheduled industry. Thus, Section 18G which pertains to a scheduled industry is also relatable to Entry 33(a) – List III though it is a part of IDRA which is a Parliamentary law enacted on the basis of Entry 52 – List I. 15.5 The question that would then arise is, whether, by the mere insertion of Section 18G to the IDRA with effect from 01.10.1953, the State Legislatures have been denuded of their legislative competence in the matter of regulation of supply and distribution and trade and commerce of products of any scheduled industry. The conundrum which has arisen in this case is on account of the observation in paragraph 85 of Synthetics and Chemicals (7J), which, inter alia, reads as under: “85. … The State cannot claim that under Entry 33 of List III, it can regulate industrial alcohol as a product of the scheduled industry, because the Union, under Section 18-G of the IDR Act, has evinced clear intention to occupy the whole field.…” The aforesaid observations mean that by the very insertion of Section 18G to the IDRA, there is a denudation of the State’s legislative competence vis-à-vis Entry 33(a) – List III with respect to a product of a scheduled industry which in the instant cases is the “Fermentation Industries”. 15.6 The aforesaid observation which has led to a reference to this nine-Judge Bench has to be considered in light of Entry 52 – List I, Entry 33(a) – List III and Section 18G of the IDRA. As already stated, it is pursuant to Entry 52 – List I that the IDRA has been enacted by the Parliament declaring the taking of control of industries mentioned in the First Schedule to the said Act called a scheduled industry. Entry 33(a) – List III deals with trade and commerce in, and production, supply and [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2147 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons distribution of the products of any industry where the control of such industry by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest and imported goods of the same kind as such products i.e. with reference to a scheduled industry. The nexus between Entry 33(a) – List III and Entry 52 – List I is with regard to the Union taking control of certain industries such as “Fermentation Industries” in the instant cases by a declaration made by Parliament by law. Section 2 of the IDRA has made such a declaration and hence, it is in respect of the products of any industry whose control has been taken by the law i.e. IDRA, pursuant to Entry 52 – List I that Entry 33(a) – List III gives the legislative competence to both the Parliament as well as the State Legislatures.