(3) No application for compensation shall be entertained unless it is made within six months of the occurrence of the accident. (4) The claims tribunal shall treat any report of accident forwarded to it under section 159 as an application for compensation under this Act. (5) Notwithstanding anything in this Act or any other law for the time being in force, the right of a person to claim compensation for injury in an accident shall, upon the death of the person injured, survive to his legal representatives, irrespective of whether the cause of death is relatable to or had any nexus with the injury or not. 9 Section 168.- Award of the Claims Tribunal. – (1) On receipt of an application for compensation made under section 166, the claims tribunal shall, after giving notice of the application to the insurer and after giving the parties including the insurer an opportunity of being heard, hold and inquiry into the claim or, as the case may be, each of the claims and, subject to the provisions of section 162 may make an award determining the amount of compensation which appears to it be just and specifying the person or persons to whom compensation shall be paid and in making the award the claims tribunal shall specify the amount which shall be paid by the insurer or owner or driver of the vehicle involved in the accident or by all or any of them, as the case may be:.. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 25 Vaibhav Jain v. Hindustan Motors Pvt. Ltd. 14. In Godavari Finance Company v. Degala Satyanarayanamma & Ors.10 a question arose whether a financier would be an owner of a motor vehicle within the meaning of Section 2(30)11 of the M. V. Act, 1988. In that case, the accident took place on 29.5.1995 and, admittedly, the vehicle was not in control of the financier though its name was entered in the registration book of the vehicle. The extract of the registration book, however, revealed that the vehicle was registered in the name of fourth respondent therein (i.e., not the financier) and that the hire-purchase agreement with the financier had also been cancelled on 10.11.1995. In that context, while holding that financier was not liable, interpreting the definition of ‘owner’, as provided in Section 2(30), this Court observed: “12. Section 2 of the Act provides for interpretation of various terms enumerated therein. It starts with the phrase unless the context otherwise requires. The definition of owner is a comprehensive one. The interpretation clause itself states that the vehicle which is the subject matter of a hire purchase agreement, the person in possession of vehicle under that agreement shall be the owner. Thus, the name of financier in the registration certificate would not be decisive for determination as to who was the owner of the vehicle. We are not unmindful of the fact that ordinarily the person in whose name the registration certificate stands should be presumed to be the owner, but such a presumption can be drawn only in the absence of any other material brought on record or unless the context otherwise requires.