The RPs deserve to be decided on merits on a case-to-case basis on various parameters including the stage of litigation, the reason for 972 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports incomplete acquisition by the State, stage of acquisition, status of possession and compensation, reasons for the delay in filing review/recall petitions, and the purpose of the acquisition. d) Urging this Court to equally weigh equitable considerations involved in the matter, Ms. Bhati prayed that the RPs may not be dismissed at the threshold. 26. Mr. Kailash Vasdev, learned senior counsel, representing the Delhi Development Authority contended that having regard to the peculiar facts and circumstances that have emerged since overruling of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) by Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra), public interest indeed is one of the factors requiring paramount consideration and, on the anvil thereof, the opinion of the Hon’ble presiding Judge of the said Division Bench ought to be accepted. According to him, it is justice that the courts are duty bound to dispense and it would not amount to dispensing justice if the respondent landowners’ objection to the maintainability of the RPs, based on an overruled , were upheld. 27. Mr. Sen, learned senior counsel, also appearing on behalf of the Delhi Development Authority, apart from adopting the submissions of Ms. Bhati and Mr. Vasdev, asserted the maintainability of the RPs by submitting as follows: a) Maintainability of the RPs ought not to be decided by a blanket as the RPs have been filed not on the solitary ground of overruling of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) but in terms of the ‘liberty’ granted by this Court in Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra), which has the force of law under Article 141 of the Constitution. In arguendo, Article 137 comes to the rescue of the review petitioners granting them the liberty to file a review. b) Public interest must be given precedence over private interest in case of a conflict. The present lands are required for implementing residential schemes for low-income groups and significant construction had already been carried out in other acquired portions. c) The jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution ought to be invoked to ensure substantial justice considering the threat to public good involved in the matter. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 973 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others 28. Urging that the RPs are maintainable and deserve a hearing on merits, Mr. Sen urged that the RPs be held maintainable and heard on its own merits. 29. The landowner respondents, represented by Mr. Divan, Mr. Giri, Mr. Chib and Mr. Jain, learned senior counsel and by Ms. Swaraj, learned counsel, supported the opinion expressed by the Hon’ble companion Judge on the said Division Bench and urged this Bench to take the same recourse. The following submissions were advanced by them: a) The decision in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra) does not come to the rescue of the review petitioners, it must operate prospectively and cannot reopen claims which have attained finality.