But if a candidate chooses to make claim to the benefits on the basis of a tentative certificate namely a certificate issued by the Competent Authority, he takes the risk of his losing the benefits that he has claimed and obtained and also being visited with penal consequences on the refusal of the Scrutiny Committee to validate his caste claim. The Act 174 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports contemplates conscious decision being made by a person at the time of claiming benefits. The Legislature expects a person to claim the benefits only after obtaining the validity certificate, but the Legislature also permits a person to claim the benefits on the basis of a tentative certificate issued by the Competent Authority, if he is willing to take the risk mentioned above. In our opinion, therefore, the validity certificate is one of the essential ingredient of the candidate being qualified to contest for the reserved seat….” (emphasis supplied) 46. According to Sujit Vasant Patil (supra), therefore, a person who seeks to contest election to reserved posts without compliance with the general rule of producing Validity Certificate along with nomination papers, ‘takes a risk’. The first proviso to section 9-A, in such a case, makes this position quite clear by requiring such person to furnish a statutory undertaking to produce Validity Certificate within six months from the date of election. The second proviso, in terms, provides for consequence in case of breach. Such person, having taken the risk, cannot, in the absence of any ambiguity in the provision, be permitted to wriggle out from the consequences of breach so clearly and statutorily provided in the provision itself. Otherwise, such person, will avail of a conditional concession, without, fulfilling the condition subject to which such concession came to be granted in the first place by the provision.” The Legislature expects a person claiming the benefit of contesting in a reserved post to be in possession of both the Caste Certificate and the Validity Certificate at the time of filing the nomination. The allowance to contest by submitting the Caste Certificate alone was with the undertaking that he would produce the Validity Certificate within the stipulated time, and this was the risk that the candidate was taking. It was a ‘risk’ because a Validity Certificate which he ought to have ordinarily possessed on the date of nomination being unavailable, he or she is granted the concession of contesting, subject to the undertaking. In the event of non-production within the stipulated time, even an elected candidate would automatically stand disqualified. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 175 Sudhir Vilas Kalel & Ors. v. Bapu Rajaram Kalel & Ors. 14. Thereafter, the Full Bench went on to hold as follows in para 80 and 81, while construing the nature of the time limit for production of the Validity Certificate, as it then stood. “80. ...If the legislature, for a limited period of time, taking into consideration pendency of applications for issuance of Validity Certificate before the Scrutiny Committee grants some exemptions or concession to persons who have applied for issue of Validity Certificate before the date of filing nomination papers, but who have not received such Validity Certificate on the date of filing of nomination papers, subject to such persons producing the Validity Certificate “within period of six months from the date of election”, there is no reason to treat the stipulation as to time has (sic.)