Explanation. – For the purposes of this sub-section, “enemy property vested in the Custodian” shall include and shall always be deemed to have been included all rights, titles, and interest in, or any benefit arising out of, such property vested in him under this Act.” 10.5 Section 5A and Section 5B were inserted with retrospective effect from 07.01.2016 and 10.07.1968 by Act 3 of 2017. They read as under: “5A. Issue of certificate by Custodian. —The Custodian may, after making such inquiry as he deems necessary, by , declare that the property of the enemy or the enemy subject or the enemy firm described in the , vests in him under this Act and issue a certificate to this effect and such certificate shall be the evidence of the facts stated therein. 5B. Law of succession or any custom or usage not to apply to enemy property.—Nothing contained in any law for the time being in force relating to succession or any custom or usage governing succession of property shall apply in relation to [2024] 2 S.C.R. 871 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others the enemy property under this Act and no person (including his legal heir and successor) shall have any right and shall be deemed not to have any right (including all rights, titles and interests or any benefit arising out of such property) in relation to such enemy property. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the expressions “custom” and “usage” signify any rule which, having been continuously and uniformly observed for a long time, has obtained the force of law in the matters of succession of property.” 10.6 Section 6 has been substituted by Section 6 of Act 3 of 2017 with retrospective effect from 10.07.1968. Prior to its substitution, it read as under: “6. Prohibition to transfer any property vested in Custodian by an enemy, enemy subject or enemy firm.—(1) No enemy or enemy subject or enemy firm shall have any right and shall never be deemed to have any right to transfer any property vested in the Custodian under this Act, whether before or after the commencement of this Act and any transfer of such property shall be void and shall always be deemed to have been void. (2) Where any property vested in the Custodian under this Act had been transferred, before the commencement of the Enemy Property (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2017, by an enemy or enemy subject or enemy firm and such transfer has been declared, by an , made by the Central Government, to be void, and the property had been vested or deemed to have been vested in the Custodian by virtue of the said made under section 6, as it stood before its substitution by section 6 of the Enemy Property (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2017 such property shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any , decree or of any court, tribunal or other authority, continue to vest or be deemed to have been vested in the 872 [2024] 2 S.C.R.