(1)The Reserve Bank may, on representation made to it or on its own motion, modify or cancel any direction issued under sub-section (1), and in so modifying or cancelling any direction may impose such conditions as it thinks fit, subject to which the modification or cancellation shall have effect.” 12. The scope of the statutory bar under section 21-A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 has been comprehensively dealt with by this Hon’ble Court in the Central Bank of India Vs Ravindran2 wherein it has been observed that “With effect from 15.2.1984, Section 21A 2 Central Bank of India Vs Ravindran (2002) 1 SCC 367 1494 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports has been inserted in the Act, which takes away power of the court to reopen a transaction between a banking company and its debtor on the ground that the rate of interest charged is excessive. The provision has been given an overriding effect over the Usurious Loans Act, 1918 and any other provincial law in force relating to indebtedness.” It was also observed by this Hon’ble Court, that for all transactions, which may not be squarely governed by such circulars, the RBI directives may be treated as standards for the purpose of deciding whether the interest charged is excessive, usurious or opposed to public policy. Thus, in view of this statutory bar, the Complaint of the Respondent nos.1 to 3, which is only based on the higher rates of interest, could not have been entertained by the National Commission and deserved to be dismissed at the very threshold. 13. Further, in exercise of powers conferred under Section 35A read with Section 56 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1959 & being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public interest so to do, it is also well within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Reserve Bank of India to take corrective and/or penal steps, suo-moto or on receipt of any representation or inquiry thereof, qua any such act in deference to its policy or circular. 14. The Appellants therefore urge that the maxima or minima of the interest could not have been decided by the Consumer Forum, as it is the specific statutory domain of the Reserve Bank of India and it is the directives of RBI alone that may be treated as standard for the purpose of deciding whether the interest charged is excessive, usurious or opposed to public policy3 Ld. Counsel for the Banks, also submits that in absence of a statutory direction by the Reserve Bank of India, with respect to a maximum ceiling rate, the Banks could not be held liable for any unfair trade practices. More-so, they are bound by the circulars of the Reserve Bank of India and have formulated policies accordingly. 15. It has been further argued that once an executive authority exercises a legislative power by way of subordinate legislation, pursuant to a delegated authority of a legislature, such executive authority cannot be asked to enact a law, which he has been empowered to do under the delegated legislative authority.4 A direction by the National 3 Keshav Lal Khemchang & Sons Pvt.