petitions related to investigation, trial, sentencing or quashing of the FIR. However, the present petition is a challenge to the arbitrary and mala fide administrative action which has arisen after the criminal proceedings have attained finality in the eye of law. 25.3. Learned counsel submitted that it is trite that the exercise of executive discretion is subject to rule of law and fairness in State action as embodied in Article 14 of the Constitution. The exercise of such discretion under Section 432 of the CrPC which [2024] 1 S.C.R. 825 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others is arbitrary or mala fide amounts to State action in violation of constitutional and statutory obligations and is detrimental to public interest. Learned counsel placed reliance on the decision of this Court in S. P. Gupta to submit that this Court has in many cases held that in case of public injury caused by an act or omission of the State which is contrary to the rule of law, any member of the public acting bona fide can maintain an action for redressal of a public wrong. In the case at hand, the mala fide and arbitrary grant of premature release to the respondents-convicts by State action is de hors constitutional mandate and abets immunity for violence against women. (Vide Sheonandan Paswan vs. State of Bihar, (1987) 1 SCC 288 (“Sheonandan Paswan”) and Abdul Wahab K. vs. State of Kerala, (2018) 18 SCC 448 (“Abdul Wahab”). 25.4. Learned counsel next submitted that this Court in Subramanian Swamy, while adjudicating on the locus of a public-spirited intervenor in a case requiring interpretation of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, held that the intervenor had sought an interpretation of criminal law which would have a wide implication beyond the scope of the parties in that case and hence, allowed the same. Thus, when larger questions of law are involved, which include interpretation of statutory provisions for the purpose of grant of premature release/remission, public-spirited persons who approach the Court in a bona fide manner, ought not to be prevented from assisting the Court to arrive at a just and fair outcome. 25.5. Learned counsel Ms. Grover further submitted that in cases where offences have shocked the conscience of the society, spread fear and alarm amongst citizens and have impugned on the secular fabric of society, like in the instant case, this Court has allowed interventions by members of the public seeking to bring to the attention of the Court the inaction and apathy on the part of the State in discharging its duty within the criminal justice system. It has been held in some cases that the technical rule of locus cannot shield the arbitrary and illegal exercise of executive discretion in violation of constitutional and statutory principles, once the same have been brought to the attention of this Court. 826 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 26. Learned counsel for the petitioner in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.319 of 2022, Smt.