If an arbitrator is alleged to have wandered outside the contract and dealt with matters not allotted to him, this would be a jurisdictional error which could be corrected on the ground of patent illegality, which, as we have seen, would not apply to international commercial arbitrations that are decided under Part II of the 1996 Act. To bring in by the back door grounds relatable to Section 28 (3) of the 1996 Act to be matters beyond the scope of submission to arbitration under section 34(2)(a)(iv) would not be permissible as this ground must be construed narrowly and so construed, must refer only to matters which are beyond the arbitration agreement or beyond the reference to the arbitral tribunal.” 52. The legal position which emerges from the aforesaid discussion is that after the ‘2015 amendments’ in Section 34 (2)(b)(ii) and Section 48(2)(b) of the 1996 Act, the phrase “in conflict with the public policy of India” must be accorded a restricted meaning in terms of Explanation 1. The expression “in contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law” by use of the word ‘fundamental’ before the phrase ‘policy of Indian law’ makes the expression narrower in its application than the phrase “in contravention with the policy of Indian law”, which means mere contravention of law is not enough to make an award vulnerable. To bring the contravention within the fold of fundamental policy of Indian law, the award must contravene all or any of such fundamental principles that provide a basis for administration of justice and enforcement of law in this country. Without intending to exhaustively enumerate instances of such contravention, by way of illustration, it could be said that (a) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 539 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. violation of the principles of natural justice; (b) disregarding s of superior courts in India or the binding effect of the of a superior court; and (c) violating law of India linked to public good or public interest, are considered contravention of the fundamental policy of Indian law. However, while assessing whether there has been a contravention of the fundamental policy of Indian law, the extent of judicial scrutiny must not exceed the limit as set out in Explanation 2 to Section 34(2)(b)(ii). Most basic notions of morality and justice 53. In Renusagar (supra) this Court held that an arbitral award is in conflict with the public policy of India if it is, inter alia, contrary to “justice and morality”. Explanation 1, inserted by 2015 Amendment, makes it clear that an award is in conflict with the public policy of India, inter alia, if it conflicts with the ‘most basic notions of morality or justice’. Justice 54. Justice is the virtue by which the society/ court / tribunal gives a man his due, opposed to injury or wrong. Justice is an act of rendering what is right and equitable towards one who has suffered a wrong. Therefore, while tempering justice with mercy, the court must be very conscious, that it has to do justice in exact conformity with some obligatory law, for the reason that human actions are found to be just or unjust on the basis of whether the same are in conformity with, or in opposition to, the law.42 Therefore, in ‘judicial sense’, justice is nothing more nor less than exact conformity to some obligatory law; and all human actions are either just or unjust as they are in conformity with, or in opposition to, the law.43 55.