7. Mr Rakesh Dwivedi, senior counsel, who has appeared in a companion matter, has also addressed the Court in the present batch of cases urging that : (i) The provisions of the Constitution do not contemplate two classes of judges; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1047 Justice Shailendra Singh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. (ii) As holders of constitutional offices within constitutional institutions, there is only one class of High Court judges irrespective of whether they have been drawn from the Bar or the District Judiciary; (iii) The requirement of financial independence which is the fundamental constitutional postulate underlying the provisions of Article 202(3)(d), Article 112(3)(d)(iii) and Articles 216, 217 and 221, applies in equal measure both to service and Bar judges appointed to the High Court; (iv) The law under Article 221(1) must of necessity be uniform for all judges of the High Court and no sub-classification is permissible; and (v) The domain of the law which is contemplated in Article 221 is for the determination of the quantum of salaries and there cannot be any bifurcation between the entitlements of judges of the High Court drawn from the district judiciary and the Bar. 8. Mr R Venkataramani, Attorney General for India, on the other hand, has placed reliance on the proviso to Section 20 of the Act of 1954 and urged that the true intendment of the proviso is that a Judge who has held a pensionable civil post under the State (in this case, the district judiciary) will continue to subscribe to the provident fund to which he was subscribing before his appointment as a Judge of the High Court. It has been urged that with the implementation of the National Pension Scheme with effect from 1 April 2024, all district judges appointed after that date came to be governed by the New Pension Scheme with the consequence that any subscription to the provident fund must be in a manner consistent with the new scheme. Hence, it has been urged by the Attorney General that a member of the district judiciary who is appointed as a Judge of the High Court, they would not be entitled to the benefit of the General Provident Fund which is otherwise applicable to Judges of the High Court. Finally, it has been urged that in any event, there is no justification for the petitioners to seek a transfer of the amounts of the New Pension Scheme Contribution as district judges to the General Provident Fund accounts, if they may be directed to be opened by this Court. 1048 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Analysis 9. Article 216 of the Constitution provides that every High Court shall consist of a Chief Justice and such other judges as the President may from time to time deem it necessary to appoint.3 Article 217(2) provides for the sources of recruitment of judges of the High Court from the Bar or, as the case may be judicial service and specifies the qualifications for appointment from the two sources.4 10.