I have not been impressed upon to hold, with reference to any credible material shown by the appellants, that what the ministers said was factually incorrect, they were nowhere near the truth or their speeches were ‘a long shot from reality’. Based on post-independence events like these speeches as well as other evidence that is available, which provide sufficient ground to hold that AMU is not a minority institution, the voyage to change history through a judicial pronouncement may not be continued further. 126. The discussion on this topic ought to end by quoting Sahibzada Aftab Ahmad Khan, former Vice Chancellor of AMU52: “It is only fair to observe that no other national institution in India has shown such a liberal and catholic spirit in actual practice as has been the consistent policy of this institution from its start up to the present time. We have always had a good number of Hindu students, and the first graduate, in the late M.A.O. College, was a Hindu who took his degree in 1880. Thus if there is any institution in India, which can truly be called national and all-India in character, it is this University which deserves the sympathy and support not only of the Muslim community but of the people of India as a whole.” applIcaBIlIty of Prof YashPal (supra) and the ncmeI act 127. In the revised draft opinion, it has been proposed to be held that the decision in Prof Yashpal (supra) will not have a bearing on the question referred herein, since the decision was rendered in the context of universities existing only on paper, and thus, mandated that institutions be established and incorporated so as 52 History of the Aligarh Muslim University, Khaliq Ahmad Nizami, p. 110, Idarah-i-Adbiyat-i-Delli, Delhi, 1995. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1911 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. to ensure their material existence. It has been opined by the HCJI that the decision does not efface the distinction between the words “established” and “incorporated”, with Article 30’s only indicia being that of establishment. 128. With respect to the NCMEI Act, upon consideration of the original and the post-amendment definition of a minority educational institution,it has been proposed to be held that a statutory amendment cannot determine the interpretation of Article 30(1). In other words, the issue referred need not be decided on the basis of the amended definition of minority educational institution. 129. The opinion on the applicability or relevance of the decision in Prof Yashpal (supra) is accepted. However, the opinion on how the NCMEI Act has to be read, in particular section 2(g), in the light of the opinion earlier expressed that establishment is the only indicia and not coupled with administration is difficult to accept for reasons elaborated before. 130. However, since Prof Yashpal (supra) and the NCMEI Act are not relevant for deciding the reference, it is an indicium that reference to the same by the bench of 3 (three) Judges in Aligarh Muslim University (supra) was redundant and constitutes another reason for the re-reference to be held invalid.