[2024] 6 S.C.R. 894 : 2024 INSC 424 Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors. Review Petition (Civil) No.526 of 2023 In (Civil Appeal No. 6990 of 2014) 16 May 2024 [B.R. Gavai* and Sandeep Mehta, JJ.] Issue for Consideration and under review ignored the law laid down by the Constitution Bench in Bhagat Ram & others vs. State of Punjab & others which had a direct bearing on the issue in question and took a view totally contrary thereto and held that the vesting in the Panchayat is complete on mere assignment under Section 18(c) of the East Punjab Holdings (Consolidation and Prevention of Fragmentation) Act, 1948. It was also held that the unutilized land was not available for redistribution amongst the proprietors and the land reserved for common purposes cannot be re-partitioned amongst the proprietors only because at a particular given time, the land so reserved was not put to common use and; once the land has been reserved for common purposes, it cannot be reverted to the proprietors for redistribution. Ignoring the law laid down by the Constitution Bench in Bhagat Ram and taking a contrary view, if would amount to a material error, manifest on the face of the . Also, non-consideration of the reasoning given by the Full Bench of the High Court in Jai Singh II relying on the of the Constitution Bench in Bhagat Ram, if would also amount to an error, apparent on the face of the record. Headnotes Haryana Village Common Lands (Regulation) Act, 1961 – Sub- clause (6) to s.2(g) and its explanation, as inserted by Haryana Act No.9 of 1992 – East Punjab Holdings (Consolidation and Prevention of Fragmentation) Act, 1948 – ss.18(c), 23-A, 24 – under review (JUR), ignoring the law laid down by the Constitution Bench in Bhagat Ram & others vs. State of Punjab & others, took a view contrary thereto, if the same would amount to a material error manifest on the face of the and needs to be recalled: * Author [2024] 6 S.C.R. 895 Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors. Held: Though this Court in the JUR referred to the Constitution Bench s in Ranjit Singh and Ajit Singh, there is not even a whisper about the Constitution Bench in Bhagat Ram, except in paragraph 11, though it had a direct bearing on the issue in question – Constitution Bench of this Court in Bhagat Ram in unequivocal terms held that the management and control does not vest in the Panchayat u/s.23-A of the Consolidation Act till possession has changed u/s.24 of the said Act – It further held that, the rights of the holders are not modified or extinguished till persons have changed possession and entered into the possession of the holdings allotted to them under the scheme – The specific contention raised by the State that the requirements as contemplated u/ss.23, 24 and 21(2) of the Consolidation Act were already complete and as such, the acquisition had already taken place before the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act, 1964, was rejected – All these steps are subsequent to the assignment u/s.18(c) of the Consolidation Act – In the light of these findings of the Constitution Bench in Bhagat Ram, the finding of this Court in the JUR that the vesting in the Panchayat is complete on mere assignment u/s.18(c) of the Consolidation Act is totally contrary to the findings recorded in the Constitution Bench in Bhagat Ram – It was also held in Bhagat Ram that since the Panchayat would fall within the definition of the word “State” under Article 12 of the Constitution, if the acquisition is for the purposes of providing income to the Panchayat, it would defeat the whole object of the second proviso and the Consolidation Officer could easily defeat the object of the second proviso to Article 31-A by reserving for the income of the Panchayat a major portion of the land belonging to a person holding land within the ceiling limit – Except the cursory reference in the JUR, this Court did not even refer to the ratio laid down by the Constitution Bench of this Court in Bhagat Ram – A of the Constitution Bench would be binding on the Benches of a lesser strength – A bench strength of two Judges could not have ignored the law laid down by the Constitution Bench in Bhagat Ram – Ignoring the law laid down by the Constitution Bench in Bhagat Ram and taking a view totally contrary to it would amount to a material error, manifest on the face of the and would undermine its soundness – Further, the non-consideration of the reasoning given by the Full Bench of the High Court in Jai Singh II, which findings were given by relying on the of the Constitution Bench of this Court 896 [2024] 6 S.C.R.