Not only that, the Court may deny relief to a party having regard to its conduct and may, in a given situation, mould the relief to do complete justice to the parties.10 25. In Chanda v. Rattni,11 this Court held that the power to rescind the contract under Section 28 of the 1963 Act is discretionary in nature and is to do complete justice to the parties. The Court does not cease to have the power to extend the time even though the decree may have directed that payment of balance price is to be made by a certain date. While exercising discretion in this regard, the Court is required to take into account facts of the case so as to ascertain whether the default was intentional or not. If there is a bona fide reason for the delay/ default, such as where there appears no fault on the part of the decree holder, the Court may refuse to rescind the contract and may extend the time for deposit of the defaulted amount. 26. We shall now consider whether the impugned does substantial justice to the parties. For this end, it would be apposite to have a close look at the facts of the case as it would help us in determining whether discretion to extend the time for depositing the balance consideration was justifiably exercised in favour of the decree holder. 27. In the instant case, the agreement, of which specific performance was sought, is of the year 2005. The suit for specific performance was filed in the year 2006. The trial court partly decreed the suit, inter alia, for refund of the earnest money in the year 2011. The plaintiff(s) (respondents herein) being aggrieved by rejection of their prayer for specific performance of the agreement, filed an appeal 9 See C.K. Prahalada v. State of Karnataka (2008) 15 SCC 577 10 See Lajpat Rai Mehta v. Govt. of Punjab (Deptt. of Irrigation & Power) (2009) 3 SCC 260 11 [2007] 4 SCR 402 : (2007) 14 SCC 26 14 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports before the appellate court. The appellate court allowed the appeal on 12.1.2012 and directed the defendants (appellants herein) to execute the sale deed on payment of balance consideration within two months from the date of the appellate court , failing which the plaintiff(s) were entitled to get the sale deed executed through Court. Notably, the mode of payment of the balance consideration was not specified in the decree and there was no direction upon the plaintiff(s) to deposit the balance consideration in Court. Further, the decree did not spell out consequences of non-payment within the stipulated period. Rather, right was given to the decree holder to get the sale deed executed through Court if it was not executed upon payment within two months. As the mode of payment was not specified in the decree, what course the decree holder could have adopted in case the -debtor refused to abide by the decree becomes a relevant consideration for the purposes of exercise of discretion in one way or the other.