were suspended for the period during which the sick company was under the ameliorative shelter of the BIFR – It was to shield the formulation and implementation of the revival scheme from any impediments thereby maximising the chances of revival of sick company, the ultimate object sought to be achieved by the Act. [Para 101] Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 – ss. 22(1), 16, 17 and 25 – Benefit of suspension of legal proceedings in respect of sick industrial company u/s. 22(1) – Conditions to be fulfilled for the applicability of s. 22(1): Held: Firstly an inquiry u/s. 16 must be pending; or any scheme referred to in s. 17 must be under preparation or consideration or a sanctioned scheme must be under implementation; or an appeal u/s. 25 must be pending-in relation the company against whom the legal proceedings sought to be suspended have been initiated – Secondly, the the proceedings must be one from amongst the six [2024] 5 S.C.R. 323 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited types as described, or of a similar nature, i.e. ejusdem generis to the said six types of proceedings – Thirdly, the proceedings must have the effect of threatening the assets of the sick company and interfering with the formulation, consideration, finalisation or implementation of the scheme. [Paras 63-65, 67, 87, 97] Interest on Delayed Payments to Small Scale and Ancillary Industrial Undertakings Act, 1993 – Compound interest on the principal decretal amount – Claim of – High Court granted 24%pa compound interest on the principal decretal amount in favour of the original plaintiff-small-scale industrial undertaking from the original defendants, from the date the amounts were determined to have become due till the date of their realisation by the original plaintiff, setting aside the decree of the trial court which granted 12% simple interest in favour the original plaintiff – Correctness: Held: High Court committed no error in awarding 24% interest to the original plaintiff on its dues as per the provisions of the 1993 Act – However, the period during which the defendant company was a sick company as per the 1985 Act is excluded for the purposes of calculation of interest – For the period during which the defendant company was sick and before the BIFR, it cannot be said that the withholding of the payment of the dues of the original plaintiff was wilful and intentional – Liability of the original defendants was disputed and was finally adjudicated only by way of the impugned , much after the BIFR proceedings had come to an end; and even if the liability of the original defendants was not disputed, or was even acknowledged before the BIFR, recovery of the same could not have been done without the permission of the BIFR in view of the suspension of recovery proceedings by s. 22(1) of the 1985 Act – Thus, the period commencing from the date when original defendant was declared to be a sick company under the 1985 Act going up to the date when it was discharged by the BIFR and declared to be no longer a sick industrial company is excluded from the purview of the applicability of the interest provision under the 1993 Act – Interest would not be calculated for the aforesaid period – Thus, the impugned and of the High Court is upheld subject to the modification of the period for which interest may be granted – Interest would be calculated at 24% p.a.