Sharp weapon ante mortem. 5. Incised wound on right should of 8 cm long 1 ½ cm wide sharp weapon, ante mortem. 6. 5 cm x 6 Incised wound (slice) on the vertex. Sharp weapon ante mortem. 7. 8 cms long incised wound backs of left wrist, sharp weapon ante mortem. 8. 12 cms incised wound on the front of left hand, sharp weapon, ante mortem. 9. Partial amputation of middle 3 fingers of left hand, ante mortem. 10. Partial amputation of right thumb. Measuring 2 cms sharp weapon ante mortem. 11. Partial amputation of right index finger measuring 3 cms sharp weapon, ante mortem. 12. Deep lacerated wound on the back of neck measuring 18 cms 7 cms with complete transaction of spinal card and Atlanta occipital joint. Blunt weapon, ante mortem.” 27. It is evident from the evidence of PW-11 that the deceased suffered 12 injuries, of which 10 are caused by sharp-edged weapons. The 11th injury is a partial amputation of the middle 3 fingers of left hand. The final injury is a lacerated wound on the back of neck measuring 18 cms x 7 cms with complete transaction of spinal cord and atlanto occipital joint. The Trial Court and the High Court have not analysed the evidence as against A-3. They have proceeded to convict him along with others under Section 302 with the aid of Section 34. The cumulative circumstances in which A-3 was seen participating in the crime would clearly indicate that he had no intention to commit murder of the deceased for two clear reasons. Firstly, while every other accused took the axe used by A1 initially and contributed to the assault with this weapon, A-3 did not wield the axe at any point of time. Secondly, A-3 only had a stone in his hand, and in fact, some of the witnesses said that he merely threatened in case they seek 10 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to intervene and prevent the assault. Under these circumstances, we hold that A-3 did not share a common intention to commit the murder of the deceased. Additionally, there is no evidence that A-3 came along with the other accused evidencing a common intention. The description of the incident is that when the deceased came to the scene of occurrence, A-1 dragged him to the house of A-4, and the other accused joined A-1. In this context, A-3 picked up a stone to assault the deceased. 28. Even though, A-3 might not have had the common intention to commit the murder, nevertheless, his participation in the assault and the wielding of the stone certainly makes him culpable for the offence that he has committed. While we acquit A-3 of the offence under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the IPC, he is liable for the offence under 304 Part II IPC. The law on Section 304 Part II has been succinctly laid down in Camilo Vaz v. State of Goa, (2000) 9 SCC 1, where it was held that: 14.