But whatever the nature of the proceeding, it is beyond dispute that a review proceeding cannot be equated with the original hearing of the case, and the finality of the 104 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports delivered by the Court will not be reconsidered except “where a glaring omission or patent mistake or like grave error has crept in earlier by judicial fallibility”: Sow Chandra Kante v. Sheikh Habib [(1975) 1 SCC 674 : 1975 SCC (Tax) 200 : (1975) 3 SCR 933] . 9. Now, besides the fact that most of the legal material so assiduously collected and placed before us by the learned Additional Solicitor - General, who has now been entrusted to appear for the respondent, was never brought to our attention when the appeals were heard, we may also examine whether the suffers from an error apparent on the face of the record. Such an error exists if of two or more views canvassed on the point it is possible to hold that the controversy can be said to admit of only one of them. If the view adopted by the Court in the original is a possible view having regard to what the record states, it is difficult to hold that there is an error apparent on the face of the record.” (emphasis supplied) ● Parsion Devi v. Sumitri Devi, (1997) 8 SCC 715 “9. Under 47 Rule 1 CPC a may be open to review inter alia if there is a mistake or an error apparent on the face of the record. An error which is not self-evident and has to be detected by a process of reasoning, can hardly be said to be an error apparent on the face of the record justifying the court to exercise its power of review under 47 Rule 1 CPC. In exercise of the jurisdiction under 47 Rule 1 CPC it is not permissible for an erroneous decision to be “reheard and corrected”. A review petition, it must be remembered has a limited purpose and cannot be allowed to be “an appeal in disguise”. 10. Considered in the light of this settled position we find that Sharma, J. clearly overstepped the jurisdiction vested in the Court under 47 Rule 1 CPC. The observations of Sharma, J. that “accordingly, the in question is reviewed and it is held that the decree in question was of [2024] 5 S.C.R. 105 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. composite nature wherein both mandatory and prohibitory injunctions were provided” and as such the case was covered by Article 182 and not Article 181 cannot be said to fall within the scope of 47 Rule 1 CPC. There is a clear distinction between an erroneous decision and an error apparent on the face of the record. While the first can be corrected by the higher forum, the latter only can be corrected by exercise of the review jurisdiction. While passing the impugned , Sharma, J. found the in Civil Revision dated 25-4-1989 as an erroneous decision, though without saying so in so many words.