These religious and cultural practices ensure that the ecosystem is maintained and prevent the 4 Kosambi, 1962, SACRED GROVES IN INDIA, Aryan Books International (New Delhi, 2007) 5 Singh, 2011, 2014, SACRED GROVES IN INDIA, Aryan Books International (New Delhi, 2007) [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1845 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. deforestation/desertification process. Orans also provide vital grazing land for livestock, water, minor forest produce, medicinal plants, and green cover in the rural areas. 10. Each Oran has its own set of established customs to ensure the protection of its specific combination of resources. These vary from completely banning the collection of any materials from the forest floor to only prohibiting the felling of particular species of trees.6 At the heart of every Oran is a deity, whose domain has been at some point in time marked out by a ritual. 11. Orans are usually managed under a mixture of open access (i.e. no effective owners or secured rights) and loosely defined common property regimes. Orans are situated in dry environments across western India. The desert ecosystem, particularly in western Rajasthan, is very rich in livestock; hence, Orans provide means of livelihood/social security to the rural populace and also play an important role in promoting a flourishing livestock-based economy. This makes them important natural resources which have the capability to regenerate and proliferate. Here, Orans protect springs and aquifers, and host centuries-old water resources most of which are small springs or rivulets, a variety of ponds and Baoris, which are used year-round for drinking water and irrigation purposes. Gopal Das ki Devbani has a very old and architecturally ornate ‘Oran talab’. Jugrawar ki Rundh Bani, Gujjawas ki Bani, Bherunath ji ki bani, and several other Orans likewise have large ponds that serve as water harvesting structures for the catchment area and are usually located to collect maximum run-off rainwater and serve the important purpose of providing water for irrigation and drinking. 12. The Orans found around Jodhpur, Nagaur, Churu, and Bikaner are replete with khejri trees (Prosopis spicigera), deer, blackbuck, and nilgai, which are sacred to the Bishnoi community of Rajasthan. In the year 1730, in the village of Khejadli in Jodhpur district, 363 Bishnoi women gave up their lives to protect the Khejri trees, giving rise to the Chipko or “Hug a Tree” movement. Mata Karni Devi Temple at Deshnoke village near Bikaner, wherein rodents are regarded as reincarnations of the goddess’s devotees has been documented by international media houses like Discovery and National Geographic 6 Malhotra, 2001, SACRED GROVES IN INDIA, Aryan Books International (New Delhi, 2007) 1846 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports channels. The area of 2,100 hectares near the Mata Karni Devi temple is also regarded as sacred by the community. Thousands of jhadberis(shrubs bearing berries) dot the area where cattle of the nearby villages graze freely. The practices like hunting of animals, cutting of trees and even beating a bush to collect the berries are prohibited by Karni Mata Trust, which manages the Oran.