Sans consent from the complainant, the High Court was not justified in compounding of the offence under Section 138, N.I. Act, it is further contended. 5. A perusal of the impugned would reveal that though the High Court entertained the challenge against the rejecting an application for compounding the offence under Section 138, N.I. Act filed under Section 320 Cr.P.C., the High Court actually compounded the offence invoking its inherent power under Section 482 Cr.P.C., coupled with the power under Section 147 of the N.I. Act. To consider the legality and correctness of the said exercise of power, it is imperative to understand the scope of Section 482, Cr.P.C, as also Section 147 of the N.I. Act. Section 482, Cr.P.C., reads thus: - “482. Saving of inherent powers of High Court. — Nothing in this Code shall be deemed to limit or affect the inherent powers of the High Court to make such s as may be [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1481 A.S. Pharma Pvt. Ltd. v. Nayati Medical Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. necessary to give effect to any under this Code, or to prevent abuse of the process of any Court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice.” 6. In the decision in Monica Kumar (Dr.) v. State of Uttar Pradesh [(2008) 8 SCC 781], this Court held that the inherent jurisdiction under Section 482, Cr.P.C, would be exercised sparingly, carefully and with caution and only when such exercise is justified by the tests specifically laid down in the Section itself viz., to give effect to any under Cr.P.C., or to prevent abuse of process of any Court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice. 7. In the decision in Arvind Barsaul (Dr.) v. State of M.P. [(2008) 5 SCC 794], this Court held that though offence under Section 498A, IPC is not compoundable, but when parties have compromised, continuance of proceedings would be an abuse of process of law and hence, could be quashed on a petition filed under Section 482, Cr.P.C. We referred to this decision to show that when the parties are ad idem for discontinuance of criminal proceedings which are not of grave nature, power under Section 482, Cr.P.C. is exercisable. 8. Now, we will refer to Section 147 of the N.I. Act and it reads thus: - “147. Offence to be compoundable- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), every offence punishable under this Act shall be compoundable.” 9. Thus, a bare perusal of Section 482, Cr.P.C., and Section 147, N.I. Act would reveal they are different and distinct. The former being the inherent power of High Court exercisable even suo motu to give effect to any under Cr.P.C., or to prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice. However, the provision for compounding every offence punishable under the N.I. Act, under Section 147, N.I. Act, is not a power available to a Court to exercise without the consent of the complainant.