; (v) Can the minor child be granted a passport with the consent of one parent under whose care and custody he is? ; (vi) What is the tangible loss, injury or damage suffered by Respondent No. 2 due to procurement of a passport by his minor son? Had the Trial Magistrate taken the pains to confront Respondent No. 2 with these questions, we have no reason to doubt that the vexatious persecution faced by the Appellants, could not at least be attributed to a judicial . 30. We also fail to understand the reliability of the material based on which the investigating agency or the Trial Magistrate could form a prima facie opinion concerning the allegation of forgery of signatures of Respondent No. 2. As observed earlier, the State FSL report does not substantiate these allegations. In our opinion, a paid report obtained from a private laboratory seems to be a frail, unreliable, unsafe, untrustworthy and imprudent form of evidence, unless supported by some other corroborative proof. It is painful to mention that Respondent No. 2 has not produced any other substantive proof, nor has the investigating agency obtained any such material in compliance with the Trial Magistrate’s for further investigation. The basis on which the Trial Magistrate formed a prima facie opinion, in the absence of such supporting evidence is, therefore, beyond our comprehension. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 639 Mariam Fasihuddin & Anr. v. State by Adugodi Police Station & Anr. 31. The Trial Magistrate and the High Court unfortunately failed to appreciate that the genesis of the present controversy lies in a marital dispute. Respondent No. 2 is alleged to have abandoned the Appellant – wife and the minor child, even during the period when the Appellant – wife was temporarily residing with him in London. The timeline in this case is noteworthy: immediately after the Appellant – wife filed Crime No. 68 / 2010 against Respondent No. 2 on 08.04.2010, invoking Sections 346, 498A, 506, and 34 IPC, the counter-complaint by Respondent No. 2 followed on 13.05.2010. Further, the passport for the minor child was issued sometime in 2009. The question that naturally arises is whether it is a mere coincidence that Respondent No. 2 chose to make his complaint only after an FIR had been lodged against him. 32. On the one hand, there is no indication whatsoever that Appellant No. 1 ever endeavoured to deceive or induce Respondent No. 2 into parting with his movable or immovable property or valuable security, either for her benefit or that of the minor child. While on the other hand, the law imposes an obligation upon Respondent No. 2 to provide adequate maintenance to his wife and the minor child. The complaint lodged by Respondent No. 2 on 13.05.2010, while unleashing accusations of forgery and fabrication, is conveniently silent on what measures he has undertaken for his minor child’s welfare. 33. In light of these circumstances, the Trial Magistrate should have approached the complaint with due care and circumspection, recognising that the allegations do not pertain to offences against property or documents related to property marks.