The relevant observations read as under: - “This rule also flows directly from the doctrine of equality embodied in Article 14. It is now well settled as a result of the decisions of this Court in E.P. Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu, A.I.R. 1974 S.C. 555 and Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India, A.I.R. 1978 S.C. 597 that Article 14 strikes at arbitrariness in State action and ensures fairness and equality of treatment. It requires that State action must not be arbitrary but must be based on some rational and relevant principle which is non discriminatory; it must not be guided by any extraneous or irrelevant consideration, because that would be denial of equality. The principle of reasonableness and rationality which is legally as well as philosophically an essential element of equality or non-arbitrariness is projected by Article 14 and it must characterise every State action, whether it be under authority of law or in exercise of executive power without making of law. The State cannot, therefore, act arbitrarily in entering into relationship, contractual or otherwise with a third party, but its action must conform to some standard or norm which is rational and non-discriminatory.” (Emphasis supplied) 64. In Dwarkadas Marfatia & Sons (supra) this Court speaking through Sabyasachi Mukherji, CJ. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) held that every action of the State or an instrumentality of the State must be informed by reason......actions uninformed by reason may be questioned as arbitrary. The relevant observations read as under: - “22. [...] every action of the State or as instrumentality of the State, must be informed by reason. Indubitably, the respondent is an organ of the State under Article 12 of the Constitution. In appropriate cases, as was observed in the last mentioned decision, actions uninformed by reason may be questioned as arbitrary in proceedings under Article 226 or Article 32 of the Constitution. But it has to be remembered that Article 14 cannot be construed as a [2024] 7 S.C.R. 585 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. The Chief Executive Officer & Ors. charter for judicial review of State action, to call upon the State to account for its actions in its manifold activities by stating reasons for such actions.” (Emphasis supplied) 65. The meaning and true import of arbitrariness is more easily visualized than precisely stated or defined. The question, whether an impugned action is arbitrary or not, is ultimately to be answered on the facts and in the circumstances of a given case. An obvious test to apply is to see whether there is any discernible principle emerging from the impugned act and if so, does it satisfy the test of reasonableness. Where a mode is prescribed for doing an act and there is no impediment in following that procedure, the performance of the act otherwise and in a manner which does not disclose any discernible principle which is reasonable, may itself attract the vice of arbitrariness. Every State action must be informed by reason and it follows that an act uninformed by reason, is arbitrary.