83 Kirloskar Ferrous Industries Limited & Anr v. Union of India & Ors. Provided that if for a particular mineral grade or concentrate, the information for a State for a particular month is not published by the Indian Bureau of Mines, the last available information published for that mineral grade or concentrate for that particular State by the Indian Bureau of Mines in the last six months previous to the reporting month shall be referred, failing which the latest information for all India for the mineral grade or concentrate, shall be referred; (V) the per unit cost of production in case of captive mines.” 15. It is the case of the petitioners that, in view of the Explanation(s) appended to the definition of ‘Sale Value’ in Rule 38 of the MCR, 2016 and Rule 45 of the MCDR, 2017, royalty which has already been paid in the previous month is again being factored for the purposes of computation of royalty to be paid for the subsequent months. Thus, it is the contention of the petitioners that this “compounding” of royalty by virtue of the aforesaid Explanations is manifestly arbitrary inasmuch as it has led to a cascading effect within the fold of determination of the rate of royalty under Section 9 sub-section (3) of the MMDR Act. 16. However, when it comes to computation of royalty in respect of coal, it was submitted by the petitioners that the Central Government has remedied the aforesaid anomaly by excluding the previously paid royalty and contributions towards DMF and NMET in its calculation, by way of an amendment vide Notification No. GSR 445(E) by inserting an Explanation in Entry A, Item 10 in the Second Schedule of the MMDR Act. The relevant provision reads as under: - “Explanation:- For the purposes of this sub entry – (iii) (iv) Actual price means the sale invoice value of coal, net of statutory dues including taxes, · contribution to levies,· royalty, National Mineral Exploration Trust and District Mineral Foundation ... “ 17. The petitioners have contended that for the purposes of computation of royalty there exists no intelligible differentia between coal and iron ore and thus, the exclusion of royalty, DMF and NMET contributions for computation of sale value for coal but not for other minerals such as iron is manifestly arbitrary and the aforesaid Explanation(s) to 84 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Rule 38 of the MCR, 2016 and Rule 45 of the MCDR, 2017 is in consequence of violation of Article 14 of the Constitution and liable to be struck down. 18. During the course of hearing, our attention was also drawn to the fact that on 25.05.2021, a notice was issued by a committee of the Ministry of Mines inviting comments and suggestions from all stakeholders on this issue of double calculation of royalty for computation of the ‘average sale price’, and that after receiving the responses, a report dated 31.01.2022 was submitted by the said committee to the Ministry of Mines giving its recommendations on the incidence of compounding royalty.