In this regard, the proximity to the election schedule announced by the ECI must be kept in mind. 10. Having considered the matter, we are of the view that if the number of EVMs in respect of which Vvpat paper slips is to be subjected to physical scrutiny is increased from 1 to 5, the additional manpower that would be required would not be difficult for the ECI to provide nor would the declaration of the result be substantially delayed. In fact, if the said number is increased to 5, the process of verification can be done by the same team of polling staff and supervisors/officials. It is, therefore, our considered view that having regard to the totality of the facts of the case and need to generate the greatest degree of satisfaction in all with regard to the full accuracy of the election results, the number of EVMs that would now be subjected to verification so far as Vvpat paper trail is concerned would be 5 per Assembly Constituency or Assembly Segments in a Parliamentary Constituency instead of what is provided by Guideline No. 16.6, namely, one machine per Assembly Constituency or Assembly Segment in a Parliamentary Constituency. We also direct that the random selection of the machines that would be subjected to the process of Vvpat paper trail verification as explained to us by Mr Jain, Deputy Commissioner of the Election Commission, in terms of the guidelines in force, shall apply to the Vvpat paper trail verification of the 5 EVMs covered by the present .” 428 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Accordingly, instead of one EVM per assembly constituency or assembly segment in a parliamentary constituency, as stipulated under the erstwhile Guideline 16.6 of the Manual on EVM and VVPAT, it was held that five EVMs per assembly constituency or assembly segment in a parliamentary constituency would be subject to VVPAT verification. 10. This Court vide dated 22.11.2018 dismissed Writ Petition (Civil) No. 1332/2018 titled Nyaya Bhoomi and Another v. Election Commission of India, seeking return to the ballot paper system instead of EVMs. 11. This Court vide dated 21.05.2019 dismissed Writ Petition (Civil) No. 692/2019 titled Tech for All v. Election Commission of India, seeking 100% verification of VVPATs against the EVM outcomes, as the issue had already been decided in N. Chandrababu Naidu (supra). 12. Even earlier, this Court vide dated 30.10.2017 in Prakash Joshi v. Election Commission of India12, had rejected a similar prayer with regard to modification of the procedure for counting of votes by use of EVMs, leaving it to the discretion of the ECI. It was observed that this Court was not inclined to enter into the said arena. 13. This Court vide dated 30.09.2022 dismissed Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 16870/2022 titled Madhya Pradesh Jan Vikash Party v. Election Commission of India regarding use of EVMs with costs. This Court observed that: “The election process under the representation of the People Act, 1951 is monitored by a Constitutional Authority like Election Commission.