15. The prosecution also examined the following official witnesses: a. Constable Munni Khan, who was on duty at the PCR at the time of the incident (PW-5) b. Constable Govind Singh, duty officer at the Gokulpuri P.S. at the time of the incident (PW-8) c. Constable Giasuddin, witness to the discovery of the knife (PW-16) d. S.I. Mohkam Singh, Investigating Officer of the case (PW-17) 16. It is pertinent to note that Shaheena (PW-3), the sole eye-witness to the incident, failed to support the case of the prosecution and was declared a hostile witness. She deposed before the trial court that upon hearing the noise and shrieks of her parents, she woke up in the night hours and saw that thieves had entered into their house and were assaulting her parents. She deposed that the thieves had a knife and they inflicted knife injuries on both her parents. She, however, admitted that she saw her mother lying on the floor bleeding profusely. However, she denied that it was the appellant who had inflicted injuries upon the deceased with a knife. She also denied that the relations of her parents were strained. 17. Dr. Sayed Ali, PW-9, the panch witness to the discovery panchnama also did not support the case of the prosecution and was declared as a hostile witness. 18. Dr. Anil Kohli, PW-1, who conducted the post-mortem on the dead body of the deceased, deposed that all the injuries were ante-mortem in nature and were sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, and more particularly the injuries no. 1-12 respectively were possible by a dagger/knife. 19. Upon conclusion of the oral evidence, the further statement of the appellant was recorded by the trial court. In his statement recorded under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C., the appellant stated as under: “I along with my wife deceased and my daughter Shaheena was sleeping in my house. Two persons caused injuries 180 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to my wife. I tried to save her but I was also hurt by those persons. I do not know as to why those strangers caused injuries to my wife. I am innocent. After causing the injuries those persons fled away from there.” 20. The trial court, upon appreciation of the oral as well as documentary evidence on the record, held the appellant guilty of the offence of murder punishable under Section 302 of the IPC and sentenced him to undergo imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs. 5,000/. In the event of default in the payment of the fine, the trial court directed the appellant to undergo further rigorous imprisonment for six months. 21. The appellant, feeling dissatisfied with the and of conviction passed by the trial court, went in appeal before the High Court. The High Court dismissed the appeal and thereby affirmed the and of the conviction passed by the trial court. The High Court, while affirming the and of conviction passed by the trial court, held as under: “10.