It is submitted that this manner of reading down will ensure that in cases where there is no breakage in the chain of taxable supply, ITC is available to a taxable person who pays output tax. Moreover, this interpretation will avoid the cascading effects of tax. d. In the submissions made by assessees, principles of reading down were sought to be invoked based on the decision of this Court in the case of Indian Social Action Forum (INSAF) v. Union of India.15 Reliance was also placed on a decision of this Court in the case of Delhi Transport Corporation v. DTC Mazdoor Congress & Ors.16 9. Assessees have submitted that Section 17(5)(d) of the CGST Act can be interpreted in a manner that ITC is available to them for the construction of immovable property used for the purpose of further output supply. Shri Arvind P Datar, the learned senior counsel appearing in Writ Petition (C) No. 804 of 2022 contended that the conclusion rendered by the Orissa High Court in the impugned could have been reached without reading down Section 17(5)(d). The contention is founded on a three-pronged argument: a. Firstly, it is submitted that Clause (d) exempts “plant or machinery” from blocked credit, which is distinct from the expression “plant and machinery” used in Clause (c). Therefore, the explanation to sub-section (6) of Section 17, which defines “plant and machinery” is not applicable to the Clause (d). 15 [2020] 4 SCR 903 : (2021) 15 SCC 60 16 [1990] Supp. 1 SCR 142 : (1991) Supp (1) SCC 600 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 807 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. Revenue has opposed this contention by submitting that ‘or’ must be read as ‘and’ stating it to be the mistake of the legislature and contending that assigning distinct meaning to the two clauses would result in unequal treatment of works contract services for the construction of immovable properties under clause (c) and goods and services for the construction of immovable properties under clause (d). The submissions in relation to this can be summarised as follows: y Section 17, being an exception to the general rule under Section 16, must be construed strictly. The expression “plant and machinery” has been used at least ten times in Chapters V and VI of the CGST Act, and the expression “plant or machinery” occurs only once in Section 17(5)(d). Therefore, the intention of the legislature to treat the expression “plant or machinery” differently from the expression “plant and machinery” is apparent. y In the model GST law, which the GST Council Secretariat circulated in November 2016 for inviting suggestions and comments, the expression “plant and machinery” was used both in clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5). However, while enacting the law, the legislature has advisedly used the expression “plant and machinery” in clause (c) and “plant or machinery” in clause (d) of Section 17(5). Therefore, the intention of the legislature cannot be brushed aside by contending that the use of the word “or” in Section 17(5)(d) is a mistake of the legislature.