The same is the case of the child born to the victim as a result of the offence. All the provisions of the JJ Act regarding taking care of such children and rehabilitating them are consistent with Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Therefore, immediately after the knowledge of the commission of a heinous offence under the POCSO Act, the State, its agencies and instrumentalities must step in and render all possible aid to the victim children, which will enable them to lead a dignified life. The failure to do so will amount to a violation of the fundamental rights 610 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports guaranteed to the victim children under Article 21. The police must strictly implement sub-section (6) of Section 19 of the POCSO Act. If that is not done, the victim children are deprived of the benefits of the welfare measures under the JJ Act. Compliance with Section 19(6) is of vital importance. Non-compliance thereof will lead to a violation of Article 21. 38. Unfortunately, in our society, due to whatever reasons, we find that there are cases and cases where the parents of the victims of the offences under the POSCO Act abandon the victims. In such a case, it is the duty of the State to provide shelter, food, clothing, education opportunities, etc., to the victim of the offences as provided in law. Even the child born to such a victim needs to be taken care of in a similar manner by the State. After the victim attains the majority, the State will have to ensure that the victim of the offence can stand on his/her legs and, at least, think of leading a dignified life. That is precisely what Section 46 of the JJ Act provides. Sadly, in the present case, there is a complete failure of the State machinery. Nobody came to rescue the victim of the offence, and thus, for her survival, no option was left to her but to seek shelter with the accused. 39. We may note here that the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India, has framed a scheme for care and support to the victims under Sections 4 and 6 of the POSCO Act. The scheme is very exhaustive and even contains a provision for providing accommodation to girl child victims up to the age of eighteen years and aftercare support up to the age of twenty-three years. It provides health services, counselling, and mental health services. It provides for helping the victim to acquire education and vocational skills. Apart from the scheme mentioned above of the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India, the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) has come out with a Compensation Scheme for Women Victims and Survivors of Sexual Assault/other Crimes-2018. Extensive benefits are made available to the victims of sexual offences under the said scheme. WHAT NEXT? 40. At this stage, we may note that on 9th May 2024, the learned counsel appearing for the State has filed a written note which records the State’s assurance to support the victim.