[…] xxx xxx xxx 13. I do not agree with the learned counsel that the claim of Petitioner is ex facie time-barred as a deadwood, as all the while the claim was kept alive, though it was being agitated before a wrong forum, but ultimately when the Petition was turned down by the Apex Court, he was granted liberty to stake his claim by availing such remedies as may be available to him, in accordance with law, including the remedy of Arbitration. Since the remedy of Arbitration cannot be denied to him, merely on the ground that he had at earlier point of time, before knocking the doors of NCLT withdrew the Petition filed for appointment of Arbitrator, on validly invoking arbitration. Since I do not find that the claim is ex facie time-barred for it was being prosecuted though before a wrong forum, the objection cannot be sustained. 14. In the wake of existence of an arbitration agreement between the parties, the dispute must be referred to an Arbitrator, though I leave it open to the Respondent to agitate the point of limitation before the Arbitrator. 15. In the wake of the above, Mr. Justice Dilip Bhosale (retired Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court) is appointed [2024] 12 S.C.R. 153 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad as Sole Arbitrator to adjudicate the disputes and differences that have arisen between the applicant and the respondent in the two applications. The Arbitrator shall, within a period of 15 days before entering the arbitration reference forward a statement of disclosure as contemplated u/s.11(8) r/w Section 12 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, to the Prothonotary and Senior Master of this Court to be placed on record. […]” 18. Aggrieved by the aforesaid appointing an arbitrator for adjudicating the disputes between the parties, the appellant has come up before this Court with the present appeal. B. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 19. Mr. Tushar Mehta, the learned Solicitor General of India, appearing for the appellant submitted that the Section 11(6) petition filed by the respondent before the High Court as well as the claims sought to be referred to arbitration were time-barred. 20. He submitted that the cause of action in the present case arose on 04.02.2014, i.e., on the date when the claim of the respondent was denied by the appellant. The respondent invoked arbitration vide the notice dated 09.07.2016 and filed a Section 11 petition on 16.02.2018 before unconditionally withdrawing the same. The period of limitation as per Article 137 of the First Schedule to the Limitation Act, 1963 (“the Limitation Act”) for filing a Section 11 petition is three years. In the present case, the limitation period for filing an application under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 came to an end on 07.08.2019. Therefore, the subsequent Section 11 application filed before the High Court on 09.12.2022 was clearly time-barred. 21. He further submitted that in addition to the limitation period for filing the Section 11 application having expired, the underlying claim sought to be referred to arbitration also became time barred on 04.02.2017, that is, after the expiry of three years from the date when the cause of action first arose.