34 See paragraph 5 of Lila Dhar (supra) 35 See paragraph 6 of Lila Dhar (supra) [2024] 12 S.C.R. 61 Tej Prakash Pathak & Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court & Ors. (D) RULE DOES NOT APPLY WITH EQUAL STRICTNESS TO STEPS FOR SELECTION 31. As already noticed in Section (A), a recruitment process inter alia comprises of various steps like inviting applications, scrutiny of applications, rejection of defective applications or elimination of ineligible candidates, conducting examinations, calling for interview or viva voce and preparation of list of successful candidates for appointment. Subject to the rule against arbitrariness, how tests or viva voce are to be conducted, what questions are to be put, in what manner evaluation is to be done, whether a short listing exercise is needed are all matters of procedure which, in absence of rules to the contrary, may be devised by the competent authority. Often advertisement(s) inviting applications are open-ended in terms of these steps and leave it to the discretion of the competent authority to adopt such steps as may be considered necessary in the circumstances albeit subject to the overarching principle of rule against arbitrariness enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution. 32. To elucidate the above proposition we shall notice few instances where the procedure devised by the recruiting body has been approved by this Court. In Santosh Kumar Tripathi v. U.P. Power Corporation,36 this Court was required to consider whether the Rule enabling Service Commission to examine, interview, select and recommend suitable candidates would include power to hold written examination. This Court accepted the High Court’s view that power to ‘examine’ would include holding of written examination. 33. In M.P. Public Service Commission v. Navnit Kumar Potdar37 the question which arose before this Court was as to whether in the process of short-listing, the Commission has altered or substituted the criteria or the eligibility of a candidate to be considered for being appointed against the post of Presiding Officer, Labour Court. In that context it was observed: "6. … It may be mentioned at the outset that whenever applications are invited for recruitment to the different posts, certain basic qualifications and criteria are fixed and the 36 (2009) 14 SCC 210 37 [1994] Supp. 3 SCR 665 : (1994) 6 SCC 293 62 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports applicants must possess those basic qualifications and criteria before their applications can be entertained for consideration. The Selection Board or the Commission has to decide as to what procedure is to be followed for selecting the best candidates from amongst the applicants. In most of the services, screening tests or written tests have been introduced to limit the number of candidates who have to be called for interview. Such screening tests or written tests have been provided in the concerned statutes or prospectus which govern the selection of the candidates. But where the selection is to be made only on basis of interview, the Commission or the Selection Board can adopt any rational procedure to fix the number of candidates who should be called for interview.