191 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. “I cannot blot out their history and omit from consideration the brooding spirit of the times. They are not just dull, lifeless words static and hide-bound as in some mummified manuscript, but, living flames intended to give life to a great nation and its being, tongues of dynamic fire, potent to mould the future as well as guide the present. The Constitution must, in my , be left elastic enough to meet from time to time the altering conditions of a changing world with its shifting emphasis and differing needs.” 4.5 Almost two decades later, in Kesavananda Bharati, the Court utilised the living metaphor to decide upon the amending powers of the Parliament. The Court held that the Parliament could amend the Constitution even to abridge fundamental rights, “as long as the basic structure of the Constitution is retained.” In reaching this conclusion, the Court referred to multiple iterations of the understanding of the living constitution. Therefore, justification for solidifying the constituent power of the Parliament to ensure flexibility of the Constitution, was found in the living Constitution metaphor. 4.6 In Supreme Court Advocates-On-Record Association vs. Union of India,(1993) 4 SCC 441 (“Supreme Court Advocates-On-Record Association”), this Court applied this metaphor while discussing the independence of judiciary. This Court, in addition to calling it an “ever evolving organic document,” applied the living tree metaphor to the Indian Constitution as follows: “The Framers of the Constitution planted in India a living tree capable of growth and expansion within its natural limits. It lives and breathes and is capable of growing to keep pace with the growth of the country and its people.” 4.7 Further, in Zee Telefilms Ltd. vs. Union of India, AIR 2005 SC 2677 (“Zee Telefilms”), the living Constitution metaphor was employed in adopting an expansive understanding of the term “State” as appearing under Article 12 of the Constitution. It was held that the term “other authorities” was included under 192 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Article 12 at the time of framing of the Constitution with a limited objective of granting judicial review of actions of such authorities which are created under the Statute and which discharge State functions. The schism between the private and the public had become obscure with time and the Court must take note of such changes. Therefore, the Court concluded that the position of various institutions in the continuum between the private and the public need to be revaluated having regard to the organic blurring of margins of the public-private dichotomy. It was laid down that the Constitution should be interpreted in light of our whole experience and not merely in that of what was the state of law at the commencement of the Constitution. That the Constitution was a “living organism” capable of change, with changing circumstances. 4.8 In further expansion of fundamental rights, this Court in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy (Retd.) vs. Union of India, (2017) 10 SCC 1 (“Puttaswamy”), held that privacy was essential to the exercise of most fundamental rights and hence, must itself be regarded as a fundamental right.