62 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports plants with the State, the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 which resulted in the nationalisation of certain coking coal mines, the Coal Mines (Taking Over of Management) Act, 1973 and finally the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 which together resulted in nationalisation of all coal mines irrespective of whether they were a coking coal mine or not. The petitioners in Sanjeev Coke argued that the State had discriminated between certain coke oven plants and their coke oven plants. In response, the Union Government contended that the legislations were immunised against an Article 14 challenge as they were protected by Article 31-C. The majority opinion in Sanjeev Coke raised certain concerns regarding the reasoning in Minerva Mills but observed that as a review petition against Minerva Mills was pending before the Court, it was not appropriate to examine this issue further.44 Nonetheless, in the ultimate analysis of the petitioners’ arguments, Justice Chinnappa Reddy speaking for the Constitution Bench in Sanjeev Coke, held: “17. We are firmly of the opinion that once Article 31-C comes in Article 14 goes out. There is no scope for bringing in Article 14 by a side wind as it were, that is, by equating the rule of equality before the law of Article 14 with the broad egalitarianism of Article 39(b) or by treating the principle of Article 14 as included in the principle of Article 39(b).To insist on nexus between the law for which protection is claimed and the principle of Article 39(b) is not to insist on fulfilment of the requirement of Article 14. They are different concepts and in certain circumstances, may even run counter to each other. That is why the need for the immunity afforded by Article 31-C. Indeed there are bound to be innumerable cases where the narrower concept of equality before the law may frustrate the broader egalitarianism contemplated by Article 39(b)….” “18. The next question for consideration is whether the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act is a law directing the policy of the State towards securing “that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good”…” 44 Sanjeev Coke [10]-[13] (Chinnappa Reddy J). [2024] 11 S.C.R. 63 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. As in the decision in Bhim Singh, the above paragraphs evince that the Constitution Bench in Sanjeev Coke proceeded on the basis that Article 31-C was operative and that it ought to be interpreted as it stood prior to the Forty-Second Amendment. The Court noted that once an Article 31-C defence is claimed, Article 14 cannot be resorted to if there is a nexus between the law and the aims set out in clause (b) and clause (c) of Article 39. The explicit references to Articles 31-C and 39(b) demonstrate that the Court proceeded on the basis that the protection afforded to legislations by Article 31-C continued to operate after Minerva Mills.