Therefore, the aforesaid condition permitting revocation or holding such a gift deed to be void does not apply. Thirdly, a gift is liable to be revoked in a case where it is in the nature of a contract which could be rescinded. The gift under consideration is not in the form of a contract and the contract, if any, is not liable to be rescinded. Thus, none of the exceptions permitting revocation 958 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the gift deed stands attracted in the present case. Thus, leading to the only conclusion that the gift deed, which was validly made, could not have been revoked in any manner. Accordingly, revocation deed dated 17.08.1987 is void ab initio and is of no consequence which has to be ignored. 16. The non-utilisation of the suit property for manufacturing Khadi Lungi and Khadi Yarns etc., the purpose set out in the gift deed, and keeping the same as vacant may be a disobedience of the object of the gift but that by itself would not attract the power to revoke the gift deed. There is no stipulation in the gift deed that if the suit property is not so utilised, the gift would stand revoked or would be revoked at the discretion of the donor. 17. In the end, we come to another limb of the argument that the suit as filed by the plaintiff-respondent is hit by limitation and as such the first appellate court and the High Court manifestly erred in decreeing the same. 18. In context with the point of limitation, the court of first instance has formulated issue no. 4 which reads as under: “Whether the suit is barred by limitation?” 19. Admittedly, the present suit for declaration and recovery of possession of the suit property was filed by the plaintiff-respondent on 25.09.1991. The court of first instance held that as the same was not filed within three years from the date of revocation of the gift deed, i.e., 17.08.1987 (Exhibit B-2), the suit is barred by limitation. 20. Once it is held that the gift deed was validly executed resulting in the absolute transfer of title in favour of the plaintiff-respondent, the same is not liable to be revoked, and as such the revocation deed is meaningless especially for the purposes of calculating the period of limitation for instituting the suit. 21. The limitation for a suit for declaration is provided under Part III of the Schedule to the Limitation Act, 1963. It is governed by Articles 56-58 of the Schedule to the Limitation Act. Under all the aforesaid three Articles, the limitation for a suit for declaration is three years. The limitation provided under Articles 56 and 57 of the Schedule to the Limitation Act is in respect to declaration regarding forgery [2024] 10 S.C.R. 959 N. Thajudeen v. Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board of an instrument issued or registered and validity of the adoption deed. Article 58 of the Schedule to the Limitation Act prescribes the limitation for decree of declaration of any other kind and therefore, the suit for declaration of title would essentially fall under Article 58 of the Schedule to the Limitation Act and the limitation would be three years from the date when the right to sue first accrues.