Supreme Court Reports (iii) with or without altering the finding, alter the nature or the extent, or the nature and extent, of the sentence, but not so as to enhance the same; c. in an appeal for enhancement of sentence (i) reverse the finding and sentence and acquit or discharge the accused or him to be re- tried by a Court competent to try the offence, or (ii) alter the finding maintaining the sentence, or (iii) with or without altering the finding, alter the nature or the extent, or the nature and extent, of the sentence, so as to enhance or reduce the same; d. in an appeal from any other , alter or reverse such ; e. make any amendment or any consequential or incidental that may be just or proper; Provided that the sentence shall not be enhanced unless the accused has had an opportunity of showing cause against such enhancement; Provided further that the Appellate Court shall not inflict greater punishment for the offence which in its opinion the accused has committed, than might have been inflicted for that offence by the Court passing the or sentence under appeal.” (Emphasis supplied) 14. Section 386 (b) of Cr.P.C. enumerates power of the Appellate Court which inter alia includes the power to the appellant to be retried by the competent authority or committed for trial in case of appeal from a conviction. This court in several decisions deals with the power of Appellate Court to direct a re-trial. 15. The Constitution Bench, while dealing with such an issue, that when such power should be exercised by the Appellate Court in Ukha Kolhe v. State of Maharashtra,22 observed that: 22 AIR 1963 SC 1531 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1565 P. Manikandan v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. “11. An for retrial of a criminal case is made in exceptional cases, and not unless the appellate court is satisfied that the Court trying the proceeding had no jurisdiction to try it or that the trial was vitiated by serious illegalities or irregularities or on account of misconception of the nature of the proceedings and on that account in substance there had been no real trial or that the Prosecutor or an accused was, for reasons over which he had no control, prevented from leading or tendering evidence material to the charge, and in the interests of justice the appellate court deems it appropriate, having regard to the circumstances of the case, that the accused should be put on his trial again. An of re-trial wipes out from the record the earlier proceeding, and exposes the person accused to another trial which affords the prosecutor an opportunity to rectify the infirmities disclosed in the earlier trial, and will not ordinarily be countenanced when it is made merely to enable the prosecutor to lead evidence which he could but has not cared to lead either on account of insufficient appreciation of the nature of the case or for other reasons. ” (Emphasis supplied) 16.