A contract of service is also personal to the promisor. This is because when a person contracts with another to work or to perform service, it is on the basis of the individual’s skills, competency or other qualifications of the promisor and in circumstances such as the death of the promisor he is discharged from the contract. 22. Correspondingly, duties or obligations which are personal in nature cannot be transmitted from a person who had to personally discharge those duties, on his demise, to his legal representatives. Just as a right is uninheritable and the right personal to him dies with the owner of the right, similarly, a duty cannot be transferred to the legal representatives of a deceased if the same is personal in nature. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 141 Vinayak Purshottam Dube (Deceased), Through Lrs v. Jayashree Padamkar Bhat & Others In Raghu Lakshminarayanan vs. Fine Tubes, (2007) 5 SCC 103, while distinguishing a juristic person such as a company, a partnership or an association of persons from a proprietary concern, it was observed that a person who carries on business in the name of a business concern, but he being a proprietor thereof, would be solely responsible for conduct of its affairs. A proprietary concern is not a company. Further, a proprietary concern is only the business name in which the proprietor of the business carries on the business. A suit by or against a proprietary concern is by or against the proprietor of the business. In the event of the death of the proprietor of a proprietary concern, it is the legal representatives of the proprietor who alone can sue or be sued in respect of the dealings of the proprietary business which is by representing the estate of the deceased proprietor. The real party who is being sued is the proprietor of the said business. Therefore, if a proprietor had to carry on certain obligations personally under a contract, the same cannot be fastened on his legal representatives. 23. Further, Section 2(11) of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (for short, “CPC”) defines a “legal representative” to mean a person who in law represents the estate of a deceased person, and includes any person who intermeddles with the estate of the deceased and where a party sues or is sued in a representative character the person on whom the estate devolves on the death of the party so suing or sued. Thus, the legal representatives of a deceased are liable only to the extent of the estate which they inherit. In Custodian of Branches of Banco National Ultramarino vs. Nalini Bai Naique, AIR 1989 SC 1589, it was observed that the expression “legal representative” as defined in the CPC is applicable to proceedings in a suit. It means a person who in law represents the estate of a deceased person and includes any person who intermeddles with the estate of the deceased and where a party sues or is sued in a representative character the person on whom the estate devolves on the death of the party so suing or sued.