Once a speech is made or a vote is given, the nexus, i.e., “in respect of”, is fulfilled; [2024] 3 S.C.R. 487 Sita Soren v. Union of India 16.9. The overruling of the majority will have severe unintended consequences. In view of political realities, if the parliamentary immunity conferred upon MPs/ MLAs is whittled down, it would enhance the possibility of abuse of the law by political parties in power; and 16.10. Voting in the Rajya Sabha Elections is within the scope of protection of Article 194(2) as it has all the “trappings” of any other law-making process in the legislature. 17. Mr Venkataramani, the learned Attorney General for India advanced a preliminary submission that the decision in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) is inapplicable to the instant case. He submitted that the exercise of franchise by an elected member of the legislative assembly in a Rajya Sabha election does not fall within the ambit of Article 194(2), and thus, PV Narasimha Rao (supra) does not have any application to the present case. He submits that the objective of Article 194(2) is to protect speech and conduct in relation to the functions of the legislature. Therefore, any conduct which is not related to legislative functions, such as the election of members to the Rajya Sabha, will fall outside the ambit of Article 194(2). According to the learned Attorney General, the election of members to the Rajya Sabha is akin to any other election process and cannot be treated as a matter of business or function of the legislature. 18. In response to the learned Attorney General’s submissions that the polling for Rajya Sabha cannot be considered a proceeding of the House, Mr Ramachandran has submitted that the cases relied on by the learned Attorney General were not rendered in a context where parliamentary privilege or immunity was sought to be invoked and the passing reference to the concept of ‘legislative proceedings’ was in an entirely different context. Further, certain legislative processes such as ad-hoc committees, standing committees, elections of the constitutional offices of the President/Vice President, and members of the Rajya Sabha, do not necessarily take place on the floor of the House when it is in session. However, they have all the ‘trappings’ of carrying out the ‘legislative process’. 19. Mr P S Patwalia, amicus curiae has submitted that the majority must be reconsidered, and the view of the minority reflects the correct position of law. In this regard, Mr Patwalia made the following submissions: 488 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19.1. The majority has erroneously given a wide interpretation to the expression “in respect of” and granted immunity to MPs from criminal prosecution when they accept a bribe to cast a vote in Parliament. The object of Article 105 is not to place MPs above the law when the offence has been committed before the MP enters the House of Parliament; 19.2. The ratio of the s of this court rendered after PV Narasimha Rao (supra) militates against the grant of immunity to MPs for taking a bribe for casting votes;13 19.3.