In this regard, our attention was drawn to the performance appraisal report(s) of Respondent No.1 dated (i) 24.09.2015; (ii) 30.12.2016; and (iii) 28.12.2018 whereunder no grievance was raised by Respondent No. 1, nor any allegation of prejudice was levelled against the Appellant. 398 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10. Further, Mr. Rohatgi drew the attention of this Court to Section V of the PAR. In this context, it was submitted that the Accepting Authority i.e., the Chief Minister of Haryana, knew the performance and achievement of all senior IAS officers serving the Government of Haryana; and accordingly revised the overall grades and remarks awarded to Respondent No. 1 in an impartial and objective manner. Additionally, Mr. Rohatgi submitted that the overall grade ‘9’ forms a part of the ‘outstanding’ grade and is more than sufficient for the purposes of empanelment / promotion of Respondent No. 1. Thus, it is his submission that no prejudice could have been said to have been caused to Respondent No. 1 in the present case as he was awarded grades in consonance with a recommendation for empanelment / promotion. 11. Finally, Mr. Rohatgi contended that the Underlying Representation is pending consideration before the Accepting Authority; and that the grievance of Respondent No. 1 would be considered by the Accepting Authority as per the procedure envisaged under the PAR Rules. In the aforementioned context, it was stressed that the High Court ought not to have interfered and set-aside the CAT vide the Impugned . 12. On the other hand, Mr. Shreenath A. Khemka, Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of Respondent No. 1, submitted that the timelines prescribed under the Schedule are sacrosanct. Accordingly, it was submitted that upon the expiry of the timelines enumerated under the Schedule, the Accepting Authority could not have submitted revised the remarks and / or the overall grades awarded by the Reviewing Authority. 13. Further, it was vehemently contended before us that the Accepting Authority had acted arbitrarily and without appreciating the material(s) on record, it proceeded to downgrade the overall grade awarded to Respondent No. 1 from ‘9.92’ to ‘9’. In this regard, it was contended that the Accepting Authority had acted in contravention of the principles enunciated by this Court in Dev Dutt v. Union of India, (2008) 8 SCC 725. 14. Lastly, Mr. Khemka submitted that prejudice has been caused to Respondent No. 1 on account of the non-decision qua the Underlying Representation under Rule 9(7B) of the PAR Rules; coupled with the fact that Respondent No. 1 is in the sunset of his service i.e., having [2024] 3 S.C.R. 399 The State of Haryana v. Ashok Khemka & Anr. ` a tenure of only 1 (one) year of service left before his superannuation. Accordingly, in the totality of circumstances, it was submitted that the Impugned ought not to be set-aside. Analysis 15. We have heard the counsel(s) appearing on behalf of the parties and perused the material on record. There can be no controversy qua the factum that the timelines prescribed under the Schedule have been contravened.