We are, therefore, of the view that arbitrariness in the sense of manifest arbitrariness as pointed out by us above would apply to negate legislation as well under Article 14.” [emphasis supplied] 61. It is to be noted that Nariman, J. wrote the for himself and Lalit, J., and concurred with the delivered by Kurian Joseph, J. As such, the views expressed by Nariman, J. would be part of the majority view. 62. It can thus be seen that in the said case, it was held that the test of manifest arbitrariness as laid down by this Court in various s would also apply to invalidate legislation as well as subordinate legislation under Article 14. It was held that manifest arbitrariness must be something done by the legislature capriciously, irrationally and/or without adequate determining principle. It further goes on to hold that when something is done which is excessive and disproportionate, such a legislation would be manifestly arbitrary. It, in unequivocal terms, held that arbitrariness in the sense of manifest arbitrariness would apply to negate legislation under Article 14 of the Constitution. In para 95, it was observed that the case of Natural Resources Allocation, In re, Special Reference No. 1 of 2012,18 did not lay down a proposition that legislation can never be struck down as being arbitrary. This Court, after referring to all the earlier s including Ajay Hasia and Others v. Khalid Mujib Sehravardi and Others,19 stated that legislation can be struck down on the ground 18 [2012] 9 SCR 311 : (2012) 10 SCC 1 19 [1981] 2 SCR 79 : (1981) 1 SCC 722 : 1980 INSC 218 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 491 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another that it is arbitrary under Article 14 of the Constitution. However, arbitrariness when applied to legislation cannot be used loosely. 63. In touchstone of the aforesaid parameters, let us examine the Impugned Act. 64. The only reasoning given in the SOR of the Impugned Act is that the Khalsa College has, over a period of time, become a significant icon of Khalsa heritage and the University established in 2016 is likely to shadow and damage its character and pristine glory. It is to be noted that the Khalsa College which was established in 1892 is not a part of the Khalsa University. The only colleges which were affiliated with the Khalsa University are the Khalsa College of Education, Amritsar established in 1954, Khalsa College for Women, Amritsar established in 1968 and Khalsa College of Pharmacy, Amritsar established in 2009. Apart from that, the appellants have given a specific undertaking stating thus: “It is accordingly respectfully submitted that the majestic façade and visual appeal of the building of the Khalsa College has not been touched or adversely affected by the establishment of the Khalsa University in any way what so ever. The Khalsa University has been established by converting the pre-existing 3 colleges viz College of Pharmacy, College for Women and College of Education into departments in the Khalsa University.” 65.