313 Commissioner of Customs v. M/s Canon India Pvt. Ltd. (c) in a case where duty or (c) in a case where duty interest has been erroneously or interest has been refunded, the date of refund; erroneously refunded, the date of refund; (d) in any other case, the date of payment of duty or interest.” (d) in any other case, the date of payment of duty or interest. Explanation 2. - For the The Explanation 2 removal of doubts, it is was added to the hereby declared that any new Section 28 non-levy, short-levy or to demarcate the erroneous refund before date from which the the date on which the said section shall Finance Bill, 2011 become applicable receives the assent of the and any recoveries President, shall continue of duty prior to to be governed by the such date would provisions of Section 28 be governed by the as it stood immediately old Section 28. before the date on which such assent is received.” 146. What is discernible from the aforesaid modifications made by the Parliament is as under: (a) Distinction in the time-period: In sub-section (1) of new Section 28, the difference in the purpose of the duty has been removed and for all cases of short-levy, non-levy, part-payment, non-payment and erroneous refund except for cases falling under new Section 28(4), the period of one year has been provided for the service of the show cause notice, which under the old provision was six months. (b) Additional provision in respect of short-levy, non-levy, part-payment, non-payment and erroneous refund by reasons of collusion, willful misstatement and suppression of facts: An additional provision has been inserted by way of Section 28(5) stipulating that, to the extent the amount mentioned in the show cause notice has been accepted by the person chargeable with payment of such duty, the payment of a part of such amount is allowed. (c) Self-ascertainment of recovery amount before the issuance of a show cause notice: Parliament introduced the mechanism 314 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of self-ascertainment of the recovery amount by the person chargeable with the payment of duty and payment of such amounts before the service of a show cause notice, subject to final adjudication or determination by the proper officer. (d) Insertion of Explanation 2: For the removal of doubts regarding the applicable provision for recoveries of duty arising before and after the enactment of new Section 28, Parliament added Explanation 2 to clarify that recoveries arising prior to 08.04.2011 shall be governed by old Section 28 of the Act. 147. Having analysed the aforesaid modifications made by Parliament to old Section 28, we can say with certainty that none of the changes made by the amendments to Section 28 has any impact on the competence of the proper officer for the purposes of fulfilment of functions under Section 28. In our considered view, the only major change that warrants the clarification provided under Explanation 2 is the distinction with respect to the limitation period for the issuance of show cause notices.