High Court Findings 7. The High Court, in appeal, was faced with the question of the absence of the name of A-2 in the FIR. Having referred to certain decisions of this Court, it was observed that simply because the name was not mentioned in the FIR, an accused can not be absolved of liability for having committed the offence. The next question considered by the Court with respect to A-2 was his involvement or lack thereof in the occurrence of this offence. The argument on his behalf relies on the fact that PW-1’s statement did not mention him, and neither did Exhs. P-6 and P-11, was considered unworthy, keeping in view the testimonies of injured eyewitnesses PW-1 and PW-2 as also the statement of PW-3 under Section 161 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973; it was held that the involvement of A-2 stood proved beyond reasonable doubt. 8. For A-1, three primary arguments were put forth, i.e., Dr. Radhakrishnan8 (PW-17) Doctor at Seahorse Hospital did not give evidence in regard to the surgical procedure undergone by PW- 1; the injuries faced by A-1 were not sufficiently explained by the prosecution; and about the occurrence, the owner of the wine shop stood not examined. 9. It was observed that the genuineness of the statement made by PW-1 to the police could not be doubted as he had told PW-17 that he was a victim of an attack by A-1. Such genuineness stands buttressed by the fact that the document reached the court on the same day. 10. On A-1’s injuries being unexplained, it was observed that the same would not be sufficient to dispel the entire prosecution case. Reference was made to Amar Malla v. State of Tripura9. It was held that since both PW-1 and PW-2 are consistent on facts, including the place of occurrence, as also the same being an admitted fact, 8 Hereinafter ‘PW-17’ 9 (2002) 7 SCC 91 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 753 Periyasamy v. The State Represented by the Inspector of Police the contention in that regard on behalf of A-1 has to be negatived. Given that the presence of the owner of the shop has nowhere been mentioned, his non-examination cannot be termed fatal to the prosecution case. 11. In such terms, the High Court confirmed the conviction and sentence handed down by the Trial Court as regards A1 and A2. Submissions 12. The present appeals are a challenge to the s of the Trial Court and High Court. We have heard Mr. S Nagamuthu, learned senior counsel, Mr. S. Arun Prakash for A-1, and Mr. Vipin Jai for A-2. Dr. Joseph Aristotle S. was heard for the State. Contentions on behalf of A-1 13. The primary ground urged on behalf of A-1 was that nearly all witnesses were “interested” in the case’s outcome and, therefore, unreliable; and none of the witnesses examined were independent. Further, it was canvassed that the delay in lodging the FIR stands unexplained, more so when the medical evidence does not speak of PW-1 having undergone surgery.