However, the High Court distinguished the said decision by holding that although the signatory of a cheque issued on behalf of a proprietorship concern cannot be said to be vicariously liable under Section 141 yet he could be held liable in his capacity as the drawer of the cheque under Section 138 of the NI Act. 68. We find it difficult to approve the line of reasoning adopted by the High Court in relying upon the object behind the enactment of Section 138 of the Act to liberally interpret the language of Section 138 of the NI Act so as to include even an authorized signatory within its ambit. Section 138 of the NI Act being penal in nature has to be strictly construed and advertence to the object behind its enactment can only be made to supplement the language employed in the text of the statute and not to supplant it or render it overly broad and susceptible to misuse. This Court in P.J. Agro Tech (supra) noted as under: “14. … An action in respect of a criminal or a quasi- criminal provision has to be strictly construed in keeping with the provisions alleged to have been violated. The proceedings in such matters are in personam and cannot be used to foist an offence on some other person, who under the statute was not liable for the commission of such offence.” E. CONCLUSION 69. As discussed above, in the case on hand, the accused was prosecuted in his individual capacity and not in his capacity of being the Director of the Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd. Although it is undisputed that the accused signed the cheque in question, yet as the cheque was drawn not on an account maintained by him with a Banker but was issued on an account maintained by the hospital, the requirement of Section 138 of the Act cannot be said to have been complied with. 70. It would have been altogether a different situation if the accused was prosecuted in his capacity as a Director of the Shilabati Hospital. In such a scenario, the cheque drawn by him on an account maintained [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1995 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. by the Company would have satisfied the requirement of Section 138 of the Act but as the accused has been proceeded against for an offence under Section 138 of the Act in his individual capacity and inasmuch as the cheque dishonoured for insufficiency of funds was drawn on the account maintained by the Company, namely, Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd., and not by the accused herein, no offence could be said to have been committed under Section 138 of the Act. The High Court rightly held that in the absence of the principal offender having been arraigned as an accused, prosecution for the commission of an offence under Section 138 of the NI Act could not have proceeded against the accused. 71. As is evident from the discussion in the preceding parts of this , the requirement of Section 138 of the NI Act is that for fastening criminal liability on the accused, the cheque which was dishonoured for insufficiency of funds etc., must have been drawn on an account maintained by the accused.