11. We are, therefore, inclined to allow the appeal. The passed by the Special Court dated 02.02.2024 and the impugned of the learned Single Judge dated 29.07.2024 are quashed and set aside. 12. In to protect the interest of the prosecution as well as the victim, we are inclined to impose certain stringent conditions on the appellant. 13. The appellant is directed to be released on bail on the following terms and conditions:- (i) The appellant shall execute a bonds in the sum of Rs.50,000/- with one or more sureties in the like amount. (ii) The appellant shall not enter the area of Akluj Tehsil during the trial. (iii) The appellant shall intimate his place of residence to the Trial Court as well as to the Police Station within whose jurisdiction he would reside. (iv) The appellant shall continue to appear before the learned Special Judge on every date regularly. 14. The appeal is, accordingly, disposed of. 15. It is pertinent to mention that during the hearing of the present appeal, as already discussed above, a sorry state of affairs is being depicted. The trial is being prolonged on the ground that the appellant is not produced before the Trial Judge either physically or virtually. We are informed that this is not a solitary case but in many cases such a difficulty arises. 842 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 16. We, therefore, direct the Registrar General of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, Secretary, Home, State of Maharashtra and Secretary, Law and Justice, State of Maharashtra to sit together and evolve a mechanism to ensure that the accused are produced before the Trial Judge either physically or virtually on every date and the trial is not permitted to be prolonged on the ground of non-production of the accused persons. 17. A copy of this be forwarded to the Registrar General of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, Secretary, Home, State of Maharashtra and Secretary, Law and Justice, State of Maharashtra forthwith for necessary action. 18. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey