However, the question which requires to be addressed is whether such initiation of the proceedings can be at any length of time or at any point of time where no limitation is prescribed. This Court [2024] 6 S.C.R. 293 Smt. Shyamo Devi and Others v. State of U.P. Through Secretary and Others in State of Punjab Vs. Bhatinda Milk Producer Union Limited reported in (2007) 11 SCC 363 has held: “18. It is trite that if no period of limitation has been prescribed, statutory authority must exercise its jurisdiction within a reasonable period. What, however, shall be the reasonable period would depend upon the nature of the statute, rights and liabilities thereunder and other relevant factors.” 13. This Court had an occasion to consider similar issue in the matter of Ibrahimpatnam Taluk Vyavasaya Coolie Sangham v. K. Suresh Reddy, (2003) 7 SCC 667 namely the exercise of suo moto power under sub-section (4) of Section 50-B of Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Tenancy and Agriculture Lands Act, 1950 (for short ‘AP Act’) i.e., can it be at any time or such power is to be exercised within a reasonable time and if so, within what time? The facts obtained in the said case was that the owners of the subtle land executed various sale deeds in favour of different persons on plain paper and possession of the lands was also delivered to the purchasers. The vendees applied under Section 50-B of the AP Act for validation of sales and the concerned Tehsildar issued validation certificates on various dates. The said s of the Tehsildar came to be challenged before the Joint Collector of the District by the Special Tehsildar and authorised officer (land reforms) which appeals came to be dismissed in 1988. It is thereafter the Joint Collector issued show cause notices purporting to exercise the suo moto power under sub-section (4) of Section 50-B of the Act to both the vendors and the vendees as to why the validation certificates issued in the year 1974 or earlier should not be cancelled after considering the objections filed in response to the show cause notices, the Joint Collector set aside the validation certificates in 1989. The learned Single Judge before whom challenge was laid accepted the plea of the writ petitioners by arriving at a conclusion that suo moto power of revision ought to have been exercised within a reasonable period, though Section 50-B (4) of the Act empowers the authority to exercise such suo moto power at any time. The impleading applicants who had filed the complaint, assailed the of learned Single Judge before the Division Bench without success. In so far as the validation certificates which were found to be fraught with fraud came to be 294 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports set aside by the Division Bench and also taking into account that the parties did not produce the documents. 14. Sub-section (4) of Section 50-B of the AP Act can be juxtaposition with sub-section (6) of Section 122-C of the UPZALR Act for immediate reference and it reads: Section 122-C (6) Section 50-B (4) of UPZALR Act of AP Act 122-C (6) The Collector may 50-B (4) The Collector may, of his own motion and shall on suo-motu at any time, call the application of any person for and examine the record aggrieved by an allotment of relating to any certificate issued land under this section inquire in or proceedings taken by the the manner prescribed into such Tahsildar under this section for allotment, and if he is satisfied the purpose of satisfying himself that the allotment is irregular, as to the legality or propriety he may cancel the allotment, of such certificate or as to the and thereupon the right, title regularity of such proceedings and interest of the allottee and and pass such in relation of every other person claiming thereto as he may think fit: through him in the land allotted Provided that no adversely shall cease.