– “Additionally, it is well-settled that in case of any ambiguity in the construction of a penal statute, the courts must favour the interpretation which leans towards protecting the rights of the accused, given the ubiquitous power disparity between the individual accused and the State machinery. This is applicable not only in the case of substantive penal statutes but also in the case of procedures providing for the curtailment of the liberty of the accused.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2411 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement 56. Undoubtedly, the opinion of the officer is subjective, but formation of opinion should be in accordance with the law. Subjectivity of the opinion is not a carte blanche to ignore relevant absolving material without an explanation. In such a situation, the officer commits an error in law which goes to the root of the decision making process, and amounts to legal malice. 57. A contention raised by the DoE, and accepted in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra), was that the of arrest under Section 19(1) of the PML Act is a decision taken by a high ranking officer. Thus, it is expected that the high ranking officer is conscious of the obligation imposed by Section 19(1) of the PML Act before passing an of arrest. We are of the opinion that it would be incongruous to argue that the high ranking officer should not objectively consider all material, including exculpatory material. 58. A wrong application of law or arbitrary exercise of duty leads to illegality in the process. The court can exercise their judicial review to strike down such a decision. This would not amount to judicial overreach or interference with the investigation, as has been argued by the DoE. The court only ensures that the enforcement of law is in accordance with the statute and the Constitution. An adverse decision would only help in ensuring better compliance with the statute and the principles of the Constitution. 59. Having said so, we accept that a question would arise – does judicial review mean a detailed merits review? We have already referred to the contours of judicial review expounded in Padam Narain Aggarwal (supra), and Dr. Pratap Singh (supra). We have also referred to the principles of Wednesbury reasonableness.50 60. In Amarendra Kumar Pandey v. Union of India and others,51 this Court elaborated on the different facets of judicial review regarding subjective opinion or satisfaction. It was held that the courts should not inquire into correctness or otherwise of the facts found except where the facts found existing are not supported by any evidence at all or the finding is so perverse that no reasonable man would say that the facts and circumstances exist. Secondly, it is permissible to 50 See supra note 33. 51 [2022] 12 SCR 223 : (2022) SCC Online SC 881 2412 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports inquire whether the facts and circumstances so found to exist have a reasonable nexus with the purpose for which the power is to be exercised.