However, they were deemed hostile by the prosecution, as according to them, no incident occurred in their presence. 232 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 28. It is noteworthy to mention here that during the trial of the Appellant and other co-accused, one of the accused, Vijay Singh absconded. Subsequent to the of the Trial Court in 2005, that Vijay Singh was apprehended and tried. The Trial Court vide another delivered in the year 2007, convicted him based on the testimony of eyewitness Usha Bai (P.W.10), duly supported by the medical opinions of Dr. C.S. Jain (P.W.13) and Dr. Neelam Shrivastava (P.W.15) as well as the testimony of Girish Bohre, the Investigating Officer (P.W.14). 29. Having elaborated on the testimonies of the key witnesses in the instant case, we may now dredge up the contradictions highlighted on behalf of the Appellant. A.1 Bhairav Shastri’s Jhuggi 30. It was vehemently agitated that there is a latent dissension in the testimonies of the witnesses regarding the location of the occurrence. While Usha Bai, P.W.10 and Lallu Vishwakarma, P.W.11, deposed that the deceased Tillu entered the Jhuggi of Bhairav Shastri, where he was subsequently surrounded and assaulted in the abdomen by the Appellant wielding a knife, the Investigating Officer (P.W.14) veraciously admitted during cross-examination that he was unaware of any individual named Bhairon Baba residing near the scene of the incident. The I.O. further clarified that there was no house or temple associated with Bhairon Baba in the vicinity of the incident, which is why he did not name it in the spot map (Ex.P.2). 31. We have thoroughly scrutinized the testimonies of the witnesses in this regard. We find a consistent mention of Bhairav Shastri across all prosecution accounts, with Bhairav Shastri also being loosely referred to as Bhairon Baba. Lallu Vishwakarma, P.W. 11, has unerringly stated in his testimony that the deceased Tillu was discovered inside Bhairon Baba’s room following the incident. Additionally, the presence of Bhairon Shastri’s Jhuggi is noted in Section 161 CrPC statement of the deceased Tularam recorded by Girish Bohre, the Investigating Officer (P.W.14), wherein he unequivocally stated that Tillu sought refuge inside Bhairav Shastri’s hut and locked himself in. The mention of Bhairon Shastri’s Jhuggi is also evident in the FIR (Ex.P.7) filed by the Complainant, P.W.10, as well as in her statement (Ex.D.1) recorded under Section 161 CrPC. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 233 Dharmendra Kumar @ Dhamma v. State of Madhya Pradesh 32. It is true that while Girish Bohre (P.W.14), as per his statement, was unaware of any Bhairon Baba near the scene of occurrence, the location referred to as ‘Bhairon Shastri’s Jhuggi’ by the other witnesses is indeed depicted on the spot map (Ex.P.2) prepared by him. A plain examination of the spot map (Ex.P.2) reveals a marked structure labelled ‘B’, identified as a `brick room’ where the deceased took refuge. Even though the said structure is not captioned as Bhairav Shastri’s Jhuggi or by any other name, it gives credence to the version of the eye witnesses that Tillu was attacked in the neighbouring Jhuggi.