or bring about.” The Collins English Dictionary and Thesaurus defines it as – “To create or set up”. The common thread amongst all the said definition is that “establish” refers to the creation or bringing in to being of a body/institution. It refers to the action or process which involves creation of a new entity. In light of these considerations, a minority community seeking to assert rights under Article 30 must substantiate that the institution in question was indeed physically, demonstrably, and conclusively brought into existence by the minority. 158. The Appellants urged that the establishment is equivalent to a ‘founding moment’ in to further their stance on the facts surrounding MAO College and AMU. This fundamentally ignores the understanding of “establishment” as establishment is not a moment rather establishment is a process. A process consists of various factors and forces at play, the culmination of which result in the creation of the institution. A moment connotes a singular act or just an idea which, in the opinion of this Court, would not suffice the enquiry under Article 30. A process is a complex sequences of events and actions/ inactions on part of various stakeholders which were relevant in the history of the institution at the point of establishment. 159. Further, in cases wherein there are multitude of forces and multiple stakeholders involved during establishment of an institution, the judicial inquiry would have to be suitably calibrated. The Court, in such situations, ought to take a holistic view of the matter and decide the question on totality of factors. The Court needs to weigh the factors and contributory forces in the balance in to ascertain whether the minority community was the primary force behind the bringing in to being of the institution. G.3 Relevance of “choice” and “intent” in the question of establishment 160. At this juncture, it is necessary to understand the meaning of the term “choice” occurring in Article 30 of the Constitution. The term choice, is representative of the decision of minority community as to the nature of the institution it seeks to establish. The choice therefore could be to establish a technical institution, an arts institution, an institution for religious teaching or even a minority institution with largely secular teaching. The “choice” is therefore operationalised by the decision of the minority as to the kind of institution that the minority seeks to establish. 1990 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 161. In Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society and Ors. v. State of Gujarat and Ors., (1974) 1 SCC 717, this Court refers to this aspect of “choice” as under : “96. xxx Clause (1) of Article 30 also contains the words “of their choice”. These words which qualify “educational institutions” show the vast discretion and option which the minorities have in selecting the type of institutions which they want to establish. In case an educational institution is established by a minority to conserve its distinct language, script or culture, the right to establish and administer such institution would fall both under Article 29(1) as well as under Article 30(1).