329. The historic inclusion of universal adult suffrage as a constitutional value in India was noteworthy for accommodating an unprecedented number of voters, and its revolutionary nature. What is now considered a matter of fact was, at that time, perceived as a daring and potentially risky endeavour. The embrace of universal adult suffrage in India, devoid of property, taxation, or literacy qualifications, was deemed a ‘bold experiment’, particularly given the country’s vast geographical expanse and population. This stride was even monumental, especially when juxtaposed with the trajectory of more economically advanced nations, such as the United States of America, which achieved universal adult franchise only in 1965.206 India’s adoption of adult franchise also positioned it in close proximity to the timelines of countries like France and Britain, where universal adult suffrage commenced in 1945 and 1928, respectively. 330. This historical background, coupled with the Constituent Assembly deliberations, unmistakably signify that the incorporation of universal adult suffrage through Article 326 was undertaken with the avowed purpose of granting voting rights and empowerment to every adult citizen of India, devoid of any unjustifiable limitations or constraints. Thus, the drafters of the Constitution crystallized their vision of ‘one man, one value, one vote’ by enshrining it in Article 326.207 (b) Aim of Article 326 331. The text of Article 326 provides that “the elections to the House of the People and to the Legislative Assembly of every State shall 206 Voting Rights Act of 1965. 207 Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume 11, 25.11.1949. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1129 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 be on the basis of adult suffrage.” Article 326 further lays down the qualifications for being a voter, subject to statutory limitations concerning disqualification, corrupt practices, detention, etc. As established previously, these Articles were encapsulated within the Constitution to provide the right to vote to large swathes of people, irrespective of their literacy or ownership of property. Nevertheless, it is imperative to delineate the nature of the right to vote. This analysis will serve as a crucial foundation in conclusively determining the validity of the contentions presented by the Petitioners regarding the alleged violation and adverse impact on their right to vote stemming from the influx of migrants from Bangladesh. 332. The right to vote has been the subject of considerable deliberation and judicial interpretation. This Court has evolved the notion of the right to vote, per constitutional and statutory principles, to empower voters further. One of the very first cases to discuss the issue pertaining to the nature of the right to vote was N.P. Ponnuswami v. Returning Officer, Namakkal Constituency, where this Court categorically held that “the right to vote or stand as a candidate for election is not a civil right but is a creature of statute or special law and must be subject to limitation imposed by it.”208 This view was upheld in the case of Jyoti Basu v. Debi Ghosal,209 holding that the right to elect is neither a fundamental nor a common law right but a statutory right.