Therefore, the first half of unamended Article 31-C, which is the subject matter of the present controversy, was undoubtedly constitutional as held by the thirteen-judge decision in Kesavananda Bharati 4 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and further by the Constitution Bench in Waman Rao. Therefore, if as a consequence of the decision in Minerva Mills, the unamended Article 31-C continues in force, there can be no question of any unconstitutionality or adverse consequences associated with the unamended Article 31-C. Indeed, both the Constitution Benches in Minerva Mills and Waman Rao expressly noted that the first half of Article 31-C had been held to be constitutional in Kesavananda Bharati. Further, given that the unamended Article 31-C has been given effect for over four decades as demonstrated by the decisions in Bhim Singh and Sanjeev Coke, no argument can be raised concerning any legal or practical difficulties with the operation of the unamended Article 31-C. Given these findings, the unamended Article 31-C continues in force. [Para 71] 2.4. An amendment can be invalidated when it modifies, obliterates, or adds some feature to the Constitution that is anathema to the principles that emerge upon a structural reading of the constitutional text. If an amendment is invalidated because it causes a drastic deviation from the principles that govern our constitutional democracy, the consequences must be a return to those principles. Article 31-C represented a delicate balance between the goals of Part IV and the rights of Part III of the Constitution. This balance was held to not impermissibly deviate from the core principles that govern our Constitution by the thirteen judges’ decision of this Court in Kesavananda Bharati. However, in Minerva Mills, Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment was held to violate these core principles that form the basic structure. The logical result of such a ruling is that the constitutional text must return to within the fold of the basic structure. To give effect to the repealing portions of Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment while also invalidating the enactment would not result in a return to a constitutional text that is in conformity with the basic structure. Rather, it would result in a novel third outcome, the constitutionality of which would be uncertain, untested, and may itself violate the basic structure. Therefore, the consequence of invalidating Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment must be that the unamended Article 31-C is revived. [Para 72] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 5 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Held (per B.V. Nagarathna, J.) (Concurring): I am in complete accord with the reasoning that, in the absence of any indication that Parliament intended a “repeal without substitution,” the original text of Article 31C as it existed before the Constitution (Forty Second) Amendment Act, 1976 must be reinstated following the invalidation of the said amendment. In Minerva Mills case, when the amendment was struck down for deviating from constitutional principles, the logical consequence that must follow the declaration of invalidity of the amendment is to revert to those original principles which the amendment deviated from.