Venkataramiah And M. P. Thakkar, JJ. 5. Assam Sillimanite Ltd. v. Union of India, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 692. Decision by: Kuldip Singh and M. Fathima Beevi, JJ. 6. Jilubhai Nanbhai Khachar v. State of Gujarat, 1995 Supp (1) SCC 596 Decision by: K. Ramaswamy and N.G. Venkatachala, JJ. In my opinion it would be unwise to upset the long-settled meaning given consistently by several Benches of this Court to the phrase “material resources of the community”, used in Article 39(b) by the framers of the Constitution. Did Sanjeev Coke fall in error in relying upon the observations of minority judges in Ranganatha Reddy, penned by Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer, as the opinion of the majority of Judges had expressly stated their inability to agree with such observations of the minority? Did Sanjeev Coke break judicial discipline by following the law laid down by minority, and not following the binding precedent of majority? And were the future decisions of this Court wrong in following the decision in Sanjeev Coke too? The question here is essentially one of the binding nature of a precedent. Was that breached? 27. What is a binding precedent and more precisely what would be the value of a minority . This aspect needs to be cleared. In the common law system, which we follow in India, judicial precedents have to be followed. This we know as stare decisis or ‘stare decisis et non quieta movere’ (stand by the decisions and not to unsettle what is settled). A co-ordinate bench must follow the law laid down by another co-ordinate bench. Now, the question is what is the law laid down on Article 31-C and Article 39 (b) by the majority of Four Judges in Ranganatha Reddy. With respect, there is none. The only interpretation on the above provision is by the minority of Three Judges. 294 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 28. The background of Ranganatha Reddy case must be stated again in to get a proper perspective. The State of Karnataka enacted a statute known as Karnataka Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Act, 1976, by which all the contract carriages which were in private hands in State of Karnataka, were acquired and thus became a part of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (hereinafter referred to as ‘Corporation’). The object and reasons of the Act52 clearly state that the primary reason for incorporating the Act is to implement the policy of the State mandated under Article 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution of India. The scheme of the acquisition as well as the vires of the Karnataka Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Act, 1976, was challenged before the Karnataka High Court and these petitions were ultimately allowed and the Act was declared to be in violation of Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution of India. It was held that the acquisition of private properties in the form of private transport was not in public interest, and it did not subserve common good. There again, the defence of the State and the corporation was that the Act was to implement a policy of the State in line with Article 39(b) & (c) of the Constitution.