We are summarising the statements made by PW- 19 in his examination-in-chief, in his cross-examination made by the learned public prosecutor after he was declared hostile and in the cross-examination made by the learned counsel appearing for the appellant. The summary of his version is as follows: a) The appellant worked in his textile store for five months in 2004 till the first week of September 2004; b) In September 2004, he received a call from the appellant around 3.30 p.m. and on the phone, the appellant informed him that he had killed his room partner; c) The appellant called PW-19 to the Central Bus Station near Surat Railway Station; d) Thereafter, PW-19 made a phone call to PSI Mishra of Limbayat Police Station and called him to the Central Bus Station; e) PSI Mishra came to the Central Bus Station, where they met the appellant. The appellant again reiterated that there was a quarrel between him and his room partner over playing a tape rec, and that he had murdered his room partner; f) PW-19 stated that though the appellant had told him the name of the person who was murdered, he was unable to recollect the name; g) In the cross-examination by the learned public prosecutor, he was confronted with the relevant part of his statement recorded under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 46 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (for short, ‘CrPC’). He accepted of having made the statement. He stated that the appellant had told him that he had murdered Mohmed Akhtar Gafur Ansari; h) In the cross-examination made by learned counsel appearing for the appellant, he stated that PSI Mishra took the appellant with him, and there were two or three policemen with him; i) He did not remember whether he stated to the police the phone number from which he made a phone call to PSI Mishra; and j) He admitted that he did not disclose the phone number from which the appellant called him. 7. The normal rule of human conduct is that a person would confess the commission of a serious crime to a person in whom he has implicit faith. The appellant had worked in PW-19’s shop only for five months in 2004. The appellant was otherwise not known to PW-19. Therefore, it is unnatural that the appellant would call the deceased on the phone and confess. Moreover, PW-19 stated that the appellant called him to the Central Bus Station after confessing on the phone. Even this conduct is very unnatural. Furthermore, PW-19 admittedly did not disclose to the police the telephone number from which he allegedly received a call from the appellant. As can be seen from the testimony of PW-25, Investigating Officer, no investigation was made to ascertain the phone number on which PW-19 received a call from the appellant and the phone number from which PW-19 called PSI Mishra. It was necessary for the prosecution to collect evidence on these aspects and place it before the Court.