The Act will apply in a case where acquisition is made, and property is kept vacant without construction. Therefore, the Trial Court and High Court correctly appreciated the distinction and decreed the suit as prayed for. Learned counsel prayed for the dismissal of the appeal. RE RESPONDENT NO.3/THE MUNICIPALITY: 18. Respondent no.3 was impleaded under our dated 16.05.2024 for a limited purpose. In view of the discussion infra, nothing more needs to be noted. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 19. Having given our anxious thought to the lis, after perusing the materials and in view of the submissions advanced, we find that the moot question involved is whether the suit land was under any sort of legal encumbrance so as to make it unfit for transfer of right, title and interest thereon in light of the Layout Plan notified by the Deputy Director, Town and Country Planning, Thanjavur region in the year 1978 and later revised in the year 1981. 20. On this, the admitted fact is that at the time when the Layout Plan was originally notified in the year 1978, the suit property reflected as being in private hands as per the record of the land registry, not belonging to the State Government nor to the Municipality/Respondent no.3. At the relevant time i.e., in 1978, only the intention of the competent authority under the relevant statute was discernible that it had formed an opinion with regard to the suit land/property being required to be kept reserved for ‘public purpose’. It would be useful to extract Chapter IV of the Act containing Sections 36 to 39 titled ‘Acquisition and Disposal of Land’: [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1681 Pradhan Babu and Others v. Nachimuthu Nagar Kudiyiruppor Nala Sangam and Others ‘36. Power to acquire land under the Land Acquisition Act.—Any land required, reserved or designated in a regional plan, master plan, detailed development plan or a new town development plan, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be land needed for a public purpose within the meaning of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Act 1 of 1894) and may be acquired under the said Act as modified in the manner provided in this Act. 37. Power to purchase or acquire lands specified in development plan.—(1) Where after the publication of the notice in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette of preparation of a regional plan, master plan, detailed development plan or a new town development plan, as the case may be, any land is required, reserved or designated in such plan the appropriate planning authority may, either enter into agreement with any person for the acquisition from him by purchase of any land which may be acquired under Section 36 or make an application to the Government for acquiring such land under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Act 1 of 1894): Provided that if the value of such land exceeds fifty thousand rupees, the appropriate planning authority shall not enter into such agreement without the previous approval of the Government. (2) On receipt of an application made under sub-section (1), if the Government are satisfied that the land specified in the application is needed for the public purpose specified therein, they may make a declaration to that effect in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, in the manner provided in Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Act 1 of 1894), in respect of the said land.