& Ors. decide, on a priority basis or a day-to-day basis, only those cases in which a stay of proceedings has been granted while ignoring several other categories of cases that may require more priority to be given – Therefore, constitutional Courts should not normally fix a time-bound schedule for disposal of cases pending in any Court – The pattern of pendency of various categories of cases pending in every Court, including High Courts, is different – The situation at the grassroots level is better known to the judges of the concerned Courts – Therefore, the issue of giving out-of turn priority to certain cases should be best left to the concerned Courts – The s fixing the outer limit for the disposal of cases should be passed only in exceptional circumstances to meet extraordinary situations. [Paras 28, 29, 30, 32, 33] Constitution of India – Interim s – (i) Whether the Supreme Court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction u/Art. 142 of the Constitution of India, can automatic vacation of all interim s of the High Courts of staying proceedings of Civil and Criminal cases on the expiry of a certain period; (ii) Whether the Supreme Court, in the exercise of its jurisdiction u/Art. 142 of the Constitution of India, can direct the High Courts to decide pending cases in which interim s of stay of proceedings has been granted on a day-to-day basis and within a fixed period: Held: (Per Abhay S. Oka, J. for himself and Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI., J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, JJ.) The three Judges Bench of the Supreme Court decided the case of Asian Resurfacing and issued directions in paragraphs 36 and 37 – The direction issued in paragraph 36 was regarding automatic vacation of stay and direction in paragragh 37 was for conducting day-to-day hearing within a time frame – The present Bench of the Judges does not concur with the three judges Bench which decided the case of Asian Resurfacing and issued directions in paragraphs 36 and 37 – Both directions were issued in the exercise of jurisdiction u/Art.142 of the Constitution – There cannot be automatic vacation of stay granted by the High Court – The direction issued (in the case of Asian Resurfacing) to decide all the cases in which an interim stay has been granted on a day-to-day basis within a time frame is also not approved – Blanket directions cannot be issued in the exercise of the jurisdiction u/Art. 142 of the Constitution of India – Both the questions framed above are answered in the negative. [Paras 12, 36] 952 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Interim s – Stay cannot be automatically vacated: Held: Per Pankaj Mithal, J. (concurring): The stay granted in any proceedings would not automatically stand vacated on the expiry of a particular period until and unless an application to that effect has been filed by the other side and is decided following the principles of natural justice by a speaking – It is expedient in the interest of justice to provide that a reasoned stay once granted in any civil or criminal proceedings, if not specified to be time bound, would remain in operation till the decision of the main matter or until and unless an application is moved for its vacation and a speaking is passed adhering to the principles of natural justice either extending, modifying, varying or vacating the same.