Any acts or omissions thereof, on the part of the Notary would tantamount to misconduct, and the person complained against would be unfit to be a Notary. 38. Having recorded above, the Registry is directed to send a copy of the to the Bar Council of India and to the Government of India for necessary perusal and action as may be deemed necessary. 39. So far as the listing of the names of the Advocates in the Sheets is concerned, in response to the passed by the Court on 28.08.2024, directing the Registry to explain as to on what basis and why the names of so many Advocates are being shown in the Sheets/Record of Proceedings though, they would be neither appearing as an AOR nor as arguing/ Senior Counsel, it has been submitted by the concerned officers i.e. AR-cum-PS/Court Masters inter alia that the Advocate on Records have been authorized to put 5 [2023] 15 SCR 848 : (2024) 6 SCC 401 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 807 Bhagwan Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors. in appearance of the Advocates appearing with or on his/her behalf on the portal for filing on-line appearance slips in view of Office Circular dated 30.12.2022. It is further stated that it is not possible for the Court Masters to recognize every Advocate appearing in the Court rooms by face and therefore, they have to rely upon the appearance put in by the Advocates-on-Record. In case a Senior Advocate is appearing but his/her name is not reflected in the appearance slip, the Court Masters include their names. The said Circular/Notice dated 30.12.2022 relied upon by the AR-cum-PSs/Court Masters reads as under: “SUPREME COURT OF INDIA F.No.5/Judl./2022 Dated: 30th December, 2022 NOTICE Re: Activation of Portal of Filing Online Appearance Slips Take Notice that an Online Module has been developed to facilitate procedure of marking appearances of the Advocates in the Record of Proceedings, which is going to be activated from 02.01.2023. Take Notice that the Advocates-on-Record may mark the appearances of the Advocates appearing in the Court through the link provided on the website http://main.sci. gov.in and on the Office Mobile App of the Supreme Court of India. The said facility shall be available for the duration spanning from the publication of the Cause List on the website till 11.30 a.m. on the date of hearing of the matter. The User Manual for the same is available on the website. In case of any query, the Advocates-on-Record may contact the concerned Court Masters, whose contact details are available on the website on daily basis. Take further Notice that the existing practice of submitting appearance slips on Court-wise e-mail IDs shall stand dispensed with w.e.f. 02.01.2023. Sd/- (Puneet Sehgal) (Chirag Bhanu Singh) Registrar (J-III) Registrar (J-I)” 808 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 40. From the bare reading of Notice, it clearly transpires that the Notice only permits the Advocate-On-Record to mark the appearances of the Advocates appearing in the Court, through the link provided on the website or on the office mobile app of the Supreme Court.