209 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal is accorded and this aims to promote co-existence between wildlife and human activity with due recognition of the livelihood, developmental, social, and cultural rights of the local people. However, in carrying out these activities, the requisite permissions have been taken. (vi) That, the project for establishing ‘Tiger Safari’ was not initiated by the State of Uttarakhand. It was NTCA, which wrote to the Field Directors of four (04) Tiger Reserves across the county, by letter dated 19th December 2014, calling upon them to send a proposal for the establishment of ‘Tiger Safari’ in the buffer area of Tiger Reserves. (vii) Pursuant to this, a proposal was forwarded by the State of Uttarakhand on the 5th of June 2015 to establish the ‘Tiger Safari’ and an in-principal approval was granted by the NTCA with a further direction to forward the same to the CZA for vetting. (viii) That, under the provisions of Section 38H of the WLP Act, the CZA is the statutory authority for grant of approval for the establishment of ‘Tiger Safaris’. (ix) That, TCP for the Corbett Tiger Reserve was forwarded by the State of Uttarakhand to the Government of India on 27th January 2015. That, the Government of India granted its approval on 4th March 2015 to the TCP prepared by the State of Uttarakhand. The said TCP also had a plan for the setting up of a rescue centre-cum-tiger safari in the buffer area of Corbett Tiger Reserve. (x) Vide letter dated 12th February 2019, the CZA conveyed its approval for the establishment of ‘Tiger Safari’ in the Gujar Sot, Pakhrau Block, Sona Nadi Range, Kalagarh Division, Corbett Tiger Reserve (hereinafter referred to as “Pakhrau”) on an area of 106.16 Hectares. (xi) Though initially it was proposed to establish the ‘Tiger Safari’ at Karnashram area of Lansdowne Forest Division, the said site was found unsuitable. The site at Pakhrau was found to be more suitable since it was at the edge of the buffer zone. (xii) After the CZA granted its approval, an in-principal approval under the Forest Conservation Act was granted by the Government of India on 30th October 2020. 210 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (xiii) That, at the relevant time, setting up of a ‘Tiger Safari’ was considered as a ‘part forest and part non-forestry’ activity. As such, the State of Uttarakhand had approached the Government of India for getting the Forest Clearance for 15% of the area, as mandated. However, as of today, the position is different inasmuch as the establishment of zoos and the ‘Tiger Safari’ are now considered as ‘forestry activities’ and do not require any Forest Clearance. (xiv) Thereafter, Stage-II clearance was granted on 10th September 2021. (xv) As such, the ‘Tiger Safari’ was established due to the initiative taken by the NTCA and after the grant of all the requisite approvals. (xvi) It was submitted that the project “Tiger Safari’ has been completed to the extent of 80%, investing a huge amount of public money.