Sidhajbhai Sabhai v. State of Bombay,1963 (3) SCR 837. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1847 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. the seven-judge bench in Kerala Education (Bill) and rather distinguished it, as the latter was relied on by the State. The Constitution bench in Sidhajbhai Sabhai (supra) thus took pains to explain that the opinion in Kerala Education Bill (supra) was distinguishable and that it “is not an authority for the proposition submitted by the Additional Solicitor General that all regulative measures which are not destructive or annihilative of the character of the institution established by the minority, provided the regulations are in the national or public interest, are valid…” d. We now turn to examine whether the five-judge bench in Azeez Basha (supra) failed to follow the principles opined in Kerala Education Bill (supra) or those laid down by the six-judge bench in Sidhajbhai Sabhai (supra). In so far as Kerala Education Bill (supra) is concerned, Azeez Basha (supra) categorically holds that the protection of Article 30(1) was not restricted only to educational institutions established after the Constitution came into force. Such a restrictive interpretation was held to be contrary to the opinion delivered in Kerala Education Bill (supra) and was bolstered with strong language that “if that interpretation was given to Article 30(1) it would be robbed of much of its content’.” The bench further held that the expressions ‘establish’ and ‘administer’ must be read conjunctively, in response to a plea that even if an educational institution was not established by minorities, it could still be administered by them under the ambit of Article 30. This view, which has been consistently affirmed in the later decisions as well, in our considered opinion, is the correct interpretation of Article 30(1). e. As regard to Sidhajbhai Sabhai (supra) it was neither cited nor was particularly relevant in the context of the controversy that arose for consideration in Azeez Basha (supra). f. Most pertinently, the decision in Sidhajbhai Sabhai (supra) is no longer a good precedent, to the extent of disapproval of its view by the 11-judge bench in TMA Pai (supra), in this regard. g. We therefore see no discordance between Kerala Education Bill (supra) and Sidhajbhai Sabhai (supra) on the one hand and Azeez Basha (supra) on the other. 1848 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 189.2. Is there any conflict between Azeez Basha (supra) and the principles enunciated in TMA Pai (supra)? a. A conjoint reading of paragraphs 106 to 108 of the draft judgement circulated by Hon’ble the Chief Justice, gives an impression that Azeez Basha (supra) has had some collision with the subsequent eleven-judge Constitution bench in TMA Pai (supra). In this regard, Hon’ble the Chief Justice has relied on paragraph 70 (the majority opinion by Chief Justice Kirpal, as his Lordship then was). We are, however, unable to find any such perceived conflict between the two decisions. TMA Pai (supra) considered the scope of regulating the right of administering government aided private minority institutions from paragraph 82 onwards.