[2024] 5 S.C.R. 1053 In Re-Inhuman Conditions In 1382 Prisons Committees. Yet, nothing concrete is forthcoming as to what follow- up action, if any, has been taken by the State Government. As such, the AC has prayed for issuance of these directions: ‘a) In some of the Districts in the State of Kerala, the 1st meeting was adjourned awaiting reports from the Superintendent of Prisons. It is therefore, humbly prayed that in such cases, a 2nd meeting may be held and recommendations to improve the conditions in the prison may be made. b) The State of Kerala may be directed to examine the recommendations made by the Committees in all the districts and take appropriate decisions prioritizing the cases which are urgent and which need immediate action and compliance affidavits may be filed before the next date of hearing.’ 34. The State is directed to act in terms of the AC’s prayers extracted above and file a compliance affidavit before the next date. (III) WAY FORWARD 35. Upon careful consideration of the stands taken by the States supra as also the oral submissions of various other States made through their respective learned counsel, we are constrained to observe that the State Governments/Union Territory Administrations have not fully woken up to the dire situation. Bereft of a sense of urgency, we sense a certain lethargy. It is most unfortunate that upon queries put by the Court to the learned counsel appearing for the States, the standard response received is that further time be given to come up with details. Obviously, learned counsel cannot address the Court without instructions. 36. There has been a detailed dialogue between the Court, the AC and the learned counsel, during the hearing. Many aspects and factors have been clarified to learned counsel appearing for the parties. We presume that learned counsel, having taken note of the same, would impress upon their respective clients i.e. the respective States or Union Territories (hereinafter referred to as ‘UT’) to act with diligence. Ex consequenti, we direct that appropriate response(s) shall be filed by way of additional affidavits personally affirmed by the Chief Secretary 1054 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the State/UT concerned, at least a week before the next date of hearing, of course, with advance copies to the AC. 37. In addition to specific directions issued to certain States, it is categorically indicated that pending approval(s), be it for sanction of projects or identification of suitable land, the same be proceeded with and brought to their logical conclusion by the States/UTs within a period of ten weeks, reckoned from today. 38. Few learned counsel have requested that the Court may specify some common/ uniform parameters for States/UTs to create facilities in prisons. This suggestion is merited. To begin with, specifications/ parameters for jails may be in terms prescribed by and under the Model Prison Manual 2016 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘MPM’) issued by the Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs. 39. Learned Senior counsel for the State of Uttar Pradesh has submitted that as per the parameters in its latest Jail Manual,5 the average area per prisoner is more than what is provided for in the MPM.