It is necessary to ensure that the same legal aid advocate is continued throughout the trial unless there are compelling reasons to do so or unless the accused appoints an advocate of his choice; j. In the cases where the offences are of a very serious nature and complicated legal and factual issues are involved, the Court, instead of appointing an empanelled legal aid advocate, may appoint a senior member of the Bar who has a vast experience of conducting trials to espouse the cause of the accused so that the accused gets best possible legal assistance; [2024] 12 S.C.R. 357 Ashok v. State of Uttar Pradesh k. The right of the accused to defend himself in a criminal trial is guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India. He is entitled to a fair trial. But if effective legal aid is not made available to an accused who is unable to engage an advocate, it will amount to infringement of his fundamental rights guaranteed by Article 21; l. If legal aid is provided only for the sake of providing it, it will serve no purpose. Legal aid must be effective. Advocates appointed to espouse the cause of the accused must have good knowledge of criminal laws, law of evidence and procedural laws apart from other important statutes. As there is a constitutional right to legal aid, that right will be effective only if the legal aid provided is of a good quality. If the legal aid advocate provided to an accused is not competent enough to conduct the trial efficiently, the rights of the accused will be violated. 24. For the reasons recorded earlier, the appeal is allowed. The impugned s and s are set aside, and the appellant is acquitted of offences alleged against him. The bail bonds of the appellant stand cancelled. 25. A copy of this shall be forwarded to all State Legal Services Authorities to enable the authorities to take necessary measures. 26. We record our appreciation for the able assistance rendered to the Court by the learned senior counsel Shri M.Shoeb Alam, appointed to espouse the cause of the appellant. We must also record that the learned senior counsel, Shri K.Parameshwar, appearing for the respondent, has fairly assisted the Court. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain