In 1975 Government of India carried out an exercise to identify the most vulnerable tribal groups as a separate category and declared 52 of them to be in such a group wherein 23 new groups were added in 1993 making it a total of 75 out of 705 scheduled tribes. 8. 1975 L.G. Havanur It recommended 16% reservation for backward Commission, communities, 10% for backward castes and 6% Karnataka for backward tribes in Government vacancies and educational institutions. 9. 1976 Mungeri Lal It identified 128 communities as backward and Commission, 94 of them as most backward. It recommended Bihar 20% reservation in Government services and 24% in professional institutions. 1660 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10. 1976 A.R. Bakshi It listed 82 castes and communities as socially Commission, and educationally backward and recommended Gujarat 10% reservation in Government services and in professional institutions. 11. 1977 Chhedi It is one of the most talked about Commission Lal Sathi on most backward classes. It recommended Commission, classification of backward classes into Uttar Pradesh 3 categories and suggested reservation in Government services and educational institutions under a separate quota. 12 1990 Justice The Commission found that reservation Gurnam Singh benefits have been primarily availed by one Commission, particular scheduled caste and the overall Haryana benefits have not percolated down to rest of the 36 scheduled castes. Consequently, the scheduled castes’ list for the purposes of reservation in Haryana was divided into Block ‘A’ and Block ‘B’ putting the 36 scheduled castes in Block ‘A’ and the one that has availed most of the benefits in Block ‘B’. 13. 1997 Justice P. This Commission was set up on the demand Ramchandra of the extremely backward castes within the Raju scheduled castes of the State of Andhra Commission, Pradesh. The Report opined that largely the Andhra benefits of reservation had gone to a particular Pradesh caste among the scheduled castes and therefore recommended for categorizing of the scheduled castes into Group A, B, C and D. It is on the basis of the recommendation of this Commission that scheduled castes in Andhra Pradesh were categorized in Group A, B, C and D which enactment led to E.V. Chinnaiah where this Court declared such classification as unconstitutional opining that scheduled castes/scheduled tribes are one homogenous class and cannot be sub-categorised for the purposes of reservation. 14. 2001 Hukam Singh The Committee upon study found that the Committee, benefits of reservation was not percolating Uttar Pradesh down to the most depressed classes of persons rather the Yadav’s alone had a maximum share of jobs. Thus, it recommended sub- categorisation of list of scheduled castes/OBC. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1661 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 15. 2003 Lahuji Salve This Commission was appointed to study the Commission, socio-economic condition of Mangs caste Maharashtra which was within the list of scheduled castes. The Commission recommended the sub- classification of the scheduled castes as Mangs being the lowest in the hierarchy of caste system were not being adequately benefited.