It was held that Court should not issue futile writs. For the issue under consideration, [2024] 4 S.C.R. 225 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. this is really not an authority. Equally so, in Charan Lal Sahu (supra), the Court expressly recorded that on the facts and circumstances of that case, since sufficient opportunity was available when the review application was heard on notice, no further opportunity was necessary. The Court recorded that it could not be said that injustice was done and further recorded that “to do a great right” after all it is permissible sometimes “to do a little wrong”. That case concerned a challenge to the validity of the Bhopal Gas Leak Disaster (Processing of Claims) Act, 1985. 58. In The Chairman, Board of Mining Examination and Chief Inspector of Mines and Another vs. Ramjee, (1977) 2 SCC 256 cited by the learned counsel for the private respondents in the written submissions again does not directly deal with this issue. There the issue was about the interpretation of Regulation 26 of the Coal Mines Regulations, which read as under:- “26. Suspension of an Overman’s Sirdar’s, Engine driver’s, shot firer’s or Gas-testing Certificate- (1) If, in the opinion of the Regional Inspector, a person to whom an Overman’s, Sirdar’s, Engine-driver’s, Shot-firer’s or Gas-testing Certificate has been granted is incompetent or is guilty of negligence or misconduct in the performance of his duties, the Regional Inspector may, after giving the person an opportunity to give a written explanation, suspend his certificate by an in writing. (2) Where the Regional Inspector has suspended a certificate under sub-regulation (1) he shall within a week of such suspension report the fact to the Board together with all connected papers including the explanation if any received from the person concerned. (3) The Board may, after such inquiry as it thinks fit, either confirm or modify or reduce the period of suspension of the certificates, or cancel the certificate.” In this case, the delinquent handed over an explosive to an unskilled hand resulting in injury to an employee. The Regional Inspector of Mines immediately enquired and on the delinquent’s virtual admission found the incident to be true. The Regional Inspector gave an opportunity for explanation and, after considering the materials before 226 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports him, forwarded the papers to the Chairman with a recommendation for cancellation of the certificate under Regulation 26. The Board had an explanation (styled appeal) from the delinquent and also recommendation by the Regional Inspector for cancellation of the certificate. The Regional Inspector had not suspended the delinquent but had merely held an enquiry and made a recommendation for cancellation of the certificate. One of the delinquent’s argument in this Court was that since the Regional Inspector did not suspend the respondent’s certificate, the Board had no jurisdiction and that the Regional Inspector had no power to recommend, but only to report and that the recommendation influenced the Board. It was further argued that the Board should have given a fresh opportunity to be heard before cancellation.