[2024] 12 S.C.R. 87 Kirloskar Ferrous Industries Limited & Anr v. Union of India & Ors. 28. The learned senior counsel referred to the following s pronounced by this Court to submit that manifest arbitrariness is a well-recognized ground to challenge the validity of a legislation and the same has been acknowledged as a facet of Article 14: • Manish Kumar v. Union of India reported in (2021) 5 SCC 1; • Dy. Commissioner of Income Tax & Anr. v. Pepsi Foods Limited reported in (2021) 7 SCC 413. 29. Dr. Singhvi also submitted that there is no statutory prescription for the inclusion of royalty, DMF and NMET contributions while computing ASP. It is only the Impugned Explanations which save these payments from being excluded thereby resulting in a compounding or cascading effect. 30. We were informed by the learned senior counsel that this anomaly has been noticed by the Government of India in a report of a committee set up by the Ministry of Mines and a public notice dated 25.05.2022 has been published to call for suggestions in this regard. He submitted that the Ministry of Mines is charged with administering the MMDR Act. Therefore, the Consultation Paper of 2022, published by it is contemporeo exposito and is a valid aid of construction of the relevant Rules and the Impugned Explanations as per the dictum of this Court in K.P. Varghese v. ITO reported in (1981) 4 SCC 173. 31. Furthermore, such anomaly was remedied by the Ministry of Coal with respect to only coal by effecting an amendment to Schedule II of the MMDR Act, which defined “actual price” for the purpose of imposing royalty at ad valorem rates, to mean the sale invoice value of coal, net of statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, contribution to National Mineral Exploration Trust and District Mineral Foundation. The learned senior counsel submitted that remedying such anomaly for coal but not for iron ore creates a classification which has no intelligible differentia and is in violation of Article 14. 32. It was also submitted that lessees such as the petitioner herein, who have secured a mine in an auction, also pay a premium in terms of Rules 8 and 13(2) of the Mineral (Auction) Rules, 2015 respectively which is calculated on the basis of the flawed definition of ASP. 88 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 33. Dr. Singhvi while countering the submissions of the learned senior counsel for the Union of India, submitted that the compounding or cascading effect occurring every single month cannot come within the fold of determination of the rate of royalty under Section 9(3) of the MMDR Act, as it would be in contravention to the proviso thereto which prohibits a change of rate of royalty for three years. C. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT 34. Mr. Shailesh Madiyal, the learned ASG appearing on behalf of the Union of India presented the scheme of the MMDR Act and the MCR, 2016 in relation to the computation of royalty and submitted that Section 9(1) of the MMDR Act requires the holder of a mining lease to pay royalty in respect of the mineral being mined from the lease area at the rate specified in Schedule II of the MMDR Act.