We now turn to the facts of the present case. The assessees, as noticed above, are cellular mobile telephone service providers in different circles as per the licence granted to them under Section 4 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 188519 by the Department of Telecommunications20, Government of India. To carry on business, the assessees have to comply with the licence conditions and the rules and regulations of the DoT and the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India.21 Cellular mobile telephone service providers have wide latitude to select the business model they wish to adopt in their dealings with third parties, subject to statutory compliances being made by the operators. As per the business model adopted by the telecom companies, the users can avail post-paid and prepaid connections. In the present case, we are only concerned with the business operations under the prepaid model. 19 The ‘1885 Act’, for short. 20 ‘DoT’, for short. 21 ‘TRAI’, for short. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1019 Bharti Cellular Limited (Now Bharti Airtel Limited) v. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Circle 57, Kolkata and Another 19. Under the prepaid business model, the end-users or customers are required to pay for services in advance, which can be done by purchasing recharge vouchers or top-up cards from the retailers. For a new prepaid connection, the customers or end- users purchase a kit, called a start-up pack, which contains a Subscriber Identification Mobile card22, commonly known as SIM card, and a coupon of the specified value as advance payment to avail the telecom services. 20. The assessees have entered into franchise or distribution agreements with several parties, the terms and conditions of which we would refer to subsequently. It is the case of the assessees that they sell the start-up kits and recharge vouchers of the specified value at a discounted price to the franchisee/distributors. The discounts are given on the printed price of the packs. This discount, as per the assessees, is not a ‘commission or brokerage’ under Explanation (i) to Section 194-H of the Act. The Revenue, on the other hand, submits that the difference between ‘discounted price’ and ‘sale price’ in the hands of the franchisee/distributors being in the nature of ‘commission or brokerage’ is the income of the franchisee/ distributors, the relationship between the assessees and the franchisee/distributor is in the nature of principal and agent, and therefore, the assesses are liable to deduct tax at source under Section 194-H of the Act. 21. In to decide the dispute in question, we would like to refer to some of the relevant clauses of the franchisee/distributor agreement between Bharti Airtel Limited and the franchisee/distributors, which read as under23: Bharti Airtel Limited “WHEREAS THE FRANCHISEE has approached BML and have expressed their keen desire to be one of the FRANCHISEE’s to undertake the job of promoting and marketing of Pre Paid and also other related services all under the brand name of “MAGIC” to the potential 22 ‘SIM card’, for short. 23 Agreements in the case of assessees Vodafone Idea Limited (formerly known as Vodafone Mobile Ser- vices Limited) and Idea Cellular Limited (now known as Vodafone Idea Limited) are somewhat different.