[Paras 14, 18, 4, 22] Karnataka Stamp Act, 1957 – s.35 – When not attracted – Discussed. Karnataka Stamp Act, 1957 – s.33 – Examination and impounding of instruments – Duty of the court: Held: s.33 has been inserted in the statute with a definite purpose – The revenue would stand the risk of suffering huge loss if the courts fail to discharge the duty placed on it per provisions like s.33 – The legislature has reposed responsibility on the courts and trusted them to ensure that requisite stamp duty, along with penalty, is duly paid if an unstamped or insufficiently stamped instrument is placed before it for admission in support of the case of a party – It is incumbent upon the courts to uphold the sanctity of the legal framework governing stamp duty, as the same are crucial for the authenticity and enforceability of instruments – Allowing an instrument with insufficient stamp duty to pass unchallenged, merely due to technicalities, would undermine the legislative intent and the fiscal interests of the State – The courts ought to ensure that compliance with all substantive and procedural requirements 318 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of a statute akin to the 1957 Act are adhered to by the interested parties – This duty of the court is paramount, and any deviation would set a detrimental precedent, eroding the integrity of the legal system. [Para 21] Case Law Cited Javer Chand and Others v. Pukhraj Surana [1962] 2 SCR 333; Ram Rattan v. Bajrang Lal [1978] 3 SCR 963 : (1978) 3 SCC 236 – referred to. List of Acts Code of Civil Procedure, 1908; Karnataka Stamp Act, 1957; Indian Stamp Act, 1899; Constitution of India. List of Keywords Inherent powers; Inherent powers saved by Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908; Stamp duty; Instrument chargeable with duty; Instrument not stamped/insufficiently stamped; Admission of instrument in evidence; Objection to the instrument’s insufficient stamping; Objection regarding admissibility of instrument owing to its insufficient stamping; Question of admitting instrument chargeable with duty but not stamped/insufficiently stamped; General Power of Attorney; GPA; GPA insufficiently stamped; GPA admitted in evidence and marked as exhibit; Instrument marked as exhibit; Recall of process of admission of instrument in evidence and marking of the instrument; Impounding of instruments; Liability to pay the deficit duty and penalty; Application of judicial mind; Judicial determination; Prevent abuse of the process of the court. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 1188 of 2015 From the and dated 26.09.2011 of the High Court of Karnataka at Bangalore in WP No. 11653 of 2011 Appearances for Parties D.P. Chaturvedi, Tarun Kumar Thakur, Ms. Parvati Bhat, Vivek Ram, Abhay Choudhary M, Ms. Anuradha Mutatkar, Advs. for the Appellant. Mrs. Rekha Pandey, Suyash Mohan Guru, Ms. Sharmistha Choudhury, Raghav Pandey, Ms. Gauri Pandey, Advs. for the Respondent. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 319 G.M. Shahul Hameed v. Jayanthi R. Hegde / of the Supreme Court Dipankar Datta, J. 1. The substantial question arising for decision in this civil appeal is whether upon admission of an instrument in evidence and its marking as an exhibit by a court (despite the instrument being chargeable to duty but is insufficiently stamped), such a process can be recalled by the court in exercise of inherent powers saved by section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure1 for the ends of justice or to prevent abuse of the process of the court.