Your representation in this regard, may be please be submitted within 15 days from the date of receipt of this letter” (emphasis supplied) 23. Thereafter, the second show cause notice was issued on 07th January, 2009, the operative portion whereof is extracted hereinbelow: “It shows that you fails (sic, failed) to fulfil the condition no.5 of the said permission letter dt. 30.5.96 by not consuming units equivalent to units worked out on load factor as above. The consumption found is on lower side in various months. The liability accrued on this account comes to Rs. 70.50.lacs. Statement of liability is enclosed. 358 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Therefore, please take this as Notice of Show Cause as to why not the supplementary demand towards less consumption, as per statement enclosed, be raised against your HT connection. You had earlier filed W.P. No. 677/2000 before Hon’ble High Court in connection with some other dispute relating to TG set permission. You had withdrawn aforesaid writ petition with liberty to represent the matter before the respondent (Board) and in case further grievances are left liberty to assail the same in accordance with law. Accordingly Hon’ble High Court had disposed off (sic, of) the same on 21.2.2006 with the aforesaid liberty to you. Your reply / representation, if any, in this regard, may be please be submitted within 30 days from the date of issue of this letter, failing which the demand shall be raised without any further communication.” (emphasis supplied) 24. Ironing out the creases of when the amount first became due for the first respondent to pay, upon a demand being raised by the appellants, need not detain us for long having regard to certain admitted facts, to which we turn at this juncture. Perusal of two s passed by the High Court, which intervened in course of the longstanding litigation between the parties, is essential. These s passed on the first writ petition and an interlocutory petition filed therein, seemingly innocuous, have a decisive influence in the present appeal. 25. The first of these is the interim dated 04th May, 2000 of the High Court on the first writ petition, reading as follows: “Heard. Admit. Issue notice returnable at an early date. Requisite steps in this regard be taken within 3 days. The question in regard to the grant of interim relief will be considered after notices are served. In the meanwhile, considering the facts and circumstances as brought on record, it is directed that the operation of [2024] 11 S.C.R. 359 The Madhya Pradesh Madhya Kshetra Vidyut Vitran Company Limited & Ors. v. Bapuna Alcobrew Private Limited & Anr. the impugned dated 28.3.2000 a true copy of which has been filed as annexure P/1 to the writ petition shall remain stayed till the next date of listing subject to the following conditions: The petitioner shall deposit the minimum guarantee charges payable as against the load of 807kVA which shall be assessed by the respondent Board and intimated to the petitioner within a week.