One is purely a temporary permit for a month or two, and whatever the period may be, a man comes and he has got to go back during that period. This does not come into the picture. The other type is a permit, not permanent but something like a permanent permit, which does not entitle a man to settle here, but entitles him to come here repeatedly on business. He comes and goes and he has a continuing permit. I may say; that, of course, does not come into the picture. The third type of permit is a permit given to a person to come here for permanent stay, that is return to Indian and settle down here.” 1256 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was introduced for a person from ‘any’ place in Pakistan to enter India. This Ordinance introduced a permit system for persons entering India from East Pakistan also (that is, present day Bangladesh). The Ordinance also repealed the Influx from West Pakistan (Control) Ordinance 1948. The Pakistan (Control) Ordinance 1948 was repealed and replaced by the Influx from Pakistan (Control) Act 1949 which contained provisions pari materia to the Pakistan (Control) Ordinance 1948. Section 4 of the Influx from Pakistan (Control) Act 1949 conferred the Central Government the power to make Rules prescribing, among other things, the conditions to be satisfied by applicants for permits. On 20 May 1949, the Central Government issued Rules in exercise of the power conferred by Section 4. The Rules called the ‘Permit System Rules 1949’ prescribed elaborate provisions only regarding the permit system introduced between Western Pakistan (that is, current day Pakistan) and India. Though the Influx from Pakistan (Control) Act 1949 applied to the whole of Pakistan (including the current day Bangladesh), the Central Government did not frame any Rules to implement the permit system for the movement from East Pakistan to India. 27. The reason for not implementing the permit system for the migrants from East Pakistan to India was explained by Mr. Gopalaswami Ayyangar while introducing the Undesirable Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Bill 1950.39 The Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Bill granted the Central Government, the power to expel persons who come into Assam. Mr. Ayyangar stated that the Central Government examined the suggestion to introduce a permit system between East Pakistan and India but decided against it because it would restrict the freedom of movement of a large number of persons who, in their ordinary avocations, had to pass between East Pakistan and either Assam or West Bengal.40 Thus, the geographical placement of 39 The word undesirable was removed from the short title after extensive discussion. 40 Shri Gopalaswami while introducing the Undesirable Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Bill, Parliamentary Debates: Official Report (Volume 1, 1950), 313 “The obvious suggestion that was put forward at the beginning was that we should introduce a permit system as between Assam and East Pakistan. The Central Government examined this suggestion and studies its repercussions on other parts of India particularly on West Bengal and the restrictions it would impose on the freedom of movement of a large number of persons who, even in their ordinary avocations, had to pass between East Pakistan and either Assam or West Bengal.