On a plain reading, this expression refers to the total amount or sum for the 16 (2011) 5 SCC 758 (2 Judge Bench) 17 (2015) 2 SCC 189 (3-Judge Bench) 304 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports payment for which the award is made. Parliament has not added a qualification like “principal” to the word “sum”, and therefore, the word “sum” here simply means “a particular amount of money”. In Section 31(7), this particular amount of money may include interest from the date of cause of action to the date of the award. … …. 7. Thus, when used as a noun, as it seems to have been used in this provision, the word “sum” simply means “an amount of money”; whatever it may include — “principal” and “interest” or one of the two. Once the meaning of the word “sum” is clear, the same meaning must be ascribed to the word in clause (b) of sub-section (7) of Section 31 of the Act, where it provides that a sum directed to be paid by an arbitral award “shall … carry interest …” from the date of the award to the date of the payment i.e. post- award. In other words, what clause (b) of sub-section (7) of Section 31 of the Act directs is that the “sum”, which is directed to be paid by the award, whether inclusive or exclusive of interest, shall carry interest at the rate of eighteen per cent per annum for the post-award period, unless otherwise ed. … 9. The purpose of enacting this provision is clear, namely, to encourage early payment of the awarded sum and to discourage the usual delay, which accompanies the execution of the award in the same manner as if it were a decree of the court vide Section 36 of the Act.” (Emphasis Supplied) 46. Keeping in view the aforesaid observations of this Court, it cannot be doubted that the Claimant-Appellant is entitled to interest. We find that the learned Arbitrator, as hitherto observed, has awarded 18% interest and the same stood reduced by the Courts below to 9% without any legal basis therefor. In exercise of our powers under Article 142, we deem it appropriate to, in to ensure substantial justice,inter se the parties, of awarding interest @ 9 % p.a. from the date of award pendantelite and future, till date of payment. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 305 S.V. Samudram v. State of Karnataka & Anr CONCLUSION 47. In the absence of compliance with the well laid out parameters and contours of both Section 34 and Section 37 of the A&C Act, the impugned judgement(s)referred to in Para 1 (supra) are required to be set aside. Consequently, the award dated 18thFebruary 2003 of the learned Arbitrator is restored, for any challenge thereto has failed. 48. The appeal is allowed with a direction to the State of Karnataka to expeditiously pay the amount. No costs. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Appeal allowed.