The Note is generated as on the last date of the financial year 2008-2009 but is forwarded only in the next financial year in September 2009 indicating that it is an afterthought. 1230 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b. This Debit Note does not find a mention in the Annual Accounts of 2008-2009 i.e. it should have created an income stream for KECML. c. If the Debit Note was a genuine document, then KECML had to classify the sales of washer rejects of 86,077 MT as “other income” in the Annual Accounts. However, it is shown as washing loss. d. There are no corresponding Debit Notes of this nature (viz. For foreign material) amongst the several admitted Debit Notes and no mention of this Debit Note or such an arrangement for subsequent years. e. KECML officials have written emails asking for accounts of the stock and Gupta has stated that the rejects are still lying with them. 22. There are two types of rejects as reflected in the Annual accounts. One is the rejects lost due to stones, boulders etc. for which no royalty was paid. These rejects were not even transported to Gupta and are not classified as ‘washery loss’. The washery loss is evident from the Coal Controller’s certificates. xxxxx 38. To say the least, there is no evidence whatsoever that is collected by the investigator that would indicate that there was either any request or a demand by the public servant concerned for a valuable thing or a pecuniary advantage at any point of time upon the beneficiary for any reason whatsoever. A mere omission on the part of the public servant or a negligent act on his part which has enured to the beneficiary cannot be said to act of misconduct on the part of the public servant to bring him within the ambit of Section 13(1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. xxxxxx [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1231 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation 48. Shri R. Nagaraja has an impeccable and unblemished service record in his 27 years of service as an officer and he has held many important and sensitive posts during his service span in KPCL. Any action against him on the basis of a charge devoid of any merit and substance would not only tarnish his otherwise impeccable reputation but will also have a bearing on the morale of the public services. 49. For the reasons enumerated in para 3 to 48 above, we, the Board of KPCL, hereby exercising our powers under Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 refuse to grant sanction to prosecute Shri R. Nagaraja for the offences alleged to have been committed under Sections 120B r/w 409 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Sections 13(2) read with 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.” 12.2. It is apparent from the above that after Sanctioning Authority had scrutinized all the relevant documents and the depositions as many as of 67 witnesses submitted by the respondent-CBI, it observed that there was no evidence to show that any rejects generated by washing of coal had been sold or that KPCL had suffered an unlawful loss during the process.