If the surety pays the entirety of the amount payable under guarantee to the creditor, Section 140 provides a remedy to the surety to recover the entire amount paid by him in the discharge of his obligations. Therefore, the surety gets invested with the rights of the creditor to recover from the principal debtor the amount which was paid as per the guarantee. If the surety pays only a part of the amount payable to the creditor, the equitable right the surety gets under Section 140 will be confined to the debt he cleared. 2174 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 25. Under the corporate guarantee, in the facts of this case, the liability of ACIL was to the extent of the entire amount repayable by the 2nd respondent-corporate debtor to the corporate creditor. In the CIRP of ACIL, the appellant paid a sum of Rs.38.87 crores only to the 1st respondent-financial creditor. The amount was paid by the appellant on behalf of ACIL, the corporate guarantor. For the rest of the amount payable as per the guarantee, the 1st respondent-financial creditor had to take a haircut because of the involuntary process by operation of law. Only the liability of ACIL under the corporate guarantee to repay the loan to the 1st respondent-financial creditor has been extinguished on the payment of Rs.38.87 crores. By the involuntary act of the creditor of accepting part of the amount from the surety in the discharge of the entire liability of the surety, even if Section 140 is attracted, it will confer on the guarantor or the appellant the right to recover only the amount mentioned above from the corporate debtor. The subrogation will be only to the extent of the amount recovered by the creditor from the surety. Notwithstanding the subrogation to the extent of the amount paid on behalf of the corporate guarantor by the resolution applicant, the right of the financial creditor to recover the balance debt payable by the corporate debtor is in no way extinguished. 26. In the circumstances, we cannot accept the submissions made by the learned counsel appearing for the appellant based on Section 140 of the Contract Act. As stated earlier, the issue of the subrogation canvassed before us has not been pressed into service by the appellant, as can be seen even from the written submissions. 27. The last argument sought to be canvassed was that by the admission of an application under Section 7 of the IBC against the 2nd respondent- corporate debtor, the valuable assets of ACIL have been taken away. As observed earlier, the assets of the subsidiary company of ACIL cannot form part of the CIRP process of ACIL, and factually, the assets of the 2nd respondent-corporate debtor were not part of the resolution plan approved in the CIRP of ACIL. 28. Hence, we summarize some of our conclusions as under: a. Payment of the sum of Rs.38.87 crores to the 1st respondent- financial creditor under the resolution plan of the corporate guarantor-ACIL will not extinguish the liability of the 2nd respondent-principal borrower/corporate debtor to pay the [2024] 7 S.C.R.