[Paras 53-55]– (per Pardiwala, J.) (Concurring) [Para 8] Applicability of doctrine of laches Doctrines/Principles – Doctrine of laches – Applicability, to writ petitions raising substantial questions – Writ petitions as regards constitutionality of s.6A raising significant public policy issues that involve ramifications for the original inhabitants of Assam, the rights of immigrants, and the security of the country – Writ petitions challenging the provisions introduced in 1985, filed after 27 years – Maintainability: Held: (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.) While there has been a considerable delay in filing the instant writ petitions, the doctrine of laches cannot be applied strictly to disbar the petitioner’s claim at the threshold since the instant proceedings raise substantial questions that affect the public at large and the constitutional validity of a statutory provision – If decided otherwise, it would be creating an artificial deadline for important constitutional issues giving rise to an unfair principle of law in the realm of constitutional adjudication – Citizenship Act, 1955 – s.6A [Paras 75-76] – (per Pardiwala, J.) (Concurring) [Para 8] Limitation period for writs Constitution of India – Art. 32 – Writs under – Limitation period – Applicability of doctrine of laches: Held: (per Surya Kant, J.) (for himself and for M.M. Sundresh and Manoj Misra, JJ.) Limitation Act, 1963, as also Supreme Court Rules, 2013 do not specify the limitation period for filing a writ – Though period is not specified, writ petition filed 980 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports belatedly after a considerable delay is barred by the operation of the doctrine of laches – Doctrine of laches is not an inviolable legal rule but a rule of practice that must be supplemented with sound exercise of judicial discretion – Doctrine of delay and laches is not to be ipso facto excluded where a breach of fundamental rights is alleged – Doctrine is not applicable when the claim affects the public at large as also in matters where the vires of a statute are challenged vis-à-vis the Constitution, else, time would run in favour of a constitutionally invalid statute, which cannot be allowed in the larger interests of justice and the transformative nature of the Constitution – Limitation Act, 1963 – Supreme Court Rules, 2013. [Paras 59, 60, 63-67] Legislative objective of s.6A Citizenship Act, 1955 – s.6A – Legislative objective of s.6A: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI.) (Concurring) Preamble to Citizenship (Amendment) Act 1985 by which s.6A was included states that the amendment was made for the “purpose of giving effect to certain provisions of the Memorandum of Settlement relating to the foreigners issue in Assam – Provisions of s.6A are traceable to the Assam Accord – s.6A was included with the objective of reducing the influx of migrants to India and dealing with those who had already migrated – Assam Accord was a political solution to the issue of growing migration from Bangladesh to Assam and s.6A was a legislative solution – s.6A must not be read detached from the previous legislation enacted by Parliament – s.6A is the legislation that balances the humanitarian needs of migrants of Indian Origin and the impact of such migration on economic and cultural needs of the Indian States.