So, it is clear inspite of knowing the fact of seriousness of the treatment i.e. operation of traumatic cataract O.P. No.l doctor did nothing on the medical point of view. So, we are opined that it is not only the unfortunate of the patient but it is the unfortunate of the society at large that this type of unruly negligent doctor still performing operation in the medical field, particularly when he had no faith upon the medical science and medical ethics and regulations. In this regard the expert doctor has stoutly stated in the end of his deposition that a doctor must always be updated. If a doctor violates the code of medical ethics and regulations it can be said to be professional misconduct. 1070 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Apart from that, the expert did not stop of saying against the treatment of this O.P. No.l but stated “non-adherence to medical prescription, post-operative trauma etc. are the contributory factor for the loss of vision after operation. Extra Capsular Surgery is the modern level of surgery and risk factor may be less in case of Extra Capsular Surgery compared to other method of surgery which is available in all Eye Hospital. The O.P. No.l has admitted in para No.20 of written version that he is being a one of the partner of Megha Eye Centre, which is well equipped and (modernized institution with world class microscope for examination. If that be so, what prompted the O.P. No.1 not to induct surgery in the modern method i.e. Capsular Surgery?, particularly when he was well aware regarding the gravity of disease namely traumatic cataract and also aware that on medical point of view management and rehabilitation of traumatic cataract specially in a child is very difficult, unpredictable and any type of complication may happen at any point of time which cannot be ascertained before hand.” It is evident that the DCDRC has made specific findings regarding lapses in duty of care by Respondent No.1 vis a vis both pre-operative and post-operative standards for conducting a traumatic cataract surgery. More pertinently, through the evidence of Dr. Gupta, a nexus was established between the lapses in post-operative care (the delay in review, the abnormal vision rating on 06.12.2006 which was left unchecked by Respondent No. 1, failure to undertake extra capsular method of surgery despite having the necessary equipment) and the development of loss of vision after the operation. It must be re-emphasized that the expert evidence of Dr. Gupta went entirely uncontroverted due to the absence of cross-examination and the failure of the Respondents to bring on record any other contradictory expert evidence. 13. Despite the presence of evidence pointing towards negligence of the Respondents, both the SCDRC and the NCDRC failed to consider it and relied only on the report of the Medical Council. On a perusal of the Medical Council report, it appears that the Medical Council did not delve into the nuances of pre-operative and post-operative care. Further, the finding of contributory negligence attributed to the Appellant is entirely unsubstantiated by expert opinion.