[...] The reliance placed by the petitioner is on Section 67B(a) of the Act which was relied on and proceedings quashed. What becomes applicable to the case at hand is Section 67B(b). Section 67B(b) open up prosecution against a person who creates text or digital images, collects, seeks, browses, downloads, advertises, promotes, exchanges or distributes material in any electronic form depicting children in obscene or indecent or sexually explicit manner. It is not in dispute that the petitioner, in the case at hand, has browsed child pornographic material for about 50 minutes. Browsing child pornographic material makes it an offence under Section 67B(b) of the Act.” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 10 S.C.R. 213 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. 72. Thus, it appears from the aforesaid that there are divergent views expressed by different High Courts of the country as regards the ingredients necessary to constitute an offence under Section 15 of the POCSO and Section 67B of the IT Act. The Kerala High Court has taken the view that mere possession or viewing of pornographic material involving a child will not fall within the ambit of Section 15 of the POCSO, rather what the provision criminalizes is the actual act of transmission or sharing of the said material. It has held that where the allegations are confined only to the possession of pornographic material and there is nothing to indicate the actual transmission of the same, the criminal proceedings shall be liable to be quashed. Whereas, the Bombay High Court appears to have taken the view that under Section 15(1) of the POCSO, what is penalized is the storage of child pornography and resultant failure to delete or report the same while under Section 15(2), it is the storage and consequent transmission of child pornography. Similarly, with respect to Section 67B, both the Karnataka High Court and the Kerala High Court have held that what is criminalized is the intentional browsing or transmission of child pornography, and not the mere possession of such material. b. Three distinct offences punishable under Section 15 of the POCSO. 73. Prior to the 2019 Amendment Act, Section 15 of the POCSO as originally enacted, stipulated that any person who stores any pornographic material involving a child for commercial purposes shall be punishable under the said provision. Thus, under the erstwhile Section 15 of the POCSO only one act was criminalized; in other words, only the storage of child pornography for a commercial purpose was made a punishable offence. Storage of such material for any other purpose was outside the scope and purview of the said provision. The said provision as it then stood, reads as under: - “15. Punishment for storage of pornographic material involving child. – Any person, who stores, for commercial purposes any pornographic material in any form involving a child shall be punished with imprisonment of either description which may extent to three years or with fine or with both.” 214 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 74.