(4) In determining under sub-section (3) whether the absence of, or any error, omission or irregularity in, such sanction has occasioned or resulted in a failure of justice the court shall have regard to the fact whether the objection could and should have been raised at any earlier stage in the proceedings. 372 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and, therefore, Courts ought to be careful in entertaining belated challenges. If it is raised belatedly, however, the Court seized of the matter, must consider the reasons for the delay prior to delving into the merits of such objections. This we may say so for the reason that belated challenges on these grounds cannot be allowed to act as roadblocks in trial or cannot be used as weapons in shirking away from convictions arising out of otherwise validly conducted prosecutions and trials. An passed by an administrative authority is not to be tested by way of judicial review on the same anvil as a judicial or quasi-judicial . While it is imperative for the latter to record reasons for arriving at a particular decision, for the former it is sufficient to show that the authority passing such applied its mind to the relevant facts and materials [See: P.P. Sharma (supra); Navjot Sandhu (supra) and Mahesh G. Jain (supra)] That being the accepted position we find no infirmity in the granting sanction against A-17. It is not incumbent upon such authority to record detailed reasons to support its conclusion and, as such, the s challenged herein, cannot be faulted with on that ground. ISSUE No.3 – Misjoinder of Charges and Violation of CrPC 42. The appellant contends that two disjointed transactions have been taken together, to make him an accused and a member of the larger conspiracy. The respondent-Union on the other hand argues that all the transactions (First Module, Second Module, as also the one for which the Appellant was made an accused) are inter-connected and flow from the first sanction. Further, it has been alleged by the appellants that there is a gross misuse of powers by the NIA and a violation of Sections 218-224 of CrPC. 43. Section 218 features in Chapter XVII of the CrPC titled ‘The Charge’ and more specifically Part B thereof, which is joinder of charges. In a sense, the appellant has alleged violation of an entire part of the chapter, which submission on the face of it is difficult to accept. It Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,— (a) error includes competency of the authority to grant sanction; (b) a sanction required for prosecution includes reference to any requirement that the prosecution shall be at the instance of a specified authority or with the sanction of a specified person or any requirement of a similar nature. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 373 Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India & Ors. requires no reiteration that a person when alleging the contravention of a section or portion of statute, has to substantiate the same by demonstrating which aspect of the section stood not complied with and how such non-compliance has prejudicially affected him.