But at the same time, having regard to the nature of the crime, the Court may strongly feel that a sentence of life imprisonment subject to remission normally works out to a term of 14 years would be grossly disproportionate and inadequate. What then should the Court do? If the Court’s option is limited only to two punishments, one a sentence of imprisonment, for all intents and purposes, of not more than 14 years and the other death, the Court may feel tempted and find itself nudged into endorsing the death penalty. Such a course would indeed be disastrous. A far more just, reasonable and proper course would be to expand the options and to take over what, as a matter of fact, lawfully belongs to the Court i.e. the vast hiatus between 14 years’ imprisonment and death. It needs to be emphasised that the Court would take recourse to the expanded option primarily because in the facts of the case, the sentence of 14 years’ imprisonment would amount to no punishment at all.” 25. In V. Sriharan (supra), a Constitution Bench of this Court affirmed the principle laid down in Swamy Shraddananda (supra). It first affirmed the principle that imprisonment for life meant imprisonment for rest of the life, subject however, to the right to claim remission, as provided in the Constitution and the statutes. It was further held that the in Swamy Shraddananda (supra) did not violate any statutory prescription. The Court went on to observe that all that 936 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Swamy Shraddananda (supra) sought to declare was that within the prescribed limit of the punishment of life imprisonment, having regard to the nature of offence committed by imposing life imprisonment for a specified period would be proportionate to the crime as well as the interest of the victim. Thereafter, in the same Ibrahim Kalifulla, J., in a passage which repays study held as under: “98. While that be so, it cannot also be lost sight of that it will be next to impossible for even the lawmakers to think of or prescribe in exactitude all kinds of such criminal conduct to fit into any appropriate pigeonhole for structured punishments to run in between the minimum and maximum period of imprisonment. Therefore, the lawmakers thought it fit to prescribe the minimum and the maximum sentence to be imposed for such diabolic nature of crimes and leave it for the adjudication authorities, namely, the Institution of Judiciary which is fully and appropriately equipped with the necessary knowledge of law, experience, talent and infrastructure to study the detailed parts of each such case based on the legally acceptable material evidence, apply the legal principles and the law on the subject, apart from the guidance it gets from the jurists and judicial pronouncements revealed earlier, to determine from the nature of such grave offences found proved and depending upon the facts noted, what kind of punishment within the prescribed limits under the relevant provision would appropriately fit in.