Per contra, learned counsel representing the respondents controverted the submissions advanced by the appellant’s counsel. He submitted that the appellant could not have been considered for admission under OBC/NCL category under the State quota because he is not covered under clauses 4.5, 4.6 & 4.8 of the Information Brochure. The appellant did not stake a claim for admission in defence personnel quota and hence, he could not have been given a seat under the said category by virtue of the stipulations contained in clause 9.4.4 of the guidelines. On these grounds, he sought dismissal of the appeals. 13. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at bar and have gone through the impugned s. 14. There is no dispute that the appellant and his parents are domicile of the State of Maharashtra. The appellant’s father is serving in the B Security Force(BSF). Owing to deployment of his father outside the State of Maharashtra, the appellant passed his SSC and HSC exams from an institution outside the State of Maharashtra. 15. Clause 4.8 of the Information Brochure provides an exception/ relaxation for claiming seat in the Maharashtra State quota to Children of employees of Government of India or its Undertaking who have passed SSC and/or HSC or equivalent examination from the recognized institutions situated outside the State of Maharashtra. However, this clause imposes a rider that such employee of Government of India or its Undertaking being the parent of the candidate seeking admission in the course under the State quota “must have been transferred from outside the State of Maharashtra at a place of work, located in the State of Maharashtra and also must have reported for duty and must be working as on the last date of document verification at a place located in the State of Maharashtra”. The appellant’s father was deployed outside the State of Maharashtra in connection with service of the nation and thus, proviso to Clause 4.8 was relied upon by the respondents while cancelling the admission granted to the appellant in CAP1. (emphasis supplied) 712 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. Undisputably, but for the above rider in the guidelines, the appellant is qualified to seek admission in the State Domicile (OBC/NCL) category by virtue of clause 4.8 of the Information Brochure and also stands in merit. However, the proviso creates a situation which would be impossible for the appellant to surmount. The appellant who is a domicile of the State of Maharashtra, cannot control the place of deployment of his father who is serving in the paramilitary force i.e., B Security Force(BSF). Needless to state that the place of deployment cannot be the choice of the employee serving in the armed forces or a paramilitary force. Being the child of a soldier serving on the country’s frontiers, the discriminatory and arbitrary treatment meted out to the appellant under the guidelines cannot be countenanced. The High Court, while denying relief to the appellant held that he had not selected any specified reservation under the head of Children of Defence personnel(DEF) as provided in Clause 9.4.4 of the Information Brochure.