Aggrieved by the same, the defendants preferred an appeal against the . The appeal came to be allowed and the matter was remanded back to the Trial Court for fresh consideration in light of the non-joinder of necessary parties. f. Upon fresh trial subsequent to the aforesaid , Title Suit No. 67/79 instituted by the plaintiff came to be dismissed by the court of Munsif vide judgement dated 17.09.1990 holding that although the appellant had acquired right, title and interest over the suit property yet no effective decree could be passed due to non-joinder of necessary parties. 1918 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports g. In view of the aforesaid, the plaintiff herein preferred Title Appeal No. 59/1990 before the Assistant District Judge, Nagaon, Assam seeking to challenge the and passed by the court of Munsif referred to above. h. The Appellate Court vide dated 20.04.1993 passed in Title Appeal No. 59/1990 held that the appellant herein was entitled to a decree for declaration of right, title and interest and also joint possession of suit land along with other co-pattadars. However, the Appellate Court held that as the appellant could not be delivered possession of the suit land, he would be at liberty to seek appropriate remedy, seeking partition of the suit land. i. The defendants herein preferred Second Appeal No. 77 of 1993 before the Gauhati High Court which came to be dismissed vide and dated 22.10.1998. As a result, the decree passed by the first appellate court attained finality. j. As the plaintiff was granted only joint possession of the suit property vide dated 20.04.1993, he instituted the Partition Case No. 45/99-2000 before the Additional Deputy Commissioner, Nagaon, seeking imperfect partition of the suit land under the Assam Land and Revenue Regulation, 1886 for short, “the Regulation, 1886”. k. The Additional Deputy Commissioner vide his dated 12.07.2004 declined to partition the suit land on the ground that the plaintiff was not in actual possession of the land and there was no consent from the other co-sharer of the land. l. The plaintiff, in such circumstances referred to above, instituted Title Suit No. 83 of 2004 before the Civil Judge Nagaon, praying for delivery of a Khas possession of land measuring 01 kathas 05 lechas to the appellant herein after partition of the land and also prayed for appointment of a commissioner for effecting the partition. The reliefs prayed for in the suit are as under: “It is, therefore, prayed that (ka) may be passed for delivery of khas of land measuring 1 katha 5 lechas described in the schedule (ka) of the plaint to the plaintiff after partition of the land; [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1919 Abdul Rejak Laskar v. Mafizur Rahman & Ors. (kha) A commissioner may be appointed at the time of partition for effecting partition; (ga) Issue precept to the revenue authorities for correcting the records and issue of separate patta in favour of plaintiff; (gha) full cost of the suit may be decreed in favour of the plaintiff; (unga) any other relief/reliefs which are entitled by the plaintiff under law and equity.” m. The defendants filed their written statements inter alia taking the stance that the civil court had no jurisdiction, and it is only the revenue authority which has the jurisdiction to partition the land.