The report relies on the computer laser print out of the skull and the mandible for comparison with the photograph of the deceased Rajini @ Rajinikanth. It is shown that the skull and the mandible were of the deceased Rajini @ Rajinikanth. (viii) As per the post mortem report (Exhibit P-16), though the cause of death could not be ascertained due to decomposition of the body, the bones were that of a person between 25-30 years of age. Further, the death had probably occurred six months prior to the autopsy. The deceased Rajini @ Rajinikanth was of 30 years in age and he had been missing for about six months. (ix) Motorcycle bearing registration No. PY 01 X 9857 belonging to Rajaram (which was then at Rajaram’s house and in possession of Rajini @ Rajinikanth, as Rajaram was in France), keys, insurance papers, as well as other personal belongings were recovered from Mohan Kumar @ Mohan and a juvenile, whose name is withheld. 37. In Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra29, this Court referred to Hanumant v. State of Madhya Pradesh30, and laid down the five golden principles (‘panchsheel’) that should be satisfied before a case based on circumstantial evidence against an accused can be said to be fully established: 29 (1984) 4 SCC 116. 30 (1952) 2 SCC 71. 110 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS (i) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established; (ii) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty; (iii) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency; (iv) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved; and (v) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused. 38. This Court in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda (supra) rejected the contention that if the defence case is false it would constitute an additional link as to fortify the case of the prosecution. However, a word of caution was laid down to observe that a false explanation given can be used as a link when: (i) various links in the chain of evidence laid by the prosecution have been satisfactorily proved; (ii) circumstance points to the guilt of the accused with reasonable definiteness; and (iii) the circumstance is in proximity to the time and situation. If these conditions are fulfilled only then the court can use the false explanation or a false defence as an additional link to lend an assurance to the court and not otherwise. Thus, a distinction has to be drawn between incomplete chain of circumstances and a circumstance after a chain is complete and the defence or explanation given by the accused is found to be false, in which event the said falsehood is added to reinforce the conclusion of the court.