The counsel made the following submissions: 67 Stuart Walton, Norma Miller, An Encyclopedia of Spirits & Liqueurs and How to Cook with Them (2000) 68 See FB Wright, Distillation of Alcohol and De-Naturing (2nd ed. 1907) 69 See KA Jacques, TP Lyons, DR Kelsall (ed), The Alcohol Textbook: A reference for the beverage, fuel and industrial alcohol industries (4th ed. Nottingham University Press) 70 See Alcohol Denaturants-Specification (Second Revision), ICS 71.100.80 1986 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a. Entry 8 only includes the final product of potable alcohol, that is alcoholic beverages for human consumption. Entry 8 does not include ENA which is a raw material for the preparation of beverage;71 b. Entry 8 includes ENA and potable alcohol;72 c. Entry 8 includes ENA, potable alcohol and the process of ‘denaturing’ ENA;73 and d. Entry 8 includes ENA, potable alcohol and denatured alcohol.74 D. Issues 42. With the above preliminary observations, we have formulated the following issues: a. Whether Entry 52 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution overrides Entry 8 of List II; b. Whether the expression ‘intoxicating liquors’ in Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution includes alcohol other than potable alcohol; and c. Whether a notified under Section 18G of the IDRA is necessary for Parliament to occupy the field under Entry 33 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. E. Analysis i. The constitutional distribution of legislative power 43. One of the prominent features of a federal Constitution is the distribution of legislative powers between the Union and the States. Article 246 provides for the distribution of legislative powers between Parliament and the State Legislatures. Clause (1) of Article 246 stipulates that Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any matter enumerated in the Union List (List I to the Seventh Schedule) notwithstanding anything in the State or the 71 See submissions of Mr Tushar Mehta, learned SG. 72 See submissions of V Giri, counsel for petitioner 73 See Vam Organic (II) 74 See submissions of Mr Dwivedi and Mr Datar senior counsel [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1987 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Concurrent Lists. Clause (2) stipulates that Parliament and the State Legislatures have the power to legislate on any matter enumerated in the Concurrent List (List III of the Seventh Schedule) subject to the power of Parliament under Clause (1) but notwithstanding the power of the State Legislatures under Clause (3). Clause (3) provides that subject to clauses (1) and (2), the State Legislatures have the power to legislate on any matter enumerated in the State List (List II of the Seventh Schedule) of the Seventh Schedule. Further, Clause (4) provides for the power of Parliament to enact laws for Union Territories. It states that Parliament may enact laws for any part of the territory of India which is not included in a State. This power includes the power of Parliament to make laws with respect to entries enumerated in the State list, for Union Territories.