Qualifying Service : Subject to the provisions of these rules, qualifying service of a Government employee, means and includes - xxx xxx xxx (ix) services rendered under Central Government/ Central Government Autonomous bodies having pension scheme, by a Government employee who is absorbed in Government” 12. The fulcrum of the dispute before this Court pertains to whether the Appellants’ subsequent employment with the State Government could be construed to mean that the Appellant had been ‘absorbed’ by the State Government, such that the Appellants’ prior service with the Central Government would be considered as a part of ‘qualifying service’ in terms of Rule 25(ix) of the Pension Rules. 13. Admittedly, the Appellant served the Central Government as a Postal Assistant in the Gandhinagar Postal Division between ‘1983 – ‘1993 i.e., for a period spanning close to a decade. Subsequently, pursuant to an invitation of application(s) for recruitment to the post 160 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of Senior Assistant in the Ministry of Health and Medical Services, Government of Gujarat, the Appellant herein after obtaining an NOC from the Central Government, applied for and subsequently came to be appointed to the aforesaid post. Thereafter, the Appellant volunteered a technical resignation in to be able to serve the State Government. 14. On a perusal of Rule 25(ix) of the Pension Rules we note that, qualifying service for the purpose of calculating terminal benefits / pensionary benefits under the Pension Rules would include prior services rendered by such an person under inter alia the Central Government provided that (i) the employment of such person under the Central Government encompassed an underlying pension scheme; and (ii) such person came to be absorbed by the State Government. 15. In the present case, it is an admitted and undisputed fact that the prior employment of the Appellant under the Central Government contemplated an underlying pension and thus, the dispute before us is only limited to whether the Appellant came to be ‘absorbed’ by the State Government. 16. Respondent No. 1’s stance is premised on the fact that that the Appellant joined the services of the State Government pursuant to a fresh recruitment i.e., pursuant to an invitation for applications issued by the State Government; and, merely because the Appellant was a Central Government employee in his previous avatar, he could not be considered to have been absorbed by the State Government. 17. It is well settled that pension scheme(s) floated by the State Government form a part of delegated beneficial legislation; and ought to be interpreted widely subject to such interpretation not running contrary to the express provisions of the Pension Rules1. Furthermore, it would be relevant to underscore that the State Government is a model employer; and ought to uphold principles of fairness and clarity. 18. In the aforesaid context, we have carefully considered the Pension Rules, and we find that the interpretation sought to be advanced by Ms. Ghildiyal is narrow and restrictive so as to limit the benefit of Rule 25(ix) of the Pension Rules only to such person(s) who may have explicitly been absorbed by the State Government as against persons 1 Senior Divisional Manager, LIC v. Shree Lal Meena, [2019] 5 SCR 391 : (2019) 4 SCC 479 [2024] 2 S.C.R.