In the case of such services, where sound selection must combine academic ability with personality promise, some weight has to be given, though not much too great a weight, to the interview-test. There cannot be any rule of thumb regarding the precise weight to be given. It must vary from service to service according to the requirements of the service, the minimum qualifications prescribed, the age group from which the selection is to be made, the body to which the task of holding the interview-test is proposed to be entrusted and a host of other factors. It is a matter for determination by experts. It is a matter for research. It is not for courts to pronounce upon it unless exaggerated weight has been given with proven or obvious oblique motives. The Kothari Committee also suggested that in view of the obvious importance of the subject, it may be examined in detail by the Research Unit of the Union Public Service Commission.” 1164 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 43. In Taniya Malik v. Registrar General of the High Court of Delhi,18 the petitioners challenged the prescription of minimum cut-off marks for the viva voce during the selection process of the Delhi Judicial Service Examination 2015. A two-Judge Bench of this Court declined to accept the challenge of the petitioners on the ground that “it is desirable to have the interview and it is necessary to prescribe minimum passing marks for the same when the appointment in the higher judiciary to the post of District Judge is involved.” The court further observed that the interview is the best method of judging “the performance, overall personality and the actual working knowledge and capacity to perform otherwise the standard of judiciary is likely to be compromised.” 44. In the present case, the High Court has come to the conclusion that apart from seeking proficiency in the substantive knowledge of law, based on the written test, in-service judicial officers must possess communication and other skills which would emerge in the course of an interview. We must be mindful of the fact that the interview in such cases is not being held at the very threshold of the service, while making recruitments at the junior-most level. Rather, the interview is being held to fill up a senior position in the District Judiciary, that of an Additional District and Sessions Judge. Such officers, based on their prior experience, must be expected to demonstrate a proficiency in judicial work borne from their long years of service. The purpose of the interview for officers in that class is to assess the officer in terms of the ability to meet the duties required for performing the role of an Additional District and Sessions Judge. Consequently, there would be a reasonable and valid basis, if the High Court were to do so, to impose a requirement of a minimum eligibility or cut-off both in the written test and in the viva voce separately. ii. The Rules can be supplemented to fill in gaps 45.