DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS reliable and partly unreliable witness. Moreover, the accused himself has never denied his presence at the scene of crime. In his statement recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C., he has admitted his presence. This, coupled with the testimony of PW3, 4 and 5, is sufficient to prove the presence of the accused at the spot of crime. 7.1 The case rests on circumstantial evidence, the prosecution has proved the circumstances from which an inference of guilt is sought to be drawn, cogently and convincingly. The circumstances relied on include -– (1) Motive; (2) Presence of the appellant at the scene of crime; (3) Cause of Death: By Poisoning (4) Opportunity to administer poison; (5) Conduct (6) False explanation in 313 Statement. 7.2 He has further relied on the principle laid down in Trimukh Maroti Kirkan v. State of Maharashtra1 to contend that the degree of evidence needed to prove the case resting on circumstantial evidence in the given facts cannot be as high as is normally the case. In view of Section 106 of the Evidence Act, the appellant was under a burden to explain the circumstances leading to the death of the deceased. Merely remaining quiet or offering a false explanation would provide an additional link in the chain of circumstances to make it complete. Remaining quiet, or offering a false explanation would therefore provide an additional link in the chain of circumstances to make it complete. He has also sought to distinguish the cases relied on behalf of the appellant. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS: 8. We have heard the learned Counsel for the appellant and respondent and perused the materials on record. 9. There is no eye-witness to the incident. The case of the prosecution rests on circumstantial evidence. The normal approach in a case based on circumstantial evidence is that the circumstances from which an inference of guilt is sought to be drawn must be cogently 1 (2006) 10 SCC 681 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 257 DARSHAN SINGH v. STATE OF PUNJAB and firmly established; that those circumstances should be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused; that the circumstances taken cumulatively should form a chain so complete that there is no escape from the conclusion, that within all human probability, the crime was committed by the accused and they should be incapable of explanation on any hypothesis other than that of the guilt of the accused and inconsistent with his innocence. [See Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra2] 10. Let us, therefore, examine whether the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt, the entire chain of circumstances, not leaving any link missing for the appellant to escape from the clutches of law. The circumstances which are said to have been proved on behalf of the prosecution is as follows: 1. Motive 2. Presence at the spot 3. False explanation in 313 statement 4. Death by Poisoning – Doctor’s opinion on cause of death 5. Conduct of the Appellant 6.