The victim’s parents completely abandoned her, at least from the year 2019. 25. Ms Madhavi Divan, the learned amicus curiae, rightly emphasized that no opportunity was made available to a girl of fourteen or fifteen years of age to make an informed choice to decide whether to stay with the accused. She did not get any support from her parents and the State machinery when she required it the most. As held by us hereafter, the State machinery failed to act according to the law to take care of the victim. The situation in which she was placed at that time was such that she had no opportunity to make an informed choice about her future. She had no option but to seek shelter where it was provided to her i.e. in the house of the accused. In any event, it is doubtful whether she could have made an informed choice at the age of fourteen or fifteen. THE FAILURE OF THE STATE 26. The question before us is whether the State was under an obligation to take care of the victim of an offence under the POCSO Act, who was fourteen years old. Apart from the State’s constitutional obligations, the statutes have enough provisions to address this situation. Though the existing law of the land could have taken adequate care of the poor victim in this case, the machinery created by the law failed. These conclusions need more elaboration. 27. The first relevant statutory provision is Section 19 of the POCSO Act. Section 19 of the POCSO Act reads thus: [2024] 8 S.C.R. 597 In Re: Right To Privacy of Adolescents “19. Reporting of offences.— (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) any person (including the child), who has apprehension that an offence under this Act is likely to be committed or has knowledge that such an offence has been committed, he shall provide such information to,— (a) the Special Juvenile Police Unit; or (b) the local police. (2) Every report given under sub-section (1) shall be— (a) ascribed an entry number and recorded in writing; (b) be read over to the informant; (c) shall be entered in a book to be kept by the Police Unit. (3) Where the report under sub-section (1) is given by a child, the same shall be recorded under sub-section (2) in a simple language so that the child understands contents being recorded. (4) In case contents are being recorded in the language not understood by the child or wherever it is deemed necessary, a translator or an interpreter, having such qualifications, experience and on payment of such fees as may be prescribed, shall be provided to the child if he fails to understand the same. (5) Where the Special Juvenile Police Unit or local police is satisfied that the child against whom an offence has been committed is in need of care and protection, then, it shall, after recording the reasons in writing, make immediate arrangement to give him such care and protection including admitting the child into shelter home or to the nearest hospital within twenty-four hours of the report, as may be prescribed.