Raju Ramachandran, Sr. Adv., Kaushik Laik, Vivek Singh, Ashay Kaushik, M.V. Mukunda, Shashank Tiwari, Rahul Arya, Pratap Shankar, Ms. Devyani Gupta, Ms. Tanvi Anand Advs. for the Appellant. R Venkataramani, Attorney General for India, Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General, K M Nataraj, A.S.G., K Parmeshwar, Kanu Agrawal, Ms. Chinmayee Chandra, Udai Khanna, Akshay Amritanshu, Ankur Talwar, Anmol Chandan, Anandh Venkataramani, Mrs. Vijayalakshmi Venkataramani, Vinayak Mehrotra, Ms. Mansi Sood, Chitvan Singhal, Ms. Sonali Jain, Abhishek Kumar Pandey, Raman Yadav, Kartikey Aggarwal, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Advs. for the Respondent. Gopal Sankaranarayan, Vijay Hansaria, Sr. Advs., Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, Ashwani Kumar Dubey, Vishal Sinha, Ms. Jhanvi Dubey, Ms. Tanya Shrivastava, Ms. Aditi Gupta, Ms. Trisha Chandran, Vaibhav Tiwari, Rishabh Shukla, Ms. Sneha Kalita, Ms. Kavya Jhawar, Ms. Jessy Kurian, K.S. Bhati, Ms. SR. Leona, Ms. Shilpa Bagade, Ms. Joyshree Barman, Shubham Singhal, Abhimanyu Bhandari, Ms. Rooh-e-hina Dua, Arav Pandit, Harshit Khanduja, Ms. Dhanakshi Gandhi, Sahib Kochhar, Ms. Shreya Arora, Randeep Sachdeva, Dr. Vivek Sharma, K.V. Dhananjay, A Velan, Pawan Shyam, Ms. Navpreet Kaur, Sushant VA, Ojaswi, Dheeraj SJ, Mritunjay Pathak, Sachin S, Anand Nandan, Amit Pawan, Aakash, Zubair, Vikash, Dr. Dhruv Mishra, Mohd Faiz, Ms. Shivangi, Rameshwar Prasad Goyal, Advs. for the Intervenor/Impleadors. 476 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports / of the Supreme Court Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI Table of Contents* A. Reference 4 B. Overview of the in PV Narasimha Rao 8 C. Submissions 14 D. Reconsidering PV Narasimha Rao does not violate the principle of stare decisis 22 E. History of parliamentary privilege in India 34 F. Purport of parliamentary privilege in India 44 I. Functional analysis 44 II. Parliamentary privilege as a collective right of the House 54 III. Necessity test to claim and exercise a privilege 60 G. Bribery is not protected by parliamentary privilege 65 I. Bribery is not in respect of anything said or any vote given 65 II. The Constitution envisions probity in public life 72 III. Courts and the House exercise parallel jurisdiction over allegations of bribery 76 IV. Delivery of results is irrelevant to the offence of bribery 79 H. International position on bribery vis-à-vis privileges 87 I. United Kingdom 87 II. United States of America 99 III. Canada 108 IV. Australia 114 I. Elections to the Rajya Sabha are within the remit of Article 194(2) 118 J. Conclusion 131 * Ed. Note: Pagination is as per the original . [2024] 3 S.C.R. 477 Sita Soren v. Union of India 1. Parliamentary privilege, codified in Articles 105 and 194 of the Constitution, is integral to deliberative democracy in facilitating the functioning of a parliamentary form of governance. It ensures that legislators in whom citizens repose their faith can express their views and opinions on the floor of the House without ‘fear or favour’. With the protection of parliamentary privilege, a legislator belonging to a political party with a minuscule vote share can fearlessly vote on any motion; a legislator from a remote region of the country can raise issues that impact her constituency without the fear of being harassed by legal prosecution; and a legislator can demand accountability without the apprehension of being accused of defamation.