On 03.04.2006, the Chief Minister sent the file back with the remarks “Last opportunity be provided to the society and concerned Collector should complete the action.” This direction sounds more like a command given by the Chief Minister. 5. Once this direction was given by the Chief Minister, things started moving smoothly for MRCHS as the Joint Secy. found 13 members out of their 29 members to be eligible for granting final membership. Consequently, Letter of Allotment was issued in favour of MRCHS on 10.04.2008. 6. The entire history of how the plot came to be allotted to MRCHS shows nepotism and favouritism for a society which was not even eligible in the first place for this allotment. A perusal of the records shows that not a single member of the society, is a doctor at Tata Memorial Hospital. Leave aside a doctor, not one member is an employee of Tata Memorial Hospital which was the projection earlier [2024] 12 S.C.R. 737 Proposed Vaibhav Cooperative Housing Society Limited v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. and for which the plot was sought to be allotted. The composition of this society has also now completely changed from its original composition. Further, the appellant has taken us through the office noting of MRCHS’ file which clearly suggests that the concerned authorities were not favourably inclined to allot the plot to MRCHS and the matter kept lingering since the year 2000, on one pretext or the other and thereafter as late as in 2006 one last opportunity was given to MRCHS and after 8 years and countless changes in the membership of the society the land was allotted to them, that too a different plot than the one they applied for! 7. The appellant has also brought to our notice the Land Revenue (Disposal of Government Land) Rules, Maharashtra, 1971 (“Rules”) read with Government Regulations dated 09.07.1999 (“GR 1999”). Rule 27, which would be applicable for allotment in the present case is reproduced below: 27. Grant of land housing schemes: Building plots may be granted by the State Government for various housing schemes undertaken by any housing board, local authority or co-operative housing society constituted under any law for the time being in force, in occupancy rights under Section 40 on inalienable and impartible tenure on payment of such concessional occupancy price as the State Government may, from time to time fix, regard being had to the nature of the scheme, and in the case of a co-operative housing society, to the income of the members, thereof, such income being ascertained after making such inquiries as the State Government may think fit to make in this behalf… The relevant Clauses from G.R. 1999 are as follows: 6. When Chief Promoter of the Proposed Co-operative Housing Society submits application, for the Government Land, it will necessary to submit information of the land which is required for the society alongwith details of land viz. City Survey Number, Area, Local Plan in the scale of 1 : 4000, Property Card, 7/12 Extract, list of Members (alongwith the details of address of employment and 738 [2024] 12 S.C.R.