This Court noted that two facets required consideration – Whether there is substantial compliance in disclosing requisite information in the affidavits filed along with the nomination and whether non- disclosure of information on identified aspects materially affected the result of the election. This Court observed, on facts, that non- disclosure of the electricity dues in that case was not a serious lapse, despite the fact that there were dues outstanding, as there was a bonafide dispute about the same. Similar was the observation in relation to non-disclosure of municipal dues, where there was a genuine dispute as to re-valuation and re-assessment for the purpose of tax assessment. Earlier, in Sambhu Prasad Sharma vs. Charandas Mahant19, this Court observed that the form of the nomination paper is not considered sacrosanct and what is to be seen is whether there is substantial compliance with the requirement as to form and every departure from the prescribed format cannot, therefore, be made a ground for the rejection of the nomination paper. 42. In the case on hand, it is not in dispute that there were no actual outstanding dues payable by Karikho Kri in relation to the government accommodation occupied by him earlier. His failure in disclosing the fact that he had occupied such accommodation and in filing the ‘No Dues Certificate’ in that regard, with his nomination form, cannot be said to be a defect of any real import. More so, as he did submit the relevant documents of 2014 after Nuney Tayang raised an objection before the Returning Officer. His explanation that he submitted such Certificates in the year 2014 when he stood for re- election as an MLA is logical and worthy of acceptance. The most important aspect to be noted is that there were no actual dues and the failure of Karikho Kri to disclose that he had been in occupation of government accommodation during the years 2009 to 2014 cannot 19 [2012] 6 SCR 356 : (2012) 11 SCC 390 422 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports be treated as a defect that is of substantial character so as to taint his nomination and render its acceptance improper. 43. The High Court opined that the nomination of Karikho Kri was improperly accepted by the Returning Officer as he had failed to disclose the three vehicles in question, which continued to be registered in the name of his dependent family members. Non- submission of the ‘No Dues Certificate’ in respect of the government accommodation occupied by him during his earlier tenure as an MLA was also held to weigh against him. Lastly, the High Court held that non-disclosure of the taxes due and payable by Karikho Kri and his wife was a defect of substantial character and the same tainted his nomination. In consequence, the High Court concluded that the acceptance of Karikho Kri’s nomination by the Returning Officer was improper and as he was the returned candidate, the question of pleading and proving that such improper acceptance of his nomination materially affected the result of the election did not arise.