That in the case of convict undergoing life imprisonment, the period of custody is indeterminate. Remissions earned or awarded to such a life convict are only notional and Section 432 of the CrPC reduces the period of incarceration by an passed by an appropriate Government which cannot be reduced to less than fourteen years as per Section 433-A of the CrPC. This Court after a detailed discussion came to the following conclusions on the aspect of grant of remissions: “77.5. The grant of remissions is statutory. However, to prevent its arbitrary exercise, the legislature has built in some procedural and substantive checks in the statute. These need to be faithfully enforced. 874 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 77.6. Remission can be granted under Section 432 Cr.P.C. in the case of a definite term of sentence. The power under this section is available only for granting “additional” remission, that is, for a period over and above the remission granted or awarded to a convict under the Jail Manual or other statutory rules. If the term of sentence is indefinite(as in life imprisonment), the power under Section 432 Cr.P.C. can certainly be exercised but not on the basis that life imprisonment is an arbitrary or notional figure of twenty years of imprisonment. 77.7. Before actually exercising the power of remission under Section 432 Cr.P.C. the appropriate Government must obtain the opinion(with reasons) of the Presiding Judge of the convicting or confirming Court. Remissions can, therefore, be given only on a case-by-case basis and not in a wholesale manner.” (c) Ram Chander was a case of a writ petition being filed before this Court under Article 32 of Constitution seeking a direction to the respondent-State therein to grant him premature release. This Court speaking through Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud., J., (presently the learned Chief Justice) considered the aspect of judicial review of power of remission and referred to Mohinder Singh to observe that the power of remission cannot be exercised arbitrarily and the decision to grant remission should be informed, reasonable and fair. In this context, reliance was placed on Laxman Naskar wherein this Court, stipulated the factors that govern the grant of remission namely: i. Whether the offence is an individual act of crime without affecting the society at large? ii. Whether there is any chance of future recurrence of committing crime? iii. Whether the convict has lost his potentiality in committing crime? iv. Whether there is any fruitful purpose of confining this convict any more? v. Socio-economic condition of the convict’s family.” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 875 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others (i) That while grant of remission is the exclusive prerogative of the executive, the Court cannot supplant its view. The Court can direct the authorities to reconsider the representation of the convict vide Rajan. Therefore, while there can be no direction to release a prisoner forthwith or to remit the remaining sentence, at best there can only be a direction issued to the State to consider the representation made for remission expeditiously on its own merits and in accordance with law.