social and economic justice in the context of material want and utter inequalities on a massive scale, compels the Court to ascribe expansive meaning to the pregnant words used with hopeful foresight, not to circumscribe their connotation into contradiction of the objectives inspiring the provision. To be Pharisaic towards the Constitution through ritualistic construction is to weaken the social-spiritual thrust of the founding fathers’ dynamic faith.” (emphasis supplied) 182. While holding that Article 39(b) includes the nationalization of motor vehicles, Justice Krishna Iyer had occasion to interpret the phrase “material resources of the community”. In essence, Justice Krishna Iyer interpreted the term “material resources” to cover “all national wealth” including all resources – natural and manmade, private and public. The only qualifier according to Justice Iyer is that the resource must “meet material needs”. He adopted the view that an individual is a member of the community, and thus, all resources of the individual are part of the “community”. According to Justice Iyer, if privately owned resources are excluded from the ambit of Article 39(b) it would defeat the underlying purpose of the provision, which is redistribution of wealth. Further, he clarified that not only 156 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports private ‘means of production’, but also ‘private resources’ are included within the fold of Article 39(b). These observations lie at the heart of the controversy before this Court, and the correctness of this interpretation of ‘material resources of the community’ has been challenged by the appellants before us. The observations are reproduced below. “81. “Resources” is a sweeping expression and covers not only cash resources but even ability to borrow (credit resources). Its meaning given in Black›s Legal Dictionary is: “Money or any property that can be converted into supplies; means of raising money or supplies; capabilities of raising wealth or to supply necessary wants; available means or capability of any kind.” And material resources of the community in the context of re-ing the national economy embraces all the national wealth, not merely natural resources, all the private and public sources of meeting material needs, not merely public possessions. Everything of value or use in the material world is material resource and the individual being a member of the community his resources are part of those of the community. To exclude ownership of private resources from the coils of Article 39(b) is to cipherise its very purpose of redistribution the socialist way. A directive to the State with a deliberate design to dismantle feudal and capitalist citadels of property must be interpreted in that spirit and hostility to such a purpose alone can be hospitable to the meaning which excludes private means of production or goods produced from the instruments of production. Sri A.K. Sen agrees that private means of production are included in “material resources of the community” but by some baffling logic excludes things produced. If a car factory is a material resource, why not cars manufactured? “Material” may cover everything worldly and “resources”, according to Random House Dictionary, takes in “the collective wealth of a country or its means of producing wealth: money or any property that can be converted into money assets”.