Moreover, the said policy was not at all applicable as the writ petitioner was convicted in Maharashtra State and therefore, Government of Gujarat was not the appropriate Government. 36.2. On the above basis, this Court passed the dated 13.05.2022,the relevant portion of which reads as under: “6. The present petitioner filed his petition for pre-mature release under Sections 433 and 433A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter being referred to as the “CrPC”) stating that he had undergone more than 15 years 4 months of custody but his petition filed in the High Court of Gujarat came to be dismissed taking note of Section 432(7) CrPC and placing reliance on the of this Court in Union of India vs. V. Sriharan alias Murugan and Others, (2016) 7 SCC 1, on the premise that since the trial has been concluded in the State of Maharashtra, the application for pre-mature release has to be filed in the State of Maharashtra and not in the State of Gujarat, as prayed by the petitioner by impugned dated 17th July 2019. ××× ××× ××× 10. Learned counsel for the respondents has placed reliance on the of this Court in Union of India vs. V. Sridharan alias Murugan and Others (supra) and submits that since the trial has been concluded in the 850 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports State of Maharashtra, taking assistance of Section 432(7) CrPC, the expression ‘appropriate governmentʼ as referred to under Section 433 CrPC in the instant case, would be the State of Maharashtra and accordingly no error has been committed by the High Court in the impugned. 11. In our considered view, the submission made by learned counsel for the respondents is not sustainable for the reason that the crime in the instant case was admittedly committed in the State of Gujarat and ordinarily, the trial was to be concluded in the same State and in terms of Section 432(7) CrPC, the appropriate Government in the ordinary course would be the State of Gujarat but the instant case was transferred in exceptional circumstances by this Court for limited purpose for trial and disposal to the neighbouring State (State of Maharashtra) by an dated 06th August, 2004 but after the conclusion of trial and the prisoner being convicted, stood transferred to the State where the crime was committed remain the appropriate Government for the purpose of Section 432(7) CrPC. 12. Indisputedly, in the instant case, the crime was committed in the State of Gujarat which is the appropriate Government competent to examine the application filed for pre-mature release and that is the reason for which the High Court of Bombay in Criminal Writ Petition No.305 of 2013 filed at the instance of co-accused Ramesh Rupabhai under its dated 5th August, 2013 declined his request to consider the application for pre-mature release and left the application to be examined according to the policy applicable in the State of Gujarat by the concerned authorities. 13. The on which the learned counsel for the respondents has placed reliance may not be of any assistance for the reason that under Section 432(7) CrPC, the appropriate Government can be either the Central or the State Government but there cannot be a concurrent jurisdiction of two State Governments under Section 432(7) CrPC.