32. There are noticeable differences in the IBC between the procedure of initiation of CIRP by a financial creditor and initiation of CIRP by an operational creditor. On a reading of Sections 8 and 9 of the IBC, it is patently clear that an Operational Creditor can only trigger the CIRP process, when there is an undisputed debt and a default in payment thereof. If the claim of an operational creditor is undisputed and the operational debt remains unpaid, CIRP must commence, for IBC does not countenance dishonesty or deliberate failure to repay the dues of an Operational Creditor. However, if the debt is disputed, the application of the Operational Creditor for initiation of CIRP must be dismissed. 33. We find no grounds to interfere with the and of the NCLAT impugned in this appeal. 34. The appeal is dismissed. 35. Needles to mention that the appellant may avail such other remedies as may be available in accordance with law including arbitration to realise its dues, if any.” ii. Proceedings before the High Court 16. Consequent to the dismissal of the insolvency proceedings, the respondent, on 09.12.2022, filed a fresh petition under the 150 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 before the High Court of Bombay seeking appointment of an arbitrator in terms of clause 14 of the tender. The appellant opposed the petition, inter-alia on the ground that the same was barred by limitation and that the claim sought to be referred to arbitration was also a deadwood. 17. The High Court vide the impugned allowed the application of the respondent and proceeded to appoint an arbitrator. The High Court took the view that the fresh Section 11 petition filed by the respondent, after withdrawal of the first, was not time-barred and neither the claim was a deadwood. The relevant observations of the High Court are reproduced below: "8. As regards the first submission of Mr. Paranjape, that once the Section 11 Petition is withdrawn no second Petition shall lie, I do not find any provision in the Act imposing such a restrain. It is not the case, where the appointment of Arbitrator was prayed before the Court and the Application was turned down on merits, holding that no arbitrator deserves to be appointed in absence on an Arbitration Agreement. The Petitioner chose to withdraw the Petition and as it is categorically stated in the Petition that he was under advise to do so and pursuant thereto he approached NCLT under the IBC but did not succeed in the endeavour as the NCLT did not find such proceedings to be maintainable and even the Apex Court upheld the said by recording that an Operational Creditor can only trigger the CIRP process when there is an undisputed debt and default in payment thereof, but if the debt is disputed, then the Application of the Operational Creditor for initiation of CIRP must be declined. Be that as it may be, while dismissing the Appeal, being conscious of the position that the dues of the Petitioner/ Appellant are yet to be realized, liberty was conferred to avail such remedies in accordance with law which shall include the remedy of arbitration.