409 Arcadia Shipping Ltd. v. Tata Steel Limited and Others to escape their liability defendant no. 3 to establish and prove that they hold with them the original Bill- of Lading duly endorsed by defendant no.2 to release the said goods in favour of defendant no.1, otherwise defendant no.3 cannot escape its liability for payment. This is so the original documents have been returned back unpaid to the plaintiff by their bankers Punjab National Bank and as such it is surprising as to how the goods had been released by defendant no. 3 as confirmed by them in favour of defendant no. 1 vide their fax dated 29th August, 1999. xxx xxx xxx 29. That the cause of action arose for the first time when defendant no.4 assigned the said placed by defendant no.1 in favour of plaintiff; again arose on 23rd June, 1998 when the goods were supplied to defendant no.1 and was sent to defendant no. 3; again arose on 7th September, 1998, when defendant no. 1 confirmed having made the payment to defendant no.2 and assure the early release of the payment; again arose when the documents were returned to the plaintiff on 23rd August, 1999 when the plaintiff enquired about the status of the goods; again arose on 25th August, 1999 when defendant no.3 confirmed having delivered the goods to defendant no.1 and the authority of defendant no.2 and finally arose on 29th November, 1999 when despite the legal notice the defendants failed to release the payment and is a continuing one.” In this manner, it was pleaded that if an endorsement on the Bill of Lading was made by the Bank of Ethiopia, they would be liable. Arcadia would be liable if they were not able to establish and prove that the original Bill of Lading was duly endorsed by the Bank of Ethiopia. ο Accordingly, the defendants were jointly and severally liable. ο Paragraph 30 of the plaint relating to the territorial jurisdiction reads as under: 410 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “That the cause of action arose at Delhi as the was placed at Delhi and the payment was to be released at Delhi, therefore this Hon’ble Court has got the Jurisdiction to try and adjudicate upon the present suit.” Bhushan Steel had thus pleaded that the High Court at Delhi possessed territorial jurisdiction to decide the Suit. 4. Vide judgement/ dated 20.12.2017, the Single Judge of the High Court at Delhi recording the following findings: ο Bank of Ethiopia had refused to honour the Letter of Credit on account of discrepancies as the goods were shipped late and the documents were presented after the course of negotiation. ο Goods were released and in spite of efforts of Bhushan Steel to call back the shipment, the goods could not be retrieved. ο TYO Trading Enterprises was untraceable and were proceeded ex-parte. ο Arcadia had loaded and shipped the goods, however, they failed to divulge the actual recipient in Ethiopia. Arcadia failed to inform Bhushan Steel about their due compliance.