The purpose was to eliminate any kind of political factors having a play in the matter of the disturbance in the Schedule so published by the President. 44. It is amply clear that the purpose behind the said provisions was that once an identification has been done in the List so notified, the Executive should not tinker with it and any addition or deletion had to be made only by Parliament. 45. It will also be relevant to refer to the speech of Shri V.I.Muniswami Pillai, given on the same day i.e. 17th September 1949 in support of the amendment, which reads as under: “Shri V. I. Muniswami Pillai : Mr. President, I come to support the amendments that have been moved by the Honourable Dr. Ambedkar. These amendments deal with the definition of Scheduled Castes. As far as I can see he has made it clear that, according to the second part of it, the President on the 26th January 1950 will publish a list of such communities that come under the category of Scheduled Castes. But I would like to inform this House of the background which brought out the special name of Scheduled Castes. It was the intouchability, the, social evil that has been practised by the Hindu Community for ages, that was responsible for the Government and the people to know the section of people coming under the category of Hindus and who were kept at the outskirts of the Hindu society. Going backwards to 1916 it was in that year when Government found that something had to be done for the untouchable classes, (when they said untouchable classes, they were always understood to be [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1467 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. Hindus,) and they had to be recognised. In Madras there were six communities that came under this classification. During the Montago Chelmsford reforms they were made ten. In 1930 when the great epoch-making fast of Mahatma Gandhi came about, then only the country saw who were the real untouchable classes. And in the 1935 Act, the Government thoroughly examined the whole thing and as far as the Province of Madras is concerned they brought 86 communities into this list or category, though there were some touchable classes also. Now, after further examination the Provincial Governments have drawn up a list and I think according to the amendment mover’s suggestions, all those communities that come-under the category of untouchables and those who profess Hinduism will be the Scheduled Castes, because I want to emphasise about the religion. I emphasise this because of late there have been some movements here and there; there are people who have left Scheduled Castes and Hinduism and joined other religions and they also are claiming to be scheduled Castes. Such convert cannot come under the scope of this definition. While I have no objection to Government granting any concessions to these converts, I feel strongly that they should not be clubbed along with Scheduled Castes.