73 Dr. T. Varghese George v. Kora K. George and Ors.,(2012) 1 SCC 369. 74 Manager, Rajershi Memorial Basic Training School v. The State of Kerala and Anr.,1972 SCC OnLine Ker 111, para 4. 1822 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 129. All of these cases support the legal principle that for an institution to claim protection under Article 30, it should have a ‘real positive indicia’ and must not be a mere sham. It is, therefore, permissible to ‘pierce the veil’ in to ascertain the real character of the institution,as the minority status cannot be bestowed on illusionary claims. 130. Lastly, it is an established principle of statutory interpretation that a provision has to be read as a whole, and the accompanying text may be employed in interpreting the meaning of another clause.75 This principle is particularly relevant in the present case, as Article 30(1A) specifically defines an institution “referred to in Clause 1” and mentions it to be an institution that is both established ‘and’ administered by a minority: “(1A) In making any law providing for the compulsory acquisition of any property of an educational institution established and administered by a minority, referred to in clause (1), the State shall ensure that the amount fixed by or determined under such law for the acquisition of such property is such as would not restrict or abrogate the right guaranteed under that clause.” [Emphasis supplied] 131. Since the term ‘and’ has been consciously employed instead of ‘or’, it is clear that the text of the provision itself envisages the conditions to be read conjunctively. To hold to the contrary would require reading down an original provision of the Constitution, which the Court must refrain from doing. 132. Considering that institutions claiming any benefit under Article 30 must satisfy this two-pronged test, it is trite to say that the terms ‘establishment’ and ‘administration’ under Article 30 are conjunctive. I. Issue IV: What is the meaning of ‘establish’ in Art. 30? 133. The Appellant has argued that the term ‘establish’ in Article 30 means who ‘founded’ the institution. It is their assertion that if the genesis 75 Justice GP Singh, Principles of Statutory Interpretation, Lexis Nexis (2016), 14th edn. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1823 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. of the institution can be traced back to the minority community, the institution would satisfy the test of being a minority institution. 134. Per contra, the Respondents ascribe a different meaning to the term ‘establish’ and argue that the Court must evaluate as to who created the institution. If the institution owes its existence to the Statute, then it would mean that the institution was established by the Legislature and not by the minority community. 135. In due consideration of these opposing views, the central issue for our determination,therefore would be to ascertain the meaning of the term ‘establish’ in Article 30 and determine what the relevant indicia should be, in to determine on facts as to whether or not an institution is established by the minority community.