(iv) The changes introduced by the Finance Act, 2022 are merely clarificatory in nature and the crux of the issue before the Court can be answered without reference to and reliance upon the changes introduced by the said Act. i. Error apparent in the under review 19. It was submitted that the judgement rendered by this Court in Canon India (supra) requires review as there are errors apparent on the face of the record. The Ld. ASG submitted that it is equally important that the legality and validity of the decision rendered by the High Court of Delhi in Mangali Impex (supra) which is a part of the present batch of pending appeals be considered since the issues in both Canon India (supra) and Mangali Impex (supra) are one and the same. He submitted that the fact that an appeal against Mangali Impex (supra) was pending before this Court and that the operation of the said judgement was stayed went unnoticed in Canon India (supra). He submitted that this would have a direct bearing both in the review and in the batch of appeals before this Court. 20. He submitted that Canon India (supra) proceeded on the assumption that DRI officers are not officers of Customs and therefore need to be entrusted with such powers under Section 6 of the Act, 1962 and only upon such entrustment, the functions of a proper officer can be assigned to them. This, he submitted, is in the teeth of the provisions of the Act, 1962 more particularly Sections 3, 4, and 5 thereof. He further submitted that there is no discussion worth the name on 222 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports these provisions as regards its applicability to the DRI officers who are none other than a class of officers of customs under Section 3 appointed pursuant to Section 4 and consequently, no entrustment is required under Section 6. He submitted that Section 6 would come into play for such of those officers of the Central or State Government or Local Authority, who are not a class of officers of customs under Section 3 appointed in accordance with Section 4 of the Act, 1962. He explained this clear distinction between the two provisions by relying on the notifications issued under Section 4 of the Act, 1962 proclaiming DRI officers to be a class of officers of Customs under Section 3 of the Act. 21. He submitted that this Court erred in not taking into consideration Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Act, 1962 respectively and its interplay, if any, with Section 6, as duly indicated by the notifications issued from time to time. More particularly, the Court did not take into account the origin and history of the DRI and how it was always a part of the Ministry of Finance since its inception except for a brief period between 1970 and 1977. 22. He adverted to Sections 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Act, 1962 respectively along with the relevant notifications issued under the respective provisions.