Digital Supreme Court Reports Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) – Kesoram held that India Cement’s case was caused by “an apparent typographical error or inadvertent error” and should not be understood as a correct declaration of law – Kesoram’s case also expressed its disagreement with Mahalaxmi Fabric Mills’s case to the extent it had held that there was no “typographical error” in India Cement’s case – Kesoram’s case concurred with India Cement’s case on the aspect that cess on royalty is beyond the legislative competence of the State legislatures – Divergence on the point of law between India Cement’s case and Kesoram’s case is apparent and pertains to whether or not royalty is a tax – Thus, the royalty does not meet the characteristic requirements of a tax. [Paras 117, 121, 122] – Held: (per B.V. Nagarathna, J.) Majority decision in Kesoram is a serious departure from the law laid down by the seven-judge Bench in India Cement which was wholly unwarranted and thus, the said majority is liable to be overruled and is overruled to the extent of holding that royalty is not a tax – India Cement was correctly decided wherein it was held that royalty is in the nature of tax. [Paras 42 (ii), 1.1] Constitution of India – Legislative entries – Interpretation – Entries 49 and 50 List II in the context of mineral bearing lands – Interplay of: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) Entries 49 and 50 of List II deal with distinct subject matters – Both the entries operate in different fields without any overlap – Nature of taxes under the entries are distinct – Fact that mineral value or mineral produced is used as a measure under Entry 50 List II does not preclude the legislature from using the same measure for taxing mineral bearing land under Entry 49 List II – Doctrine of generalia specialibus non derogant has no application because Entries 49 and 50 List II operate in different fields – Though Parliament can limit the taxing field entrusted to the State under Entry 50 List II through a law relating to mineral development, the limitation operates on the field of taxing mineral rights – Such a limitation cannot operate on Entry 49 List II because there is no specific stipulation under the Constitution to [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1555 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. that effect – Constitution envisages the imposition of limitations by Parliament on the legislative field of the state of taxes on mineral rights, and not taxes on lands. [Para 339] – Held: (per B.V. Nagarathna, J.) (Dissenting) Entry 49 List II is of the widest amplitude – Mineral value or mineral produce cannot be used as a measure to tax mineral bearing land under Entry 49 List II, also, the word “lands” under Entry 49 List II cannot include mineral bearing land as well – This would amount to “double taxation”, one, by the State Legislature on the mineral bearing land under Entry 49 List II and again for conducting a mining operation which is for exercise of a mineral right u/s.9 of MMDR Act, which is Parliamentary law also paid to the State Government – This is impermissible having regard to the constitutional intent and scheme of Entries in the Lists – Thus, royalty cannot also be a measure to impose tax on mineral bearing land – State Legislature using royalty on mineral produce as a measure to impose a cess under Entry 49 List II on mineral bearing land would overlap Entry 50 List II, because minerals are extracted by virtue of mining activity which is in exercise of mineral right and taxes on mineral rights are envisaged under Entry 50 List II subject to any limitation imposed by Parliament – Thus, Entry 50 List II would have to be viewed distinctly from Entry 49 List II – If so viewed, it becomes subject to Parliamentary law in the form of MMDR Act and the rules made thereunder which would be a limitation on the power of State to tax under Entry 50 List II – Hence to get over the rigour of Entry 50 List II, States cannot resort to Entry 49 List II.