[2024] 10 S.C.R. 108 : 2024 INSC 735 Vijay Singh @ Vijay Kr. Sharma v. The State of Bihar (Criminal Appeal No. 1031 of 2015) 25 September 2024 [Bela M. Trivedi and Satish Chandra Sharma,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Issue arose as regards sustainablility of the findings of the High Court holding the appellants guilty of commission of offences u/ss. 302/34 and 364/34 IPC; as also the approach of the High Court, if in line with the settled law for reversing an acquittal into conviction. Headnotes† Penal Code, 1860 – ss. 302/34 and 364/34 – Kidnapping or abducting in to murder – Abduction and murder of woman over a property dispute – Factum of her death discovered in furtherance of written report lodged by informant and brother- in-law of the victim – Conviction and sentence of accused nos. 1-5 of the commission of offences u/ss. 302/34 and 364/34, however acquittal of accused nos. 6 and 7 of all the charges – High Court upheld the conviction of accused nos. 1-5, as also convicted accused nos. 6 and 7 of the commission of offences u/ss. 364/34 and 302/34 – Sustainability: Held: Offence of murder is entirely dependent on circumstantial evidence and in a case based on circumstantial evidence, the chain of evidence must be complete and must give out an inescapable conclusion of guilt – Prosecution case is far from meeting that standard – Mere presence of certain make-up articles cannot be a conclusive proof of the fact that the victim was residing in the said house, especially when another woman was admittedly residing there – No material whatsoever could be found at the house to directly indicate that the deceased as also the informant were residing there – Prosecution failed to examine even one cohabitant to prove the said fact – Evidence of the eye witnesses declared as wholly unreliable including on the aspect of time of death – Thus, no reason to doubt the post mortem report and the findings therein – Prosecution case full of glaring doubts as * Author [2024] 10 S.C.R. 109 Vijay Singh @ Vijay Kr. Sharma v. The State of Bihar regards abduction – Although, the post mortem report indicates that the death of the deceased was unnatural and the commission of murder cannot be ruled out, however no direct evidence to prove the commission of murder by the accused persons – Link of causation between the accused persons and the alleged offence conspicuously missing – Circumstantial evidence emanating from the facts surrounding the offence of abduction, such as the testimonies of eye witnesses, failed to meet the test of proof and cannot be termed as proved in the eyes of law – No inference could be drawn from it to infer the commission of the offence u/s. 302 by the accused persons – Also motive has a bearing only when the evidence on record is sufficient to prove the ingredients of the offences under consideration – Without the proof of foundational facts, the case of the prosecution cannot succeed on the presence of motive alone – Thus, the prosecution failed to discharge its burden to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt – Reasonable doubts are irreconcilable and strike at the foundation of the prosecution’s case – Furthermore, approach of the High Court in reversing the acquittal of A-6 and A-7 not in line with the settled law pertaining to reversal of acquittals – High Court took a cursory view of the matter and reversed the acquittal without arriving at any finding of illegality or perversity or impossibility of the trial court’s view or non-appreciation of evidence by the trial tourt – Thus, the appellants to be acquitted of all the charges – Findings of conviction arrived at by the courts below not sustainable and set aside.