Vend fee or transport fee and similar fees, unless supported by quid pro quo, this Court held, interfered with the control exercised by the Central Government under the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (for short “IDR Act, 1951”) and the various s made thereunder with respect to prices, licences, permits, distribution, transport, disposal, acquisition, possession, use, consumption, etc., of articles related to a controlled industry, industrial alcohol being one of them. But none of the observations in the warranted the abrupt conclusion, to which the court came, that the power to levy taxes on sale or purchase of goods referable to Entry 54 of List II was curtailed by the control exercised by the Central Government under the IDR Act. The casual reference to sales tax in the concluding portion of the was accidental and per incuriam was the submission. While considering the said plea, this Court observed that “the only question which had to be determined between the same parties reported in (1990) 1 SCC 109 (Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. vs. State of U.P.) was “whether intoxicating liquor in Entry 8 in List II was confined to potable liquor or includes all liquors.” Answering this question, this Court categorically held that intoxicating liquor within the meaning of Entry 8 of List II was confined to potable liquor and did not include industrial liquor. This Court did not deal with the taxing power of the State under Entry 54 of List II which deals with ‘taxes on the sale or purchase of goods other than newspapers, subject to the provisions of Entry 92-A of List I’. The power of the State to levy taxes on sale or purchase of goods under that entry was not the subject matter of discussion by this Court although in paragraph 86 of the leading of this Court, there was a reference to sales tax. Therefore, the only question that was considered by the seven-judge bench of this Court was whether the State could levy “excise duty” or “vend fee” or “transport fee” and the like by recourse to Entry 51 or 8 in List II in respect of industrial alcohol. Entry 52 List II was not applicable to fee or charges in question. Entry 52 List II refers to “Taxes on the entry of goods into a local area for consumption, use 866 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports or sale therein”. Further, the observation that sales tax cannot be charged by the State on industrial alcohol was an abrupt observation without a preceding discussion, and inconsistent with the reasoning adopted by this Court in earlier decisions from which no dissent was expressed on the point. However, the aforesaid observation with reference to Entry 52 of List II in connection with excise duty and sales tax when neither falls under that entry, was held to be per incuriam. This was because this Court by a detailed discussion in the seven- judge bench decision had observed that the impugned statutory provisions purportedly levying fees or enforcing restrictions in respect of industrial alcohol were impermissible in view of the control assumed by the Central Government in exercise of its power under Section 18-G of the IDR Act in respect of a declared industry falling under Entry 52 of List I, read with Entry 33 of List III.