It is for the courts to see whether any statement in the pleadings or otherwise amounts to an admission of such a nature as to inspire the confidence of the court to pass on admission under 650 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports XII Rule 6 of CPC. It will depend upon the content and kind of statement/admission which may vary from case to case. In other words, it would depend upon the totality of facts and circumstances of a particular given case. In the present case, here, it is not a ‘clear admission’ as is being made out. Moreover, where the question and its answer are both a mixed question of fact and law, as in the present case, a so called ‘admission’ against the law can never be an “admission” as visualised under XII Rule 6. However, more on this later. XII Rule 6 is meant for speedy disposal of the suits in some cases but on the risk of repetition, we would like to caution that unless there is a clear, unambiguous, unequivocal and unconditional admission, courts should not exercise their discretion under the Rule because on admissions is without a trial which may even preclude a party to challenge the matter on merits in the court of appeal. The provision of law, which is meant for the expeditious disposal of appropriate cases, should therefore be cautiously exercised and it should never come in the way of any defendant denying him the valuable right of contesting the claim. (See: Himani Alloys Ltd. v. Tata Steel Ltd. (2011) 15 SCC 273, Hari Steel & General Industries Ltd. v. Diljit Singh (2019) 20 SCC 425) 4. We will have to go briefly on the facts of the case in to have a perspective of what we have before us. The premises was originally let out to one Sri S.K. Mitra. Subsequent to his death in 1970, as per section 2(h) of the West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1956 (hereafter referred to as “1956 Act” or the “old Act”), the tenancy devolved on his legal heirs who were ordinarily residing with him. Section 2(h) of the old Act defined the ‘tenant’ as follows: “(h) “tenant” [means any person] by whom or on whose account or behalf, the rent of any premises is, or but for a special contract would be, payable and [includes any person continuing in possession after the termination of his tenancy or in the event or such person’s death, such of his heirs as were ordinarily residing with him at the time of his death,] but shall not include any person against whom any decree or for eviction has been made by a Court of competent jurisdiction.” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 651 Rajesh Mitra @ Rajesh Kumar Mitra & Anr. v. Karnani Properties Ltd. In other words, in the event of the death of the tenant the tenancy devolved on the legal heirs of the tenant ‘who ordinarily resided with him’. In the case at hand, therefore, the tenancy devolved on SK Mitra’s widow and the appellants, who were his children aged 2 and 5 years, at the time of his death.