The fallacy of the argument insofar as the instant case is concerned lies in thinking that neither the government nor the University has the right to go behind the claim that the institution is a minority institution and to investigate and satisfy itself whether the claim is well- founded or ill-founded. The government, the University and ultimately the court have the undoubted right to pierce the ‘minority veil’ — with due apologies to the corporate lawyers — and discover whether there is lurking behind it no minority at all and in any case, no minority institution. The object of Article 30(1) is not to allow bogies to be raised by pretenders but to give the minorities ‘a sense of security and a feeling of confidence’ not merely by guaranteeing the right to profess, practise and propagate religion to religious minorities and the right to conserve their language, script and culture to linguistic minorities, but also to enable all minorities, religious or linguistic, to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1981 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. These institutions must be educational institutions of the minorities in truth and reality and not mere masked phantoms. They may be institutions intended to give the children of the minorities the best general and professional education, to make them complete men and women of the country and to enable them to go out into the world fully prepared and equipped. They may be institutions where special provision is made to the advantage and for the advancement of the minority children. They may be institutions where the parents of the children of the minority community may expect that education in accordance with the basic tenets of their religion would be imparted by or under the guidance of teachers, learned and steeped in the faith. They may be institutions where the parents expect their children to grow in a pervasive atmosphere which is in harmony with their religion or conducive to the pursuit of it. What is important and what is imperative is that there must exist some real positive index to enable the institution to be identified as an educational institution of the minorities. We have already said that in the present case apart from the half a dozen words ‘as a Christian minorities’ institution’ occurring in one of the objects recited in the memorandum of association, there is nothing whatever, in the memorandum or the articles of association or in the actions of the society to indicate that the institution was intended to be a minority educational institution. As already found by us these half a dozen words were introduced merely to found a claim on Article 30(1). They were a smoke- screen.” 145. The jurisprudence in St. Stephens [supra] and A.P. Christians Medical Educational Society [supra] requires a real positive indicia for an institution to claim to have been established by a minority community. Therefore, it is permissible to ‘pierce the veil’ in ascertain the real character of the institution and claims of minority status cannot be bestowed on illusionary claims.