When the learned Magistrate did not proceed under Section 200 to 204 CrPC for taking cognizance upon received of the first protest petition nor the protest petition was dismissed under Section 203 CrPC, the complaint in question though considered to be a second narazi complaint with reference to the first protest petition as indicated above, the same is not barred under law, reason being that the alleged first protest petition did not contain detailed particulars of the case required for decision nor the learned Magistrate proceed on the basis of the first petition under Section 200/202 CrPC and therefore the alleged first protest petition in my cosndiered (sic: considered) view cannot be held to have been dismissed after full consideration under Section 203 CrPC. Even if it is assumed for the sake of argument that the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 13 Subrata Choudhury @ Santosh Choudhury & Ors. v. The State of Assam & Anr. first protest petition was dismissed after full consideration, the narazi complaint in question is maintainable for special circumstances, namely the first protest petition did not contain the full facts and particulars necessary to decide the case and the same was considered on incomplete facts and particulars and the learned Magistrate also did not examined the complainant or any witnesses under Section 200 CrPC nor proceeded under Section 202 CrPC to decide whether there was sufficient ground for proceeding. Therefore, in any view of the matter, the present complaint in question cannot be considered as second complaint and the same also cannot be held to be barred for acceptance of the final report. Secondly, even if it is considered to be second narazi complaint with reference to the first protest petition, then also the complainant is not barred in the facts situation of the case because of the special on exceptional circumstances as indicated above. 21. For the reasons stated above, this court do not find any fault with the impugned passed by the learned Sessions Judge and accordingly, the revision petition is dismissed. The matter be remanded back to the learned Magistrate to proceed with the complaint in accordance with law. 20. Paragraph 21 of the impugned of the High Court, as extracted above, would reveal that the High Court also treated the petition dated 20.07.2011 filed by the second respondent as a complaint. Since it is filed by the second respondent after the acceptance of the original complaint dated 11.11.2010 that too, after the rejection of his protest petition dated 05.05.2011, there can be no dispute regarding the status of the complaint dated 20.07.2011 as the second complaint of the second respondent. 21. The appellants herein contended that the second complaint carries the same set of allegations and in view of the dismissal of the first complaint after considering the protest petition and hearing the complainant, the second complaint filed by the second respondent dated 20.07.2011 is not maintainable. To buttress the 14 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports said contention, the learned counsel relied on the decisions of this Court in Shivshankar Singh v. State of Bihar & Anr.,6 H. S. Bains v. State (Union Territory of Chandigarh),7 Bindeshwari Prasad Singh v. Kali Singh8 and Poonam Chand Jain & Anr.