23. The principle is simple. Whether it be the Supreme Court, or the high courts, it is beyond any shadow of doubt that a decision of a bench of greater strength is binding on a bench of lesser strength. Our system of administration of justice aims at certainty in the law and that can be achieved only if Judges do not ignore decisions by courts of coordinate authority or of superior authority. This is not to say that the bench of lesser strength is denuded of the authority or competence to distinguish the decision of greater strength based on consideration of facts that are involved. 24. It has, however,been considered uniformly to be an act of breach of judicial propriety and discipline if a bench of lesser strength [of 2 (two) Judges] casts doubt in respect of a decision rendered by a bench of greater strength [of 5 (five Judges] and a request is made to the Chief Justice of India to constitute a still larger Bench [of 7 (seven Judges]. This concept was extensively ratiocinated 1868 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community vs. State of Maharashtra.21Hon’ble R.C. Lahoti, CJ. (as His Lordship then was), speaking for the Bench held: “12. Having carefully considered the submissions made by the learned Senior Counsel for the parties and having examined the law laid down by the Constitution Benches in the abovesaid decisions, we would like to sum up the legal position in the following terms: (1) The law laid down by this Court in a decision delivered by a Bench of larger strength is binding on any subsequent Bench of lesser or coequal strength. (2) A Bench of lesser quorum cannot disagree or dissent from the view of the law taken by a Bench of larger quorum. In case of doubt all that the Bench of lesser quorum can do is to invite the attention of the Chief Justice and request for the matter being placed for hearing before a Bench of larger quorum than the Bench whose decision has come up for consideration. It will be open only for a Bench of coequal strength to express an opinion doubting the correctness of the view taken by the earlier Bench of coequal strength, whereupon the matter may be placed for hearing before a Bench consisting of a quorum larger than the one which pronounced the decision laying down the law the correctness of which is doubted. (3) The above rules are subject to two exceptions: (i) the abovesaid rules do not bind the discretion of the Chief Justice in whom vests the power of framing the roster and who can direct any particular matter to be placed for hearing before any particular Bench of any strength; and (ii) in spite of the rules laid down hereinabove, if the matter has already come up for hearing before a Bench of larger quorum and that Bench itself feels that the view of the law taken by a Bench of lesser quorum, which view is in doubt, needs correction or reconsideration then by way of exception (and not as a rule) and for reasons given 21 (2005) 2 SCC 673 [2024] 11 S.C.R.