Referring to the of this Court in Naveen Kumar (supra), it was observed that the policy of insurance was a comprehensive policy which covered third-party risks as well and, therefore, the insurer could not repudiate one part of the policy with regard to reimbursing the owner for losses when it could not evade liability to third parties under the same contract of insurance. In view of the definition of ‘owner’ in Section 2(30) of the Act of 1988, this Court observed that the registered owner of the truck, on the date of the accident, was the insured and, therefore, the insurer could not avoid its liability for the losses suffered by the owner, on the ground of transfer of ownership. This Court held that it is difficult to accept that a person who transferred the ownership of a goods vehicle, on receipt of consideration, would not report the transfer or apply for transfer of registration and thereby continue to incur the risks and liabilities of ownership of the said vehicle under the provisions of law, 5 [2020] 7 SCR 39 : (2020) 18 SCC 224 414 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports including the Act of 1988. This Court further observed that it is equally incredible that an owner of a vehicle who has paid consideration to acquire it would not insist on transfer of the permit and thereby expose himself to the penal consequences of operating a goods vehicle without a valid permit. This Court, accordingly, held that the registered owner continues to remain the owner and when the vehicle is insured in the name of such registered owner, the insurer would remain liable notwithstanding the transfer. This is clearly inapplicable to the case on hand as it dealt with the liability of an insurer in the event of an accident involving the vehicle. Further, as already noted, the vehicles in question were transferred and the requisite forms, insofar as the transferor was concerned, were filled up and issued but it was the transferees who failed to get the vehicles transferred in their own names. 27. Mere failure to get registered the name of the new owner of an already registered vehicle does not mean that the sale/gift transaction would stand invalidated and such a vehicle, despite being physically handed over to the new owner, cannot, by any stretch of imagination, be treated as still being in the possession and control of the former owner. Once it is accepted that the three vehicles in question were either gifted or sold before the filing of the nomination by Karikho Kri, the said vehicles cannot be considered to be still owned by Karikho Kri’s wife and son for purposes other than those covered by the Act of 1988. However, the High Court did not take note of this distinguishing factor in the case on hand. In Kisan Shankar Kathore vs. Arun Dattatray Sawant and others6, the vehicle, details of which had been suppressed by the returned candidate, was actually owned and possessed by his wife and such suppression was, accordingly, held against him.