8. There is a need to indicate in the reasons for prima facie concluding why bail was being granted, particularly where an accused was charged of having committed a serious offence. It is necessary for the Courts dealing with application for bail to consider among other circumstances, the following factors also before granting bail, they are: 1. The nature of accusation and the severity of punishment in case of conviction and the nature of supporting evidence; 2. Reasonable apprehension of tampering with the witness or apprehension of threat to the complainant; 3. Prima facie satisfaction of the Court in support of the charge. Any dehors of such reasons suffers from non- application of mind as was noted by this Court in Ram Govind Upadhyay v. Sudarshan Singh (2002) 3 SCC 598, Puran v. Rambilas (2001) 6 SCC 338 and in Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan (2004) 7 SCC 528.” 6. After referring to the aforesaid paragraphs in the decisions in Kishori Las’s case (supra) and Anwari Begum’s case (supra), this Court in the decision in Khilari v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors.4 interfered with an suspending the sentence and granting bail for non-application of mind and non-consideration of the relevant aspects. 7. Applying the principles and parameters for invocation of the power under Section 389. Cr. PC, revealed from the decisions, 4 [2009] 1 SCR 543 : (2009) 4 SCC 23 42 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports as above, we will have to consider the sustainability of the challenge against the impugned s by the appellant victim. In that regard a succinct narration of the facts involved in the case, strictly confining to the requirement for consideration of these appeals, is required. The private respondents in the appeals, five in numbers, were convicted finding guilty of offences, including under Sections 307/149 and 326A/149, IPC. The appellant-victim was then aged about 31 years and, in the incident, she suffered attack with sulfuric acid and her body was burnt 30 to 40 percent. PW-6, Dr. Uttam Jain with Ext.A5, would reveal that she suffered deep burn on the face, chest and both hands and injuries on her were grievous in nature. 8. We may hasten to add that regarding the merits of the appeals by the party respondents against their conviction, we shall not be understood to have held or made any observation as it is a matter to be considered on its own merits in the pending appeals. 9. We have already referred to the mandate under Section 389 Cr.PC that the passed invoking the said provision should reflect the reason for coming to the conclusion that the convicts are entitled to get suspended their sentence and consequential release on bail. In the decision in State of Haryana v. Hasmat5, this Court held that in an appeal against conviction involving serious offence like murder punishable under Section 302, IPC the prayer for suspension of sentence and grant of bail should be considered with reference to the relevant factors mentioned thereunder, though not exhaustively.