But, before this Court in the said proceedings, one of the serious contentions raised by the State of Gujarat was that it was not the appropriate Government to grant remission which contention was negatived by the dated 13.05.2022. In fact, that is one of the grounds raised by the petitioner victim to assail the s of remission granted to respondent Nos.3 to 13. That being so, the High Court of Gujarat would not have been in a position to entertain the aforesaid contention [2024] 1 S.C.R. 821 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others in view of the categorical direction issued by this Court in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022 disposed on 13.05.2022. In the teeth of the aforesaid of this Court, the contention regarding the State of Gujarat not being the competent State to consider the validity of the s of remission in a petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution, particularly, when the question of competency was raised, could not have been dealt with by the Gujarat High Court on the principle of judicial propriety. Therefore, for this reason also the petitioner in Writ Petition(Crl.) No.135 of 2022 has, in our view, rightly approached this Court challenging the s of remission. The contentions of learned Senior Counsel, Sri S. Guru Krishna Kumar and Sri Chidambaresh are hence, rejected. Thus, we hold that Writ Petition (Crl.) No.491 of 2022 filed under Article 32 of the Constitution is clearly maintainable. Re: Point No.2:“Whether the writ petitions filed as Public Interest Litigation (PIL) assailing the impugned s of remission dated 10.08.2022 are maintainable?” 23. We now record the submissions made with regard to maintainability of the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) assailing the s of remission in favour of respondent Nos.3 to 13 herein. 23.1. Learned ASG appearing for the State of Gujarat as well as Union of India submitted that the writ petitions filed as public interest litigations are not maintainable as the petitioners are strangers to the impugned s of remission and they are in no way connected with the matter. In this context, reliance was placed on certain decisions referred to above including Rajiv Ranjan, Simranjit Singh, and, Ashok Kumar, to contend that there can be no third party interference in criminal matters in the garb of filing public interest litigations. It was also contended that the petitioners who have filed the public interest litigation are interlopers and busybodies and are not persons who are aggrieved. In the aforesaid context, reliance was placed on M.V. Dabholkar and Jasbhai Motibhai. 23.2. Shri Sidharth Luthra, learned senior counsel has also voiced the arguments of the respondents by referring to certain decisions of this Court while contending that the grant of remission is in the exclusive domain of the State and although no convict 822 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports can seek remission as a matter of fundamental right has nevertheless the right to be considered for remission. That remission is a matter between the convict and the State and, therefore, there can be no third party inference in such a matter.