Digital Supreme Court Reports My view on the aforesaid observations: 5.9 While considering the metamorphosis of the Indian economy from the early challenges to the transition towards liberalization and market-based reforms and from the dominance of public investment to the co-existence of public and private investment, it has been observed by the learned Chief Justice that “the doctrinal error in the Krishna Iyer approach was, postulating a rigid economic theory, which advocates for greater state control over private resources, as the exclusive basis for constitutional governance. … a single economic theory, which views the acquisition of private property by the state as the ultimate goal, would undermine the very fabric and principles of our constitutional framework.”The above comments on Krishna Iyer, J. are in my opinion unwarranted and unjustified. 5.10 It is a matter of concern as to how the judicial brethren of posterity view the s of the brethren of the past, possibly by losing sight of the times in which the latter discharged their duties and the socio-economic policies that were pursued by the State and formed part of the constitutional culture during those times. Merely because of the paradigm shift in the economic policies of the State to globalisation and liberalisation and privatisation, compendiously called the “Reforms of 1991”,which continue to do so till date, cannot result in branding the judges of this Court of the yesteryears “as doing a disservice to the Constitution”. 5.11 At the outset, I may say that such observations emanating from this Court in subsequent times creates a concavity in the manner of voicing opinions on s of the past and their authors by holding them doing a disservice to the Constitution of India and thereby implying that they may not have been true to their oath of office as a Judge of the Supreme Court of India. I may say that with passage of decades after the enforcement of the Constitution and on India becoming a Republic, the transformative impact of the Constitution has been deep and pervasive not only on governance in the Country, whether at the Central, State or local level but its impact on the Indian judiciary is also a significant aspect of Indian constitutional development. As a result, the basic features of the Constitution including the Preamble, Fundamental Rights, Directive Principles of State [2024] 11 S.C.R. 199 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Policy, Separation of Powers, Judicial Review and Independence of the judiciary have impacted both governance as well as the judiciary.Bearing in mind the goals of the Constitution as enumerated in the Directive Principles of State Policy, Parliament and State Legislatures have made legislation for giving effect to such goals and since the inception of our Republican State it is the obligation on the part of this Court to consider the correctness of such legislation in light of the vision of the framers of the Constitution as well as the transformative nature of the Indian Constitution and the intent of the policy makers and the law.