24. Underlying the revisional jurisdiction of the High Court in rent eviction matters, this Court in “Shankar Ramchandra Abhyankar Versus Krishnaji Dattatreya Bapat” (1969) 2 SCC 74, observed that revisional jurisdiction partakes the appellate jurisdiction of a superior Court. The right of appeal is one of entering a superior Court and invoking its aid and interposition to redress the error of the Court below. When the aid of High Court is invoked on the revisional side, it is done because it is a superior Court and it can interfere for the purpose of rectifying the error of the Court below. Further, in the case of “Babulal Nagar and others Versus Shree Synthetics Ltd. and others” (1984) Supp SCC 128, it was observed that jurisdiction to examine the propriety of the or decision carries with it the same jurisdiction as the original authority to come to a different conclusion on the said set of facts. If any other view is taken, the expression “propriety” would lose its significance. Lastly, in the case of “Nalakanth Sainuddin versus Koorkikadan Sulaiman” (2002) 6 SCC 1, this Court observed that once a revision petition is entertained by the High Court, whichever be the party invoking the revisional jurisdiction, it acquires jurisdiction to call for and examine the records of the authority subordinate to it. Any illegality, irregularity or impropriety coming to its notice is capable of being corrected by it by passing such appropriate or direction as the law requires and justice demands. Therefore, we are of the view that in the revision in the eviction matter, the High Court was required to look into the material placed and justifiability of the findings relying those documents. In absence of its satisfaction, interference ought to be have been made by the High Court and such revision cannot be thrown out on the ground of limited scope of jurisdiction. 25. Coming to the case in hand, the agreement of tenancy has been admitted with effect from 01.07.1985, on month-to-month basis and rent had to be paid against receipt. The said tenancy was for a period of five years. Clause 14 depicts that on expiry of five-year, it may be extendable by consent of landlord with enhancement @ 15% rent per month (claimed to be per annum). Indeed, it is true that no agreed lease agreement was entered into after 30.06.1990, but as 998 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports per the provisions of the UP Rent Act, the tenancy would become statutory and subject to payment of the enhanced rent, the suit can be maintained. But, in case of consecutive default of monthly payment of rent and continuous non-payment as specified under the UP Rent Act, it may be a ground to grant decree of eviction. 26. In view of our foregoing discussions, it can safely be concluded that the respondent – tenant was in default in regular payment of monthly rent during pendency of the suit, revision before the High Court and also before this Court.