The essential characteristics of a tax are that : (i) it is imposed under a statutory power without the taxpayer’s consent and the payment is enforced by law; (ii) it is an imposition made for public purpose without reference to any special benefit to be conferred on the payer of the tax; and (iii) it is part of the common burden. In Commr., Hindu Religious Endowments v. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt[Commr., Hindu Religious Endowments v. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt, 1954 SCR 1005 : AIR 1954 SC 282] , the Constitution Bench has laid down the characteristics of a tax which has since been consistently followed and it is as under : (AIR p. 295, para 43) ‘43. … “A tax” … “is a compulsory exaction of money by a public authority for public purposes enforceable by law and is not payment “for services rendered”.” This definition brings out, in all opinion, the essential characteristics of a tax as distinguished from other forms of imposition which, in a general sense, are included within it. It is said that the essence of taxation is compulsion, that is to say, it is imposed under statutory power without the taxpayer’s consent and the payment is enforced by law.… The second characteristic of tax is that it is an imposition made for public purpose without reference to any special benefit to be conferred on the payer of the tax. This is expressed by saying that the levy of tax is for the purposes of general revenue, which when collected forms part of the public revenues of the State. As the object of a tax is not to confer any special benefit upon any particular individual there is, as it is said, no element of “quid pro quo” between the taxpayer and the public authority,… Another feature of taxation is that as it is a part of the common burden, the quantum of imposition upon the taxpayer depends generally upon his capacity to pay.’ ” 53. It is true that as a result of passed by this Court in Mineral Area Development Authority v. Steel Authority of India [Mineral Area Development Authority v. Steel Authority of India (2011) 4 SCC 450] , certain questions concerning “royalty” as determined under the provisions of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 now stand referred to a Bench of nine Judges, which reference is still pending consideration. However, none of those issues arise in the present matter. 54. On the use of the expression “royalty” in a contract, we may note the following observations in Inderjeet Singh Sial v. Karam Chand Thapar [Inderjeet Singh Sial v. Karam Chand Thapar (1995) 6 SCC 166] : (SCC p. 173, paras 12-13) “12. … The word “royalty” thus, in the deed was used in a loose sense so as to convey liability to make periodic payments to the assignor for the period during which the lease would subsist; payments dependent on the coal gotten and extracted in quantities or on dispatch.