11. It is thus very clear, according to Hon’ble Apex Court, that anticipatory bail will not be maintainable in case a person is in custody in the same offence for which [2024] 9 S.C.R. 273 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. pre-arrest bail is sought, the restriction, if any, upon maintainability of prearrest bail will be there only if a person is in custody in that particular offence itself. 12. From the above pronouncements, two things are clear. First, there is no such bar in Cr.P.C or any statute which prohibits Session or the High Court from entertaining and deciding an anticipatory bail, when such person is already in judicial or police custody in some other offence. Second, the restriction cannot be stretched to include arrest made in any other offence as that would be against the purport of the provision. xxx xxx xxx 14. I may point out here that the case of Narinderjit Singh Sahni and Another (supra) was in respect of maintainability of Article 32 wherein relief in the nature of Section 438 was sought. Even, the said does not hold in very clear terms that a person arrested in one offence cannot seek the relief provided under Section 438 of Cr.PC in another offence merely on the ground that he stands arrested in another district offence. 15. In my considered opinion, there was no proper interpretation of Section 438 of the Cr.PC at the hands of learned Additional Sessions Judge. Accused has every right, even if he is arrested in number of cases, to move in each of offence registered against him irrespective of the fact that he is already in custody but for different offence, for the reason that the application (s) will have to be heard and decided on merits independent of another crime in which he is already in custody. 16. One cannot and must not venture, under the garb of interpretation, to substantiate its own meaning than the plain and simple particular though provided by statute. What has not been said cannot be inferred unless the provision itself gives room for speculation. If the purpose behind the intendment is discernible sans obscurity and ambiguity, there is no place for supposition.” (Emphasis supplied) 274 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 14. In Sanjay Kumar Sarangi v. State of Odisha reported in 2024 SCC OnLine Ori 1334, a learned Single Judge of the High Court of Orissa took the view that there is no statutory bar for an accused in custody in connection with a case to pray for grant of anticipatory bail in a different case registered against him. The court, upon perusal of the relevant provisions, took the view that arrest means physical confinement of a person with or without the of the Court. The Court noted that Section 167(2) of the CrPC, which governs ‘remand’, is applicable to a case where the accused is already arrested, and charge-sheet has not been filed. The Court observed that there is no specific provision in the CrPC which governs a situation where a person is required to be arrested/ remanded in connection with a new case when he is already in custody in connection with some other case and in such a situation, the accused can only be remanded in connection with the new case on the of the competent court.