The cure notice, in turn, was heavily premised on the safety of operations.31 Interestingly, at paragraph 27 of the cure notice, DAMEPL avers that the trains can only be operated once the defects are cured to the satisfaction of the stakeholders about the safety of operations. 61. Reference may be made to the 2002 Act under which the CMRS is the relevant statutory stakeholder whose satisfaction about the safety of operations is necessary for running of the metro. The relevant provisions of the Act may be adverted to here: “14. Sanction of Central Government to the opening of metro railway.—The metro railway in the the National Capital Region, metropolitan city and metropolitan area shall not be opened for the public carriage of passengers except with the previous sanction of the Central Government. 15. Formalities to be complied with before giving sanction to the opening of metro railway.—(1) The Central Government shall, before giving its sanction to the opening of the metro railway under Section 14, obtain a report from the Commissioner that— (a) he has made a careful inspection of the metro railway and the rolling stock that may be used thereon; (b) the moving and fixed dimensions as laid down by the Central Government have not been infringed; (c) the track structure, strength of bridges, standards of signalling system, traction system, general structural character of civil works and the size of, and maximum gross load upon, the axles of any rolling stock, comply with the requirements laid down by the Central Government; and (d) in his opinion, metro railway can be opened for the public carriage of passengers without any danger to the public using it. 31 Cure Notice paras 18,21,26, and 27. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 501 Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. v. Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt. Ltd. (2) If the Commissioner is of the opinion that the metro railway cannot be opened without any danger to the public using it, he shall, in his report, state the grounds therefor, as also the requirements which, in his opinion, are to be complied with before sanction is given by the Central Government. (3) The Central Government, after considering the report of the Commissioner, may sanction the opening of the metro railway under Section 14 as such or subject to such conditions as may be considered necessary by it for the safety of the public. 18. Power to close metro railway opened for public carriage of passengers.—Where, after the inspection of the metro railway opened and used for the public carriage of passengers or any rolling stock used thereon, the Commissioner is of the opinion that the use of the metro railway or of any rolling stock will be attended with danger to the public using it, the Commissioner shall send a report to the Central Government who may thereupon direct that— (i) the metro railway be closed for the public carriage of passengers; or (ii) the use of the rolling stock be discontinued; or (iii) the metro railway or the rolling stock may be used for the public carriage of passengers subject to such conditions as it may consider necessary for the safety of the public.