187 was handed over to the plaintiffs 33 years after the allotment of the first plot and as Paldi area could be considered a posh area, the Trial Court affirmed that the plaintiffs had suffered monetary loss by the deprivation of the benefit of enjoying the property since 1963. Issue Nos. 8 and 9 were accordingly answered in the affirmative. 10. As the plaintiffs failed to adduce evidence in support of their claim as to the market value of the land but as they had proved that the Corporation failed to allot the remaining extent of 974 sq. mts. due to total negligence, they were held entitled to get that extent of land. Issue Nos. 10 and 11 were answered in the negative but Issue No. 11A was answered in the affirmative. Issue No. 12, pertaining to the maintainability of the suit, was answered in favour of the plaintiffs and in the negative. 11. Issue Nos. 13,14,15,16 and 17 were taken up together and the Trial Court answered all of them also in the negative. As regards the bar under Section 105 of the Act of 1976, the Trial Court opined that this provision was not intended to protect injustice caused to the parties and as the Corporation had failed to provide the second final plot till [2024] 6 S.C.R. 605 Mrugendra Indravadan Mehta and Others v. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation the year 1996 and the same was given with a short fall in area and with meagre compensation therefor, the said actions were not in good faith and the statutory provision would not protect the Corporation. 12. The Trial Court, accordingly, decreed the suit by accepting the alternative prayer made by the plaintiffs that they should be allotted an extent of 974 sq. mts. in any Town Planning Scheme in the western zone of Ahmedabad, but rejected the main prayer for compensation of ₹1,63,97,673/- with interest thereon. The plaintiffs were, however, directed to repay the amount of compensation received by them @ ₹25/- per sq. mt. for the extent in question. 13. Assailing the aforestated and decree, the Corporation preferred the subject first appeal before the High Court while the plaintiffs filed their cross-objection therein, apropos the rejection of their main prayer for compensation to the tune of ₹1,63,97,673/-. Before doing so, the plaintiffs deposited ₹24,350/-, being the amount awarded towards compensation for 974 sq. mts. of land @ ₹25/- per sq. mt., as directed by the Trial Court. Thereafter, by the impugned , the High Court held in favour of the Corporation by allowing its appeal and against the plaintiffs by rejecting their cross-objection. 14. Perusal of the impugned reflects that the High Court noted the contentions of both parties and then extracted the issues framed by the Trial Court in extenso. The High Court, however, did not frame the points that arose for determination in the appeal, in terms of 41 Rule 31 CPC. The High Court then referred to the arguments advanced on behalf of the parties and started the discussion on merits from para 5.1 of the .