That rape was used as a tool of oppression by the perpetrators and the victim in the instant case experienced significant trauma as a consequence. (xii) that the grant of remission in the instant case is in violation of the obligation to prevent crimes against humanity, which itself forms a part of the norm of jus cogens. That there is a link between the peremptory norm of jus cogens and fundamental values, making the former non-derogable [2024] 1 S.C.R. 801 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others and a part of domestic law even if not explicitly codified. Reliance was placed on State of Punjab vs. Dalbir Singh, (2012) 3 SCC 346 (“Dalbir Singh”) on this aspect. (xiii) that the acts of violence that were committed in Gujarat in 2002 are crimes against humanity, owing to their widespread nature and communal motivations. That remission must not be granted to perpetrators of crimes of such gravity. 8.2. With the above submissions learned senior counsel for the petitioners sought quashing of the impugned s. 9. Learned counsel Ms. Vrinda Grover for the petitioner in Writ Petition(Crl.) No.352 of 2022, submitted that it was absolutely necessary to consider the opinion of the Presiding Judge. Reliance was placed on Ram Chander and V. Sriharan. Her further submissions are recorded as under: (i) that the Presiding Judge, namely the Special Judge (CBI), Sessions Court, Mumbai gave negative opinions dated 03.01.2020 and 22.03.2021 as to grant of remission to respondent Nos.3 to 13. The said opinion was well-reasoned and took into account all of the relevant factors, but this was completely disregarded by the respondent-State. (ii) that a fine was imposed on each of the respondent-convicts as a part of their sentence, amounting to Rs. 34,000/- per person. That they had defaulted in paying these fines and thus would be required to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a further period of 34 years. The Trial Court had clarified that these sentences were substantive in nature and would run concurrently. In this context, reliance was placed on Sharad Kolambe and Shantilal. (iii) reiterating the submissions regarding the remission s being arbitrary by virtue of non-consideration of relevant factors, it was urged that the criteria outlined in the decision of this Court in Laxman Naskar were not considered at all. Reliance was further placed on the decision of this Court in Mohinder Singh, wherein it was held that the decision to grant remission must be reasonable, well-informed and fair. That non-application of mind and the mechanical nature of the remission s utterly belie these principles. 802 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (iv) that reference has only been made to four documents, namely (1) the of this Court dated 13.05.2022, (2) the letter of the Additional Director General of Police and Inspector General of Prisons, State of Gujarat at Ahmedabad, (3) the Department Circular dated 09.07.1992 and (4) the letter of the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India in the impugned s of remission. It was contended that the non-consideration of determinative factors has rendered the remission s mechanical and arbitrary, with reliance placed on what is described as the untenable and unlawful en-masse approval of the Central Government.