47406 of 2023 With Criminal Appeal Nos. 2609, 2610, 2611, 2612, 2613, 2614 and 2615 of 2024 Appearances for Parties Sidharth Luthra, Sr. Adv., Akbar Siddique, Sheezan Hashmi, Mihir Joshi, Aakash Dubey, Rahul Khare, Rajneesh Chuni, Parv K. Garg, Parwez Akhtar, Harsh Kumar Singh, Animesh Mishra, Javed 870 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Muzaffar, Malik Javed Ansari, Dr. Smriti Raturi Sharma, Siddharth R. Gupta, Sanjay Singh, Shantanu Sharma, Ms. Garvita Jain, Sankalp Kochhar, Siddhant Kochhar, Ms. Sakshi Banga, Ms. Amisha Devi, Mrigank Prabhakar, Ms. Sakshi Kakkar, Shakti Singh, Kartikey Dang, Rudraditya Khare, Sahir Seth, Harsh Tyagi, Harshit Sethi, Nikhil Jain, Rahil Mahajan, Ms. Mansi Tripathi, Manmeet Singh, Nikilesh Ramachandran, Lovekesh Aggarwal, Advs. for the Appellant. S.V. Raju, A.S.G., Mukesh Kumar Maroria, Zoheb Hussain, Annam Venkatesh, Arkaj Kumar, Mrs. Rajeshwari Shankar, Advs. for the Respondent. / of the Supreme Court Abhay S. Oka, J. 1. Leave granted. FACTUAL ASPECTS 2. Since the issues involved are common and very little turns on facts, we broadly refer to the factual aspects. The appellants are the accused in complaints under Section 44 (1)(b) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (for short, ‘the PMLA’). The appellants have been denied the benefit of anticipatory bail by the impugned s. We are dealing with the cases of the accused who were not arrested after registration of the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) till the Special Court took cognizance under the PMLA of an offence punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA. The cognizance was taken on the complaints filed under Section 44 (1)(b). These are the cases where the appellants did not appear before the Special Court after summons were served to them. The Special Court issued warrants for procuring their presence. After the warrants were issued, the appellants applied for anticipatory bail before the Special Court. The applications were rejected. Unsuccessful accused have preferred these appeals since the High Court has turned down their prayers. This Court, by interim s, has protected the appellants from arrest. SUBMISSIONS 3. The learned senior counsel, Mr Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the appellants in Criminal Appeal @ Special Leave Petition (Crl.) No.121 of 2024 and the learned counsel representing other appellants have [2024] 6 S.C.R. 871 Tarsem Lal v. Directorate of Enforcement Jalandhar Zonal Office made detailed submissions. We are summarising their submissions as follows: (a) The power to arrest vesting in the officers of the Directorate of Enforcement (for short, ‘the ED’) under Section 19 of the PMLA cannot be exercised after the Special Court takes cognizance of the offence punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA; (b) If an accused appears pursuant to the summons issued by the Special Court, there is no reason to issue a warrant of arrest against him or to take him into custody; (c) There is nothing inconsistent between Section 88 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, ‘the CrPC’) and the provisions of the PMLA. On a conjoint reading of Sections 4 and 5 of the CrPC with Section 65 of the PMLA, it is apparent that all the provisions of the CrPC would apply to proceedings before the Special Court from the stage of filing a complaint under Section 44 (1)(b).