Furthermore, Mr. Raju highlighted a significant anomaly: the Appellant’s failure to annex the chargesheet while applying for bail. He argued that a crucial aspect of seeking bail is to demonstrate, based on the material on record, that no prima facie case exists against the accused. Due to these oversights, Mr. Raju asserted that the Appellant should first seek relief from the Trial Court. 13. Lastly, Mr. Raju submitted that since the chargesheet and some supplementary chargesheets have been filed after the Appellant had approached the High Court for his enlargement on bail, it is a significant change in circumstances and therefore, in light of this too the Appellant should be relegated to the Trial Court. Such relegation would aid in his bail claim being considered with reference to the nature of evidence gathered by the CBI and the complicity of the Appellant, if any, as may be discernible from such evidence. Issues 14. Having considered the material on record and the extensive submissions made by the parties, the following questions fall for our deliberation: i. Whether there was any illegality in the Appellant’s arrest? If so, whether the Appellant is entitled to be released forthwith, even in the absence of a formal bail application? ii. Whether the Appellant, regardless of his lawful arrest, is entitled to be enlarged on regular bail? iii. Whether the filing of a chargesheet is a change in circumstances of such a decisive nature that an accused would be liable to be relegated to the Trial Court to make out a case for grant of regular bail? Analysis 15. We have bestowed our consideration to the rival contentions, along with the sequence of events that culminated in the Appellant’s arrest. Given the nature of the issues pending determination, it is essential to address them each independently and arrive at a definitive conclusion. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 697 Arvind Kejriwal v. Central Bureau of Investigation A. Whether the procedure undertaken in arresting the Appellant was illegal? 16. The primary basis for the Appellant’s challenge rests on the contention that the procedure for arrest, as outlined under Sections 41(1)(b) (ii) and 41A of the CrPC, was not complied with. For the purpose of analysing the legality of the Appellant’s arrest, there are two key aspects which we propose to examine separately, namely: (i) whether the issuance of a notice under Section 41A of the CrPC was duly complied with, in the context of the present factual scenario; and (ii) whether Section 41(1)(b)(ii) of the CrPC is applicable in the facts and circumstances of this case. i. Compliance with Section 41A of the CrPC 17. Section 41A of the CrPC pertains to the issuance of a notice by a police officer to an individual when their arrest is not warranted under Section 41(1) of the CrPC, but their presence is still required before the investigating authority. Issuance of a notice under Section 41A(1) therefore would be imminent, when there is a complaint made, credible information received or there is a reasonable suspicion of the individual having committed a cognizable offence.