But if the prosecution establishes the aforesaid facts then there is no necessity of attracting the statutory presumption under Section 138-A and without such presumption an accused can be convicted under Section 135(1)(a). But the legislature having found it difficult to establish the necessary ingredients of such evasion of duty or prohibitions and the economic offences having grown in proportion beyond the control, came forward with the presumption available under Section 138-A of the Act. The main object of Section 138 A is to raise a presumption as to the culpable mental state on the part of the accused when he is prosecuted in a court of law. In other words, if a recovery is made from the accused of any prohibited goods within the notified area then the statutory presumption would arise that he was knowingly concerned in the fraudulent evasion or attempted evasion of any duty chargeable on the goods in question. In the case of Bhanabhai Khalpabhai v. Collector of Customs [1994 Supp (2) SCC 143 : 1994 SCC (Cri) 882] this Court has held that in view of Section 138-A a presumption has to be drawn in respect of the existence of the alleged mental state. An option has been given to the accused to prove by way of defence the fact, that he did not have any such mental state with respect to the act charged which is an offence. The question, therefore, arises as to whether in the proved facts and circumstances the courts below were justified in taking recourse to the statutory presumption under Section 138-A of the Act. [...] (Emphasis supplied) 161. In State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh reported in (1999) 6 SCC 172 a Constitution Bench of this Court held that a presumption is an inference of fact drawn from the facts which are known as proved and as such the statutory presumption under Section 54 of NPDS Act that an accused has committed an offence under the Act will only get attracted once the prosecution has established that the accused was found to be in possession of the contraband in a search conducted in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Act. The relevant observations read as under: - [2024] 10 S.C.R. 255 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. “54. Thus, even if it be assumed for the sake of argument that all the material seized during an illegal search may be admissible as relevant evidence in other proceedings, the illicit drug or psychotropic substance seized in an illegal search cannot by itself be used as proof of unlawful conscious possession of the contraband by the accused. An illegal search cannot also entitle the prosecution to raise a presumption under Section 54 of the Act because presumption is an inference of fact drawn from the facts which are known as proved. A presumption under Section 54 of the Act can only be raised after the prosecution has established that the accused was found to be in possession of the contraband in a search conducted in accordance with the mandate of Section 50.” (Emphasis supplied) 162.