18. The first application for regular bail filed by the appellant was rejected by the Special Court by the dated 10th March 2023. At that 990 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports time, further investigation was in progress following filing the first complaint on 30th October 2021. The appellant was not named as an accused in the FIR of the predicate offence, ECIR, or in the first complaint under the PMLA. Within seven days after the first bail application was rejected, a second complaint was filed in which the appellant was shown as an accused for the first time. In view of the filing of the complaint, it was open for the appellant to file a second bail application based on a change in circumstances brought about by the supplementary complaint. The change was that the investigation against the appellant was completed. 19. We have carefully perused the dated 17th June 2023 granting regular bail. After a detailed discussion, it records a finding that the appellant has made out a case in terms of Section 45(1)(ii) of the PMLA on the power to grant bail. We have perused the application made by the respondent before the High Court for cancellation of bail. We find no allegation of the misuse of liberty granted under the bail in the said application. All the grounds are on merits. The dated 17th June 2023 granting bail is a detailed running into more than 50 pages, which considers the material on record from both complaints under the PMLA. After having perused the said , we find that the case was not the one that could have been termed a rare and exceptional case where an granting bail ought to be stayed. 20. Our conclusions are as under: a. In an application made under Section 439(2) of the CrPC or Section 483(3) of the BNSS or other proceedings filed seeking cancellation of bail, the power to grant an interim stay of operation of to bail can be exercised only in exceptional cases when a very strong prima facie case of the existence of the grounds for cancellation of bail is made out. While granting a stay of an of grant of bail, the Court must record brief reasons for coming to a conclusion that the case was an exceptional one and a strong prima facie case is made out; b. As a normal rule, the ex-parte stay of the bail should not be granted. The said power can be exercised only in rare and very exceptional cases where the situation demands the passing of such drastic . Where such a drastic ex-parte of stay is passed, it is the duty of the Court to immediately hear [2024] 7 S.C.R. 991 Parvinder Singh Khurana v. Directorate of Enforcement the accused on the prayer for continuation of the interim relief. When the Court exercises the power of granting ex-parte ad interim stay of an granting bail, the Court is duty bound to record reasons why it came to the conclusion that it was a very rare and exceptional case where a drastic of ex-parte interim stay was warranted.