[Paras 17-26] Bihar Consolidation of Upholdings and Prevention of Fragmentation Act, 1956 – Scheme of the Consolidation Act – Explained. [Paras 13, 14, 16] List of Acts Bihar Consolidation of Upholdings and Prevention of Fragmentation Act, 1956; Constitution of India. List of Keywords Bar of jurisdiction of Civil Court; of the Consolidation Authority; Title over suit land; Recording of name in the record of rights; Revenue entries, not documents of title; Correction of the entry; Adoption deed; Declaration of rights; Cause of action; Closure of consolidation proceedings; Recognition of rights by the consolidation authorities. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 1627 of 2016 From the and dated 20.10.2011 of the High Court of Patna in SA No. 384 of 2008 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 3 Ram Balak Singh v. State of Bihar and Anr. Appearances for Parties Lakshmi Raman Singh, Ms. Nandadevi Deka, Kwan Singhjaggi, Zain Haider, Vivek Singh, C.P. Rajwar, Rohan Chandra, Advs. for the Appellant. Manish Kumar, Suyash Vyash, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Pankaj Mithal, J. 1. This is plaintiff’s appeal arising out of a suit for possession and confirmation of his possession over the suit land which was decreed in his favour by the court of first instance but the decree was set aside in First Appeal and was affirmed by the High Court. 2. The dispute in the suit is regarding 0.32 decimal of land of R.S.P. No.821 situate in village Kishanpur, district Sitamarhi, Bihar. This area of land was carved out from C.S.P. No.332 of Khata No.196 which belonged to Rambati Kuwer, the ex-landlord. 3. The aforesaid ex-landlord Rambati Kuwer settled the above area of the suit land in favour of Makhan Singh, son of late Ram Govind Singh vide lease deed (patta) of 1341 fasli whereupon the said Makhan Singh continued in possession of it during his lifetime. The said Makhan Singh had no issue. It is alleged that he adopted plaintiff-appellant who inherited the suit land after Makhan Singh. Accordingly, plaintiff-appellant is presently in possession of the suit land which had been in his family’s possession ever since it was settled by ex-landlord Rambati Kuwer in favour of Makhan Singh. 4. It so happened that the village was brought under consolidation in accordance with the Bihar Consolidation of Upholdings and Prevention of Fragmentation Act, 19561. 5. Since the aforesaid land was incorrectly recorded in the name of the State, the plaintiff-appellant in accordance with Section 10(B) of the Consolidation Act applied for the correction of revenue/consolidation records. The Consolidation Officer, Bathnaha upon following the 1 Hereinafter referred to as ‘the Consolidation Act’ 4 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports due process of law vide its dated 12.11.1979, directed for the correction of the record-of-rights. The name of the plaintiff-appellant was directed to be recorded in respect of 0.32 decimal area of land of R.S.P. No.821. The aforesaid was duly implemented and the name of the plaintiff-appellant was entered into the record-of-rights. The aforesaid is final and conclusive.