Lord Bridge of Harvich stated the following in his : “…This is because the question arising in the instant case must be answered by considering the particular statutory provisions here applicable which establish an adjudicatory system in many respects quite unlike any that has come under examination in any of the decided cases to which we were referred. We are concerned with a point of statutory construction and nothing else.” In their Lordships opinion: [2024] 4 S.C.R. 217 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. “…But I cannot see any reason why it should be necessary to seek leave to invoke the supervisory jurisdiction of the court when any party aggrieved by the certificate is entitled as of right to invoke the much more ample appellate jurisdiction which the statute confers. It is the very amplitude of the jurisdiction which, to my mind, is all- important. Whether the auditor has decided to certify or not to certify, the court is empowered to confirm or quash the decision, to vary the decision if a certificate has been issued by the auditor, and in any case to give any certificate which the auditor could have given. The language describing the court’s powers could not possibly be any wider. Procedurally there is nothing either in the statute or in the relevant rules of court to limit in any way the evidence which may be put before the court on either side….” 50. Applying this test in Lloyd (supra), the answer in the present case is simple. Rule 5(1)(b) of the A&R Rules does not provide an ample review or a full-fledged enquiry at the revisional stage. The revision was to be entertained only if it is on the point of law and not on facts. The discussion, however, on this issue would not be complete unless a survey of the s of this Court is done. 51. The seeds for this thought-process was sown by Chief Justice S.R. Das in The State of Uttar Pradesh vs. Mohammad Nooh, 1958 SCR 595. In fact, Justice Jeevan Reddy noticed this in S.K. Sharma’s case (supra). Chief Justice Das speaking for the majority in the Constitution Bench held as follows:- “On the authorities referred to above it appears to us that there may conceivably be cases-and the instant case is in point-where the error, irregularity or illegality touching jurisdiction or procedure committed by an inferior court or tribunal of first instance is so patent and loudly obtrusive that it leaves on its decision an indelible stamp of infirmity or vice which cannot be obliterated or cured on appeal or revision. If an inferior court or tribunal of first instance acts wholly without jurisdiction or patently in excess of jurisdiction or manifestly conducts the proceedings before it in a manner which is contrary to the rules of natural justice 218 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and all accepted rules of procedure and which offends the superior court’s sense of fair play the superior court may, we think, quite properly exercise its power to issue the prerogative writ of certiorari to correct the error of the court or tribunal of first instance, even if an appeal to another inferior court or tribunal was available and recourse was not had to it or if recourse was had to it, it confirmed what ex facie was a nullity for reasons aforementioned.