In accordance with the decision in Forasol case the said amount has to be converted into Indian rupees on the basis of the rupee-dollar exchange rate prevailing at the time of this . As per information supplied by the Reserve Bank of India, the Rupee-Dollar Exchange (Selling) Rate as on October 6, 1993 was Rs 31.53 per dollar.” 11.5 From the above, it is clear that the Court adjusted the amounts deposited during the pendency of the proceedings and against security by converting them to US dollars as on the date of their deposit. It applied the date of its own only for converting the remaining portion of the award in accordance with Forasol’s (supra) ruling that the date of decree or , after exhausting all remedies, is the proper date. It rejected 316 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the respondent’s argument regarding its inability to convert the amount on the grounds that a decree in foreign currency can be validly satisfied by payment in Indian rupee and the respondent did not move the Court for necessary clarification. 12. The facts in this case are similar to Renusagar (supra) for an analogy to be drawn. Here as well, the deposit was made during the pendency of the proceedings under the objections petition. It was permitted to be withdrawn against a bank guarantee of an Indian bank. Here the respondent was entirely unable to withdraw the amount, while the issue there was that it was only unable to convert the amount to US dollars. However, in both cases, the respondent failed to move the Court for necessary s to be able to receive and utilise the amount. In this case, there is the added fact that the respondent consented to the deposit and the condition requiring security. In light of these similarities, it is appropriate for us to adopt the Court’s approach in Renusagar (supra). 13. We therefore hold that the deposit of Rs. 7.5 crores stands converted as on the date of deposit (22.10.2010), when the rate of exchange as submitted by the appellants is 1 euro = Rs. 59.17. We also reject the submission by Mr. Mahajan that the respondent was unable to furnish a bank guarantee of an Indian bank. This argument is only to serve its own interest to be able to benefit from a higher exchange rate but does not address the principle that operates while enforcing a sum expressed in foreign currency. 14. It is important to appreciate the consequence and effect of deposit during the pendency of proceedings to understand the need to convert this amount on that date. Through a deposit, the award debtor parts with the money on that date and provides the benefit of that amount to the award holder. Provided that the award holder is permitted to withdraw this amount, it can convert, utilise, and benefit from the same at that point in time. Considering that the deposited amount inures to the benefit of the award holder, it would be inequitable and unjust to hold that the amount does not stand converted on the date of its deposit.