In any case respondent has not disputed receipt of the notice. According to the respondent, it is not an arbitral dispute being beyond the agreement.” 12. Questioning the and passed by the High Court, referring the dispute to arbitration, the appellant filed the present appeal. Though the question relating to whether the Public Premises Act will override the Arbitration Act has been raised and argued before the High Court. This court issued notice in the special leave petition on the basis of the question so formulated. We could have dismissed the special leave petition on this very ground but as notice was issued on this point and the appeal has been pending for some time, we considered it appropriate to hear the appellant on this question and decide the case. We will first answer the issue relating to the applicability of the Public Premises Act. 13. Re: Whether the Public Premises Act, 1971 overrides the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996: This submission has to fail. The reasons are simple and straight forward. The dispute that is raised in the Section 11 application relate to promises and reciprocal promises arising out of the agreement dated 26.09.2012. The right of renewal as well as the legality and propriety of the enhanced demand arose during the subsistence of the agreement. It will be on the interpretation, construction and the obligations arising out of the agreement that the respondent’s claim rests. On the other hand, The Public Premises Act authorises the ejectment of a tenant in unauthorised occupation of public premises and for consequential directions. The original lease as it were, validly subsisted till 11.09.2015 and the dispute between the parties related to the period commencing from 12.09.2012 to 11.09.2015, when the lease expired. The Public Premises Act would not even cast a shadow on this period. In so far as the dispute relating to this right of renewal is concerned, it depends on the terms of the agreement. The Public Premises Act neither bars nor overlaps with the scope and ambit of proceedings that were initiated under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1755 Central Warehousing Corporation & Anr. v. M/s Sidhartha Tiles & Sanitary Pvt. Ltd. 14. Whether the High Court committed any error in appointing the arbitrator while exercising the jurisdiction under Section 11: We have already extracted the relevant portion of the passed by the High Court. The revision of storage charges occurred during the subsistence of the contract. Its legality and propriety will depend on the terms of the agreement dated 26.09.2012. Similarly, the right of renewal will also be based on and a construct of the said agreement. These two disputes will undoubtedly arise out of the agreement between the parties and the resolution of such disputes is clearly covered by the arbitration clause (Cl. 16 of the agreement). After the recent decision of this court in SBI General Insurance Co. (supra) the remit of the referral court to consider an application under Section 11(6) is clear and unambiguous.