The argument that was advanced before the Court was unique. The appellant did not dispute the proposition established in White (supra) that an agreement to pay money to a member of the assembly to influence their vote would amount to a criminal offence. However, it was 80 (1923) 33 CLR 386 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 569 Sita Soren v. Union of India submitted that the bribe in this case was to induce the member of the assembly to use his position outside and not inside the assembly in favour of the bribe-givers. The Court rejected the artificial distinction between illegal gratification to perform acts inside the parliament and acts outside the parliament and held that in both cases, the act of bribery impairs the capacity of the member to exercise a disinterested , thereby, impacting their ability to act as a representative of the people. Knox, CJ held: “[…] In my opinion, the payment of money to, and the receipt of money by, a member of Parliament to induce him to use his official position, whether inside or outside Parliament, for the purpose of influencing or putting pressure on a Minister or other officer of the Crown to enter into or carry out a transaction involving payment of money out of the public funds, are acts tending to the public mischief, and an agreement or combination to do such acts amounts to a criminal offence. From the point of view of tendency to public mischief I can see no substantial difference between paying money to a member to induce him to use his vote in Parliament in a particular direction and paying him money to induce him to use his position as a member outside Parliament for the purpose of influencing or putting pressure on Ministers. … Payment of money to a member of Parliament to induce him to persuade or influence or put pressure on a Minister to carry out a particular transaction tends to the public mischief in many ways, irrespective of whether the pressure is to be exercised by conduct inside or outside Parliament. It operates as an incentive to the recipient to serve the interest of his paymaster regardless of the public interest, and to use his right to sit and vote in Parliament as a means to bring about the result which he is paid to achieve. It impairs his capacity to exercise a disinterested on the merits of the transaction from the point of view of the public interest and makes him a servant of the person who pays him, instead of a representative of the people.” (emphasis supplied) 570 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 166. Courts in Australia have also followed the position of law laid down by the Supreme Court of the UK in Chaytor (supra) that the House of Commons does not have exclusive jurisdiction to deal with criminal conduct by members of the House. The only exception to such cases is when the existence of parliamentary privilege makes it virtually impossible to determine the issues or if the proceedings interfere with the ability of the House to conduct its legislative and deliberative business.