In Ganga Vishan Gujarati vs State of Rajasthan,23 this Court had reiterated the principle that retrospective seniority cannot be granted to an employee from the date when she was not even borne on the cadre. This principle has been built upon by a line of precedents starting with the decision of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Direct Recruit Class II Engg. Officers’ Assn. v. State of Maharashtra,24 followed in Akhouri Sachindra Nath17 (supra), Dinesh Kumar Sharma16 (supra) and several other cases. 24. In Pawan Pratap Singh vs. Reevan Singh,25 this Court had taken note of the earlier decision in Pravat Kiran Mohanty 9 (supra) and summarised the position in the following words : 45. A consistent line of precedent of this Court follows the principle that retrospective seniority cannot be granted to an employee from a date when the employee was not borne on a cadre. Seniority amongst members of the same grade has to be counted from the date of initial entry into the grade. This principle emerges from the decision of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Direct Recruit Class II Engg. Officers’ Assn. v. State of Maharashtra [Direct Recruit Class II Engg. Officers’ Assn. v. State of Maharashtra.23 The principle was reiterated by this Court in State of Bihar v. Akhouri Sachindra Nath17 and State of Uttaranchal v. Dinesh Kumar Sharma.16 In Pawan Pratap Singh v. Reevan Singh,24 this Court revisited the precedents on the subject and observed : ‘45. … (i) The effective date of selection has to be understood in the context of the service rules under 23 [2019] 11 SCR 444 : (2019) 16 SCC 28 24 [1990] 2 SCR 900 : (1990) 2 SCC 715 25 [2011] 2 SCR 831 : (2011) 3 SCC 267 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 777 Bihar State Electricity Board and Others v. Dharamdeo Das which the appointment is made. It may mean the date on which the process of selection starts with the issuance of advertisement or the factum of preparation of the select list, as the case may be. (ii) Inter se seniority in a particular service has to be determined as per the service rules. The date of entry in a particular service or the date of substantive appointment is the safest criterion for fixing seniority inter se between one officer or the other or between one group of officers and the other recruited from different sources. Any departure therefrom in the statutory rules, executive instructions or otherwise must be consistent with the requirements of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution. (iii) Ordinarily, notional seniority may not be granted from the backdate and if it is done, it must be based on objective considerations and on a valid classification and must be traceable to the statutory rules. (iv) The seniority cannot be reckoned from the date of occurrence of the vacancy and cannot be given retrospectively unless it is so expressly provided by the relevant service rules. It is so because seniority cannot be given on retrospective basis when an employee has not even been borne in the cadre and by doing so it may adversely affect the employees who have been appointed validly in the meantime.’ This view has been re-affirmed by a Bench of three Judges of this Court in P. Sudhakar Rao v. U. Govinda Rao.”26 (emphasis added) [Also refer : P. Sudhakar Rao v. U. Govinda Rao 25 and Union of India and Another v. Manpreet Singh Poonam and Another 7] APPLICATION OF THE LAW TO THE FACTS OF THE CASE 25.