The defendants have not raised any plea regarding adverse possession. After the plaint was amended by including the prayer for possession, the defendants amended the written statement and added Para 14(a) that the suit is barred by limitation. j. The First Appellate Court has held that initially the suit was for declaration covered by Article 58 of the Limitation Act and after amendment, the plaintiff has sought possession which is covered under Article 65 of the Limitation Act which is 12 years from the date when the possession of the defendants becomes adverse to the plaintiff. Further the Appellate Court has noted that unless the defendants plead and establish that they are in adverse possession and became owners by virtue of adverse possession, the plaintiff, whose title is proved cannot be non-suited on the ground of limitation. k. The above-mentioned finding of the First Appellate Court is confirmed with regard to the question of limitation is upheld by the High Court. l. The argument of the Senior Counsel for the Petitioner that the present suit is barred by limitation under Article 58 of the Limitation Act cannot be accepted. Article 58 is a residuary provision for seeking declaration. Only Article 65 applies to a suit for possession. In the present case, the notice issued by this Hon’ble Court is limited to the question whether the amended prayer for possession is barred by limitation. 6. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being no merit in this appeal, the same may be dismissed. 1898 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports ANALYSIS 7. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned and . 8. We take notice of the passed by this Court dated 29.11.2019. The same reads thus: “Delay condoned. Issue notice to consider the question as to whether the suit for possession (as per amended plaint before the First Appellate Court) was within the period of limitation. Status quo, existing as on today, shall be maintained. Call for the records from the Trial Court as well as the First Appellate Court.” Thus, the only point that falls for our consideration is whether the original suit filed by the plaintiffs even after the amendment of the plaint at the stage of first appeal seeking possession of the suit property could be said to be time barred. In other words, whether the suit would be governed by Article 58 or Article 65 of the Limitation Act, 1963? 9. It is not in dispute that the trial court even while dismissing the suit held the plaintiffs to be the absolute owner of the suit schedule properties. It is also not in dispute that the plaintiff came to be non- suited as the appellants herein (original defendants) were found to be in lawful possession and enjoyment of the suit schedule properties and the plaintiffs had failed to seek relief of possession of the suit properties as scheduled in the plaint.