For example, if the law stipulates that the loan of farmers from one specific village in a State will be fully waived, it must prove through the submission of cogent material that there is a rational principle distinguishing one village from other villages in the State. In this context, the State will for example have to prove that location of the land is a rational principle of categorization and then subsequently prove that the village is not similarly situated for the purpose of the law. With this background, we proceed to analyze the specific issue of whether the sub-classification within the Scheduled Castes is constitutionally permissible. iii. Sub-classification in reservations: tracing the journey through Balaji, Vasanth Kumar and Indra Sawhney 91. The issue of whether the State can further sub-classify within a class for the purpose of reservation first arose in MR Balaji (supra). The State of Mysore appointed the Mysore Backward Class Committee 137 Deepak Sibal v. Punjab University (1989) 2 SCC 145 138 See Anwar Ali Sarkar (Supra) [7]; Ram Krishna Dalmia (supra) [11]; State of Gujarat v. Shri Ambica Mills (1974) 4 SCC 656 [61] 139 See DS Nakara (supra) [43] 140 [2018] 7 SCR 379 : (2019) 3 SCC 345 1386 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to advise it on the adoption of criteria for the determination of the socially and educationally backward class. Based on the report of the Committee, the State recommended the sub-classification of the Backward Class into the Backward Class and More Backward Class based on educational backwardness.141 In MR Balaji (supra) the Constitution Bench held the sub-classification of the backward class to be unconstitutional because it: (a) was solely based on caste;142 and (b) devised measures for the benefit of “all” classes of citizens who are less advanced when compared to the most advanced class in the State which is not the scope of Article 15(4)143: “29. In this connection, it is necessary to add that the sub-classification made by the between Backward Classes and More Backward Classes does not appear to the justified under Article 15(4). Article 15(4) authorises special provision being made for the really backward classes. In introducing two categories of Backward Classes what the impugned , in substance purports to do is to devise measures for the benefit of all the classes of citizens who are less advanced, compared to the most advanced classes in the State, and that, in our opinion, is not the scope of Article 15(4). The result of the method adopted by the impugned is that nearly 90% of the population of the State is treated as backward, and that illustrates how the in fact divides the population of the State into most advanced and the rest, and puts the latter into two categories of Backward and More Backward. The classification of the two categories, therefore, is not warranted by Article 15(4).” 141 The criterion for the sub-classification was whether the standard of education in the community is less than 50% of the State Average.