[Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, a person shall be deemed to have obtained a degree in law from a University in India on the date on which the results of the examination for that degree are published by the University on its notice-board or otherwise declaring him to have passed that examination.]] 1502 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (c) obtain a degree in law; (d) fulfil such other conditions as may be specified in the rules made by the SBCs under Chapter III; and (e) pay an enrolment fee of Rupees six hundred payable to the SBC and Rupees one hundred to the BCI along with any stamp duty, if chargeable. In the case of a person belonging to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, the enrolment fee of Rupees one hundred is payable to the SBC and Rupees twenty-five to the BCI. 6. The SBCs charge enrolment fees stipulated under Section 24(1) (f) of the Advocates Act to admit law graduates on their State roll. At the time of enrolment, the SBCs also charge various “fees” and “charges” in addition to the enrolment fees in the form of library fund contributions, administration fees, identity card fees, welfare funds, training fees, processing fees, certificate fees, etc. The amount of fees charged by the SBCs differ significantly. This results in a situation where a law graduate has to pay somewhere between Rupees fifteen thousand to Rupees forty-two thousand (depending upon the SBC) as cumulative fees at the time of enrolment. 7. The petitioner instituted proceedings under Article 32 of the Constitution seeking a declaration that the fees charged by the SBCs at the time of enrolment violate Section 24(1)(f) of the Advocates Act. In its dated 10 April 2023, this Court issued notice while observing that the petitioner has raised a significant issue about the enrolment fees charged by the SBCs. By an dated 17 July 2023, this Court transferred to itself the petitions dealing with similar issues from the High Court of Kerala,8 the High Court of Judicature at Madras at Madurai,9 and the High Court of Judicature at Bombay.10 Given this background, we now deal with the challenge to the validity of enrolment fees charged by the SBCs. B. Issues 8. The petitions give rise to the following issues: 8 Akshai M Sivan v. Bar Council of Kerala, Writ Petition (Civil) No. 3068 of 2023 9 Manimaran v. Bar Council of India, Writ Petition (MD) No. 8756 of 2023 10 Amey Shejwal v. Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa, Writ Petition No. 3795 of 2021 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1503 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. a. Whether the enrolment fees charged by the SBCs are in contravention of Section 24(1)(f) of the Advocates Act; and b. Whether payment of other miscellaneous fees can be made a pre-condition for enrolment. C. Submissions 9. Mr Gaurav Kumar, the petitioner-in-person, made the following submissions: a. Section 24(1)(f) expressly prescribes the enrolment fee chargeable by the SBCs and the BCI for persons to be admitted as an advocate.