The Trial Court also held that statements before the District Court cannot be treated as agreement or compromise. On the fact of possession, the Trial Court noted that plaintiffs could not prove that they were in possession and in cultivation of the land in suit as pleaded. 10. As the Trial Court dismissed the suit, Julfi Ram and others preferred Civil Appeal No.17/1993 before the District Judge, Hamirpur. By dated 21.12.2001, the District Judge, allowed the appeal thereby decreeing the suit. It held that the Trial Court had no occasion to comment upon the legality of compromise because neither parties challenged the compromise decree by filing an appeal under 43 Rule 1-A of CPC. Thus, it operated as res judicata and could not have been re-opened in a subsequent suit. The said compromise would be binding on parties. On merits, it observed that the sale was 1 CPC 2 [1988] 2 SCR 401 : AIR 1988 SC 400 1404 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports clandestinely executed by the vendors (Mansha Ram and others) in favour of sons of Bakshi Ram. It further stated that even if the sale deed is considered to be valid, the same cannot be allowed to be acted upon as it has been executed during the pendency of Civil Appeal No. 64 of 1993 between the parties. 11. The Appellants/Defendants preferred a Regular Second Appeal No. 55 of 2002 before the High Court. The High Court, by the impugned , dismissed the same and confirmed the decree passed by the first Appellate Court dated 21.12.2001. The High Court held that execution of sale deed does not either abrogate, detract or dilute the effect of a previous conclusive determination comprised in the decree of 1984. Thus, the rights of plaintiffs remained intact to the extent of one-half share in the suit land. The sale deed is thus hit by the doctrine of lis pendens. 12. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material on record. The question to be determined in the present case is as to what is the status of the so called compromise dated 20th August 1984 in the first round of litigation. The plaintiffs in the second round of litigation were the defendants whereas the Mansha Ram and others were plaintiffs in the first round of litigation. The first suit was for declaration and for permanent injunction on account of interference by the defendants therein. The plaintiffs were already recorded in the revenue records. Their suit was decreed by the Trial Court on 11.04.1983. At the time of execution of sale deed, on 22.08.1983, in favour of present appellants (defendants in second suit, Mansha Ram and others) were fully competent to execute the sale deed. It is true that when the said sale deed was executed, the first appeal was pending before the first Appellate Court. 13. Before the first Appellate Court, the plaintiff-respondent therein Bihari Lal gave a short statement to the effect that they had reached a settlement, received money and that possession and ownership of the land would be with the appellants.