The provisions of Clause 2 and Clause 3 of Article 239AA indicate that while conferring a constitutional status upon the legislative assembly of NCT, the Constitution has circumscribed the ambit of its legislative Powers firstly, by carving out certain subjects from its competence (vesting them in Parliament) and secondly, by enabling Parliament to enact law on matters falling both in the State and Concurrent lists. Moreover, in the subjects which have been assigned to it, the legislative authority 224 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the Assembly is not exclusive and is subject to laws which are enacted by Parliament.” 20. Reiterating the same position, even in the 2023 Constitution Bench , Chief Justice Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud observed that: “The of the majority, however, clarified that if Parliament makes a law in relation to any subject in List II and List III, the executive power of GNCTD shall then be limited by the law enacted by Parliament.” 21. In view of the distinct constitutional position as it exists for NCTD, we cannot agree with the submissions of Dr. Singhvi that the position of Lt. Governor is akin to that of a Governor in a State under Article 163 of the Constitution. There is a clear distinction between the discretionary power of the Governor under Article 163 and that of the Lt. Governor under Article 239AA(4). While Article 163 requires Governor of a State to act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers, ‘except in so far as he is by or under this Constitution required to exercise his functions or any of them in his discretion’, the exception in so far as the Lt. Governor, under Article 239AA(4) is concerned, he will act in his discretion, ‘in so far as he is required by or under any law’. Article 239AA of the Constitution takes into account the unique position of NCTD and therefore adopts the mandate of ‘law’ as a distinct feature for exercise of discretion. 22. In view of the constitutional position and the decisions of this Court, a restatement of the relations between the Union and the NCTD is necessary before we proceed to interpret Section 3(3)(b)(i) of DMC Act to consider whether the Lt. Governor is to nominate on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers or is to act as per his discretion. A. Legislative Relationship (i) Legislative Assembly of NCTD shall have power to make laws (legislative power) for NCTD with respect to ‘any of the matters’ enumerated in State List or Concurrent List. (except entries 1, 2 and 18 of State List). (Article 239AA(3)(a)). (ii) Notwithstanding the above, Parliament shall have power to make laws (legislative power) for NCTD with respect to ‘any matter’ in the three lists. This is where there is a departure from the legislative powers of Parliament with respect to States. While [2024] 8 S.C.R. 225 Government of NCT of Delhi v. Office of Lieutenant Governor of Delhi Parliament does not have legislative competence over entries in List II for States, it has the power to make laws even with respect to matters enumerated in List II for NCTD [(Article 239AA(3)(b)].