Yet, time and again, we find the respondents here have mechanically denied the appellant’s request for disability status in a most arbitrary and unreasonable manner. It is pertinent to note that in yet another instance of the deep-rooted bias against individuals diagnosed as HIV+ve, the Notice allows for sheltered appointments to those diagnosed with such a condition, while in the same breath stating that the provision of such sheltered appointments is an unlikely possibility. 17. We may note here that in CPL Ashish Kumar Chauhan v. Commanding Officer3, the concerned member of the Air Force was diagnosed as HIV+ve because of a blood transfusion that did not proceed along laid down protocol and went awfully wrong for which this Court had to award appropriate quantum of compensation. Reference is made to the said decision at this stage only to highlight that AIDS is not always a self-inflicted disease and there appears to have been no worthy attempt on the part of the respondents to ascertain the root cause of the appellant’s physical distress. 18. The Constitution, through its Preamble, guarantees to all its people ‘Justice’, in the deliverance of which, the Courts of the land have developed a nuanced compensatory jurisprudence through a catena of s, for a wide compass of situations. 19. This Court, towards the end of the last century held in D.K. Basu v. State of West Bengal4 that: 3 [2023] 14 SCR 601 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1220 4 [1996] Supp. 10 SCR 284 : (1997) 1 SCC 416 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 877 Satyanand Singh v. Union of India & Ors. “54. Thus, to sum up, it is now a well-accepted proposition in most of the jurisdictions, that monetary or pecuniary compensation is an appropriate and indeed an effective and sometimes perhaps the only suitable remedy for redressal of the established infringement of the fundamental right to life of a citizen by the public servants and the State is vicariously liable for their acts.” 20. In P.S.R. Sadhanantham v. Arunachalam5, this Court while emphasising its power to do full and complete justice, ruminated: “6. The jural reach and plural range of that judicial process to remove injustice in a given society is a sure index of the versatile genius of law-inaction as a delivery system of social justice. By this standard, our constitutional vests in the summit Court of jurisdiction to do justice, at once omnipresent and omnipotent but controlled and guided by that refined yet flexible censor called judicial discretion. This nidus of power and process, which master- minds the broad observance throughout the Republic of justice according to law, is Article 136.” 21. While discussing award of ‘just compensation’ in a personal injury case, this Court in K. Suresh v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd.6 had the occasion to observe that: “10. It is noteworthy to state that an adjudicating authority, while determining the quantum of compensation, has to keep in view the sufferings of the injured person which would include his inability to lead a full life, his incapacity to enjoy the normal amenities which he would have enjoyed but for the injuries and his ability to earn as much as he used to earn or could have earned.