so as to avoid any need for disposal of the same through sale etc. at a later stage, within 30 days of receipt of this letter or submission of mining plan whichever is earlier. (v) No coal shall be sold, delivered, transferred or disposed of except for the stated captive mining purpose (power generation) except with the previous approval of the Central Government in writing. (vi) There should be complete synchronization between the captive coal mining operations and the development of end-use (power generation) plant so that no situation arises where the company is left with coal extracted from the captive block when the end-use plant is yet to be operational. (vii) Approval of mining plan shall be considered only after financial closure for the end use project is achieved. (viii) Existing coal linkage from CIL/SCCL, would not be disturbed in any way with the coal 1174 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports mined from the allocated blocks. The coal linkage of 2.5 mtpa provided for the TPS from MCL shall continue. (ix) Further, detailed exploration of the block, if required, shall be carried out by CMPDIL or under its direct supervision, on payment basis by the applicant. (x) Violation of any of the conditions will render the allocation of the block/ grant of the lease as the case may be liable for cancellation. 4. The progress in the end use project and the development of the allocated blocks should be reported to this Ministry every 3 months from date of issuance of this letter. 5. The company may approach CIL for more detailed information, geological report etc. and contract the State Government authorities concerned for completing the necessary formalities for attaining mining lease rights and related matters. The company will be required to apply for mining lease within a period of six months. The arrangement of transport of coal, if any, etc. will have to be worked out by the company in consultation with the Ministry of Railways/Ministry of Surface Transport depending on the mode of transport. Yours faithfully, (S. Gulati) Director” (emphasis added) 3.2.2. On 16th April, 2004, the Ministry of Coal and Mines issued a Gazette Notification under Section 3(3)(a)(III)(4) of the Coal Mines (Nationalization) Act, 197319 stating as below: 19 For short ‘1973 Coal Act [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1175 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation “MINISTRY OF COAL AND MINES (Department of Coal) NOTIFICATION New Delhi, the 16th July, 2004 S.O. 824(E) - In exercise of the powers conferred by item(4) of subclause (Ill) of clause (a) of Sub-section (3) of Section 3 of the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973 (26 of 1973) the Central Government hereby specifies as an end use the supply of coal from the coal mines of Kiloni, Manoradeep and Baranj I-IV blocks by the Karnataka EMTA Coal Mines Limited on an exclusive basis to the Karnataka Power Corporation Limited for generation of thermal power in their proposed 1000 MW (2 x 500 MW) TPS at Ballary, Karnataka subject to condition that the Karnataka Power Corporation Limited holds at least 26 per cent of voting equity share capital of the Karnataka EMTA Coal Mines Limited at all times.