10. A cumulative reading of the medical record along with deposition of P.W.-1 to P.W.-4 create a chain of circumstances, that establish that the death of the deceased is homicidal. It has been submitted by the Prosecution that the injuries sustained by the Deceased are ante-mortem in nature, and in view of the fact that the Deceased and the Appellants were related and more importantly, resided together at the time of occurrence it was incumbent upon the Appellants to prove as to how the death of the Deceased occurred in view of the burden contemplated under Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act 1872 (the “Evidence Act”). In this context, it is the Prosecution’ case that the Appellants have not only failed to offer any alternative explanation so as to the cause of death of the Deceased, but also failed to dent to Prosecutions’ version vis-à-vis their sole presence at the scene of the alleged offence, thereby being unable to negate the contention that no one else could have inflicted the said injuries on the body of the Deceased. 11. It is the case of the Prosecution that the Appellants had a clear motive to eliminate the Deceased i.e., the illicit/incestuous relationship between Accused no. 1, Ms. Uma and Accused No.2, Mr. Ravi, which has subsequently become a stumbling block between the Deceased i.e., Rajalakshmi and the aforenoted Appellants. This naturally, swelled the common intention of the accused persons to murder the Deceased. This factum coupled with the narrative of P.W.-1 and P.W.-2 read together with the medical evidence as well as the deposition of the doctors substantiates the culpability of the accused persons to murder the Deceased. It is urged that the case of the Prosecution does not rest on circumstantial evidence alone and corresponds to circumstances so complete, that they point towards the guilt of the Accused Persons/Appellants. 1764 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Findings of the Trial Court and the Appellate/High Court 12. The Trial Court has concluded that the case of the Prosecution is not proved beyond reasonable doubt and hence, the Appellant are entitled to an acquittal. It was observed despite the medical evidence on record, Courts can prefer to accept the eyewitness testimony(ies) in preference to the opinion of a medical expert. In the absence of any direct ocular evidence, the Trial Court did not consider it appropriate to award due to the medical evidence. The Trial Court, came to the conclusion that the motive alluded to the Appellants i.e., of being embroiled in an illegal/illicit relationship was held to be highly artificial and unbelievable. In these circumstances together, the Trial Court held that the Appellants were not guilty of the offences under sections 120B, 302, 201 IPC and Section 4A of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act. 13. Aggrieved by the aforesaid decision of the Trial Court, an appeal came to be preferred before the High Court. The High Court has reversed the findings of the Trial Court; and convicted the Appellant(s) for inter alia the murder of the Deceased i.e, Rajalakshmi.