However, a bare perusal of the impugned common would disclose that even while confirming the conviction under Section 304 part-II read with Section 34, IPC and also the consequently imposed sentence therefor, the High Court had reversed the twin foundational findings of the trial Court for the conviction under Section 304 part-II read with Section 34, IPC. Furthermore, the High Court assigned its own reason for finding the appellants not guilty for the offence committed under Section 300, IPC, punishable under Section 302, IPC. It is to be noted that the Trial Court despite the absence of medical evidence as to the injury of cutting off veins on the legs took that the prosecution has succeeded in establishing that the deceased Shama @ Kalya had sustained such injuries and at the same time, held that the said injuries would not attract clause (3) of Section 300, IPC that speaks of causing bodily injury which is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. Based on such opinion and holding that in the circumstances obtained accused Nos.1, 2 and 4 should be clothed with the knowledge that the injuries which Shama @ Kalya had so sustained were likely to cause death, found them guilty for having committed the offence falling squarely under Section 304 part-II with the aid of Section 34, IPC. As already noted, the trial Court did so after accepting the opinion on finger print test and the consequent identification of the dead body as that of Shama @ Kalya. 18. The evidence on record would reveal that what was traced from Garra Chowky, within the jurisdiction of Tirodi Police Station, on 31.12.1995 was an unidentified, burnt body. Taking note of the said position, in paragraph 102 of the impugned common the High Court held thus: - “102. In view of the fact that the dead body was beyond identification and recognition, by patent identification marks, only sources of identification left to the prosecution were: [a] DNA test [b] Comparison of finger print marks.” 736 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. Upon finding that no DNA test was done and then holding that even if it was done it would not have the value of a conclusive proof as to the contents thereof, the High Court went on to consider the sustainability of the finding on the finger print test by the Trial Court. Contextually, it is worthy to refer to paragraphs 105 to 108 of the impugned common . They read thus: - “105. In so far as the aspect of finger prints is concerned, prosecution has made efforts to demonstrate that finger prints, subject-matter, match with those of the dissected fingers of corpse, and do prove that those are of one and the same person. 106. Prosecution has proved that the finger prints of the dissected fingers, which were used, were of the dead body, subject-matter. 107. The evidence of PW 41 - Sharad Dayaram Girhepunje at pages 1471 onwards of the paper-book, however, fails to positively prove that the finger prints, which were used as a basic document to be the finger prints of Shyama, were not so proved to be that of Shyama taken by a particular person with maintenance of due record thereof, and the purpose for which those were taken by proving those to have been recorded in relation to a particular crime.