Meaning thereby, the Advocate on Record may mark the appearances of those Advocates who are actually appearing in the case i.e. the Advocate-on-Record and the Advocates who are going to appear and argue the case on a particular day of hearing. The Advocate on Record is expected to know before 11:30 a.m. on the date of hearing as to which Advocate/Advocates is/are going to appear/ argue the particular case, and is accordingly required to mark their appearances as instructed in the Notice. The Notice nowhere permits the Advocates-on-Record to mark appearances of the Advocates who are not authorized either to appear and argue the case. 41. Recently the Coordinate Bench on interpretation of the said Circular dated 30.12.2022 vide the dated 29.08.2024 in Contempt Petition(C)No. 1188/2018 in C.A. No. 2703 of 2017 observed and directed as under: “4. We have perused circular of the Supreme Court Registry dated 30th December, 2022 by which a portal for online appearance was activated w.e.f. 02.01.2023. In terms of the said circular, the Advocates-on-Record are permitted to mark appearances of the “advocates appearing in court.” Meaning thereby, sch instruction casts onerous responsibility on the Advocates-on-Record to furnish information of the advocate appearing online or physically in the case. Apparently, it would mean that the advocate who is either present in the case or assisting them in the Court, the presence of only those is to be marked. It would not mean that the advocate, who is neither present personally nor online, may be allowed to mark his presence by furnishing online information. We cannot loose sight of the fact that furnishing such information may have bearing on the sanctity of the Court proceedings in the case. 5. We may hasten to observe that on the basis of the presence of the counsel in the proceedings, the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 809 Bhagwan Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors. advocates may be entitled to get certain benefits such as allotment of chamber, designation of senior advocates and other. In the long run, if the advocates, who are not present in the Court are permitted to mark their presence, it may have adverse impact on those Bar members who are appearing regularly. Therefore, for sanctity of the proceedings and for betterment of the Institution, online information ought to be submitted of only those advocates who are either appearing or assisting during hearing, personally or online. 6. In view of aforesaid, we forthwith direct that in this Court, online presence of only those advocates be furnished and be marked who are appearing or assisting during hearing as indicated above and not of those who are not present in Court but may be associated in office of the advocates. 7. As observed, we request the member of the Supreme Court Bar Association and Supreme Court Advocates- on-Record Association to furnish online presence only of those advocates as indicated, and ensure its compliance in true sense and spirit. We also request the Presidents of respective Bar Associations of the Supreme Court to look into the issue and notify the members for taking corrective steps.