It reads thus: “9. It was vehemently contended by the learned counsel for the respondent that notwithstanding the aforesaid clause 3 in the letter of appointment the position in law is that if there is any clause which is in conflict with the Standing s then the Standing s must prevail. It was submitted that clause 11 of the letter of appointment clearly stipulated that the Standing s would be applicable. The learned counsel drew our attention to the relevant clause in the Standing s which reads as follows: “A workman may be transferred from one department to another, or from one section to another or from one shift to another within factory/Agricultural Research Farm, provided such transfers do not involve a reduction in his emoluments and grade. Worker who refuses such transfers are liable to be discharged.” 10. In the said case, it was sought to be argued on behalf of the employees that when the Standing talks of transfer, it permits the transfer only in terms of the said clause and transfer de hors the same was not permissible. The argument was accepted by the 966 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court. While reversing the of the learned Single Judge this Court observed thus:- “12. In our opinion, the aforesaid construction does not flow from the provisions of the Standing s when read along with the letter of appointment and, therefore, the conclusion arrived at by the High Court was not correct. As has already been noticed the letter of appointment contains both the terms namely for the respondent being transferable from Bangalore as well as with regard to the applicability of the Standing s. These clauses, namely, Clauses 3 and 11 have to be read along with the Standing s, the relevant portion of which has been quoted hereinabove. Reading the three together we do not find that there is any conflict as has been sought to be canvassed by the learned Counsel for the respondent. Whereas the Standing s provide for the department wherein a workman may be asked to work within the establishment itself at Bangalore, Clause 3 of the letter of appointment, on the other hand, gives the right to the appellant to transfer a workman from the establishment at Bangalore to any other establishment of the Company in India. Therefore, as long as the respondent was serving at Bangalore he could be transferred from one department to another only in accordance with the provisions of the Standing s but the Standing s do not in any way refer to or prohibit the transfer of a workman from one establishment of the appellant to another. There is thus no conflict between the said clauses.” 11. It could thus be seen that, this Court has clearly held that, when Clauses 3 and 11 of the appointment are read alongwith the Standing , there is no conflict as was sought to be canvassed by the employee.