Explanation.—For the purpose of this sub-section,— (a) “public functionary” means the constitutional authorities or any other functionary notified in the Official Gazette by the Central Government as public functionary; (b) “high quality counterfeit Indian currency” means the counterfeit currency as may be declared after examination by an authorised or notified forensic authority that such currency imitates or compromises with the key security features as specified in the Third Schedule. (2) The terrorist act includes an act which constitutes an offence within the scope of, and as defined in any of the treaties specified in the Second Schedule.” 30. We are not concerned with sub-section (2) of the said provision. In this appeal, there is no allegation of any act of the appellant constituting an offence within the scope of the Second Schedule to the same statute. Sub-section (1) of Section 15 refers to certain acts which would constitute a terrorist act but the first part of sub-section (1) of Section 15 cannot be read in isolation. In our reading of the said provision of the statute, to qualify for being a terrorist act, such act must be done with intent to threaten or likely to threaten the unity, integrity, security, economic security or sovereignty of India or such act must be accompanied with an intent to strike terror or likely to strike terror in the people or any section of the people in India or in any foreign country. These are initial requirements to invoke Section 15(1) of the 1967 Act. The legislature, however, has not left the nature of such acts unspecified and in sub-clauses (a), (b), and (c) of the said sub-section, the law stipulates the manner of commission of 298 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the acts specified in first part of sub-section (1) of said Section 15. If any offender attempts to commit any of the acts specified in Section 15(1), to come within the ambit of the expression “terrorist act” under the 1967 legislation, action or intention to cause such act must be by those means, which have been specified in sub-clauses (a), (b), and (c) of the said provision. This is the line of reasoning broadly followed by this Court in the case of Vernon (supra) in construing the applicability of the said provision. If we examine the acts attributed to the appellant by the various witnesses or as inferred from the evidence relied on by the prosecution, we do not find prima facie commission or attempt to commit any terrorist act by the appellant applying the aforesaid test for invoking Section 15 read with Section 162 of the 1967 Act. 31. On the allegations of raising funds for a terrorist act forming part of charges under Section 17 of the 19673 Act, most of the materials have emanated from recovery of documents from devices of third parties and at this stage, on the strength of the materials produced before us, the prosecution has not been able to corroborate or even raise a hint of corroboration of the allegation that the appellant has funded any terrorist act or has received any money for that purpose.