In other words, the court cannot undertake an independent assessment of the merits of the award, and must only ascertain that the exercise of power by the court under Section 34 has not exceeded the scope of the provision. Thus, it is evident that in case an arbitral award has been confirmed by the court under Section 34 and by the court in an appeal under Section 37, this Court must be extremely cautious and slow to disturb such concurrent findings.” (Emphasis Supplied) 36. This view has been referred to with approval by a bench of three learned Judges in UHL Power Company Ltd v. State of Himachal Pradesh14.In respect of Section 37, this court observed:- “16. As it is, the jurisdiction conferred on courts under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act is fairly narrow, when it comes to the scope of an appeal under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act, the jurisdiction of an appellate court in examining an , setting aside or refusing to set aside an award, is all the more circumscribed.” 37. This Court has not lost sight of the fact that, as a consequence to our discussion as aforesaid, holding that the and under Section 34 of the A&C Act does not stand judicial scrutiny, an independent evaluation of the impugned may not be required in view of the holding referred to supra in MMTC Ltd. However, we proceed to examine the same. 38. We may also notice that the circumscribed nature of the exercise of power under Sections 34 and 37 i.e., interference with an arbitral award, is clearly demonstrated by legislative intent. The Arbitration Act of 1940 had a provision (Section 15) which allowed for a court 13 (2019) 4 SCC 163(2 Judge Bench) 14 (2022) 4 SCC 116(3-Judge Bench) 302 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to interfere in awards, however, under the current legislation, that provision has been omitted.15 39. The learned Single Judge, similar to the learned Civil Judge under Section 34, appears to have not concerned themselves with the contours of Section 37 of the A&C Act. The impugned reads like a rendered by an appellate court, for whom re- examination of merits is open to be taken as the course of action. 40. We find the Court to have held the award to be perverse and contrary to public policy. The basis for such a finding being the delay on the part of the contractor in completion of the work which “could have been avoided”. Significantly, as we have observed earlier such a finding is not backed by any material on record. 41. What appears to have weighed with the court is that the factoring of the cost escalation between the years 1989-90 and 1992 by 100% was exaggerated. But then equally, there is no justification in granting lump sum escalation by 25% of the contract value. Well, this cannot be a reason to modify the award for the parties are governed by the terms and conditions and the price escalation stood justified by the petitioner based on cogent and reliable material as was so counted by the Arbitrator in partly accepting and/or rejecting the claims.