These producers borrow from others including Srinijan to make movies. In short, Srinijan acts as a young mafia don. Srinijan has presence in movie industry, sports sector and politics. Srinijan will go to any extreme to eliminate those who dares to stand against him. Srinijan has high connections in judiciary. We shouldn’t question judiciary. But there are some judicial officers who are corrupt and Srinijan aids them. But no one is bold enough to question him. CPM has given Srinijan more power. Even the opposition is afraid to stand up against him. Even the judiciary is turning a blind eye. Even Kitex Sabu who fought against this leaves at one point. Why is everyone afraid of him? Why is Kerala letting Srinijan to grow as a young mafia don?” 3. The complainant who is a Member of the Kerala Legislative Assembly representing the Kunnathunad constituency, a seat reserved for the members of the Scheduled Castes, aggrieved by the publication of the aforesaid video, filed a written complaint before the ACP, Central Police Station, Ernakulam alleging inter alia that the video was published by the appellant in to publicise, abuse and insult the 1098 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports complainant, who is a member of a Scheduled Caste. The contents of the complaint are reproduced as under: “I am the elected candidate for the Kunnathunad Assembly Constituency. Shri Sajan Skaria (Editor, News Reader and Publisher), Smt. Ann Mary George (Managing Editor & CEO), Shri Riju (Chief Editor) are using the online TV Channel named Marunadan Malayali (TC 17/3164 (11) Pattom Palace P.O., Pattom Thiruvananthapuram, PIN 695004) & are continuously concocting and spreading false news against me through different social media, which have no basis of any kind. Such false news are created and spread in to ridicule and humiliate me, as a member of the Scheduled Caste Pulaya Community. Shajan Skaria and aforesaid persons used my photo and uploaded a defamatory video against me through the Youtube Channel named Marunadan Malayali on 24.03.2023 with the title reading ‘PV Sreenijan, who rose so suddenly as a Mafia Don’ and the same was shared through other social media as well. He raised a false allegation against me, who is the President of District Sports Council that there is a vigilance inquiry going on against me regarding running of a sports hostel. Besides he also alleged that I am trying to destroy the business ventures and I have falsely implicated and jailed the employees of Kitex. He also made a very serious allegations against me that I have murdered one person. Shajan Skaria and the aforesaid persons are making efforts through their channel and other social media to me as a murderer, without any basis. That after the aforesaid video was uploaded, many people have shared the same on different social media platforms. On seeing this video, many persons from within the State of Kerala outside telephoned me and talked about this matter and raised doubts as to whether I am such a person or not.