The deceased, aged between three and a half and four years, was a small child, just out of toddlerhood and at the pre-school stage. This is very significant because when the appellant has from the neighborhood of the house of the deceased taken the deceased one would expect that the small child would be brought back and dropped at the house. The appellant offered no explanation as to what happened after the time he spent with the child and has no case that he handed over the child to any other person or that he dropped the child home. Unlike in the case of grownups, where an explanation about the manner of parting company could in a given case be acceptable in the case of a small child who has been picked up from neighborhood of his house, it would be normal to expect that the small child would be dropped back home or an explanation about entrusting of the child to another person to be safely taken home is given. The appellant’s lack of explanation is to say the least baffling. 20. According to PW-9 the father of the deceased, when he went in search of the child for the second time to the area where PW-11 had told him about the appellant having proceeded with child, PW-9 actually met with the appellant and asked about the deceased. The appellant on asking told PW-9 that he gave ice-cream to the deceased and sent him. This statement in the deposition is also mentioned at the earliest point in the First Information Report lodged on 13.04.2016 at about 07:30 PM in the evening. 21. It is well settled that if the accused is last seen with the deceased and particularly in a case of this nature when the time gap between the last seen stage and occurrence of death is so short, the accused must [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1083 Sambhubhai Raisangbhai Padhiyar v. State of Gujarat offer a plausible explanation as to how he parted company with the deceased and the explanation offered must be satisfactory. Section 106 of the Evidence Act mandates that when any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him. It is on this principle that this Court has repeatedly held that if an accused fails to offer an explanation, he fails to discharge the burden cast upon him under Section 106 and if he fails to offer a reasonable explanation that itself provides an additional link in the chain of circumstances [See State of Rajasthan Vs. Kashiram (2006) 12 SCC 254 and Pappu Vs. State of UP (2022) 10 SCC 321]. Circumstance No. 2: Found in the vicinity of the scene of crime at about the time of crime: 22. Both in the First Information Report and in the evidence, PW-9 speaks about his going to the lake. It is not in dispute that it was this place, viz, near the boundary wall of the lake behind the Dargah of Pir in the acacia bushes, the body of the deceased was found naked at around 5 O’clock on 13.04.2016.