81-A, Sector 17, Panchkula. The witness(PW-27) recorded a ruqa(Exhibit-PAA) dated 15th April, 2003 on the basis of this information and forwarded the same to the Police Station, Sector 5, Panchkula for registration of a case. Acting on the ruqa(Exhibit-PAA) forwarded by Jai Singh(PW-27), FIR(Exhibit- PAA/1) came to be registered for the offences punishable under Sections 387 and 507 IPC by Jai Raj, ASI(PW-25). Indisputably, the ruqa(Exhibit-PAA) was merely based on a source information and it is totally unacceptable that the police officials could register the FIR merely on the basis of such source information without even verifying the fact as to whether any such incident had actually occurred. The very fact that this FIR(Exhibit-PAA/1) was registered by referring to an incident which took place in Kothi No. 81-A, Sector 17, Panchkula without making any verification from the aggrieved person/s clearly shows that the Investigating Agency right from inception had started plotting that the case should proceed in a 352 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports particular direction. This is a very suspicious circumstance that creates a grave doubt on the conduct of the Investigating Agency. 35. After the FIR(Exhibit-PAA/1) had been registered on the basis of ruqa(Exhibit-PAA) received from Jai Singh, SI(PW-27), the investigation of the case was assigned to Surjit Kumar, Investigating Officer(PW-37). The Investigating Officer(PW-37) testified on oath that he proceeded to Kothi No. 81-A, Sector-17, Panchkula where Shamlal Garg met him and gave him two mobile Nos. being 9815XXXXXX and 9815XXXXXX alleging that these mobile numbers were of the kidnappers. The Investigating Officer(PW-37) then proceeded to the Bharti Airtel Company, Mohali to verify the ownership of these two mobile numbers. The administrative official of the Company informed the Investigating Officer(PW-37) that the mobile numbers had been sold to Kohli Traders, Sector-26, Chandigarh on which he proceeded to Kohli Traders and met the proprietor Yogesh Kohli who in turn provided information that the mobile numbers(SIM cards) had been sold to Singla Traders, Sector-8, Chandigarh. He thereupon went to Singla Traders, but could not find anyone there. He again went to Singla Traders on 17th April, 2003, where Niranjan Singla and Reena Singla met him and gave him the details of the persons to whom the SIM cards had been sold. However, no record of this sale was maintained at Singla Traders. Pawan Kumar, Head Constable procured the call details of these two mobile numbers vide memo(Exhibit-PV). However, the Investigating Officer(PW-37) did not divulge anything about the identity of the person/s to whom the SIM Cards had been sold by Singla Traders. 36. It is important to note here that as per the version of Investigating Officer(PW-37), Shamlal Garg’s statement was recorded on 15th April, 2003 wherein he gave details of the two mobile numbers alleging that these were the mobile numbers of the kidnappers. The Investing Officer(PW-37) did not state that Shamlal Garg complained to him that his grandson Sachin Garg(PW-2) had been kidnapped or that ransom money had been paid to the kidnappers for securing his release.