125. Interest of justice requires that both the 1985 Act and the 1993 Act, which are in the nature of beneficial enactments, should be read harmoniously so as to impart a meaningful construction to the language of each of the enactments. It was held in Jay Engineering (supra) on the interplay between the two Acts as follows: “13. The 1993 Act was enacted to provide for and regulate the payment of interest on delayed payments to small- scale and ancillary industrial undertakings and for matters connected therewith. 14. The provisions of the 1993 Act, therefore, do not envisage a situation where an industrial company becomes sick and requires framing of a scheme for its revival.” (Emphasis supplied) 126. In our opinion, it would defy logic to hold that even for the period when the principal decretal amount awarded by the civil court under a decree could not have been realised in lieu of the suspension of execution proceedings, interest would continue to mount on the principal decretal amount. Thus, while there is a stay on proceedings in the nature of distress and execution, etc. against the properties of [2024] 5 S.C.R. 389 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited the sick company, to safeguard its assets, awarding interest for that very same period, though not expressly barred under any provision of the Act, could not have been the intention of the legislature. 127. Any other interpretation would only lead to an absurd result that as soon as a sick company is revived after the steps taken by the BIFR, and concessions, financial support, etc. provided by the government, it would be prone to the liability of having to pay exorbitant interest that would have accrued on any decree which can be put to execution after the end of BIFR proceedings. 128. The net effect would be that a freshly revived sick company would potentially be saddled with huge amounts, as has happened in the present case because of the impugned , and be at a risk of being rendered sick again, thus defeating the very purpose of the 1985 Act. 129. A two-judge bench of this Court, in a recent decision in Modi Rubber Ltd. v. Continental Carbon India Ltd., reported in 2023 SCC OnLine SC 296 decided the issue as to whether it was open to an unsecured creditor to not accept the scaled down value of its dues, as computed in the rehabilitation scheme, and wait for the revival of the sick company to recover its debt with interest post the rehabilitation. This Court, after an exhaustive consideration of the object of the 1985 Act, answered the issue in the negative and held as follows: “40. The short question, which is posed for the consideration of this Court is:— “Whether on approval of a scheme by the BIFR under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985, an unsecured creditor has the option not to accept the scaled down value of its dues, and to wait till the scheme for rehabilitation of the respondent - sick company has worked itself out, with an option to recover the debt with interest post such rehabilitation?” xxx xxx xxx 49.