18463 of 2019, dated 24.12.2019. 1144 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports interested in proceeding against the officers and seeks a quietus to the issue. 5. In fact, while issuing notice in the appeal on 16.07.2021, this Court passed the following . The is indicative of the limited scrutiny sought to be made by this Court and it is evident from the following: “Without in any manner condoning the conduct of the officers which has been commented upon, what persuades us to issue notice is the fact that there are observations to the effect that the statutory protection available to the officers would not be a defence in case proceedings were to be initiated against those officers by the original petitioners or their family members and such an observation has been made in the absence of the officers. Issue notice limited to the aforesaid aspect returnable in six weeks.” 6. The relevant portion in the of the High Court that the statutory protection should not be made available to the officers is in paragraph 28 and it is relevant for us to extract the same. “28. Lastly the court may sound a word of caution to the authorities exercising powers under the GST Acts. Sub-section (2) of section 157 of the GST Acts says that no suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any officer appointed or authorized under the Act for anything which is done or intended to be done in good faith under the Act or the rules made thereunder. An action like the present one which is not contemplated under any statutory provision and which infringes the fundamental rights’ of citizens under article 21 of the Constitution of India may not be protected under this section. An action taken may be said to be in good faith if the officer is otherwise so empowered and he exceeds the scope of his authority. However, in a case like the present one where the authorization was for search and seizure of goods liable to confiscation, documents, books or things and the concerned officer converted it into a search for a person and in investigation, which is not otherwise backed by any statutory provision, it may be difficult to accept that [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1145 The State of Gujarat & Anr. v. Paresh Nathalal Chauhan such action was in good faith. Protection of such action under section 157 of the GST Acts may unleash a regime of terror insofar as the taxable persons are concerned.” 7. In the above-referred paragraph, the High Court was of the view that the protection contemplated under section 157 of the GST Act, which is in the nature of a good faith clause, “may not” be available to the officers. This is the issue with which we are concerned, and we will dwell upon it. 8. A good faith clause, explained in the vocabulary of the rights and duties regime, can be said to be a provision of immunity to a statutory functionary.