26. However, in State of Punjab Vs. Jugraj Singh, (2002) 3 SCC 234, this Court opined that when there are convincing evidence of eyewitnesses, non-examination of the expert would not affect the creditworthiness of the version put forth by the eyewitnesses. 27. This Court considered the issue as to failure of the prosecution to recover the crime weapon and also non-examination of ballistic expert in Gulab Vs. State of U.P., (2022) 12 SCC 677. In that case, the deceased had sustained a gunshot injury with a point of entry and exit. In that case, prosecution had relied on the eyewitnesses’ accounts of three eyewitnesses which were found to be credible. Therefore, non-recovery of the weapon of the offence would not dis-credit the case of the prosecution. After referring to the previous decisions, this Court opined that in the facts and evidence of the case, the failure to produce the report by a ballistic expert who could testify to the fatal injuries being caused by a particular weapon would not be sufficient to impeach the credible evidence of the direct witnesses. 28. In Pritinder Singh Vs. State of Punjab, (2023) 7 SCC 727, this Court in the facts and evidence of that case held that conviction could not be sustained. That apart, from not collecting any evidence as to whether the gun used in the crime belonged to the appellant or not, even the ballistic expert had not been examined to show that the wad and pellets were fired from the empty cartridges of the appellant. In that case which was based on circumstantial evidence, it was held that when there was serious doubt as to credibility of the witnesses, the failure to examine ballistic expert would be a glaring defect in the prosecution case. 29. Thus, what can be deduced from the above is that by itself non- recovery of the weapon of crime would not be fatal to the prosecution case. When there is such non-recovery, there would be no question of linking the empty cartridges and pellets seized during investigation with the weapon allegedly used in the crime. Obtaining of ballistic report and examination of the ballistic expert is again not an inflexible rule. It is not that in each and every case where the death of the victim is due to gunshot injury that opinion of the ballistic expert should be obtained and the expert be examined. When there is direct eye witness account which is found to be credible, omission to obtain [2024] 2 S.C.R. 683 Ram Singh v. The State of U.P. ballistic report and non-examination of ballistic expert may not be fatal to the prosecution case but if the evidence tendered including that of eyewitnesses do not inspire confidence or suffer from glaring inconsistencies coupled with omission to examine material witnesses, the omission to seek ballistic opinion and examination of the ballistic expert may be fatal to the prosecution case. 30. Applying the above proposition to the facts of the present case, we find that the evidence tendered by the eyewitnesses suffer from serious lacunae.