In contrast, regulation 2(h) defines a “deemed licensee” as “a person authorized under sub-section (b) of Section 14, and also under the first, second, third, and fifth provisos to section 14 of the Act, to operate and maintain a distribution system for supplying electricity to consumers in their area of supply”. The 2013 Regulations clearly delineate distinct categories of licensees. Regulation 12 pertains solely to regular distribution licensees as defined under regulation 2(h), not to deemed licensees. ‘Reading up’ regulation 12 so as to expand its ambit to include within it deemed licensees, especially when the Electricity Act does not stipulate any such inclusion, runs counter to the subsequently inserted proviso to clause (b) of section 14 of the Electricity Act—an exercise which is impermissible and which we cannot approve. Therefore, the recognition of the status of a deemed distribution licensee cannot hinge on compliance with rule 3(2) of the 2005 Rules read with regulation 12 of the 2013 Regulations. 35. The language of regulation 12 merits careful scrutiny. It states that an applicant shall, “in addition to the provisions of Regulation 4 to 11”, comply with the provisions of the 2005 Rules. It is evident that it is a normal applicant [as defined under regulation 2(d)], which is tasked with complying with regulations 4 to 11, that has to comply with the 2005 Rules. However, the appellant herein, as discussed previously, is not a regular applicant but a deemed distribution licensee [as defined under regulation 2(h)], and is governed by regulation 13, the proviso to which specifically states that nothing in regulations 4 to 11 would apply to deemed licensees. Having thus been statutorily exempted from complying with regulations 4 to 11, we are of the opinion that the appellant, being a deemed licensee, would also be exempt from the concomitant obligation of complying with regulation 12, in view of the language of the provision, which imposes the burden of complying with regulation 12 only on those applicants who come within the purview of regulations 4 to 11. The appellant falling outside the scope of the latter, would thus necessarily fall outside the scope of the former too. 760 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 36. TSERC’s reliance on regulation 49 of the 2013 Regulations to enforce the applicability of regulation 12 also appears to be flawed. Regulation 49, situated within Chapter-4 [General Conditions of Distribution Licence] of the 2013 Regulations, specifies that “these general conditions shall apply to distribution licensees and to all deemed distribution licensees”. A straightforward reading reveals that the term ‘general conditions’ in regulation 49 pertains exclusively to the general conditions outlined in Chapter-4. By no stretch of imagination could the scope of this provision be widened so as to include within its ambit regulation 12, which forms part of Chapter-3 [Procedure for Grant of Distribution Licence] of the 2013 Regulations. CONCLUSION 37. To sum up, being a SEZ developer in terms of the 2010 Notification does not ipso facto confer upon the appellant the status of a deemed licensee without any scrutiny and without being under any requirement to apply; it is required to make an application in accordance with the 2013 Regulations.