This apart, ultimately in the year 2005, the Layout itself was revised showing it as a mixed residential area. Be that as it may, on the core issue, we find that the original owner of the suit property, never lost right, title, interest and usage therein. The deeming provision under Section 38(b) of the Act would operate to release the suit property, as the 3-year period would have lapsed, latest in 1984, counted from the year of revision i.e., 1981, after the initial Layout in the year 1978. This Court in Pillayar P K V K N Trust v Karpaga N N U S, (2010) 9 SCC 344, in the facts of that case, concluded ‘that the land is not acquired by agreement till the date of the of the High Court, the deeming clause would certainly come into force and, therefore, the land concerned would certainly be deemed to have been released.’ The original owner, thus, was competent in law to transfer the suit property to any other person on 20.04.2009 (date of the first Sale Deed). Obviously, nemo [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1685 Pradhan Babu and Others v. Nachimuthu Nagar Kudiyiruppor Nala Sangam and Others dat quad non habet3 and any transfer of property would carry with it inherently the same restrictions which were existing/passed on to the vendor at the time of passing of the title to the concerned vendee. 23. It is not, and has not ever been, the case of the private respondents that the appellants, who had originally bought the suit land and later transferred it have violated the conditions of the Layouts of the years 1978 and 1981 by constructing over it or using it other than for a ‘public purpose’. The only cause of action on which the suit was filed by the private respondents was that the appellants had started construction of the boundary wall. This has been explained by the appellants, who have stated that it was for demarcation of the land in question and no further construction has been made on the suit property. Moving further, even if it is accepted for the sake of argument that some of the appellants, who were now claiming ownership in their favour by way of Registered Sale Deed(s) in the suit property, had made any construction and had started using the land, there could, perhaps, be a cause of action for the respondents to move before the appropriate forum for preventing such appellants from either continuing with the construction or using it for a purpose other than ‘public purpose’. The same would then have been required to be decided by the appropriate forum after considering what was the Layout/Master Plan applicable to the area on the date of such consideration and whether the proposed construction or usage was in conformity with the Plan operative on such date. However, as we are informed, by way of the 2005 Layout, the suit property lies in a mixed residential area. 24. Thus, for and upon a totality of reasons aforesaid, we find that the suit filed by the respondents had absolutely no cause of action evincible from a reading of the plaint.