He pointed out that deemed sale is not a sale of the goods, but it is of the right to use the goods. Even if there is actually no sale of cranes, tankers or trailers in terms of the Sale of Goods Act, there is a deemed sale as the terms of the contracts read as a whole show that there was an intention on the part of the parties to transfer the right to use the said goods. He pointed out that this Court, in the case of Aggarwal Brothers v. State of Haryana & Anr.12 , reiterated that 12 (1999) 9 SCC 182 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 499 M/s. K.P. Mozika v. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. and Ors. the provisions are for transferring the right to use the goods and not the transfer of goods. He submitted that the test of effective control is satisfied in this case. 16. Inviting our attention to Section 65(105)(zzzzj) of the Finance Act, the learned counsel submitted that the said provisions exclude those transactions in which there is a transfer of possession and effective control. 17. The learned counsel invited our attention to the various clauses in the contract subject matter of Civil Appeal No. 3548 of 2017. The learned counsel, relying upon what is held in paragraph 51(iv) of the decision of this Court in the case of Quick Heal Technologies Ltd.8, submitted that when we talk about effective control, it does not mean physical control. He reiterated that the return of physical possession of the trailers, trucks, and cranes has no relevance. Submissions of the Union of India 18. The learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Union of India contended that the transactions subject matter of this group of appeals are essentially in the nature of rendering service, thereby attracting service tax. He submitted that the VAT Act and the Sales Tax Act will have no application, and the transactions will attract service tax. Therefore, the submission is that no interference is called for. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 19. We have carefully considered the submissions canvassed across the Bar. Entry 48 of List–II of the Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935 provided for “taxes on sale of goods and on advertisement”. In the case of Gannon Dunkerley & Co2, which is a landmark , this Court dealt with the interpretation of Entry 48 of List–II of the Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935 and Entry 54 of List-II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India which provided for “taxes on sale of goods”. This Court held that the expression “sale of goods” has a well-recognised legal import. It was held that the expression “sale of goods” will have to be given the same meaning as defined in the Sale of Goods Act. The same view was reiterated in the case of K.L.Johar & Co. v. 500 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Deputy Commercial Tax Officer, Coimbatore III13.