If the convicts can circumvent the consequences of their conviction, peace, tranquility and harmony in society will be reduced to chimera.” (vide Surya Baksh Singh vs. State of UP, (2014) 14 SCC 222) 67. This Court has further observed that the principle of justice is an inbuilt requirement of the justice delivery system and indulgence and laxity on the part of the law courts would be an unauthorized exercise of jurisdiction and thereby, put a premium on illegal acts. Courts have to be mindful of not only the spelling of the word “justice” but also the content of the concept. Courts have to dispense justice and not justice being dispensed with. In fact, the strength and authority of courts in India are because they are involved in dispensing justice. It should be their life aim. 68. The faith of the people in the efficacy of law is the saviour and succour for the sustenance of the rule of law. Justice is supreme and justice ought to be beneficial for the society. Law courts exist for the society and ought to rise to the occasion to do the needful in the matter. Respect for law is one of the cardinal principles for an effective operation of the Constitution, law and the popular Government. The faith of the people is the source to invigorate justice intertwined with the efficacy of law. Therefore, it is the primary duty and the highest [2024] 1 S.C.R. 907 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others responsibility of this Court to correct arbitrary s at the earliest and maintain the confidence of the litigant public in the purity of the fountain of justice and thereby respect rule of law. 69. In the same vein, we say that Article 142 of the Constitution cannot be invoked by us in favour of respondent Nos.3 to 13 to allow them to remain out of jail as that would be an instance of this Court’s imprimatur to ignore rule of law and instead aid persons who are beneficiaries of s which in our view, are null and void and therefore nonest in the eye of law. Further, we cannot be unmindful of the conduct of respondent Nos.3 to 13, particularly respondent No.3 who has abused the process of law and the court in obtaining remission. In such a situation, arguments with an emotional appeal though may sound attractive become hollow and without substance when placed in juxtaposition with our reasoning on the facts and circumstances of this case. Therefore, in complying with the principles of rule of law which encompasses the principle of equal protection of law as enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution,we hold that ‘deprivation of liberty’ vis-à-vis respondent Nos.3 to 13 herein is justified in as much as the said respondents have erroneously and contrary to law been set at liberty. One cannot lose sight of the fact that the said respondents were all in prison for a little over fourteen years (with liberal paroles and furloughs granted to them from time to time).