However, no tree will be permitted to be felled in any such area and no construction will be permitted in forest area without following the mandate of the Forest Conservation Act.” 11. It is further submitted on behalf of the appellants that appropriate setbacks have also been made mandatory in to avoid overcrowding. It is submitted that because of the peculiar climate of Shimla, the attic is necessary because the roof is required to be sloping in hilly terrain, to allow for run-off of rain and snow. It is further submitted that construction will only be permitted after a soil investigation report of the area and assessment of structural stability by an expert are made. The construction is required to be approved by a qualified architect or engineer. 12. The first and second s of NGT are also challenged by the appellants on the ground that the jurisdiction of NGT is limited to the civil cases where a substantial question relating to environment [2024] 1 S.C.R. 989 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another (including enforcement of any legal right relating to environment), is involved and such question arises out of the implementation of the enactments specified in Schedule I of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 (hereinafter referred to as the “NGT Act”). It is submitted that Schedule I of the NGT Act does not include town and country planning and as such, the s passed by the NGT are without jurisdiction. 13. It is further submitted on behalf of the appellants that the exercise of power for finalisng the development plan is a quasi-legislative power and the NGT could not have issued directions to exercise that power in a particular manner. It is submitted that the said would amount to encroachment upon the statutory functions of the State which are entrusted to it by virtue of the TCP Act. 14. It is also submitted on behalf of the appellants that the NGT could not have suo motu enlarged the scope of OA No. 121 of 2014 as it is a body constituted under a statute and it has to exercise its jurisdiction within the four corners of the statute. 15. It is submitted on behalf of the appellants that various directions issued by the NGT are contrary to the provisions of the TCP Act, Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (for short, “HPMC Act”) and the various Bye-laws, Rules and Notifications framed thereunder and as such, not sustainable in law. A reliance in this respect is placed on the following s of this Court: Himachal Pradesh Bus Stand Management and Development Authority (H.P. BSM & DA) v. Central Empowered Committee and Others1, State of Madhya Pradesh v. Centre for Environment Protection Research and Development and Others2, Director General (Road Development) National Highways Authority of India v. Aam Aadmi Lokmanch and Others3, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board v. Sterlite Industries (India) Limited and Others4 and Techi Tagi Tara v. Rajendra Singh Bhandari and Others5.