We also have one caveat arising from the plea that different State Bar Councils are charging different fees for enrolment. This is something which needs the attention of the Bar Council of India, which is not devoid of the powers to see that a uniform pattern is observed and the fee does not become oppressive at the threshold of young students joining the Bar.” 84. The burden of payment of enrolment fees and other miscellaneous fees imposed by the SBCs falls equally on all persons seeking enrolment. While the burden is facially neutral, it perpetuates structural discrimination against persons from marginalized and economically weaker sections of the society. In more than one way, the process of enrolment perpetuates a culture89 of systemic exclusion and discrimination that impacts the entry of law graduates into the legal profession and even beyond. A law graduate in India undergoes legal 88 [2018] 7 SCR 379 : (2018) 10 SCC 1 [453] 89 See Nitisha v. Union of India (2021) 15 SCC 125 [77] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1537 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. education which typically entails a study of a three-year LLB course or an integrated five-year course. The model of legal education in India is largely centred around a standardized admissions test. Candidates desirous of taking the admission test have to pay a hefty fee for taking the examination and in many cases engage tutors or coaching classes to prepare for these tests. Although the engagement of tutors or purchase of preparation material is a choice a candidate can choose not to make, it puts them against a cohort of competitors who have engaged such help. Once admitted to a recognized institute for legal education, a student has to afford the fees of the college either by paying on their own or by availing of a student loan. Students are also expected and sometimes mandated to partake in internships, research work, and co-curricular and extra- curricular activities among others.90 Partaking in these activities entails additional expenses. 85. Young law graduates seeking to enter litigation start from a position of disadvantage. In S Seshachalam v. Bar Council of Tamil Nadu,91 Justice R Banumathi summed up the struggle of young advocates in apt words: “26. The profession of Law is a noble calling. The legal fraternity toils day and night to be successful in the profession. Although it is true that slowly working one’s way up is the norm in any profession, including Law, but initially young advocates have to remain in the queue for a prolonged period of time and struggle through greater hardships. Despite being extremely talented, a number of young lawyers hardly get proper opportunity or exposure in their profession. New entrants to the profession in the initial stages of the profession suffer with the meagre stipend which young lawyers may receive during their initial years, coupled with the absence of a legislation concerning this, they struggle to manage their food, lodging, transportation and other needs. Despite their valiant efforts, they 90 Rule 25, Part IV of the Rules of Legal Education 2008, BCI mandates law students to complete an internship under an advocate for a minimum of 12 weeks for the three year law course and twenty weeks for the five year law course.