v. The State of Assam & Anr. discussion that followed thereafter was as under: (SCC p. 647, paras 23-26) “23. In the instant case, the question is narrowed down further as to whether such a second complaint would be maintainable when the earlier one had not been dismissed on merits, but for the failure of the complainant to put in the process fees for effecting service. 24. The answer has been provided firstly in Pramatha Nath Talukdar case, wherein this Court had held that even if a complaint was dismissed under Section 203 CrPC, a second complaint would still lie under exceptional circumstances, indicated hereinbefore. The said view has been consistently upheld in subsequent decisions of this Court. Of course, the question of making a prayer for recalling the of dismissal would not be maintainable before the learned Magistrate in view of Section 362 CrPC, but such is not the case in these special leave petitions. 25. In the present cases, neither have the complaints been dismissed on merit nor have they been dismissed at the stage of Section 203 CrPC. On the other hand, only on being satisfied of a prima facie case, the learned Magistrate had issued process on the complaint. 26. The said situation is mainly covered by the decision of this Court in Jatinder Singh case, wherein the decision in Pramatha Nath Talukdar case was also taken into consideration and it was categorically observed that in the absence of any provision in the Code barring a second complaint being filed on the same allegation, there would be no bar to a second complaint being filed on the same facts if the first complaint did not result in the conviction or acquittal or even discharge of the accused, and if the dismissal was not on merit but on account of a default on the part of the complainant.” (Underline supplied) 12.3. In Poonam Chand Jain v. Fazru the issue whether after the dismissal of the earlier complaint had attained 18 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports finality, could a second complaint be maintained on identical facts was considered as under: (SCC pp. 634-36, paras 14-20) “14. In the background of these facts, the question which crops up for determination by this Court is whether after an of dismissal of complaint attained finality, the complainant can file another complaint on almost identical facts without disclosing in the second complaint the fact of either filing of the first complaint or its dismissal. 15. Almost similar questions came up for consideration before this Court in Pramatha Nath Talukdar v. Saroj Ranjan Sarkar. The majority in Pramatha Nath was delivered by Kapur, J. His Lordship held that an of dismissal under Section 203 of the Criminal Procedure Code (for short “the Code”) is, however, no bar to the entertainment of a second complaint on the same facts but it can be entertained only in exceptional circumstances. This Court explained the exceptional circumstances as: (a) where the previous was passed on incomplete record, or (b) on a misunderstanding of the nature of the complaint, or (c) the which was passed was manifestly absurd, unjust or foolish, or (d) where new facts which could not, with reasonable diligence, have been brought on the record in the previous proceedings.