Being a creature of the statute, there is absolutely no room for a fresh hearing. The court has got no role to involve itself in the process of adjudication for a second time. Instead, it has to merely examine the existence of an apparent mistake or error. Even when two views are possible, the court shall not indulge itself by going into the merits. 21. The material produced, at this stage, should be of such pristine quality which, if taken into consideration, would have the logical effect of reversing the . XLVII Rule 1 of the CPC, 1908 indicates that power of review can be exercised by courts, in three different situations, but these occasions ought to be read in an analogous manner. In other words, they should be read in a manner to mean that a restrictive power has been conferred upon the court. As stated, the words “for any other sufficient reason” ought to be read in conjunction with the earlier two categories reiterating the scope. Being a judicial discretion, it has to be exercised with circumspection and on rare occasions. It is a power to be exercised by way of an exception, subject to the rigours of the provision. 22. A subsequent event per se cannot form the basis of a review. Sub- clause (c) of XLVII Rule 1 of the CPC 1908, clearly specifies that the important matter or evidence produced must have been available at the time when the decree was passed. This is a matter of rule. On a very rare occasion, an exception can be carved out. Such an exception can only be exercised when the said matter or evidence is of unimpeachable quality. It is not only a new matter or evidence that should be taken into consideration, but it should also be an important one. 23. While exercising the said power, the court has to first check the evidentiary value of such discovery, including the circumstances under 102 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which it emanated, particularly when it inherently lacks jurisdiction or the evidence cannot be made admissible in law and therefore, is not relevant. In such a circumstance, there is no question of proceeding further in deciding the review application. PRECEDENTS 24. Now, we shall place on record decisions rendered by this Court on the above principle of law discussed by us, Power of Review is not to be confused with Powers of Appellate Court in Appeal Jurisdiction. ● Aribam Tuleshwar Sharma v. Aribam Pishak Sharma and others, (1979) 4 SCC 389 “3. The Judicial Commissioner gave two reasons for reviewing his predecessor’s . The first was that his predecessor had overlooked two important documents Exs. A/1 and A/3 which showed that the respondents were in possession of the sites even in the year 1948-49 and that the grants must have been made even by then. The second was that there was a patent illegality in permitting the appellant to question, in a single writ petition, settlement made in favour of different respondents.