55. Section 3 of the DSPE Act reads thus: “3. Offences to be investigated by special police establishment.—The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify the offences or classes of offences which are to be investigated by the Delhi Special Police Establishment.” 56. It is thus clear that the DSPE is entitled to investigate only such offences or classes of offences which are specified by the Central Government by issuing a notification in the official gazette. 57. Section 4 of the DSPE Act reads thus: “4. Superintendence and administration of Special Police Establishment.—(1) The superintendence of the Delhi Special Police Establishment insofar as it relates to investigation of offences alleged to have been committed under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (49 of 1988), shall vest in the Commission. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 719 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India (2) Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (1), the superintendence of the said police establishment in all other matters shall vest in the Central Government. (3) The administration of the said police establishment shall vest in an officer appointed in this behalf by the Central Government (hereinafter referred to as the Director) who shall exercise in respect of that police establishment such of the powers exercisable by an Inspector-General of Police in respect of the police force in a State as the Central Government may specify in this behalf.” 58. A perusal of sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the DSPE Act would reveal that the superintendence of the DSPE insofar as it relates to investigation of offences alleged to have been committed under the PC Act is concerned, shall vest with the CVC. However, sub-section (2) thereof provides that except for what has been provided in sub-section (1) thereof, the superintendence of the said police establishment in all other matters shall vest with the Central Government. Sub-section (3) thereof provides that the administration of the DSPE shall vest in an officer appointed in this behalf by the Central Government who shall exercise, in respect of that police establishment, such of the powers exercisable by an Inspector-General of Police in respect of the police force in a State as the Central Government may specify in this behalf. 59. Section 5 of the DSPE Act reads thus: “5. Extension of powers and jurisdiction of special police establishment to other areas.—(1) The Central Government may by extend to any area (including Railway areas) in a State, not being a Union Territory the powers and jurisdiction of members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment for the investigation of any offences or classes of offences specified in a notification under Section 3. (2) When by an under sub-section (1) the powers and jurisdiction of members of the said police establishment are extended to any such area, a member thereof may, subject to any s which the Central Government may make in this behalf, discharge the functions of a police 720 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports officer in that area and shall, while so discharging such functions, be deemed to be a member of a police force of that area and be vested with the powers, functions and privileges and be subject to the liabilities of a police officer belonging to that police force.