v. Rohit Nandan with the Scheduled Caste list is bad in law in light of Bhim Rao Ambedkar (supra). The learned counsel for the respondent has not even argued this point. 10. However, the learned counsel submitted that despite illegality in the notification, this Court in Bhim Rao Ambedkar (supra) had protected those who had come to occupy the posts. The relevant portion is also reproduced for convenience: “39. Now comes the question with regard to protecting those Members of “Tanti-Tantwa” community who were extended benefit of Scheduled Castes pursuant to the Resolution dated 01.07.2015. In the present case, the action of the State is found to be mala fide and de hors the constitutional provisions. The State cannot be pardoned for the mischief done by it. Depriving the members of the Scheduled Castes covered by the lists under Article 341 of the Constitution is a serious issue. Any person not deserving and not covered by such list if extended such benefit for deliberate and mischievous reasons by the State, cannot take away the benefit of the members of the Scheduled Castes. Such appointments would under law on the findings recorded would be liable to be set aside. However, as we have found fault with the conduct of the State and not of any individual member of the “Tanti- Tantwa” community, we do not wish to direct that their services may be terminated or that recovery may be made for illegal appointments or withdrawal of other benefits which may have been extended. We are of the view that all such posts of the Scheduled Castes reserved quota which have been extended to the members of the “Tanti-Tantwa” community appointed subsequent to the Resolution dated 01.07.2015 be returned to the Scheduled Castes Quota and all such members of the “Tanti-Tantwa” community, who have been extended such benefit may be accommodated under their original category of Extremely Backward Classes, for which the State may take appropriate measures. […] 624 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 42. It is further directed that such posts of the Scheduled Castes Quota which had been filled up by members of “Tanti-Tantwa” community availing benefit on the basis of Resolution dated 01.07.2015 may be returned to the Scheduled Castes category and such candidates of “Tanti- Tantwa” community be accommodated by the State in their original category of Extremely Backward Classes by taking appropriate measures.” 11. Learned counsel has also relied on the decision of this Court in K. Nirmala v. Canara Bank3 wherein the appellants were granted protection despite the State Government notification treating them as members belonging to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe was withdrawn by the State Government after the decision of the Supreme Court in a case of State of Maharashtra v. Milind & Ors.4 The relevant portion of the said is as under: “35. In wake of the discussion made above, we conclude that the appellants are entitled to protection of their services by virtue of the Government circular dated 29th March, 2003 issued by the Government of Karnataka as ratified by communication dated 17th August, 2005 issued by the Ministry of Finance.