[…] Constitution made demarcation between 396 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess, practise, and propagate religion subject to public , morality, health, and other provisions of Part III. The provision allows the State to make any law to regulate or restrict any economic, financial, political or other secular activity associated with religious practice. The Constitution distinguishes between religious and secular activities, permitting the State to regulate the latter.34 41. Article 26 guarantees every religious denomination the right to establish and maintain institutions for religious and charitable purposes. It further guarantees religious and charitable institutions the right to manage their own affairs in matters of religion; own and acquire movable and immovable property; and administer the property in accordance with law. The right of management given to a religious body is a fundamental right that cannot be abridged by any legislation. On the other hand, the State can regulate the administration of property owned or acquired by a religious denomination through validly enacted laws.35 42. Article 27 provides that no person shall be compelled to pay any taxes, the proceeds of which are specifically appropriated in payment of expenses for the promotion or maintenance of any particular religion or religious denomination. The rationale underlying Article 27 is that public funds should not be utilized for the promotion or maintenance of any particular religion or religious denomination.36 religious part personal to the individual and secular part thereof. The State does not extend patronage to any particular religion, State is neither pro particular religion nor anti particular religion. It stands aloof, in other words maintains neutrality in matters of religion and provides equal protection to all religions subject to regulation and actively acts on secular part.”] 34 Seshammal v. State of Tamil Nadu (1972) 2 SCC 11 [19]; Bijoe Emmanuel v. State of Kerala (1986) 3 SCC 615 [19] 35 Ratilal Panachand Gandhi v. State of Bombay (1954) 1 SCC 487 [16] [“16. […] The language of the two clauses (b) and (d) of Article 26 would at once bring out the difference between the two. In regard to affairs in matters of religion, the right of management given to a religious body is a guaranteed fundamental right which no legislation can take away. On the other hand, as regards administration of property which a religious denomination is entitled to own and acquire, it has undoubtedly the right to administer such property but only in accordance with law. This means that the State can regulate the administration of trust properties by means of laws validly enacted; but here again it should be remembered that under Article 26(d), it is the religious denomination itself which has been given the right to administer its property in accordance with any law which the State may validly impose. A law, which takes away the right of administration altogether from the religious denomination and vests it in any other or secular authority, would amount to violation of the right which is guaranteed by Article 26(d) of the Constitution.”] 36 S R Bommai [304] (Justice BP Jeevan Reddy) [2024] 11 S.C.R.