Section 12 empowers the Commission to adjudicate disputes between a minority educational institution and university regarding affiliation and confers upon it the power of a civil court trying a suit in certain matters. Section 12B empowers the Commission to hear appeals against s of authorities established by the Central or State governments, which reject applications for the grant of minority status filed by educational 132 “Commission” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1759 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. institutions. The Commission also has other powers.133 Section 10 prescribes the procedure to establish a minority educational institution. In terms of the provision, any person who desires to establish a minority educational institution has to apply to the competent authority for the grant of a no objection certificate for the purpose. The competent authority would upon the perusal of documents, affidavits or other evidence and after giving the applicant an opportunity to be heard either allow or reject the application. 155. The NCMEI Act was amended in 2010.134 156. Section 2(g) defined a ‘minority educational institution’ as reproduced below: “(g) “Minority educational institution” means a college or institution (other than a University) established or maintained by a person or group of persons from amongst the minorities;” In 2010, Section 2(g) was amended to read as follows: “(g) “Minority educational institution” means a college or an educational institution established and administered by a minority or minorities;” 157. Two material changes were made to Section 2(g) in 2010. The first was the removal of the words “other than a University” from the definition. The NCMEI Act did not extend to universities prior to 2010. The amendment in that year widened the ambit of the Act and made its provisions applicable to minority universities as well. The second change was the replacement of the term “established or maintained” with “established and administered.” The amendment in 2010 to the definition of a minority educational institution in Section 2(g) cannot impact the interpretation of Article 30(1). In the preceding sections, we have held that establishment by a minority is the only indicia for a minority educational institution. Section 10 of the NCMEI Act recognises this by prescribing the procedure to ‘establish’ a minority educational institution. The amendment to the definition of a minority educational education in Section 2(f) only recognises the right guaranteed by Article 30(1). It recognises that a minority educational institution once established is also administered by them. 133 Sections 12D and 12E, NCMEI Act. 134 See the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions (Amendment) Act 2010. 1760 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports ix. Registration under the Societies Registration Act 158. The question is whether a minority educational institution which is registered as a society under the Societies Registration Act soon after its establishment loses its status as a minority educational institution by virtue of such registration. 159. As discussed in Section B of this , this question was referred to a larger Bench by this Court in Anjuman-e-Rahmaniya (supra). This question was referred because the institution in that case was founded in 1938 and was registered under the Societies Registration Act in 1940.