1423 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. required) without impleading the court or the presiding officer as a party; and b. Many Tribunals only adjudicate and have nothing to do with the “lis”. Tribunals must be impleaded as a necessary party if in law they are entitled to defend the passed by them. 24. It is clear from the above s that the principle that a judicial or quasi-judicial authority cannot be a respondent in the appeal is circumscribed by certain other factors. The first factor applied by this Court is based on the relief sought. A judicial or a quasi-judicial authority may be required to be impleaded as a party in a challenge against its if it is necessary as in case of a writ of certiorari. Second, this Court has consistently drawn a distinction between Courts in the “strictest sense” and Tribunals because the former are nearly never involved in a ‘lis’ and perform a purely adjudicatory function. However, a statutory authority may be entrusted with the performance of both adjudicatory and regulatory functions. This Court has held that while it need not be impleaded as a respondent in an appeal against an adjudicatory , it may be made a contesting party in an appeal against an issued in exercise of its regulatory functions because then it may have a vital interest in the ‘lis’ bearing on matters of public interest. 25. However, it must be noted that the in Jogendrasinhji Vijaysinghji (supra) also holds that a Tribunal is entitled to defend the in the appeal only if it is provided by law. That leads us to the subsequent question of whether the statute establishing the Authority and conferring it with powers and functions must expressly stipulate that it must be impleaded as a respondent in an appeal or it can be inferred by necessary implication. ii. Necessary and proper parties in regulatory proceedings 26. In Syed Yakoob v. KS Radhakrishnan,35 the State Transport Authority36 constituted under the Motor Vehicles Act 1988 and the State Transport Appellate Tribunal37 were impleaded as respondents in the appeal against the of the High Court. The High Court 35 [1964] 5 SCR 64 : 1963 SCC OnLine SC 24 36 “STA” 37 “STAT” 1424 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports held that the STA and STAT had overlooked material considerations while issuing transport permits. The counsel who appeared for STA and STAT before this Court asked for costs. Rejecting the argument, Justice PB Gajendragadkar writing for the majority of the Constitution Bench, observed that though STA and STAT were proper and necessary parties in the proceedings, it is unusual for them to be represented by counsel unless allegations are made against them for which they need to respond because “they are not interested in the merits of the dispute”: “19. […] It may be that in such proceedings, the Authority and the Appellate Tribunal are proper and necessary parties, but unless allegations are made against them which need a reply from them, it is not usual for the authorities to be represented by lawyers in Court.