It can be deduced by the language that the court can extend the time where an application is filed after the expiry of the period under sub-section (1) or the extended period in terms of sub-section (3). The court has the power to extend the period for making an award at any time before or after the mandated period. 7. Section 29A(5) states that a party to the arbitration proceedings can file an application in court for an extension of time for making the award. As per the second proviso to Section 29A(4), where an application for an extension of time under Section 29A(5) has been filed and is pending, the mandate of the arbitral tribunal shall continue till the disposal of the application. Thus, the second proviso to Section 29A(4), by specific mandate, allows the arbitration proceedings to continue during the pendency of the extension application under Section 29A(5) before the court. Lastly, the extension of time is to be granted by the court only for ‘sufficient cause’ and on such terms and conditions as may be imposed by the court. We will elaborate on the last aspect, and why this interpretation is preferable. First, we will refer to the ratio and reasoning in Rohan Builders (India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra). 8. The core of the ratio and reasoning of Rohan Builders (India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is based on the use of the expression “terminate” in Section 29A(4). The relies on the recommendations made by the 176th Report of the Law Commission of India, which had suggested using the term “suspend”. Juxtaposing the words “terminate” and “suspend”, it is noted that the use of the expression “terminate” reflects the legislative intent of terminating the mandate of the arbitral tribunal upon the expiry of the specified period. Therefore, the reasoning observes that on the termination of the mandate, the arbitral tribunal becomes de jure incapable of performing its function. Along the same lines, it is argued before us that, as a sequitur, and in view of Sections 14, 15, 29A and 32 of the A & C Act, a party must file an application for an extension of time to make an arbitral award before the culmination of the initial twelve-month period or the extended six-month period. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 483 Rohan Builders (India) Private Limited v. Berger Paints India Limited 9. In our opinion, the aforesaid reasoning is fallacious and unacceptable. Language serves as a means to express thoughts and intentions.18 Words can have various meanings and connotations; thus, an interpretive exercise must be conducted with careful consideration of both the text and the context of the provision. Therefore, sometimes the court eschews a literal construction if it produces manifest absurdity or unjust results.19 10. The word “terminate” in Section 29A(4) has to be read in the context of the said provision.20 It should not be read as an isolated word with a strict dictionary meaning, but rather in conjunction with the surrounding words and expressions which warrant recognition and consideration.