79. As rightly contended by the learned Attorney General, the private individuals who had set up MAO College were not legislatively competent to establish a university in the first place. Being devoid of the authority to establish, the power to do which was the sole preserve of the British Government, the establishment of AMU could not possibly be owed to the Muslim community. An example of this is section 6 of the AMU Act, which stated that degrees conferred by AMU would be recognised by the Government. The provision states: “6. Recognition of degrees. – The degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions granted or conferred to or on persons by the University shall be recognised by the Central and State Governments as are the corresponding degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions granted by any other University incorporated under any enactment.” As has been discussed, the only universities whose degrees were recognised by the Government were those established by statute. Degrees issued by private universities were not recognised by the British Government. The degrees issued by AMU being officially recognised, it could not, as a logical corollary, be said that AMU was established by the Muslim community. The university being brought into existence solely by virtue of the statute, its establishment could not be owed to anything other than the statute. 80. Provisions of the AMU Act have been highlighted to show that bodies such as the Court were to be comprised entirely of Muslim members. However, such bodies could not be said to have established AMU. 42 (1992) 1 SCC 558 1892 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 81. Black’s Law Dictionary43 defines ‘establish’ as: “establish, vb. (14c) 1. To settle, make, or fix firmly; to enact permanently <one object of the Constitution was to establish justice>. 2. To make or form; to bring about or into existence<Congress has the power to establish Article III courts>. 3. To prove; to convince <the House managers tried to establish the President’s guilt>.” (emphasis supplied) 82. The appellants advocated for the verb “to establish” to be interpreted widely so as to mean “to found”. While this Court has time and again interpreted words of statutes in a liberal manner so as to align them with legislative intent, the interpretation canvassed by the appellants, insofar as “to establish” is to be equated with “to found”, demands an implausibly expansive reading of Article 30(1). It is a primary rule of interpretation that statutes must be interpreted as they are, and auxiliary connotations must not be read into the provision, unless there is reason established for doing so. The two words are very distinct in their purport and understanding. The Constituent Assembly, in its legislative wisdom, chose specifically to use the words ‘to establish” in Article 30(1); interpreting it in a manner so wide as to change its meaning altogether would be doing the Constitution and its framers a disservice. A perusal of the decisions of this Court, which shall be discussed henceforth, categorically evinces that this contention is untenable in law.