On that date also, he has not spoken about the occurrence having been witnessed by any other persons other than him. Further, during cross examination, he has also resiled from his earlier statement. P.W.2 has been examined in chief on 18.03.2017. She has also not spoken about the additional witnesses having seen the occurrence or that they have been left out by the prosecution to be added as witnesses in the final report. Further, after final report has been filed on 11.07.2013, if it is true that the eyewitnesses have been left out, she would have filed the petition for further investigation even at that time, which has also not been done. Therefore, this Court is of the opinion that the petition is filed much belatedly only for the purpose of delaying the trial. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 7 K. Vadivel v. K. Shanthi & Ors. 10. In view of the above, this Court does not find any infirmity in the passed by the trial Judge. Accordingly, this Criminal Original Petition is dismissed.” 17. Taking a cue, as it were, from the observations of the High Court that the first respondent would have filed a petition seeking for further investigation at that time if eyewitnesses have been left out, the first respondent in January, 2020 filed Cr. M.P. No 40/2020 in S.C. No. 61/2014 before the Court of the Additional District and Sessions Judge with a prayer for directing the State to conduct further investigation or reinvestigation by examining the related occurrence and eyewitnesses of the crime mentioned in the application and submit additional (or) supplementary charge-sheet. In the application, it was averred that the Investigating Officer had failed to enquire Kattarimani who had accompanied her husband-deceased Kumar and also had failed to examine proper eyewitnesses; that PW-1 Padikasu had given false statements and evidence and that Padikasu had expressed fear and mentioned about the threatening influences of the accused and other pressures brought by the accused; that investigation has been carried out in a haphazard manner; that there is lack of collection of material evidence; that the cell phone used by PW-1 Padikasu and the cell phone of deceased Kumar has not been properly secured and placed for tracing the call details. That non-examination of R. Natarajan, M. Muthu, S. Ramasamy who are the occurrence witnesses and eye witnesses K. Ganesan S/o Late Kumar, P. Karmagan S/o Periyakaruppan, K. Rajendran S/o Kasi, Sembulingam S/o Padikasu and C. Audiappan S/o Chinnaiah are designed at the behest of the inspector of police. 18. It will be noticed from the application that insofar as the eyewitnesses, who according to the first respondent were not enquired, the names are common as mentioned in her earlier Section 311 application. Under the category of occurrence witnesses, she has added three names which surfaced for the first time in this application. This aspect will be considered later in this . 19. The application was strongly opposed by the accused. The accused, in their counter, averred that the application was not maintainable without the consent of the public prosecutor and that the misconceived application was intended to fill up the lacunae in the prosecution; the allegation that any threat to witnesses were denied and it was 8 [2024] 10 S.C.R.