We have [2024] 8 S.C.R. 199 The Blue Dreamz Advertising Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. Kolkata Municipal Corporation & Ors. also perused the written submissions filed by the appellant. The respondent has not filed any written submissions. 17. The learned senior counsel for the appellant contends that the Corporation could at best have imposed only a ‘penalty’ for making late payments or in the case of default of payments under clause 9 and there could not have been blacklisting; that blacklisting can be only made when there was deviation of clauses 2.8, 11 & 14 and that the Show Cause Notice precisely setting out why the blacklisting was to be imposed need to have been given; that the grounds of blacklisting are not the one stated in clauses 2.8, 11 & 14; that the of blacklisting was passed during the pendency of the arbitration proceedings; that the issues relating to blacklisting were akin to the facts in issue before the arbitration; that the Corporation has failed to prove gross misconduct or irregularities or fraud involving of any element of public interest; that the learned Single Judge was right in setting aside the of blacklisting; that the Corporation is guilty of having not acted fairly and reasonably by not facilitating the appellant to perform his contractual right; that the Corporation despite the repeated undertaking before the High Court for taking resort to arbitration has deliberately issued the of blacklisting and that any and every act of alleged breach of contract would not ensue blacklisting. 18. In support of their submission, the appellant relied on B.S.N. Joshi & Sons Ltd. vs Nair Coal Services Ltd. & Ors. (2006) 11 SCC 548. The appellant also assailed the of the Division Bench by contending that the Division Bench failed to consider that there was no element of violation of public interest involved in the conduct of the appellant and in fact the Corporation was guilty of having not acted fairly and reasonably and that the Division Bench has completely overlooked this aspect. The appellant further contended that the of blacklisting was disproportionate and contrary to the in Kulja Industries Ltd. vs Chief General Manager Western Telecom Project BSNL & Ors. (2014) 14 SCC 731. 19. The learned counsel for the Corporation defended the of blacklisting as well as the of the Division Bench and prayed that there was no case for interference by this Court. 20. We have considered the submissions of the learned counsels and perused the record. 200 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Questions for consideration: 21. The following questions arise for consideration: a. Whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, the of the Corporation dated 02.03.2016, debarring the appellant for a period of five years is valid and justified in the eye of the law? b. If so, what reliefs is the appellant entitled to? Reasons and conclusions: 22. Blacklisting has always been viewed by this Court as a drastic remedy and the s passed have been subjected to rigorous scrutiny.