(c) In Shahejadkhan Mahebubkhan Pathan vs. State of Gujarat, (2013) 1 SCC 570 (“Shahejadkhan Mahebubkhan Pathan”), this Court speaking through Sathasivam, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) held that the term of imprisonment in connection with a fine is not a sentence but a penalty which a person incurs on account of non-payment of fine. But on the other hand, if a sentence is imposed, an offender must undergo the same unless it is modified or varied in part or whole in the judicial proceedings or by way of remission. But the imprisonment in default of fine stands on different footing. When such a sentence on default of payment of fine is imposed, the person is required to undergo imprisonment either because he is unable to pay the fine or refuses to do so. The only way he can avoid to undergo imprisonment in default of payment of fine is by paying such amount. 54.3. The aforesaid dicta would therefore clearly indicate that the sentence of imprisonment awarded to a person for committing an offence is distinct than the imprisonment ed to be undergone in default of payment of fine. The latter is not a substantive sentence for commission of the offence but is in the nature of penalty for default in payment of fine. 54.4. In the instant case, while considering the applications for remission, the Jail Advisory Committee did not take into consideration whether respondent Nos. 3 to 13 convicts had tendered the fine which was imposed by the Special Court and affirmed by the High Court as well as by this Court. Therefore, this is an instance of leaving out of a relevant consideration from the gamut of facts which ought to have been considered by the Jail Advisory Committee. Had the respondent State of Gujarat considered the opinion from the Presiding Judge of the Court which had convicted, respondent Nos.3 to 13 herein, the aspect regarding non-payment of fine would have surfaced. In the absence of non-compliance with the direction to pay 898 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports fine, there would be default sentence which would be in the nature of penalty. The question whether the default sentence or penalty had to be undergone by these respondents, was a crucial consideration at the time of recommending remission to the State Government by the Jail Advisory Committee. This aspect of the matter has also not been taken into consideration by the State Government while passing the impugned s of remission. Realising this, during the pendency of these writ petitions, applications were filed seeking permission to tender the fine amount. However, even before the said applications could be considered and s passed thereon, the respondents convicts have paid the fine amount and have produced receipts in that regard. This fact would not alter the consideration of the case of respondent Nos. 3 to 13 herein inasmuch the fact of payment of fine ought to have been a point which had to be taken into consideration prior to the passing of the s of remission as there could be no relaxation in the sentence with regard to payment of fine.