Digital Supreme Court Reports repeated directions from the learned trial court to conclude the same expeditiously. It is to be noted that there are around 69,000 pages of documents involved in both the CBI and the ED matters. Taking into consideration the huge magnitude of the documents involved, it cannot be stated that the accused is not entitled to take a reasonable time for inspection of the said documents. In to avail the right to fair trial, the accused cannot be denied the right to have inspection of the documents including the “un-relied upon documents”. 48. It is further to be noted that a perusal of the second of this Court would itself reveal that this Court recorded the submissions of the learned Solicitor General, which were made on instructions, that the investigation would be concluded and final complaint/charge-sheet would be filed expeditiously and at any rate on or before 3rd July 2024. Accordingly, 8th charge-sheet has been filed on 28th June 2024 by the ED. It could thus be seen that, even according to the respondents, the investigation was to be concluded on or before 3rd July 2024. In that view of the matter, we find that the contention raised by the learned ASG is self-contradictory. If the investigation itself was to conclude on or before 3rd July 2024, the question is how could the trial have commenced prior to that? If the investigation itself was to conclude after a period of 8 months from the date of the first of this Court, there was no question of the trial being concluded within a period of 6-8 months from the date of the first of this Court. We find that both the High Court and the trial court have failed to take this into consideration. 49. We find that, on account of a long period of incarceration running for around 17 months and the trial even not having been commenced, the appellant has been deprived of his right to speedy trial. 50. As observed by this Court, the right to speedy trial and the right to liberty are sacrosanct rights. On denial of these rights, the trial court as well as the High Court ought to have given due weightage to this factor. 51. Recently, this Court had an occasion to consider an application for bail in the case of Javed Gulam Nabi Shaikh v. State of Maharashtra and Another 6 wherein the accused was prosecuted under the 6 [2024] 7 SCR 992 : 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1693 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1083 Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. This Court surveyed the entire law right from the of this Court in the cases of Gudikanti Narasimhulu and Others v. Public Prosecutor, High Court of Andhra Pradesh,7 Shri Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia and Others v. State of Punjab,8 Hussainara Khatoon and Others (I) v. Home Secretary, State of Bihar,9 Union of India v. K.A. Najeeb10 and Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Another.11 The Court observed thus: “19.