It seems from the language of Entry 63 that the Parliament has no power to take away the status of an institute of national importance conferred upon BHU or AMU, save and except by following the route of an amendment to the Constitution itself. Though the Parliament can declare any other institution as an institution of National Importance through the route of Article 246; such plenary legislative power cannot be invoked to take away the status of an institution of National Importance, accorded by the Constitution. 190. Having delineated the issues of disagreement with the opinion of Hon’ble the Chief Justice, we may hasten to add that one of the conclusions assigned in Azeez Basha (supra), is such that it deserves to be revisited. We say so for the reasons that: a. In this regard, Azeez Basha (supra) rightly holds that the expression ‘educational institutions’ is of very wide import and would also include universities. It has correctly understood that a religious minority has the right to establish a university under Article 30(1). Azeez Basha (supra) is also right in observing that there was no law in India before the Constitution came into force, which prohibited any private individual or body from establishing a university. Azeez Basha (supra) further holds that no private individual or body could, prior to 1950, insist that the degrees of any university established 1852 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports by them must be recognised by government. This position continued even after the enactment of University Grants Commission Act, 1956. b. Azeez Basha (supra) however, seems to be erroneous to the extent it holds that since Section 6 of the Aligarh Muslim University Act, 1920 (AMU Act, 1920) provided that the degrees conferred by the university would be recognised by government, consequently, “an institution was brought into existence which could not be brought into existence by a private individual or body…” Azeez Basha (supra) might therefore not be correct in its entirety and as a general principle of law, to hold that even if the AMU Act, 1920 was passed as a result of the efforts of the Muslim minority it “does not mean that the Aligarh University when it came into being under the 1920 Act was established by the Muslim minority”. c. In this context, it is our considered opinion that the establishment of a university, whether as a minority institution or as a religion neutral institution of high standard, is a complex and mixed question of law and fact. The legislative intent behind the establishment of a university or an institution will have a significant role in determining the status of such an institution. For instance, if the Preamble or the Statement of Objects and Reasons of a Statute explicitly states that the University or the institution concerned is intended to be established and shall be administered by a minority community, we see no reason as to why such a University or institution would be denuded of its minority character merely because it was created through legislative means.