I must caveat that consideration of foreign laws and s of foreign jurisdiction do not have a direct bearing on the interpretation of our laws. At the most they grant us a perspective and nothing more. Further I will demonstrate that there is no single, universal standard on this issue; rather, each country has taken a different stance based on its own laws, policies, legal culture, and dispute resolution framework. Consequently, there is no uniform application or consistency in legal principles on this matter. Therefore, while foreign laws and precedents may provide insights, they should be referenced cautiously, acknowledging that differences in context may make direct reliance inappropriate. 42. Legislative framework of certain foreign jurisdictions. Internationally, party autonomy is highly valued in appointing arbitrators and composing arbitral tribunals. For example, the New York Convention90 (Article V(1)(d)) permits refusal of award recognition if the tribunal’s composition deviates from party agreement, underscoring the primacy of party autonomy. The UNCITRAL Model Law also upholds party autonomy as a core principle in tribunal composition. Similarly, Section 591 of Federal Arbitration Act of US accords primacy to appointment 90 Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, 1958. 91 Section 5, Federal Arbitration Act. It reads as: Section 5. Appointment of arbitrators or umpire If in the agreement provision be made for a method of naming or appointing an arbitrator or arbitrators or an umpire, such method shall be followed; but if no method be provided therein, or if a method be provided and any party thereto shall fail to avail himself of such method, or if for any other reason there shall be a lapse in the naming of an arbitrator or arbitrators or umpire, or in filling a vacancy, then upon the application of either party to the controversy the court shall designate and appoint an arbitrator or arbitrators or umpire, as the case may require, who shall act under the said agreement with the same force and effect as if he or they had been specifically named therein; and unless otherwise provided in the agreement the arbitration shall be by a single arbitrator. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2319 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company procedure as agreed to between the parties. The arbitration agreement must be in accordance with Section 2 which requires the same to be, “valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exists at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.” This has been used by US courts to source ‘unconscionability’ as a ground to test the validity of an arbitration agreement.92 43. Article 2 of Geneva Protocol on Arbitration Clauses93 provides that “the constitution of arbitral tribunal, shall be governed by the will of the parties and by the law of the country in whose territory the arbitration takes place.” Article 1028 of Code of Civil Procedure, Netherlands provides that in case the arbitration agreement gives one of the parties to the dispute a privileged position in appointing arbitrators, then, the other party may, despite the agreement, request the relevant court to appoint an arbitrator.