Whereas, the three other candidates, with whom respondent no.1 claims parity, were continuing in the service of the appellant as on the date of the written examination for the post of Manager (Technical). 12. It was next submitted that the High Court failed to consider that neither the Recruitment Regulations nor the decision of the 320th Executive Committee meeting dated 12.10.2017, regularize any extended period of absence and rather, had only condoned a period for administrative reasons which is only 20 days in the case of the respondent no.1. It was submitted that this period of 20 days has been regularized by the appellant, however, the period from 13.06.2014 to 26.08.2015 wherein the respondent no.1 was under the administrative control of his parent department cannot be considered for promotion to the post of Deputy General Manager (Technical) as per the Recruitment Regulations. In view of the same, the Screening Committee had rejected the application of respondent no.1. 13. It was further submitted that the Circular was issued on the basis of the decision of the Delhi High Court in W.P. (Civil) No.9227 of 2014 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 527 National Highway Authority of India v. G Athipathi and Others titled National Highways Authority of India v Sanjeev Kumar Sharma.2 In the aforementioned case, the Delhi High Court vide dated 05.04.2016 had observed that the petitioners therein had no gap in service. Thus, the Circular did not contemplate the regularization of any gap in the service. 14. Next, it was submitted that promotion was through a selection process and not based on seniority. Regulation 12(2) of the Recruitment Regulations provides that, on receipt of applications, the Screening Committee shall screen the applications with respect to the eligibility criteria prescribed for the post, and recommend the eligible candidates for consideration of the Selection Committee for final selection on the basis of written test or interview or as decided by the Selection Committee. It was pointed out that 93 applications were received for the post in question, out of which only 64 candidates were declared eligible and 29 candidates, including the respondent no.1 were declared ineligible. Thereafter, interview was conducted of the eligible candidates and promotion dated 26.09.2017 was issued whereby out of the 64 candidates, only 39 were promoted to the posts of Deputy General Manager (Technical). Thus, it was submitted, that even if it is assumed that the respondent no.1 was fulfilling the eligibility criteria, the CAT in the dated 30.12.2020 and the High Court in the Impugned could not have issued directions for appointment of the respondent no.1 as Deputy General Manager (Technical). It was submitted that directions could only have been issued for considering the respondent no.1 for promotion to the post in question. Prayer was, accordingly, made to allow this appeal. SUBMISSIONS BY RESPONDENT NO.1: 15. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent no.1 (sole contesting respondent) submitted that the CAT has held that there was no requirement in the Recruitment Regulations or the Circular that a candidate who had finished the qualifying service of four years must fulfill the additional requirement of being absorbed into the appellant without any break.