For the sake of convenience, the directions to various States and Union Territories are issued and we wish to verify and deal with the compliance in the manner suggested by this . 1. State of Andhra Pradesh -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of the direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar and Anr., (2014) 8 SCC 273 has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) In terms of the above referred , we direct the State to ensure that the prosecutors are stating the correct position of law as per the passed by this Court in the case of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). (b) To circulate the passed by this Court in the case of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). (c) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 1078 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 1.1 High Court of Andhra Pradesh -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of directions contained in para 100.2, there is a contrary stand that conditions in relation to Sections 41 and 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) have been complied with, yet bail has been granted, therefore the High Court is directed to inform about clear instances of the same. (ii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.5, there is part non-compliance in so far as insistence of bail application under Section 88 of CrPC, therefore, the High Court is required to inform on its compliance alone. (iii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.7, details as to the number of Special Courts created and the need for creation of more Special Courts shall be provided. (iv) In terms of directions contained in para 100.8 and 100.9, the High Court should inform this Court as to the steps taken for a list of identified prisoners who are unable to comply with bail conditions and why sureties are not being produced in many cases though bail stands granted, and what steps have been taken to alleviate this situation. (v) In terms of directions contained in para 100.11, there is no adequate compliance and complete information with respect to some Courts, therefore needful be done in this regard. (vi) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the curriculum of judicial academy.