disallowed the broken period interest payment, which gave rise to the dispute. It was open to the department to assess the above difference under the head “interest on securities” under section 18. However, they chose to assess the interest under the head “business” and, while doing so, the department taxed broken period interest received, but disallowed broken period interest payment. It is in this light that one has to read the of the Karnataka High Court and the Supreme Court in Vijaya Bank’s case. In that case, the facts were as follows. During the Assessment Year under consideration, Vijaya Bank entered into an agreement with Jayalakshmi Bank Limited, whereby Vijaya Bank took over the liabilities of Jayalakshmi Bank. They also took over assets belonging to Jayalakshmi Bank. These assets consisted of two items viz. Rs. 58,568.00 and Rs. 11,630.00. The said amount of Rs. 58,568.00 represented interest, which accrued on securities taken over by Vijaya Bank from Jayalakshmi Bank and Rs. 11,630.00 was the interest which accrued upto the date of purchase of securities by the assessee-Bank from the open market. These too amounts were brought to tax by the A.O. under section 18 of the Income-tax Act. The assessee Bank claimed that these amounts were deductible under sections 19 and 20. This was on the footing that the department had brought to tax, the aforestated two amounts as interest on securities under section 18. It is in the light of these facts that one has; to read the in Vijaya Bank’s case. In the light of the above facts, it was held that outlay on purchase of income [2024] 10 S.C.R. 873 Bank of Rajasthan Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax bearing asset was in the nature of capital outlay and no part of the capital outlay can be set off as expenditure against income accruing from the asset in question. In our case, the amount which the assessee received has been brought to tax under the head “business” under section 28. The amount is not brought to tax under section 18 of the Income-tax Act. After bringing the amount to tax under the head “business”, the department taxed the broken period interest received on sale, but at the same time, disallowed broken period interest payment at the time of purchase and this led to the dispute. Having assessed the amount received by the assessee under section 28, the only limited dispute was whether the impugned adjustments in the method of accounting adopted by the assessee Bank should be discarded. Therefore, the in Vijaya Bank’s case has no application to the facts of the present case. If the department had brought to tax, the amounts received by the assessee Bank under section 18, then Vijaya Bank’s case was applicable. But,in the present case, the department brought to tax such amounts under section 28 right from the inception. Therefore, the Tribunal was right in coming to the conclusion that the in Vijaya Bank’s case did not apply to the facts of the present case.