6. On 20.03.2012, the respondents (i.e. decree holders) filed an execution application before the Court of first instance (i.e., the trial court) praying thus: “It is therefore, prayed that the sale deed as per the decree passed in Civil Appeal No. 53 of 2011 may kindly be got executed and registered in favour of the decree holders by the appointment of the local commissioner and possession may kindly be got delivered to the decree holder and the balance sale price may kindly be got deposited in the Court for payment to the J.Ds and cost for the suit and the appeal and this execution may also be got recovered from the J.Ds.” 7. While the application for execution of the decree was pending, the appellant(s) (i.e., the debtor(s)) challenged the appellate 6 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports court decree by filing Second Appeal No. 3730 of 2012 before the High Court, which came to be dismissed on 07.11.2013. 8. Upon dismissal of the Second Appeal, the respondents (i.e., decree- holders) filed an application before the Execution Court on 24.03.2014 seeking permission to deposit the balance consideration in Court. Opposing this prayer of the decree holder, in the execution proceeding itself, the appellant(s) (i.e. the -debtors) submitted an application under Section 28 3 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 (in short “the 1963 Act”) to rescind the contract on the ground that decree-holder(s) had failed to make deposit within two months, as directed by the first appellate court. 9. The Execution Court, however, rejected the application of the -debtor(s) for rescission of the contract vide dated 03.11.2016 and, simultaneously, permitted the decree-holder(s) to make deposit of the balance consideration. 10. Aggrieved by the aforesaid of the Execution Court, the appellant(s) (i.e., the -debtors) filed a Civil Revision before the High Court, which came to be dismissed by the impugned . 3 28. Rescission in certain circumstances of contracts for the sale or lease of immovable property, the specific performance of which has been decreed.— (1) Where in any suit a decree for specific performance of a contract for the sale or lease of immovable property has been made and the purchaser or lessee does not, within the period allowed by the decree or such further period as the court may allow, pay the purchase money or other sum which the court has ed him to pay, the vendor or lessor may apply in the same suit in which the decree is made, to have the contract rescinded and on such application the court may, by , rescind the contract either so far as regards the party in default or altogether, as the justice of the case may require. (2) Where a contract is rescinded under sub-section (1), the court— (a) shall direct the purchaser or the lessee, if he has obtained possession of the property under the contract, to restore such possession to the vendor or lessor, and (b) may direct payment to the vendor or lessor of all the rents and profits which have accrued in respect of the property from the date on which possession was so obtained by the purchaser or lessee until restoration of possession to the vendor or lessor, and, if the justice of the case so requires, the refund of any sum paid by the vendee or the lessee as earnest money or deposit in connection with the contract.