The protection given under clause (2) of Article 105 is thus similar to protection envisaged under the construction placed by Hunt, J. in R. v. Murphy [(1986) 5 NSWLR 18] on Article 9 of the Bill of Rights which has not been accepted by the Privy Council in Prebble v. Television New Zealand Ltd. [(1994) 3 All ER 407, PC] The decision in Ex p Wason [(1869) 4 QB 573 : 38 LJQB 302] which was given in the context of Article 9 of the Bill of Rights, can, therefore, have no application in the matter of construction of clause (2) of Article 105. […]” The issue of whether courts can rely on observations contained in Parliamentary committee reports now stands settled by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Kalpana Mehta (supra). 142. The majority in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) relied on the earlier cases from the UK which generally interpret Article IX to protect speech and debate. Relying on these s, the majority extrapolated a general principle of not allowing the production of anything before the courts which may be casually or incidentally related to the acts of a legislator. The Court then grounded this principle by interpreting Article 105(2) in an overbroad manner to attach immunity for bribes received in furtherance of legislative functions. The Court brushed aside the opinion of Buckley, J in R v. Greenway on the ground that it remains to be tested in appeal. The majority therefore failed to contextually apply the different clauses governing the freedom of speech in UK and India. The cases referred to by the majority, while helpful to understand the law generally, do not aid in immunizing bribes received for influencing of votes. As we have noted above, one of the reasons behind the claim of exclusive jurisdiction over bribery by the Parliament was that members of Parliament were not covered by the anti-corruption statute. However, a constitutional interpretation has to answer whether, in the absence 552 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of a statute, a member of Parliament can claim immunity for taking corruption money and thereby influence his vote. 143. Since the of this Court in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) the courts in UK have narrowly interpreted the immunity under Article IX. In R v. Chaytor,69 members of Parliament were prosecuted for false accounting for having submitted fake claims and making financial gains. The UK Supreme Court held that the purpose of Article IX of the Bill of Rights is to protect the freedom of speech in the House. The Court opined that the provision must be given a narrower view and held that the prosecution would not violate the privilege of Parliament. The Court relied on the holding in Greenway (supra) that the nexus between a bribe and a speech made in Parliament does not oust the jurisdiction of the courts. The Court therefore opined that submitting a claim for expenses and taking part in such proceedings has an even more tenuous link to parliamentary privileges and cannot be immune from prosecution.