These allegations have been investigated by SEBI including some investigations which were directed by this Court. SEBI as the statutory regulator has stated that it would complete the process in accordance with law. 57. However, this Court had sought inputs as to the role of short sellers, like Hindenburg, and the rules governing their actions as well as measures which may be taken to regulate them. Hindenburg Research describes itself as a research firm that specialises in “forensic financial research”. The firm purports to seek out situations where companies may have accounting irregularities, bad actors in management, undisclosed related party transactions, illegal/unethical business or financial reporting practices and undisclosed regulatory, product or financial issues. 58. Short selling is a sale of securities which the seller does not own but borrows from another entity, with the hope of repurchasing them at a later date with a lower price, thus, attempting to profit from an anticipated decline in the price of the securities. In its report, Hindenburg Research admits to taking a short position in the Adani group through US-traded bonds and non-Indian traded derivative instruments. SEBI has submitted that short selling is a desirable and essential feature to provide liquidity and to help price correction in over-valued stocks and hence, short selling is recognised as 16 GSM [2024] 1 S.C.R. 203 VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS a legitimate investment activity by securities market regulators in most countries. Short selling is regulated by a circular notified by SEBI on 20 December 2007. SEBI submits that any restrictions on short selling, may distort efficient price discovery, provide promoters unfettered freedom to manipulate prices, and favour manipulators rather than rational investors. Therefore, the International Organisation of Securities Commission recommends that short selling be regulated but not prohibited with an aim to increase transparency. We record the statement made by the Solicitor General before this Court that measures to regulate short selling will be considered by the Government of India and SEBI. SEBI and the investigative agencies of the Union Government shall also enquire into whether there was any infraction of law by the entities, which engaged in short-selling on this occasion. The loss which has been sustained by Indian investors as a result of the volatility caused by the short positions taken by Hindenburg Research and any other entities acting in concert with Hindenburg Research should be probed. ii. Investor Awareness 59. Informed decisions made by an aware investor population are a pre- requisite to an efficient market. The data from 2019 to 2022 provided by SEBI shows that there is an increase in the number of investors in the Indian economy in the ‘future and options segment’ of the stock market.17 This requires specialized knowledge. The creation of a framework for this knowledge to percolate to investors lies in the policy domain. However, this Court sought an assessment of the existing framework to aid a determination of whether the regulatory framework suffers from infirmities which would lead to an adverse impact on the Indian investors.