The Constituent Assembly Debates which the Union of India referred to ascertain the meaning of the phrase ‘intoxicating liquor’ are not of assistance. The phrases ‘alcoholic liquor for human consumption’ and ‘intoxicating liquor’ were used for the first time in the 1935 Act. Entry 16 of the Provincial List of the Devolution Rules dealt with ‘alcoholic liquor and intoxicating drugs’. The provision dealt both with regulatory power and excise power. It is necessary to trace the development between the 1909 Rules and the 1935 Act to understand the context of substituting the expression ‘alcoholic liquor’ with ‘intoxicating liquor’ in the regulatory entry but retaining it in the taxing entry. 98. The 1935 Act was based on the White Paper (1931) on the proposals for Indian Constitutional Reform172 and the Report of the Joint Select Committee on Indian Constitutional Reform173 which was constituted to examine and report upon the proposals contained in the White Paper. The White Paper recommended the demarcation of regulatory and taxation powers relating to alcohol. However, both the entries used the words ‘alcoholic liquor’.174 The Report of the Joint Committee suggested the following two revisions to the entries 171 The reason for providing Parliament the power to enact laws with respect to the excise duty on medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol is reflected in the footnote to Entry 86 of List I in the Draft Constitution of India 1948 as follows: “The committee is of the opinion that duties of excise on medicinal and toilet preparation containing alcohol or any substance included in sub-paragraph (b) of this entry should be included in this entry as duties leviable by the Union, as it thinks that uniform rates of excise duty should be fixed in respect of these goods in all states for the sake of development of the pharmaceutical industry. The levy of different rates in different States is likely to lead to discrimination in favour of goods imported from foreign countries which would be detrimental to the interest of Indian manufacturers as was pointed out by the Drugs Enquiry Committee in their report in 1931.”; See Shiva Rao (Vol II) pg. 666 172 “White Paper”; See Command Paper 4268 173 “Joint Committee”; See Report of the Joint Select Committee on Indian Constitutional Reform 174 See Joint Committee on Indian Constitutional Reform (Volume 1 Part I) 369; “26. Control of production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of alcoholic liquors, drugs and narcotics.”; “27. Imposition and regulation of duties of excise on alcoholic liquors, drugs and narcotics other than tobacco.” 2020 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports related to alcohol: (a) the relevant entry in the Federal List provided that the Union did not have the competence to levy excise duty on “potable alcoholic liquor”175 and the Provincial List conferred States the competence to levy excise duty on “potable alcoholic liquor”;176 and (b) the regulatory provision in List II dealt with the “production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of liquors, opium and other drugs and narcotics not covered by item 19 of List III.”177 99.