Digital Supreme Court Reports and who, from the discovery of new and important matter or evidence which, after the exercise of due diligence was not within his knowledge or could not be produced by him at the time when the decree was passed or made, or on account of some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record, or for any other sufficient reason, desires to obtain a review of the decree passed or made against him, may apply for a review of of the Court which passed the decree or made the . (2) A party who is not appealing from a decree or may apply for a review of notwithstanding the pendency of an appeal by some other party except where the ground of such appeal is common to the applicant and the appellant, or when, being respondent, he can present to the Appellate Court the case on which he applies for the review. [Explanation.—The fact that the decision on a question of law on which the of the Court is based has been reversed or modified by the subsequent decision of a Superior Court in any other case, shall not be a ground for the review of such . ]” (emphasis supplied) 18. Section 114 read with XLVII Rule 1 of the CPC 1908 is verbatim similar to Section 623 of the CPC 1877, except for the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 which was added by way of an Amendment in the year 1976. Section 114 of the CPC 1908 speaks of the circumstances, instances and situations under which a review can be filed. The words “as it thinks fit” cannot be interpreted to mean anything beyond what is conferred under XLVII Rule 1. In other words, Section 114 has to be read along with XLVII Rule 1. While they are to be read together, Section 114 is more procedural, whereas XLVII Rule 1 is substantially substantive. 19. The words “due diligence”, though one of fact, places onus heavily on the one who seeks a review. It has to be seen from the point of view of a reasonable and prudent man. Though an element of flexibility is given to any evidence or matter on its discovery, it has to be one which was not available to the court earlier. It could not [2024] 5 S.C.R. 101 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. have been produced despite due diligence, meaning thereby that it should have been available and, therefore, in existence at least at the time of passing the decree. 20. Mistake or error apparent on the face of record would debar the court from acting as an appellate court in disguise, by indulging in a re-hearing. A decision, however erroneous, can never be a factor for review, but can only be corrected in appeal. Such a mistake or error should be self-evident on the face of record. The error should be grave enough to be identified on a mere cursory look, and an omission so glaring that it requires interference in the form of a review.