A short interval of fifteen minutes between two shows is too little time for cleaning the cinema halls and there was also rush by the cine-goers to occupy the seats. Moreover, licensees would start exhibiting approved films and slides before the cine-goers could occupy their seats, with the result they would not have the benefit of the same. The absence of interval between the shows resulted in denial of fresh air, ventilation and cleanliness in the cinema halls. In to remove these maladies, the restriction on the number of shows to four per day was introduced. After analysing the inconvenience that would be caused to the cine-goers and also the fact that if the five shows were exhibited from 10 am to 1 am the next day, there would be great inconvenience caused to the public, the State Government had promulgated the restriction to only four shows in a day. Consequently, the said Rule was upheld by this Court by observing that it was intra vires the Act as it carried out the purposes of the Act and it did not place any unreasonable restriction in violation of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. Consequently, this Court dismissed the appeals as well as the writ petitions. (c) In T. Velayudhan Achari, Section 45-S (1) as introduced by Banking Laws (Amendment) Act, 1983 limiting the number of depositors that can be accepted by individual, firm or unincorporated association, was held to be not violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution as the said limitation protected larger interest of depositors. It was observed that a ceiling for acceptance of deposits and to require maintenance of certain liquidity of funds as well as not to exceed borrowings beyond a particular percentage of the net-owned funds had been provided [2024] 6 S.C.R. 855 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others in the corporate sector. But for these safeguards, the depositors would be left high and dry without any remedy. It was held that the restrictions were reasonable and were in the public interest. (d) In B.K. Kamath, Kurian Joseph J. (as a Judge of the Kerala High Court), observed that the Chartered Accountants Act was enacted for regulating the profession and in the process regulating and maintaining the status of the Chartered Accountants. Therefore, the measures taken, intended to maintain and improve the quality of work and ensure equitable distribution of work among the Chartered Accountants could not be held to be an unreasonable restriction since such restrictions are necessary for maintaining the status of the Chartered Accountants and also for ensuring the quality of the work by them. Comparing the said restriction to Section 224 of the Companies Act, 1956 wherein a Chartered Accountant is permitted to audit only twenty companies in a financial year since the introduction of the said provision in the year 1974, it was observed that such regulatory measures are provided in view of the onerous and time-consuming nature of the work of the Chartered Accountant requiring accuracy and perfection.