[2024] 8 S.C.R. 662 : 2024 INSC 567 Sudeep Chatterjee v. State of Bihar & Anr. (Criminal Appeal No. 3210 of 2024) 02 August 2024 [Prashant Kumar Mishra and C.T. Ravikumar,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether the High Court erred by putting onerous conditions on accused-appellant while granting provisional pre-arrest bail. Headnotes† Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.438 – Whether the High Court erred by putting onerous conditions on accused- appellant while granting provisional pre-arrest bail: Held: Courts have to be very cautious in imposing conditions while granting bail upon finding pre-arrest bail to be grantable – Conditions should be put warily, especially when the couple concerned who are litigating in divorce proceedings, jointly though lukewarmly, agreed to attempt to reconcile and re-unite – When the couple who are trying to bridge their emotional differences putting one among them under such an onerous condition would deprive a dignified life not only to the grantee but to both – The need to put compliable conditions while granting bail, recognizing the human right to live with dignity and with a view to secure the presence of the accused as also unhindered course of investigation, ultimately to ensure a fair trial – Conditions provided in the impugned for the release of the appellant on the provisional bail cannot be sustained – The granting the bail is made absolute and the appellant in the event of his arrest be released on bail – ‘Lex non cogit ad impossibilia’ means ‘the law does not compel a man to do what he cannot possibly perform’ – The impugned stands set aside to the extent of putting onerous condition on pre-arrest bail. [Paras 8, 9, 10] Bail – Marital dispute – Whether the conditions imposed on husband while granting provisional bail would ultimately benefit the couple going through a marital dispute: * Author [2024] 8 S.C.R. 663 Sudeep Chatterjee v. State of Bihar & Anr. Held: Putting conditions as has been done in this case, requiring a person to give an affidavit carrying a specific statement in the form of an undertaking that he would fulfill all physical as well as financial requirements of the other spouse so that she could lead a dignified life without interference of any of the family members of the appellant, can only be described as an absolutely improbable and impracticable condition – Such conditions will only be counterproductive as it makes one spouse dominant over the other – In respect of matters relating to matrimonial cases, conditions shall be put in such a way to make the grantee of the bail as also the griever to regain the lost love and affection and to come back to peaceful domesticity. [Paras 7, 8, 9] Case Law Cited Shri Gurbakash Singh Sibbia & Ors. v. State of Punjab [1980] 3 SCR 383 : (1980) 2 SCC 565; Parvez Noordin Lokhandwalla v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. [2020] 11 SCR 117 : (2020) 10 SCC 77 – referred to. List of Acts Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.