Only those employees of the State Government working in the Roadways who have opted for services of the Corporation shall be entitled to pension and other retirement benefits in terms of GO dated 05.07.1972. It is to be understood that there were temporary and permanent employees working in the Roadways and there were regular State Government employees who were also working in the Roadways. Under Regulation 39, quoted above, it is clearly demarcated that those State Government employees who have opted for service of the Corporation will be entitled for pension, otherwise an employee of the Corporation shall not be entitled to pension and these employees will be entitled to retirement benefits as mentioned in sub-Regulation (2) of Regulation 39. At this juncture, it would be relevant to mention that the pension entitlement of the Roadways employees (who are not State Government employees) are controlled by GO dated 28.10.1960 which has already been dealt with in the preceding paragraphs. 28. By another GO dated 19.08.1993 it was again clarified that the employees/officers of the Roadways who before 28.07.1982 are working/promoted on pensionable post of the previous department, shall be entitled to pension on the terms set forth in this GO. Those employees who do not want to avail pensionary benefits shall submit 1388 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports their written consent to this effect in to avoid dispute in future. Once again, GO dated 03.02.1994 was issued to the effect that such employees who before the constitution of the Corporation and promulgation of merger rules, had been on the pensionable post in the State Government, would be considered on deputation service and will be considered entitled for pension. 29. In to examine the appellants’ claim for pension it is necessary to dwell on the pre-requisites provided in the GO dated 28.10.1960. To be covered in the GO for receiving pension it is necessary for the appellants to plead and establish firstly, that they were holding permanent posts in the Roadways, and they fall in the three categories of employees referred to in para (1) of the GO. It is not the case of the appellants that they were made permanent by any express issued by the Roadways management, nor they claim to be working in any of the three posts referred to in para (1) of the GO. Since para (2) of the GO clearly provides that the rest of the permanent non-gazetted employees both in the traffic and engineering sections of the organization, would be treated as non-pensionable and similarly, all temporary employees will also be non-pensionable, the appellants are not entitled to pension as per GO dated 28.10.1960. Secondly, the appellants are not covered under Article 350 as amended on 20.04.1997 of the Regulations to hold the pensionable posts inasmuch as despite amendment in the first part of Article 350 of the Regulations, Note 3 thereof has not suffered amendment which provides that service in non-gazetted posts in Government Technical and Industrial Institutions in Uttar Pradesh does not qualify in the case of persons appointed to such posts on or after 15.11.1938.