for the Appellants. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General, Mrs. Aishwarya Bhati, A.S.G., Avdhesh Kumar Singh, A.A.G., Ms. Anjana Prakash, Mrs. Swarupama Chaturvedi, Sr. Advs., Prashant Singh, Rajat Nair, Mrs. Prerna Dhall, Piyush Yadav, Ms. Akanksha Singh, Alok Sahay, Himanshu Shekhar, Parth Shekhar, Ms. Ambali Vedasen, Shubham Singh, Ms. Rachna Ranjan, Ms. Sarita Kumari, Ritesh Kumar Gupta, T.V. Surendranath, Atul Arvind, Sudip Patra, Ms. Kamlika Samadder, Arvind Kumar Tomar, Mukesh Kumar Maroria, Ms. Ruchi Kohli, Ms. Shagun Thakur, Ms. Ruchi Gaur Narula, Santosh Kumar, Navanjay Mahapatra, Apoorv Kurup, Ms. Nidhi Mittal, Ms. Gauri Goburdhun, Ms. Aanchal, Akhil Hasija, Gurjas Singh Narula, Advs. for the Respondents. 88 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports / of the Supreme Court Vikram Nath, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. This appeal assails the correctness of the dated 10.05.2023 passed by the Division Bench of High Court of Chhattisgarh in W.P.Cr. No.197 of 2016 titled as Mandakini Diwan & Anr. vs. High Court of Chhattisgarh and seven others whereby the writ petition was dismissed with liberty to the petitioners therein (appellants herein) to avail the appropriate remedy before the appropriate forum. 3. Before referring to the facts we wish to make it clear that we are not entering into the detailed facts and submissions as advanced by the parties because any observation made by us on such submissions and detailed facts may result into influencing a fair investigation which we are inclined to direct in the present case by an independent agency. 4. The facts giving rise to the present appeal are: 4.1. The respondent no. 7 had applied in the Higher Judicial Services of the State of Chhattisgarh against the advertisement issued in the year 2012. Pursuant to which he was selected and appointed in June 2013 as Addl.District Judge, Geedam at Dantewada. Respondent no. 7 got married to the deceased on 15.02.2014. However, they had known each other since 2010. The deceased was working as Asstt. District Prosecution Officer. At the relevant time they were posted at Dantewada. 4.2. On 12.05.2016, in the evening at about 10:30 PM the appellants who are mother and the brother of the deceased received a phone call that Ms. Ranjana Diwan had committed suicide. Immediately they rushed from Bilaspur to Dantewada and tried to figure out as to what had happened. According to the appellants they were not provided with the post mortem report. 4.3. It is the case of the appellants that there was something fishy in the death of Ms. Ranjana Diwan and it was not a case of simple suicide. It was also their apprehension that respondent no. 7 having sufficient influence being a senior judicial officer had managed the post mortem in which the cause of death was shown to be suicide by hanging. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 89 Mandakini Diwan and Anr. v. The High Court of Chhattisgarh & Ors. 4.4. The post-mortem report further indicated that the deceased had six ante-mortem injuries on her body. The information of suicide was given to the Dantewada Police Station, a Merg was registered under section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.1 On 13.05.2016, the police made recoveries, the copy of which is filed as Annexure -P/2.