The clause reads as follows: “The Senators and Representatives shall receive a Compensation for their Services, to be ascertained by 70 [2014] QB 839 554 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Law, and paid out of the Treasury of the United States. They shall in all Cases, except Treason, Felony and Breach of the Peace, be privileged from Arrest during their Attendance at the Session of their respective Houses, and in going to and returning from the same; and for any Speech or Debate in either House, they shall not be questioned in any other Place.” (emphasis supplied) Courts in the US have given a broad interpretation to the Speech and Debate clause so far as legislative acts of the members of Congress are concerned. Beyond that the Courts have held that a member of Congress may be liable under a criminal statute of general application. All that is prohibited is reliance on the official acts of the member to prove the prosecution case. 147. In United States v. Thomas F Johnson,71 a member of Congress was accused of conflict of interest and conspiring to defraud the United States. The allegation against Johnson was that he entered into a conspiracy to exert influence and obtain dismissal of pending indictments against a saving and loan company and its officers on mail fraud charge. As part of the conspiracy, Johnson made speeches favourable to independent savings and loan associations in the House. The accused was found guilty by the trial court. His conviction was set aside by the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit on the ground that the allegations were barred under the Speech and Debate Clause from being raised in the Court. The US Supreme Court in interpreting the Speech and Debate Clause held that the Government may not use the speech made by a member of Congress or question its motivation in a court of law. However, the prosecution may make a case without relying on the speech given by the Congressman. The Court opined that its decision does not apply to a prosecution for violating a general criminal law which ‘does not draw in question the legislative acts of the defendant member of Congress or his motives for performing them.’ 148. The US Supreme Court has relied on Johnson (supra) in subsequent cases involving bribery by members of Congress to hold that they 71 383 US 169 (1966) [2024] 3 S.C.R. 555 Sita Soren v. Union of India may be prosecuted so long as they do not rely on a speech or vote given by the legislator. In United States v. Brewster,72 a Senator was accused of accepting a bribe in return for being influenced in his performance of official acts with respect to postage rate legislation. The trial court dismissed the charges on the ground that the Senator attracted parliamentary privileges. The US Supreme Court by majority held that the Speech and Debate Clause prevented prosecutors from introducing evidence that the member of Congress actually performed some legislative act, such as making a speech or introducing legislation, as part of a corrupt plan, but that other evidence might establish that the member had violated the anti- corruption laws.