We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at bar and have gone through the impugned and the material available on record. 16. The plank contention of Shri Puneet Jain, learned counsel representing the appellant for assailing the impugned s was that the deceased widow Smt. Nandkanwarbai was never in possession of the suit property and as a consequence, her adopted son, plaintiff Kailash Chand, was precluded from claiming partition of the suit property by virtue of succession and hence, the Revenue suit was not maintainable. He had placed reliance on the findings arrived at by the civil Court in the suit filed by Smt. Nandkanwarbai to buttress this contention. 17. At the outset, it may be noted that in so far as the aspect that Smt. Nandkanwarbai(deceased widow) had never been in possession of the suit property is concerned, the same is virtually an admitted position from the record because she never challenged the and decree dated 21st May, 1959 whereby the suit filed by her for declaration of title and possession was dismissed by the civil Court and she was held only entitled to receive maintenance from the undivided estate. Thus, indisputably neither Smt. Nadkanwarbai nor the plaintiff Kailash Chand were ever in possession of the suit land. 18. In the case of Munni Devi(supra) which was heavily relied upon by the learned counsel for the respondent Shri Bhattacharya, the admitted position was that Bhonri Devi, widow of Late Dhannalalji was actually residing in the suit property during the time the coparcener Shri Harinarayanji was alive and even after his death, she continued to reside in the said house and used to collect the rents from the tenants who were occupying the suit property till the date of filing of suit. 19. A Bench of two Honourable Judges of this Court after considering the gamut of Section 14 of the Succession Act in the case of Munni Devi(supra) observed as below: - “14. In view of the above, there remains no shadow of doubt that a Hindu woman’s right to maintenance was not and is not an empty formality or an illusory claim being conceded as a [2024] 6 S.C.R. 307 Mukatlal v. Kailash Chand (D) Through Lrs. and Ors. matter of grace and generosity. It is a tangible right against the property, which flows from the spiritual relationship between the husband and the wife. The said right was recognised and enjoined by pure Shastric Hindu Law, which existed even before the passing of the 1937 or the 1946 Acts. Those Acts merely gave statutory backing recognising the position as was existing under the Shastric Hindu Law. Where a Hindu widow is in possession of the property of her husband or of the husband’s HUF, she has a right to be maintained out of the said property. She is entitled to retain the possession of that property in lieu of her right to maintenance. Section 14(1) and the Explanation thereto envisages liberal construction in favour of the females, with the object of advancing and promoting the socio-economic ends sought to be achieved by the said legislation.