Ext. P4 is that application and it bears my signature and portion A-A and signature of my brother at B-B.” 33. During further cross examination, he would depose: - “Our name was not legally mutated on the disputed lands in the revenue court under Application Ext. P4.” 34. We have already found that the High Court was perfectly correct in holding that the plaintiff had acquired ownership over the property on the strength of Ext.P1/C sale deed. In such circumstances, the claim put forth as relates perfecting the title by adverse possession as also the suit being barred by limitation have to be considered with reference to the oral testimony of DW-1 as extracted above and the other allied evidences and also the various decisions referred to and relied on by the High Court to negate the said claim based on adverse possession. The deposition of DW-1 himself would go to show that the original defendants applied for getting occupancy right over the said property and in that regard filed Ext.P4 and at the same time sought for entering their names in place of the plaintiff in respect of the suit land in revenue records. However, such a mutation had never happened. In fact, the evidence would reveal that the defendants made an application on 27.01.1981 (Ext.P4) before the Tehsildar, Raipur, stating that they have taken the suit land on lease as a Adhiyadar from plaintiff in 1973-1974 and cultivated the same for more than two years and thereby they became the absolute owners of the property in question. In the said application in paragraph (1) they stated specifically that they [2024] 10 S.C.R. 729 Neelam Gupta & Ors. v. Rajendra Kumar Gupta & Anr. took agricultural lands on lease (patta) from the plaintiff Rajendra Kumar under his ownership. It is a fact borne out from the records that the said application was rejected by the Tehsildar vide dated 22.06.1985 and the appeal against the same was dismissed by Sub-Divisional Officer, Raipur on 29.10.1986. Though, the matter was further taken up before the Commissioner, he confirmed the of the SDO as per dated 29.03.1988. These evidence available on record were duly taken note of and dealt with by the High Court. The factum of submission of Ext.P4 application and the passing of s thereon, as above, are indisputable and undisputed and hence, in the teeth of evidence, as above, the defendants/the appellants cannot claim adverse possession against the respondent/ the plaintiff. In view of the above indisputable and undisputed facts as also the rejection of the contention of voidness of the sale deeds referred above, the defendants would not be justified in claiming that they had perfected the title by adverse possession and at the same time the aforesaid position would reveal that their possession was permissive in nature. The conclusion so arrived by the High Court based on proper appreciation of the evidence, in detail, as is discernible from the impugned is nothing but the outcome of correct appreciation of the materials on record.