The issue before this Court was whether the total ban of protests at the Jantar Mantar Road would violate the right to protest which is traceable to Articles 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(b). One of the inter-related issues was whether the right to hold peaceful demonstrations violates the right of peaceful residence under Article 21, and if it does, how this Court should balance the conflicting fundamental rights. This Court observed that the Court must while balancing two fundamental rights examine where the larger public interest lies.'°? This Court framed the following issue in the specific context of the case: whether disturbances caused to residents by the protest is a larger public interest which outweighs the rights of protestors. The two-Judge Bench held that “demonstrations as it has been happening” are causing serious discomfort to the residents, and that the right to protest could be balanced with the right to peaceful residence if authorities had taken adequate safeguards such as earmarking specific areas for protest, placing restrictions on the use of loudspeakers and on parking of vehicles around residential places. 149. The of this Court in Mazdoor Kisan Shakti (supra), represents the gradual shift from the pre-proportionality phase to the proportionality stage which signifies a shift in the degree of justification and the employment of a structured analysis for balancing fundamental rights. In Mazdoor Kisan Shakti (supra), this Court applied one of the prongs of the proportionality standard (the least restrictive means prong) while balancing the right to protest and the right to peaceful residence. The Court identified other means 161 Ibid, [121] 162 [20111 S8CR ]58 6 : (2018) 17 SCC 324 163 (2018)1 7 SCC 324 [58] [2024] 2 S.C.R. 527 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. which would have infringed the right to a peaceful residence to a lesser extent. 150. In 2012, a five-Judge Bench of this Court in Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Limited v. Securities and Exchange Board of 61974, used a standard which resembled the structured proportionality standard used in PJusuticet KtS aswam(5yJ) v. Union of India’® to balance the conflict between two fundamental rights. This marked the first departure from the series of cases in which this Court balanced two fundamental rights based on doctrinal predominance. In Sahara (supra), the petitioner submitted a proposal for the repayment of OFCDs (optionally fully convertible bonds) to the investors. The details of the proposals were published by a news channel. Interlocutory applications were filed in the Court praying for the issuance of guidelines for reporting matters which are sub-judice. This Court resolved the conflict between the freedom of press protected under Article 19(1)(a) and the right to free trial under Article 21 by evolving a neutralizing device. This Court held that it has the power to evolve neutralizing devices such as the postponement of trial, retrial, change of venue, and in appropriate cases, grant acquittal in case of excessive media prejudicial publicity to neutralize the conflicting rights. This Court followed the Canadian approach in evolving a two prong standard to balance fundamental rights through neutralizing devices which partly resembled the structured proportionality standard.