83. The issue concerning the power of a regular bench to refer a matter to a larger bench must be examined in light of the passed in Anjuman (supra), which opined that Azeez Basha (supra) required reconsideration by a larger bench and proceeded to refer it to a seven- judge bench. To this end, the Respondents have vehemently contended that such reference was bad in law and should be declared so. 84. In this vein, we have identified two key aspects of this issue: (i) what were the issues identified in Anjuman (supra) which were intended for the larger bench to address; and (ii) whether the manner of making such a reference was legally sound. F.1. Issues that were intended to be addressed by the larger bench 85. At the outset, it is crucial to determine whether the bench in Anjuman (supra) intended to restrict the reference in such a way that the seven-judge bench would only analyse the criteria necessary for an institution to qualify as a minority institution under Article 30 of the Constitution. For the sake of clarity and despite the risk of repetition, we find it essential to put forth the relevant extract from the observations made in Anjuman (supra): “After hearing counsel for the Parties, we are clearly of the opinion that this case involves two substantial questions regarding the interpretation of Article 30(1) of the Constitution of India. The present institution was founded in the year 1938 and registered under the Societies Registration Act in the year 1940. The documents relating to the time when the institution was founded clearly shows that while the institution was established mainly by the Muslim community but there were members 5 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1807 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. from the non-Muslim community also who participated in the establishment process. The point that arises is as to whether Act. 30(1) of the Constitution envisages an institution which is established by minorities alone without the participation for the factum of establishment from any other community. On this point, there is no clear decision of this court. There are some observations in S. Azeez Basha & ors. Vs. Union of India 1968(1) SCR 333, but these observations can be explained away: Another point that arises is whether soon after the establishment of the institution if it is registered as a Society under the Society Registration Act, its status as a minority institution changes in view of the broad principles laid down in S. Azeez Basha’s case. Even as it is several jurists including Mr. Seervai have expressed about the correctness of the decision of this court in S. Azeez Basha’s case. Since the point has arisen in this case we think that this is a proper occasion when a larger bench can consider the entire aspect fully. We, therefore, direct that this case may be placed before Hon. The Chief Justice for being heard by a bench of at least 7 judges so that S. Azeez Basha’s case may also be considered and the points that arise in this case directly as to the essential conditions or ingredients of the minority institution may also be decided once for all.