There is no case for the first respondent that it sought permission to cross-examine Kaushik Narsinhbhai Patel who filed affidavit of evidence and produced documentary evidence. At any rate, no such case was put forth by the first respondent and no grievance of denial of such opportunity was also raised. In the circumstances expatiated above, in view of Annexure P-18 the reply and objection filed by the first respondent herein in this proceeding also cannot be looked to the extent it carries pleadings relating its case, the reasons and objections which could have been let in through a written statement. In short, the first respondent could be permitted only to argue the legal questions arising based on authorities and provisions of law as also regarding lapses or laches and the consequential non-admissibility or otherwise of evidence, let in by the appellants. 19. Having held as above, the next question to be looked into is whether NCDRC had given weight to any such pleadings and contentions taken by the first respondent in its written submissions and/or whether the decision of NCDRC is based on any fact, factors or data furnished by the first respondent beyond the extent permissible on account of the legal trammel of forfeiture of its opportunity to file a written statement. At this juncture, we may hasten to add that even when the defendant’s/opposite party’s right to file a written statement is forfeited that by itself will not make it obligatory on the part of the NCDRC to pass an in favour of a complainant in case the complainant concerned failed to establish its case. This power is to be read into the jurisdiction of a body with adjudicating power. This is because there is distinct difference between a situation of non-filing of a written statement pursuant to a declaration that the opposite party had forfeited the right to file a written statement and absence of denial of specific pleadings of complainant in the written 834 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports statement filed by an opposite party. Certainly, in the latter case, absence of denial of specific pleadings on facts they can be taken as admitted. In the case on hand, it is to be noted that actually as per dated 27.01.2021, NCDRC had granted time to the first respondent to file a written statement with a caution that in case of failure to file the same within the stipulated time, the right to file a written statement would be closed. It is this dated 27.01.2021 that was challenged by the complainants that ultimately culminated in Annexure P-18 of declaration of forfeiture. 20. A close scrutiny of the impugned in juxtaposition with the written submissions filed by the first respondent would go to show that NCDRC had not actually accepted the case of the first respondent raised in defence in its written submissions or in that matter, no reason or objection raised in the written statement was also adverted to, for rendering its decision on the complaint.