2. The allowance will be available w.e.f. 01.01.2020.” 69. The recommendation is accepted. 17. Robe Allowance 70. The SNJPC has noted that the pay and facilities of judicial officers have considerably improved in view of the recommendations made by the Judicial Commissions. Hence, the situation which existed at the time when the FNJPC had examined the matter “no longer exists now”. Hence, it was of the view that it would be appropriate if judicial officers do not raise such a demand. The Seventh CPC recommended a uniform allowance only to those employees who are required to wear a prescribed dress in the course of the discharge of their duties. However, having regard to the practice which was in [2024] 1 S.C.R. 365 All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors force for a considerable time and the essential nature of the robe as apparel for Judges, the SNJPC recommended a “modest increase of the allowance, with the hope that such demand for robe allowance will not be raised before the next Commission”. Consequently, the SNJPC recommended that: (i) An allowance of Rs 12,000 will be payable once in three years with effect from 01.01.2016; and (ii) The demand for the robe allowance may not be raised before the next Commission. 71. We are inclined to accept and accordingly accept the above recommendations. 18. Special Pay for Administrative Work 72. The SNJPC noted that judicial officers in-charge of certain courts/ tribunals have administrative responsibilities for which extra time outside the court working hours has to be spent. This is especially so in the case of Principal District and Sessions Judges or other District Judges having similar responsibilities. The SNJPC noted that Principal District Judges in the districts and officers of equivalent ranks in the cities are required to inspect courts, monitor the progress of cases, assess the performance of officers, conduct discreet inquiries in vigilance cases, and send reports to the High Courts. The administrative work, as the SNJPC noted, is considerable and extra time has to be devoted both at the residence and office for carrying out such duties. 73. Bearing in mind the additional administrative duties which have to be discharged by judicial officers, the SNJPC made the following recommendations: “1. Special Pay for Judicial officers doing administrative work shall be payable to : a) Principal District and Sessions Judges : Rs.7000/- per month b) Other District Judges including I Additional District Judges entrusted with administrative work who have to generally spend time beyond Court working hours : Rs. 3500/- per month. 366 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports c) District Judges presiding over Special Courts and Tribunals having independent administrative responsibilities : Rs.3500/- per month. d) CJMs and Principal Senior, Junior Civil Judges and other Judicial Officers having administrative responsibilities being in charge of independent Courts with filing powers : Rs.2000/- per month. 2. The Special Pay shall be available w.e.f. 01.01.2019.” 74. The SNJPC has adduced a sound rationale for the above recommendation. The recommendation is accordingly accepted.