ii. undertake site inspection. iii. seek assistance or presence of any person(s) or official(s) required by it in relation to its work. iv. co-opt one or more persons as special invitees for dealing with specific issues. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1207 In Re: T. N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Ors. v. co-opt, wherever feasible, the Secretary of the State Government dealing with the subjects related to Forest or Wildlife or Environment or his representative or the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests of the State as special invitees while dealing with issues pertaining to a particular State. vi. to suggest or recommend measures generally to the State as well as Central Government, for the more effective implementation of the Act and other s of the Supreme Court in above matters. B. to examine and advise or recommend on any issue referred to the Committee by the Central Government, from time to time.” 17. The notification provides that the states or Central Government shall give reasons in writing for not accepting any suggestion or recommendation of the CEC and the decision of the Central Government shall be final.22 Further, in case of deferment of the decision of any State Government with the CEC’s recommendation, the matter shall be referred to the Central Government and the decision of the Central Government shall be final and binding.23 We may clarify at this very stage that the decisions of the Central Government, or, for that matter, State Governments, are always subject to the s of this Court. When this notification was placed before us, we clarified this position, and we hereby reiterate that the of the State and/or Central Government under clauses 3 and 4 will be subject to any direction or that this Court may pass from time to time. 18. The members of the CEC are appointed in their personal capacity and are to function under the administrative control of the MoEFCC, with headquarters in Delhi.24 The salaries and allowances payable, other perks and conditions of service of the Chairperson and members are to be prescribed and they cannot be varied to their disadvantage after the appointment.25 MoEFCC is required to provide suitable and adequate office accommodation for the CEC and requisite manpower, 22 ibid, s.3. 23 ibid, s.4. 24 ibid, s.5. 25 ibid, s.6. 1208 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports budgetary support, and infrastructure for the discharge of functions and powers delegated to the CEC.26 MoEFCC is also required to meet the expenditure incurred, including salaries and remuneration to members and supporting staff.27 The CEC is required to submit quarterly reports to the Central Government and MoEFCC for periodical review and audit of the CEC’s functioning.28 19. Finally, the Central Government appointed the members of the CEC by another notification dated 08.09.2023, and the composition is as follows:29 i) Sri Siddhant Das, Chairman, ii) Sri Chandra Prakash Goyal, Member, iii) Sri Sunil Limaye, Member, iv) Dr. J.R. Bhatt, Member and v) Ms Banumathi G, Assistant Inspector General of Forests, MoEFCC, Member Secretary.