Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) The question as to whether Tiger Safaris shall be permitted in the buffer area or fringe area; (ii) If such Safaris can be permitted, then what should be the guidelines for establishing such Safaris? (iii) While considering the aforesaid aspect, the Committee shall take into consideration the following factors : a) the approach must be of ecocentrism and not of anthro- pocentrism; b) the precautionary principle must be applied to ensure that the least amount of environmental damage is caused; c) the animals sourced shall not be from outside the Tiger Reserve. Only injured, conflicted, or orphaned tigers may be exhibited as per the 2016 Guidelines. To that extent the contrary provisions in the 2019 Guidelines stand quashed; d) That such Safaris should be proximate to the Rescue Centres. The aforesaid factors are only some of the factors to be taken into consideration and the Commit- tee would always be at liberty to take such other factors into consideration as it deems fit. (iv) The type of activities that should be permitted and prohib- ited in the buffer zone and fringe areas of the Tiger Reserve. While doing so, if tourism is to be promoted, it has to be eco- tourism. The type of construction that should be permissible in such resorts would be in tune with the natural environment. (v) The number and type of resorts that should be permitted within the close proximity of the protected areas. What re- striction to be imposed on such resorts so that they are man- aged in tune with the object of protecting and maintaining the ecosystem rather than causing obstruction in the same. (vi) As to within how much areas from the boundary of the pro- tected forest there should be restriction on noise level and what should be those permissible noise levels. (vii) The measures that are required to be taken for effective management and protection of Tiger Reserves which shall be applicable on a Pan India basis. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 191 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal (viii) The steps to be taken for scrupulously implementing such recommendations. E. The CBI is directed to effectively investigate the matter as directed by the High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital in its and dated 6th September 2023, passed in Writ Petition No.178 of 2021. F. The present proceedings shall be kept pending so that this Court can monitor the steps taken by the Authorities as well as the investigation conducted by the CBI. G. This Court will consider issuing appropriate directions after the recommendations are received by this Court from the aforesaid Committee. The Committee is requested to give its preliminary report within a period of three months from today. H. The CBI shall submit a report to this Court within a period of three months from today. I. The State of Uttarakhand is directed to complete the disciplinary proceedings against the delinquent officers as expeditiously as possible and in any case, within a period of six months from today.