It was stated that the questions as regards the existence and validity being intertwined, an arbitration agreement does not exist if it is illegal or does not satisfy mandatory legal requirements. The decision endorsed the application of a prima facie test in examining the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement both under Sections 8 and 11. This prima facie examination was not a full review but a primary first review to weed out manifest and ex-facie non-existent and invalid arbitration agreements and non-arbitrable disputes. However, it was clarified that the Court should not get lost in thickets and decide debatable questions of fact. The relevant extract is reproduced hereinbelow: “153. Accordingly, we hold that the expression “existence of an arbitration agreement” in Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, would include aspect of validity of an arbitration agreement, albeit the court at the referral stage would apply the prima facie test on the basis of principles set out in this . In cases of debatable and disputable facts, and good reasonable arguable case, etc., the court would force the parties to abide by the arbitration agreement as the Arbitral Tribunal has primary jurisdiction and authority to decide the disputes including the question of jurisdiction and non-arbitrability.” (Emphasis Supplied) 930 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 60. Vidya Drolia (supra) while speaking in the context of Section 8 also pointed out that jurisdictional issues like whether certain parties are bound by the arbitration agreement must be left to the arbitral tribunal since they involve complicated factual questions and observed as thus: “239. […] Jurisdictional issues concerning whether certain parties are bound by a particular arbitration, under group- company doctrine or good faith, etc., in a multi-party arbitration raises complicated factual questions, which are best left for the tribunal to handle. […]” (Emphasis supplied) 61. A Constitution Bench of this Court in In Re: Interplay Between Arbitration Agreements under Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and Stamp Act, 1899 reported in (2024) 6 SCC 1, stated that an arbitration agreement contained in an unstamped or insufficiently stamped contract would not be non-existent in law as stated in Garware Wall Ropes (supra). It also clarified the position taken in Vidya Drolia (supra) and stated that the parameters for judicial review under Sections 8 and 11 respectively were different. The scope of examination under Section 11(6) should be confined to the “existence of the arbitration agreement” under Section 7 of the Act, 1996. Similarly, the “validity of an arbitration agreement” must be restricted to the requirement of formal validity such as the requirement that the agreement be in writing. Substantive objections pertaining to existence and validity on the basis of evidence must therefore be left to the arbitral tribunal. Moreover, it was stated that the expression “examination” under Section 11 does not connote or imply a laborious or contested inquiry. On the other hand, Section 16 provides that the arbitral tribunal can “rule” on its jurisdiction, including the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement.