The indicia for the determination of whether an 14 2005 SCC OnLine All 1705 15 in Special Appeal No 1321 of 2005 and connected matters, High Court of Allahabad 1688 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports educational institution is a minority educational institution is (i) who established it; (ii) who is responsible for administration; and (iii) the purpose of the establishment; b. By amending Section 2(l), Parliament attempted to overrule the decision in Azeez Basha (supra). This amendment does not change the basis of that decision because the incorporation of the University was not the sole factor which influenced the decision; c. Section 5(2)(c) is discriminatory. Further, it does not change the basis of the decision in Azeez Basha (supra); d. The removal of the words “establish and” from the long title and preamble of the AMU Act is impermissible because Azeez Basha (supra) held that incorporation and establishment are intimately connected. Permitting the omission of the word “establish” may give rise to doubts as to whether incorporation alone is sufficient for the surrender of the minority character of the institution; e. AMU is not merely a university but a field of legislative power in Entry 63 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. Section 2(l) modified the definition of a word in an entry in the Seventh Schedule. The definition of a word in the Constitution cannot be altered except through a constitutional amendment. The AMU (Amendment) Act 1981 therefore suffers from lack of legislative competence; and f. Parliament lacks the authority to create a minority institution. Only a minority can do so and courts may declare whether a minority has succeeded in establishing an institution under Article 30. 14. Ashok Bhushan, J. concurred with AN Ray, C.J. in a separate . The learned Judge observed that the institution must have been both established and administered by a minority to seek the protection of Article 30(1). The 1981 Amendment, in his view, has dealt with the establishment component of the but has left the administration component untouched. Further, the learned Judge agreeing with Chief Justice Ray observed that the requirements for a minority to establish an institution cannot be secured by merely altering the definition of the institution and the long title and the preamble of [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1689 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. the Act. In view of the findings detailed above, the Court declared that AMU was not a minority institution within the meaning of Article 30 and struck down Sections 2(l) and 5(2)(c) as amended by the AMU (Amendment) Act 1981. The High Court held that the removal of the words “establish and” from the long title and preamble was invalid and restored them. It affirmed the conclusion of the Single Judge that the reservation policy was unconstitutional. However, it overruled the direction issued by the Single Judge to AMU to cancel the admission of students who had already been accommodated in the University on the basis of the reservation policy.