Hence, what is crucial is that the estate of a deceased person which becomes liable and the legal representatives must discharge their liability to a decree holder or a person who has been granted an to recover from the estate of the deceased which they would represent and not beyond it. 27. But in the case of a personal obligation imposed on a person under the contract and on the demise of such person, his estate does not become liable and therefore, the legal representatives who represent the estate of a deceased would obviously not be liable and cannot be directed to discharge the contractual obligations of the deceased. 28. In Ajmera Housing Corporation vs. Amrit M. Patel (Dead) through LRs, (1998) 6 SCC 500, this Court observed that the defendants in the said case had no privity of contract with the plaintiff therein and the contract had been entered into on the basis of the skills and capacity of the party to perform under the contract and the rights and duties were also personal to the party who had to discharge the obligations under the contract. In the circumstances, it was observed that the legal representatives of the builder under the contract had neither the capacity nor the special skills to discharge the obligations of the deceased. 29. This position is also clear on a reading of Section 50 of the CPC which states as under: [2024] 3 S.C.R. 145 Vinayak Purshottam Dube (Deceased), Through Lrs v. Jayashree Padamkar Bhat & Others “Section.50:- (1) Where a -debtor dies before the decree has been fully satisfied, the holder of the decree may apply to the Court which passed it to execute the same against the legal representative of the deceased. (2) Where the decree is executed against such legal representative, he shall be liable only to the extent of the property of the deceased which has come to his hands and has not been duly disposed of; and, for the purpose of ascertaining such liability, the Court executing the decree may, of its own motion or on the application of the decree- holder, compel such legal representative to produce such accounts as it thinks fit.” 30. Thus, any decree which is relatable to the extent of the property of the deceased which has come to the hands of the legal representatives and has not been duly disposed of, the same would be liable for execution by a decree holder so as to compel the legal representatives to satisfy the decree. In this context, even a decree for preventive injunction can also be executed against the legal representatives of the deceased -debtor if such a decree is in relation to the property or runs with the property if there is a threat from such legal representatives. 31. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we hold that the legal representatives of the deceased opposite party-appellants herein are not liable to discharge the obligation which had to be discharged by the deceased opposite party in his personal capacity and hence that portion of the impugned s of the NCDRC, State Commission and District Forum are set aside.