She had never stated before the police under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that the appellant used to harass the deceased. Therefore, it was evident that she had improved upon her statement when in her deposition she stated that the appellant used to tease the deceased. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 335 Kumar @ Shiva Kumar v. State of Karnataka 10.3 Learned counsel also submits that there were injury marks on the body of the deceased. The front of the right wrist showed superficial linear incised injury measuring 5cms in length, which was partially healed. This injury was not explained by the prosecution. That apart, the presence of the injury and the partial healing of the same was indicative of the fact that the said injury had occurred sometime prior to the date of occurrence. This would also be a reflection on the suicidal tendency of the deceased. 10.4 It is further submitted that though the deceased was hospitalised on 05.07.2000, there was delay in lodging of the first information. The First Information Report (FIR) was lodged only on 07.07.2000 at 06:30 AM though the deceased had died on the previous evening at 07:30 PM. This fact coupled with the non- disclosure of alleged harassment of the appellant to anyone by the deceased creates a great deal of doubt about the veracity of the prosecution case. Moreover, the appellant had got married just about two months prior to the incident. Therefore, there was no reason for the appellant to threaten the deceased to marry him failing which she and her family members would be visited with dire consequences. 10.5 In support of his submissions, learned counsel for the appellant has placed reliance on the following two decisions of this Court: (i) Ude Singh and Others Vs. State of Haryana, (2019) 17 SCC 301 (ii) Mahendra K.C. Vs. State of Karnataka and Another, (2022) 2 SCC 129. 11. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent submits that the evidence on record unmistakably point to the guilt of the appellant. Prosecution could prove that it was the appellant who had abetted the deceased to commit suicide. The charge against the appellant was proved by the prosecution beyond all reasonable doubt and therefore the trial court was fully justified in convicting the appellant under Section 306 IPC and imposing the sentence as above. 11.1 The High Court rightly affirmed the conviction of the appellant imposed by the trial court. 336 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11.2 There is no rule of evidence that conviction cannot be based on the testimony of the evidence of the family members of the deceased. A holistic reading of the evidence of the prosecution witnesses more particularly that of PW Nos. 1, 2 and 4 would clearly establish the prosecution case which was further strengthened by the evidence of the doctor i.e. PW-13. He, therefore, submits that there is no merit in the appeal which is liable to be dismissed. 12. Submissions made by learned counsel for the parties have received the due consideration of the Court.