Where no period is prescribed that assessment can be completed at any time but once completed it is final. Once a final assessment has been made, it can only be reopened to rectify a mistake apparent from the record (section 35) or to reassess where there has been an escapement of assessment of income for one reason or another (section 34). Both these sections which enable reopening of back assessments provide their own periods of time for action but all these periods of time, whether for the first assessment or for rectification, or for reassessment, merely create a bar when that time passed against the machinery set up by the Income-tax Act for the assessment and levy of the tax. They do not create an exemption in favour of the assessee or grant an absolution on the expiry of the period. The liability is not enforceable but the tax may again become exigible if the bar is removed and the taxpayer is brought within the jurisdiction of the said machinery by reasons of a new power. This is, of course, subject to the condition that the law must say that such is the jurisdiction, either expressly or by clear implication. If the language of the law has that clear meaning, it must be given that effect and where the language expressly so declares or clearly implies it, the retrospective operation is not controlled by the commencement clause.” 55 R K Upadhyaya v. Shanabhai Patel (1987) 3 SCC 96 [2] 56 [1963] Supp. 2 SCR 92 : 1962 SCC OnLine SC 73 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1669 Union of India & Ors. v. Rajeev Bansal 29. In S S Gadgil v. Lal & Co., a three-Judge Bench of this Court held that the period prescribed under Section 34 of the Income Tax Act 1922 “is not a period of limitation.”57 It was further observed that Section 34 “imposes a fetter upon the power of the Income Tax Officer to bring to tax escaped income” by prescribing “different periods in different classes of cases for enforcement of the right of the States to recover tax.”58 Under Section 34, Income Tax Officers were statutorily barred from issuing a notice of assessment or reassessment after the expiry of the statutory time limit prescribed under the Income Tax Act. Consequently, reassessment notices issued by the Revenue beyond the prescribed time limits were declared invalid for being time-barred.59 Assessment proceedings that have attained finality under existing law due to a time bar cannot be held to be open for revival unless the amended provision is given retrospective effect to allow upsetting the legal proceedings.60 30. If a statute expressly confers a power or imposes a duty on a particular authority, then such power or duty must be exercised or performed by that authority itself.61 Further, when a statute vests certain power in an authority to be exercised in a particular manner, then that authority has to exercise its power following the prescribed manner.62 Any exercise of power by statutory authorities inconsistent with the statutory prescription is invalid.63 Section 34 of the Income Tax Act 1922 prescribed a duty on Income Tax Officers to seek prior approval of the Commissioner before issuing a reassessment notice.