Digital Supreme Court Reports Rs.4.61 Crores, however respondent’s investigation has revealed that the entire Rs.4.81 Crores (Rs.4.61 Crores plus commission plus Rs.15 lakhs in J.J. Ideal Estates Pvt. Ltd.) was entirely the property of Satyendar Jain received in his companies as accommodation entries in lieu of cash and this entire sum was sought to be declared by the appellants Ankush Jain and Vaibhav Jain in the IDS as their own income. 12. In the light of the said clarification, the Learned Senior Advocate Ms. Arora had further submitted that the so-called inadvertent error was not pointed out before the trial court and the High Court and it was only during the course of arguments before this Court, the said clarification/rectification was sought to be made, which is not permissible. According to her, ED attains jurisdiction to investigate only after the proceeds of crime is generated and when the same is subjected to any process or activity as mentioned in Section 3 of PMLA. Therefore, ED could not have increased the proceeds of crime beyond what was taken as disproportionate assets by the CBI i.e. 1,47,60,497/-. She further submitted that as per the FIR, the figure mentioned was Rs. 1,53,61,166/-, during the arguments and as per the written submissions the figure mentioned was Rs. 4,81,16,435/-, and the figure mentioned as per the affidavit is Rs.4,65,99,635/- which does not find mention in the complaint. Thus, the allegations made against the appellants being vague in nature, the benefit should go to the appellants. ANALYSIS 13. We are well conscious of the fact that the chargesheet has already been filed in the predicate offence on 03.12.2018 for the offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act allegedly committed by the present appellants alongwith others, and the cognizance thereof has already been taken by the concerned Court. The Prosecution Complaint has also been filed by the respondent – ED against the present appellants alongwith others for the commission of the offence of Money laundering as defined under Section 3 read with Section 70 punishable under Section 4 of PMLA 2002. We have also been apprised that the Special Court has fixed the Prosecution Complaint for framing of charge against the appellants alongwith others. Under the circumstances any observation made by us may influence the process of trial. We, therefore would refrain ourselves from dealing [2024] 3 S.C.R. 797 Satyendar Kumar Jain v. Directorate of Enforcement with the elaborate submissions made by the learned counsels for the parties on the merits of the case, we would rather confine ourselves to deal with the bare minimum facts necessary for the purpose of deciding whether the appellants have been able to satisfy the twin conditions laid down in Section 45 of the PMLA, that is (i) there are reasonable grounds for believing that the persons accused of the offence under the PMLA is not guilty of such offence; and (ii) that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail. 14. In Gautam Kundu vs. Directorate of Enforcement (Prevention of Money-Laundering Act), Government of India 5, while holding that the conditions specified under Section 45 of PMLA are mandatory, it was observed as under: - “30.