Punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault.— Whoever, commits aggravated penetrative sexual assault, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than ten years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine.” ‘Penetrative sexual assault’ is defined under Section 3 of the POCSO Act. In this case, there is no dispute about the fact that the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim. As the victim became pregnant as a consequence of the sexual assault, in view of sub-clause (ii) of clause (j) of Section 5 of the POCSO Act, it became a case of aggravated penetrative sexual assault. On facts, there cannot be any dispute that the commission of the offence punishable under Section 6 of the POCSO Act by the accused was duly proved. 11. Under Section 375 of the IPC, having penetrative intercourse with a victim who is under 18 years of age with or without her consent becomes an offence of rape. As the offence was repeatedly committed on the victim, clause (n) of sub-section (2) of Section 376 of the IPC is attracted. Therefore, the accused was liable to be punished in accordance with Section 376(2)(n) of the IPC. Sub-section (3) of Section 376 provides for a minimum punishment of twenty years for the offence of rape when the victim is less than sixteen years of age. 12. Section 361 of the IPC defines “Kidnapping from lawful guardianship”. The said provision reads thus: “361. Kidnapping from lawful guardianship.—Whoever takes or entices any minor under sixteen years of age if a male, or under eighteen years of age if a female, or any person of unsound mind, out of the keeping of the lawful guardian of such minor or person of unsound mind, without the consent of such guardian, is said to kidnap such minor or person from lawful guardianship.” In the facts of the case, there is no evidence to prove that the accused took the victim out of the keeping of the lawful guardian. Similarly, there is no evidence of enticing the victim. The mother of the victim deposed that the victim left her house on her own. That is also the version of the victim. Hence, the prosecution did not establish kidnapping. Therefore, the offences punishable under Sections 363 586 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and 366 of the IPC are not made out. But, there is no doubt that the offences punishable under Section 6 of the POCSO Act and Sub- sections (2)(n) and (3) of Section 376 of the IPC were made out. 13. When a Court deals with an appeal against an of conviction, the must contain (i) a concise statement of the facts of the case, (ii) the nature of the evidence adduced by the prosecution and the defence, if any, (iii) the submissions made by the parties, (iv) the analysis based on the reappreciation of evidence, and (v) the reasons for either confirming the guilt of the accused or for acquitting the accused.