Digital Supreme Court Reports Custodian and no person (including an enemy or enemy subject or enemy firm) shall have any right or deemed to have any right (including all rights, titles and interests or any benefit arising out of such property) over the said property vested or deemed to have been vested in the Custodian.” 10.7 Section 7 deals with payment to Custodian of money otherwise payable to an enemy, enemy subject or enemy firm, the same reads as under: “7. Payment to Custodian of money otherwise payable to an enemy, enemy subject or enemy firm. - (1) Any sum payable by way of dividend, interest, share profits or otherwise to or for the benefit of an enemy or an enemy subject or an enemy firm shall, unless otherwise ed by the Central Government, be paid by the person by whom such sum would have been payable but for the prohibition under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 or the Defence of India Rules, 1971, as the case may be, to the Custodian or such person as may be authorised by him in this behalf and shall be held by the Custodian or such person subject to the provisions of this Act. (2) In cases in which money would, but for the prohibition under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 or the Defence of India Rules, 1971, as the case may be, be payable in a foreign currency to or for the benefit of an enemy or an enemy subject or an enemy firm (other than cases in which money is payable under a contract in which provision is made for a specified rate of exchange), the payment shall be made to the Custodian in rupee currency at the middle official rate of exchange fixed by the Reserve Bank of India on the date on which the payment became due to that enemy, enemy subject or enemy firm. (3) The Custodian shall, subject to the provisions of section 8, deal with any money paid to him under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 or the Defence of India Rules, 1971 as the case may be or under this [2024] 2 S.C.R. 873 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others Act and any property vested in him under this Act in such manner as the Central Government may direct.” 10.8 The powers of Custodian in respect of enemy property vested in him as amended are delineated in Section 8 which reads as under: “8. Power of Custodian in respect of enemy property vested in him.— (1) With respect to the property vested in the Custodian under this Act, the Custodian may take or authorise the taking of such measures as he considers necessary or expedient for preserving such property till it is disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this Act. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the Custodian or such person as may be specifically authorised by him in this behalf, may, for the said purpose,— (i) carry on the business of the enemy; (ia) fix and collect the rent, standard rent, lease rent, licence fee or usage charges, as the case may be, in respect of enemy property; (ii) take action for recovering any money due to the enemy; (iii) make any contract and execute any document in the name and on behalf of the enemy; (iv) institute, defend or continue any suit or other legal proceeding, refer any dispute to arbitration and compromise any debts, claims or liabilities; (iva) secure vacant possession of the enemy property by evicting the unauthorised or illegal occupant or trespasser and remove unauthorised or illegal constructions, if any.