394 Assessment Committee of the Metropolitan Borough of Poplar v. Roberts [1922] 2 AC 93 395 Peter Brown and Patrick Bond (supra n 393) 284. 396 Section 5, Non-Domestic Rating (Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations 1989. 1740 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 327. Royalty is not a tax but a statutory consideration payable by the lessee to the lessor for the exercise of mineral rights. The specification of rates of royalty with respect to major minerals under the MMDR Act limits the powers of the State Government in terms of Entry 54 of List I read with Entry 23 of List II. However, Entry 49 of List II is not restricted or subjected in its operation by any other entry – the State legislature can tax any lands including mineral bearing lands. If the Constitution does not impose any express limitations on the taxing powers of the State to tax mineral bearing lands, it would not be constitutionally permissible for the Court to read in an implied restriction. The power of taxation is plenary and exclusive. The division of legislative powers between the Union and States represents the essence of fiscal federalism. Reading any implied limitation or restriction on the legislative power of the State legislature to tax mineral bearing land under Entry 49 of List II will be against the grain of the Constitution. 328. After the decision in Goodricke (supra) in particular, it is now well established that the income or yield of land can be adopted as a measure of tax. The assessment of tax on land depends upon the actual or potential productivity of the land sought to be taxed. In case of tea estates, the productivity is measured on the basis of the quantity of tea leaves produced. As a corollary, the productivity of mineral bearing land can be measured on the basis of the minerals produced.397 In Goodricke (supra), this Court observed that royalty is a matter of agreement between the lessor and the lessee or determined by a statutory provision. Further, it was observed that “royalty is not the produce of the land; royalty is not the income of the land nor is the royalty yield of the land.” In this segment, we analyze whether royalty could be used as a measure to tax mineral-bearing land. 329. The rates of royalty are generally calculated on per tonnage basis or ad valorem basis on the basis of the laid down formula. In case of the former, royalty is determined on the basis of the following formula – Royalty = quantity of mineral removed or dispatched * specified rate of royalty in rupees 397 Union of India v. Pramod Gupta (2005) 12 SCC 1 [75]. [In this case, Justice S B Sinha, writing for a two- Judge Bench, observed that “[m]ineral bearing land, thus, contain mineral as the product of nature.”] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1741 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. The formula for calculation of royalty on minerals on ad valorem basis is as follows: Royalty = sale price of mineral (grade wise and State-wise) published by the Indian Bureau of Mines * Rate of royalty (in percentage) * total quantity of mineral grade produced or dispatched 330.