We have already indicated that she is a lady of advanced age, suffering from various ailments. The ailments by themselves may not be serious enough for granting bail on medical ground. But taking cognizance of the composite effect of delay in framing charge, period of detention undergone by her, the nature of allegations against her vis-à-vis the materials available before this Court at this stage in addition to her age and medical condition, we do not think she ought to be denied the privilege of being enlarged on bail pending further process subsequent to issue of chargesheets against her in the subject-case. 42. We repeat here that our observations as regards the nature of allegations against her are only prima facie views and the future course of her prosecution would be dependent upon framing of charge and if charges are framed, the nature of evidence the prosecution can adduce against her in trial as also her own defence. With these observations, we set aside the impugned and direct that the appellant be released on bail on such conditions the Special Court may consider fit and proper but the conditions shall include the following:- (a) The appellant shall not leave the State of Maharashtra without leave of the Special Court. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 307 Shoma Kanti Sen v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. (b) The appellant shall surrender her passport, if she possesses one, with the Special Court, during the period she remains enlarged on bail. (c) The appellant shall inform the Investigating Officer of the NIA the address where she shall reside during the period she remains enlarged on bail. (d) The appellant shall use only one mobile number, during the time she remains on bail, and shall inform her mobile number to the Investigating Officer of the NIA. (e) The appellant shall also ensure that her mobile phone remains active and charged round the clock so that she remains constantly accessible throughout the period she remains enlarged on bail. (f) During this period, i.e. the period during which she remains on bail, the appellant shall keep the location status (GPS) of her mobile phone active, twenty-four hours a day, and her phone shall be paired with that of the Investigating Officer of the NIA to enable him, at any given time, to identify the appellants’ exact location. (g) The appellant, while on bail, shall report to the Station House Officer of the Police Station within whose jurisdiction she shall reside, once every fortnight. 43. In the event there is breach of any of these conditions or any other condition that may be imposed by the Special Court independently, it would be open to the prosecution to seek cancellation of bail granted to the appellant before the Special Court only, without any further reference to this Court. 44. The appeal stands allowed in the above terms and Criminal Miscellaneous Petition No.166531 of 2023 shall also stand disposed of. 45. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Appeal allowed.