Hence, so long as any alcoholic preparation can be diverted to human consumption, the States shall have the power to legislate as also to impose taxes etc. In this view, denaturation of spirit is not only an obligation on the States but also within the competence of the States to enforce.” Haryana Brewery Ltd.: 9.11 In Government of Haryana vs. Haryana Brewery Ltd. (2002) 4 SCC 547 (“Haryana Brewery Ltd.”), the controversy related 2104 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to levy of excise duty on beer brewed by the respondent therein. Rule 35 of the Punjab Brewery Rules, 1956 and Section 32 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 were considered. It was observed by this Court that the said Rule was only an enabling provision which would help the Excise Authorities in calculating what would be the quantity of beer manufactured and fit for human consumption on which excise duty could be imposed. The said Rule was declared valid and it did not require any reading down as had been done by the High Court. It was observed that the tax was on the end product and not on the raw material. Rule 35 indicated that in to determine what was the quantity of beer manufactured which was fit for human consumption, after all the processes were completed, one had to see what was the quantity of raw materials which were utilised for the manufacture of beer and then allowance for wastage of seven per cent had to be made and thereafter the quantity of beer manufactured was determined. That the figure taken for the purpose of calculating the excise duty was only on the end product, namely the beer produced, and not the quantity of the raw material used in manufacture of beer, during which loss of some quantity as wastage would have occurred and there could not be a deduction of any sum or proportion as wastage from the quantity of end product in to arrive at that quantity. In such a case, the question of determining any allowance of seven per cent for wastage did not arise. Therefore, the Excise Authorities could levy excise duty only on the beer after it had been manufactured and the levy was on the quantity manufactured. How this quantity had to be arrived was to be determined according to Section 32 read with Rule 35 of the aforementioned Act and Rules. Hence, Rule 35 was sustained as valid and it did not require any reading down. Industrial Corporation (P) Ltd.: 9.12 In the State of Bihar vs. Industrial Corporation (P) Ltd. (2003) 11 SCC 465 (“Industrial Corporation (P) Ltd.”), the respondent companies were engaged in the manufacture of rectified spirit from molasses allotted to them by the Controller of Molasses in terms of the Bihar Molasses (Control) Act, 1947 and they had been granted licences under various provisions of the Bihar and Orissa Excise Act, 1915. It was found that certain [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2105 State of U.P. & Ors.