[Para 33(e)] 1934 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Constitution of India – Evolution of Legislative Entries on Alcohol – Use of expression “intoxicating liquor”: Held: [Per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J B Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma, Augustine George Masih, JJ.] The study of the evolution of the legislative entries on alcohol indicates that the use of the expressions “intoxicating liquor” and “alcoholic liquor for human consumption” in the Seventh Schedule was a matter well-thought of – It also indicates that the members of the Constituent Assembly were aware of use of the variants of alcohol as a raw material in the production of multiple products. [Para 140(f)] – [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J. (dissenting)] The members of the Constituent Assembly were clear in what they envisaged within the scope and ambit of the expression “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8-List II – This is also evident from Item 26 of the First Schedule of the IDRA – “Intoxicating liquors” is only a segment of the “Fermentation Industries”, namely, potable alcohol – There was no intention on the part of the members of the Constituent Assembly to read within the expression “intoxicating liquors” non-potable or “industrial alcohol” – Further, in to have a consistency between what was envisaged under Entry 84- List I and Entry 51-List II in the context of alcoholic liquors for human consumption, the taxing Entry in List II which is within the legislative competence of the States follows the regulatory Entry in Entry 8-List II – Therefore, the use of the expression “industrial alcohol” or non-potable alcohol in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) was only to crystallise all variants of alcohol which were non-potable and to distinguish the same from potable alcohol meant only for human consumption as a beverage. [Para 33(f)] Constitution of India – Entry 8 of List II – Scope and ambit: Held: [Per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI, for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J B Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma, Augustine George Masih, JJ.] Entry 8 of List II is based on public interest – It seeks to enhance the scope of the entry beyond potable alcohol – This is inferable from the use of the phrase ‘intoxicating’ and other accompanying words in the Entry – Alcohol is inherently a noxious substance that is prone to misuse affecting public health at large – Entry 8 covers alcohol that could be used noxiously [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1935 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons to the detriment of public health – This includes alcohol such as rectified spirit, ENA and denatured spirit which are used as raw materials in the production of potable alcohol and other products – However, it does not include the final product (such as a hand sanitiser) that contains alcohol since such an interpretation will substantially diminish the scope of multiple other legislative entries. [Para 140(g)] – [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J.