Therefore, after the advent of the Abolition Act, Patel Watan land which was lawfully leased, and the lease of which was subsisting as on 01.01.1963, stood covered by the Tenancy Act in its entirety and the tenant of such Watan land was entitled to all the benefits under the provisions thereof, including the right to purchase such land. The proviso to Section 8 indicates that, for the purpose of fixing the purchase price under the provisions of the Tenancy Act so as to 608 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports enable the purchase of such land by the tenant, the lease shall be deemed to have commenced from the date of regrant of the land under Sections 5, 6 or 9, as the case may be. 24. Earlier, this Court had occasion to consider this proviso in Sadashiv Dada Patil vs. Purushottam Onkar Patil (Dead) by LRs.1. The respondent therein was a tenant of Watan land and the appellant was the landlord. The issue was whether Section 32-O of the Tenancy Act had application in view of the proviso to Section 8 of the Abolition Act. Section 32-O is titled ‘Right of Tenant whose tenancy is created after Tillers’ Day to purchase land’. It stated that in respect of any tenancy created after Tillers’ Day and if the landlord is not a serving member of the Armed Forces, a tenant cultivating such land personally shall be entitled, within one year from the commencement of such tenancy, to purchase the land held by him from the landlord. The issue before this Court was whether a tenant of Watan land was required to exercise his right to purchase the land within one year of the regrant, in view of the proviso to Section 8 of the Abolition Act stating that the lease is deemed to have commenced from the date of such regrant of the land. In effect, the question was whether the tenancy is to be treated as a fresh lease commencing on the date of the regrant. At the outset, this Court opined that, indisputably, the rights and obligations of the parties were governed by the Tenancy Act. Section 31 thereof was taken note of and as no termination of the tenancy had been effected thereunder, this Court held that the tenancy continued till the declaration of Tillers’ Day on 01.04.1957. Thereafter, by virtue of Section 32 of the Tenancy Act, the tenant was deemed to have purchased the tenanted agricultural land from his landlord. Noting that the provisions of the Abolition Act and the Tenancy Act were required to be construed harmoniously, keeping in view the purport and object that they seek to achieve, this Court observed that Section 32 of the Tenancy Act conferred an absolute right upon the tenant. Therefore, the proviso to Section 8 of the Abolition Act could not be read in such a manner as to divest the tenant of the vested right of purchase created under Section 32 of the Tenancy Act.