181. Finally, the learned Attorney General placed reliance on Kuldip Nayar (supra). In this case, a Constitution bench of this Court was adjudicating the validity of an amendment to the Representation of the People Act, 1951 by which (a) the requirement that a candidate for elections to the Rajya Sabha be an elector from a constituency in the state was removed; and (b) an open ballot was introduced in the elections to the Rajya Sabha. 182. One of the submissions before the Court to assail the use of open ballots in elections to the Rajya Sabha was that the votes are protected by Article 194(2). It was contended that the right to freedom of speech guaranteed to MLAs under Articles 194(1) and (2) is different from the right to free speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a), which is subject to reasonable restrictions. It was urged that the absolute freedom to vote under Article 194(2) of the Constitution was being diluted through a statutory amendment to the Representation of the People Act, 1951 permitting open ballots. While addressing this argument, the Court held that elections to fill seats in the Rajya Sabha are not proceedings of the legislature but a mere exercise of franchise, which falls outside the net of Article 194. The Court (speaking through YK Sabharwal, CJ) held as follows: “Arguments based on Legislative Privileges and the Tenth Schedule … 372. It is the contention of the learned counsel that the same should be the interpretation as to the scope and tenor of the provision contained in Article 194(2) concerning the privileges of the Members of the Legislative Assemblies of the States who constitute State-wise electoral colleges for electing representatives of each State in the Council of States under the provisions of Article 80(4). The counsel argue that the freedom of expression without fear of legal consequences as flowing from Article 194(2) should inure to the Members of the Legislative Assemblies while discharging their function as electoral college under Article 80(4). [2024] 3 S.C.R. 579 Sita Soren v. Union of India 373. This argument, though attractive, does not deserve any credence in the context at hand. The proceedings concerning election under Article 80 are not proceedings of the “House of the Legislature of the State” within the meaning of Article 194. It is the elected Members of the Legislative Assembly who constitute, under Article 80 the electoral college for electing the representative of the State to fill the seat allocated to that State in the Council of States. It is noteworthy that it is not the entire Legislative Assembly that becomes the electoral college, but only the specified category of members thereof. When such members assemble at a place, they do so not to discharge functions assigned under the Constitution to the Legislative Assembly. Their participation in the election is only on account of their ex-officio capacity of voters for the election. Thus, the act of casting votes by each of them, which also need not occur with all of them present together or at the same time, is merely exercise of franchise and not proceedings of the legislature.” (emphasis supplied) 183.