It is a totally fortuitous and an incidental circumstance that one SLP arising out of the 20 2020 SCC OnLine SC 1471 1192 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports same acquisition may have been converted into a civil appeal and dismissed by this Court but another SLP, again arising out of the same acquisition, either might have been dismissed without granting leave or is still pending. The necessary consequence is that one parcel of land stands acquired and vested in the State free from all encumbrances under the 1894 Act whereas another parcel of adjoining land stands released on account of the acquisition having lapsed under section 24(2) of the 2013 Act. It is also quite possible that the parcel of land qua which the acquisition is deemed to have lapsed already stands utilized fully or partially for the development of public infrastructure, and on the other hand the parcel of the land which has vested in the State is still lying unutilized as the public project is yet to be completed. 39. This piquant situation created not by an act of State and rather being a consequence of inconsistent judicial pronouncements of this Court, has led to hostile discriminatory treatment to identically placed landowners. If not cured, it will lead to unexplained disparities. Not only this, it would cause a serious crisis and chaos as several projects of paramount public importance like the construction of metro, flyovers, schools, hospitals or other public utilities will have to be halted until the State re-acquires such parcels of land which are compelled to be released on account of acquisition qua them having lapsed in the pre-Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra) era. The consequences are extremely grave and would be totally detrimental to public interest. 40. The concept of ‘public interest’ need not be elaborately explained by us here for the reason that we have succinctly explained the same in our pronounced separately in Tejpal (supra). There, we have summed up the following elements of ‘public interest’, which we employ mutatis mutandis in this batch of cases also: a) While balancing the interest of the public exchequer against that of individuals, there are many other interests at stake, and it might not be possible to undo the acquisitions without causing significant cascading harms and losses to such other interests; b) Since development projects have either begun or most of the acquired lands have already been deployed for essential public projects such as hospitals, schools, expansion of metro, etc., the [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1193 Government of NCT of Delhi & Anr. v. M/s BSK Realtors LLP & Anr. effect of non-condonation of delay would go beyond mere financial loss to the exchequer and would extend to the public at large; c) It would be like unscrambling the egg if compensation paid would have to be clawed back or possession taken would have to be reversed; d) In many cases, the development projects might also have to be undone. The reversal of possession of even a small plot lying on projects such as an under-construction metro corridor would be practically impossible; e) These are the cases where rights are vested to the public at large given the public infrastructure that has come up on a large number of acquired lands; f) The fresh acquisition, if so is required to be done by the State, would be at the expense of delaying the construction of critical public infrastructure in our national capital.