111. At this stage, we would like to put on record that nothing was brought to our notice that there was any fixed date, or period of credit, for payment of the balance amount. In the above circumstances, in our view, the starting point of limitation should be the date when 107 See our discussion in paragraphs 96 to 98 of this [2024] 9 S.C.R. 587 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. the claimant had fulfilled all its obligations under the contract and was entitled for release of the outstanding amount payable under the contract. 112. As per the contract, if, after takeover, the purchaser (appellant(s) herein) fails to undertake the performance guarantee test, within 180 days from the date of request for it by the supplier (i.e., claimant), it is to be deemed that the supplier has fulfilled its liability in respect of the guaranteed performance. Apparently, passing the performance guarantee test was last of the supplier’s (claimant’s) obligations, whereafter the supplier was entitled for release of the balance amount. The Tribunal has found: (a) that as per certificate dated 2 March 2017, the commissioning took place in May 2015; (b) at that time there were certain technical issues, which were resolved later; (c) on 21 September 2015, claimant sent request to the appellant(s) to undertake performance guarantee test, but there was no response to the request; and (d) the period of 180 days, counted from 21 September 2015, expired on 19 March 2016. In the light of the above findings, the Tribunal concluded that commissioning took place in the month of May 2015; technical issues were resolved by 21 September 2015; and performance guarantee period expired on 19 March 2016. 113. Based on the above, while bearing in mind that final payment of the principal outstanding amount was dependent on meeting the requirement of performance guarantee, in our view, the cause of action for the claim, as made, matured on expiry of that stipulated period of 180 days within which, despite request, the appellant(s) (i.e., purchaser) failed to undertake the performance guarantee test. Thus, even though there might be several bills/ invoices raised/ issued by the claimant during execution of the contract, the claim of the claimant for the outstanding principal amount matured on expiry of 180 days from the date of the notice given by the claimant to the appellant(s) (i.e., respondents to the claim) to undertake the performance guarantee test. We, therefore, conclude that limitation for the claim started to run from 19 March 2016. 114. At this stage, we may notice, only to reject, an alternative submission made on behalf of the appellant, which is, that if Article 55 was applicable, the breach of the contract occurred when the claimant failed to complete the project by 31 March 2014, as promised, therefore, the period of limitation should be counted from that date. 588 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports This argument, in our view, is not sustainable, because time was not the essence of the contract in as much as there was a clause for liquidated damages for delay in completion (See Clause 13 of Annexure A of the Supply Purchase as extracted in paragraph 7.32 of the award).