We think it is inexpedient for the Supreme Court to delve into problems which do not arise and express opinion thereon.” (Emphasis added) In Asian Resurfacing1, there was no lis before this Court arising out of the s of stay granted in different categories of cases pending before the various High Courts. This Court was dealing with a case under the PC Act. Thus, an attempt was made to delve into an issue which did not arise for consideration. VII. Clause (3) Of Article 226 of the Constitution 26. In this case, it is unnecessary for this Court to decide whether clause (3) of Article 226 of the Constitution of India is mandatory or directory. Clause (3) of Article 226 reads thus: [2024] 2 S.C.R. 977 High Court Bar Association, Allahabad v. State of U.P. & Ors. “226. Power of High Courts to issue certain writs: (1) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. (2) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. (3) Where any party against whom an interim , whether by way of injunction or stay or in any other manner, is made on, or in any proceedings relating to, a petition under clause (1), without— (a) furnishing to such party copies of such petition and all documents in support of the plea for such interim ; and (b) giving such party an opportunity of being heard, makes an application to the High Court for the vacation of such and furnishes a copy of such application to the party in whose favour such has been made or the counsel of such party, the High Court shall dispose of the application within a period of two weeks from the date on which it is received or from the date on which the copy of such application is so furnished, whichever is later, or where the High Court is closed on the last day of that period, before the expiry of the next day afterwards on which the High Court is open; and if the application is not so disposed of, the interim shall, on the expiry of that period, or, as the case may be, the expiry of the said next day, stand vacated.” On its plain reading, clause (3) is applicable only when an interim relief is granted without furnishing a copy of the writ petition along with supporting documents to the opposite party and without hearing the opposite party. Even assuming that clause (3) is not directory, it provides for an automatic vacation of interim relief only if the aggrieved party makes an application for vacating the interim relief and when the application for vacating stay is not heard within the time specified. Clause (3) will not apply when an interim in a writ petition under Article 226 is passed after the service of a copy of the writ petition on all concerned parties and after giving them an opportunity of being heard.