(2) The Committee shall consist of a Chairperson, and four other members as the State Government may think fit to appoint, of whom at least one shall be a woman and another, an expert on the matters concerning children. (3) The District Child Protection Unit shall provide a Secretary and other staff that may be required for secretarial support to the Committee for its effective functioning. … (8) The Committee shall submit a report to the District Magistrate in such form as may be prescribed and the District Magistrate shall conduct a quarterly review of the functioning of the Committee. (9) The Committee shall function as a Bench and shall have the powers conferred by the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) on a Metropolitan Magistrate or, as the case may be, a Judicial Magistrate of First Class. (10) The District Magistrate shall be the grievance redressal authority to entertain any grievance arising out of the functioning of the Committee and the affected child or anyone connected with the child, as the case may be, may file a complaint before the District Magistrate who shall take cognizance of the action of the Committee and, after giving the parties an opportunity of being heard, pass appropriate .” 121 ‘CWC’ [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1569 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 86. Section 107 of the JJ Act further provides for the Child Welfare Police Officers122 and Special Juvenile Police Units.123 It stipulates that at each police station, at least one police officer shall be appointed as the CWPO. The officer so designated shall not be below the rank of Assistant Sub-inspector. The appointment of CWPOs is required to be done bearing in mind the aptitude, appropriate training and orientation of the inspector. The officer so appointed is in charge of exclusively dealing with children, either as victims or perpetrators, and coordinate with the police and voluntary and non-governmental organisations. 87. In each district, the State governments are mandated to constitute a SJPU for effective coordination of all police-related functions related to children. The SJPU shall be headed by an officer of the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police or superior. The SJPU shall comprise all the CWPOs appointed in each police station throughout the district as well as two social workers who have worked on issues relating to child rights. At least one of such social workers who is made part of the unit shall be a woman. 88. The JJ Act recognises the inapplicability of standards which accrue to adults. It is intended to safeguard children and deal with those among them who are in conflict with the law. In the context of child marriage, the principles enunciated in the JJ Act as well as the framework established under it are vitally important. Children who are at risk of marriage at the hands of their family or relatives are expressly recognised as CNCP under the Act. The JJ Act further prescribes for their protection, rehabilitation and development.