217 Shriram Chits (India) Private Limited Earlier Known as Shriram Chits (K) Pvt. Ltd v. Raghachand Associates Appearances for Parties Shailesh Madiyal, Sr. Adv., Vaibhav Sabharwal, Ms. Divija Mahajan, Ms. Sunidhi Hegde, Ms. Sakshi Banga, Ms. Amisha Devi, Mrigank Prabhakar, Advs. for the Appellant. Gopal Sankaranarayanan, Sr. Adv., Ms. Anindita Mitra, Ms. Jhanvi Dubey, Advs. for the Respondent. / of the Supreme Court Aravind Kumar, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. The appellant (‘OP’/‘service provider’, used interchangeably) has challenged the dated 10.03.2021 of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi (NCDRC) in these appeals. The respondent (complainant) had successfully redressed its consumer grievance, originally, before the Principal Consumer Disputes Redressal for Bangalore Urban District, at Bangalore (‘District Forum’). The service provider was unsuccessful in upsetting the of the District Forum before the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Bangalore (‘State Forum’) as well as the NCDRC. That is how this matter has come before us. 3. The service provider is a registered Chit Fund company engaged in Chit business. Admittedly, the complainant had subscribed to certain chits in the said business. The subscription was made in the chit group 53005/Ticket No.9 for a chit value of Rs.1,00,000/- payable at the rate of Rs.2500/- per month for a period of 40 months. 4. It is the case of the complainant that the OP had illegally stopped the chit business in the year 1996. The complainant requested the OP to repay the chit amount deposited until stoppage of the business. The OP refused to re-pay the subscription amount since, according to it, the complainant owed certain dues to it and therefore, it adjusted the subscription amount against pending dues of the complainant. 5. Initially, the complainant sought to redress its grievance relating to non-refund of the subscription amount, before the authority 218 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports constituted under the Chit Funds Act 1982.1 Thereafter, the OP filed WP No.22568/2012 with 9 other connected writ petitions against the of the Additional Registrar. Whereas the Complainant also filed WP No.17045/2014 with 9 other connected writ petitions questioning the finding with regards to the maintainability under the Chit Funds Act. On 16.11.2015, the High Court directed the complainant to approach the Consumer Forum and held that said cases were not maintainable under the Chit Funds Act. 6. It is against this background that the complaint comes to be filed before the District Forum alleging that the illegal termination of the chit fund business and consequent non-refund of the subscription amount, resulted in deficiency of service. The prayer in the complaint was for a direction to be issued to the OP to refund Rs.18,750/- along with future interest at the rate of 18% p.a. 7. In the written version, the OP, apart from contesting the claim on merits, raised a preliminary objection that the complaint is not maintainable since the complainant does not qualify the definition of a ‘consumer’. According to the OP, the service obtained by the complainant was for a commercial purpose, and by that fact, the complainant would stand excluded from availing any remedy under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986.