69. The issue before this Bench is the indicia for an educational institution to be a minority educational institution. Should it be proved that the institution was established by the minority, or it was administered by the minority, or both? The petitioners and the respondents agree that the words ‘establish’ and ‘administer’ must be read conjunctively. They argue that administration is a sequitur to establishment. However, they disagree on the test to be applied to identify a minority education institution. The petitioners argue that the only indicia for a minority educational institution is that it must be established by a minority, while the respondents argue that the dual test of establishment and administration must be satisfied. 70. Before proceeding further, it is relevant to note the provisions of the NCMEI Act. The NCMEI Act was enacted in 2004 to constitute a National Commission for minority educational institutions and 63 Manager, St. Thomas UP School v. Commr. & Secy, to general Education Dept. (2002) 2 SCC 497; St. Stephen’s (supra); DAV College trust & Management Society v. State of Maharashtra (2013) 4 SCC 14; SP Mittal v. Union of India (1983) 1 SCC 51 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1719 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. to provide for matters connected or incidental to it. Section 10 of the NCMEI Act was amended in 2006. The amended provision prescribed a procedure for the establishment of a minority educational institution.64 Thus, there can be no ambiguity about the minority status of educational institutions established after the enactment of NCMEI (Amendment) Act 2006. However, that is not the case for institutions which were established before the 2006 Amendment. How do we identify if an educational institution established before 2006 is a minority educational institution? 71. Article 30 does not prescribe conditions which must be fulfilled for an educational institution to be considered a minority educational institution. Article 30 confers two group rights on all linguistic and religious minorities: the right to establish an educational institution and the right to administer an educational institution. This right can be exercised by an individual belonging to a group or a collection of persons.65 As observed above, the provision guarantees both a positive and negative right. Thus, the provision, in addition to ensuring that the State does not discriminate against the minority community also guarantees the minority educational institution certain guarantees. The institution is guaranteed the right of lesser State regulation and greater autonomy in the administration of the educational institution. The right to establish an educational institution guaranteed to the minority is not a special right. That, as held in TMA Pai (supra) (as explained in the preceding section), is a right which is available to 64 “10. Right to establish a Minority Educational Institution.- (1) Any person who desires to establish a Minority Educational Institution may apply to the Competent authority for the grant of the no objection certificate for the said purpose. (2) The Competent authority shall, - (a) on perusal of documents, affidavits or other evidence, if any; (b) after gving an opportunity of being heard to the applicant, decide every application filed under sub- section (1) as expeditiously as possible and grant or reject the application, as the case may be: Provided that where an application is rejected, the Competent authority shall communicate the same to the applicant.