Learned counsel argued that no rules or regulations have been brought on record to prove that respondent no. 2 the Special Land Acquisition Officer is authorized to prepare the map in the absence of any ; that the High Court erred in only going by the evidence of DW-1, particularly when DW-1 did not remember as to when the map was made and furthermore the author of the map-Sh. A.K. Kulkarni was also not examined. Learned Counsel relied on the affidavit filed by the State of Maharashtra dated 02.04.2024, to buttress his submission. 20. Learned counsel contends that admittedly as on the date of issuance of Section 4 notification i.e. 03.06.1999, the blue zone lines had not been demarcated and the construction was solely governed by the 1974 byelaws. Learned counsel contends that even the documents sought to be relied upon by the respondent-State have been brought on record for the first time before this Court and admittedly other than the map i.e. Exh.141, no other document has been brought on record to establish that the land of the appellant fell under the ‘Blue Zone’. Learned Counsel contends that the High Court has failed to consider Exh.52, namely, the map issued by the Authority whereby the land of the appellant was granted Nazul Sheet No. 28-D and Plot No. 20. Learned counsel contends that any land for which Nazul Sheet is issued is considered as a non-agricultural land and relies on the award dated 05.02.2008 in relation to acquisition of Survey No. 11 Shahnawazpur, Akola City. Learned counsel contended that the Land Acquisition Officer did not whisper about the ‘Blue Zone’ issue in his award; and that the Land Acquisition Officer proceeded on the basis of the exemplar from Survey No. 9/1A and the issue of the ‘Blue Zone’ was raised for the first time before the Reference Court. 21. Learned counsel argued that the potentiality of the land as established by the evidence has been ignored by the High Court. Learned counsel submits that pending the Appeal before the High Court, the Income [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2259 Kazi Akiloddin v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Tax Department had passed an dated 31.08.2012 wherein the land of the appellant was considered as an urban land and a non-agricultural land. Learned counsel stated that the respondent in the said proceedings did not object to the same and rather acceded to the finding that the land of appellant which is acquired is a non- agricultural land. 22. Learned counsel relying on the standardized building byelaws and Government resolution of 02.04.1974 contended that the acquired land was not in a no-construction zone and argued that the State Authorities have failed to bring on record any document to establish any average flood mark. Learned Counsel stated that as per the Joint Measurement Report submitted by the respondent-State Irrigation Department before this Court, the distance between the land of the appellant and the defined boundary of the water course is between 15 to 20 meters and therefore, as per the extant byelaws the land of the appellant is outside the no-construction zone.