Ltd.) in their respective Appeals is that the purchase of car/vehicle by a company for the use/personal use of its directors could not be said to be the purchase of vehicle for self-employment to earn its livelihood, but it has to be construed as the purchase of vehicle for “commercial purposes”, and therefore such company would fall outside the purview of the definition of “consumer” within the meaning of Section 2(1)(d) of the said Act. In this regard it would be apt to reproduce the relevant part of the definition of “Consumer” as contained in Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, which reads as under- “2(1)(d) “consumer” means any person who,— (i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any [2024] 7 S.C.R. 425 M/s Daimler Chrysler India Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s Controls & Switchgear Company Ltd. & Anr. user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment when such use is made with the approval of such person, but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose; or (ii)…. Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, “commercial purpose” does not include use by a person of goods bought and used by him and services availed by him exclusively for the purposes of earning his livelihood by means of self-employment;” 10. From the bare reading of the said definition, it is discernible that the definition of “consumer” does not include a person who obtains any goods for “resale” or for “any commercial purpose”. Though what is “commercial purpose” has not been defined under the Act, it has been interpreted in catena of decisions by this Court. 11. In Laxmi Engineering Works vs. P.S.G Industrial Institute 2 this Court after discussing the earlier decisions concluded inter alia that whether the purpose for which a person has bought goods is a “commercial purpose” within a meaning of definition of expression “consumer” in Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, is always a question of fact to be decided in the facts and circumstances of each case. 12. In Lilavati Kirtilal Mehta Medical Trust vs. Unique Shanti Developers and Others 3, this Court culled out broad principles for determining whether an activity or transaction is for a “commercial purpose” or not, while holding that though no strait jacket formula could be adopted in every case. “19. To summarise from the above discussion, though a strait jacket formula cannot be adopted in every case, the following broad principles can be culled out for determining whether an activity or transaction is “for a commercial purpose”: 2 [1995] 3 SCR 174 : (1995) 3 SCC 583 3 [2019] 14 SCR 563 : (2020) 2 SCC 265 426 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19.1. The question of whether a transaction is for a commercial purpose would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.