In Lakshya v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. (Criminal Writ Petition No. 479 of 2022), the accused therein had viewed and stored a child pornographic video in his mobile, which he subsequently showed to his other friends and co-accused therein. On the basis of the aforesaid, a case was registered against the accused persons under Section(s) 15(1) and (3) of the POCSO along with Section 67B of the 206 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports IT Act. The accused preferred a discharge application which came to be rejected by the Trial Court whereafter the accused therein went in appeal before the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, Nagpur Bench. The learned Single Judge of the High Court dismissed the appeal and upheld the rejection of the discharge application by the Trial Court. The High Court held that merely because the accused therein was not the creator of the pornographic material in question it cannot be said that no offence had been made out. It held that the act of the accused to store and forward the pornographic material and the failure on his part to delete or report the same would squarely fall within the ambit of Section(s) 15(1) and (2) of the POCSO and Section 67B of the IT Act. However, the High Court chose not to advert to the offence under Section 15(3) of the POCSO that was contained in the chargesheet as a prima facie case had already been established against the accused therein for the other offences with which they were charged. The relevant observation reads as under: - “8. With the assistance of the learned Advocate for the accused and the learned APP for the State, I have gone through the provisions of Section 67-B of the I. T. Act and Section 15 of the POCSO Act. The main allegation against the accused is that they stored, forwarded and shared with each other porn video. Even if it is assumed for the sake of argument that they are not creators of the porn video, in my view, the benefit of discharge cannot be granted to them. [...] 9. In my view, perusal of Section 15 of the POCSO Act in entirety would show that the act of the accused persons to store, forward and possess pornographic material involving a child is squarely covered under Section 15(1) and (2) of the POCSO Act. They failed to delete or destroy or report the same to the designated authority. As per the case of the prosecution, they stored, possessed and circulated the said porn video. Therefore, in my view, at this stage, it is very difficult for the accused to come out of the tentacles of Section 15(1) and (2) of the POCSO Act. 10. Section 67-B of the I.T. Act provides a punishment for publishing or transmitting the material depicting children in Sexually explicit act, etc., in an electronic form. If the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 207 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors.