Rummaging through the draft opinions penned by Their Lordships, I felt inclined to substantially agree with the thoughts and conclusions expressed therein. However, in view of disagreements on a couple of points, coupled with my inability to be ad idem with the noteworthy progressive approach of the HCJI, writing a separate opinion (which was already in progress and was nearing completion) seemed all the more the better, the safer and the easier option. 6. I do not grudge getting very little time to express my views in the manner I would have wished to express. Had it not been a race against time to circulate the opinion by 6th November, 2024, the limit I had set for myself and assured to the HCJI, the opinion could have been much better articulated and more compact. But my pain is truly reflected in the passage from Tulsiram Patel (supra)quoted above and how, despite all the advancements in the justice delivery system that we proudly boast of having introduced, in a way history seems to have repeated itself. Here, a Constitution Bench of 7 (seven) Judges had apparently embarked on a voyage to interpret Article 30(1) of the Constitution navigating through considerable weight of materials without any physical or virtual meeting of the members of the Bench post-reservation of , not to speak of meeting of minds, either immediately after hearing was concluded or even 9 (nine) months thereafter (either collectively or even in small groups of four-five) to explore which acceptable direction should the outcome sail. A common [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1859 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. venue for a purposeful and effective dialogue where members of the bench could freely express their points of view, an attempt to share thoughts and to exchange opinions, a ‘give’ and ‘take’ of ideas, in true democratic spirit to build up a consensus - all these seem to have taken a backseat, having regard to the immense pressure of work which we, the HCJI and the other Judges on the bench, have undertaken during the time ever since the was reserved. Judicial and administrative works of varied nature, which I need not dilate here, also weighed me down to such an extent that sending a request to the HCJI for a meeting of all the colleagues at this stage would have been too late to make a difference (if at all it were to happen). Alas, without any insightful and constructive discussion of the rival contentions in the presence of all the members comprising this Bench of 7 (seven) Judges, it is only individual opinions of 4 (four) Judges that could be crafted and circulated for perusal and approval. 7. That being said, after circulation of my draft opinion, all the Judges forming the quorum had the occasion to meet together for a little while on 7th November, 2024, when it emerged that the opinion of the HCJI, as circulated, had the concurrence of 3 (three) Judges6 and I was part of the minority trio (3 out of 7) with a distinct perspective.