Eligibility and conditions for taking input tax credit.— .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. (4) A registered person shall not be entitled to take input tax credit in respect of any invoice or debit note for supply of goods or services or both after the thirtieth day of November following the end of financial year to which such invoice or debit note pertains or furnishing of the relevant annual return, whichever is earlier: Provided that the registered person shall be entitled to 858 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports take input tax credit after the due date of furnishing of the return under Section 39 for the month of September, 2018 till the due date of furnishing of the return under the said section for the month of March, 2019 in respect of any invoice or debit note for supply of goods or services or both made during the financial year 2017-18, the details of which have been uploaded by the supplier under sub- section (1) of Section 37 till the due date for furnishing the details under sub-section (1) of said section for the month of March, 2019.” The words “thirtieth day of November” were substituted with effect from 1st October 2022 for the words “due date of furnishing of the return under Section 39 for the month of September”. We fail to understand how sub-section (4) of Section 16 becomes discriminatory when the legislature says that a registered person shall not be entitled to take ITC in respect of any invoice or debit note for the supply of goods or services or both after the thirtieth day of November following the end of the financial year to which such invoice or debit note pertains or furnishing of the relevant annual return, whichever is earlier. It is not shown how the provision is arbitrary and discriminatory. The fact that the provisions could have been drafted in a better manner or more articulately is not sufficient to attract arbitrariness. 64. As we are upholding the constitutional validity of clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5), and as held earlier, its plain interpretation does not lead to any ambiguity, the question of reading down the provisions does not arise. 65. Some of our conclusions can be summarised as under: a. The challenge to the constitutional validity of clauses (c) and (d) of Section 17(5) and Section 16(4) of the CGST Act is not established; b. The expression “plant or machinery” used in Section 17(5)(d) cannot be given the same meaning as the expression “plant and machinery” defined by the explanation to Section 17; c. The question whether a mall, warehouse or any building other than a hotel or a cinema theatre can be classified as a plant within the meaning of the expression “plant or machinery” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 859 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors.