1774 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Constitutional Goal 5. Article 39-A of the Directive Principles of State Policy which talks of equal justice and free legal aid reads as under: 39-A. Equal justice and free legal aid.- The State shall secure that the operation of the legal system promotes justice, on a basis of equal opportunity, and shall, in particular, provide free legal aid, by suitable legislation or schemes or in any other way, to ensure that opportunities for securing justice are not denied to any citizen by reason of economic or other disabilities. Relevant Judicial Pronouncements 6. This Court in Hussainara Khatoon and Others (IV) v. Home Secretary, State of Bihar, Patna (1980) 1 SCC 98, held as under: “6. …. It is not uncommon to find that undertrial prisoners who are produced before the Magistrates are unaware of their right to obtain release on bail and on account of their poverty, they are unable to engage a lawyer who would apprise them of their right to apply for bail and help them to secure release on bail by making a proper application to the Magistrate in that behalf. Sometimes the Magistrates also refuse to release the undertrial prisoners produced before them on their personal bond but insist on monetary bail with sureties, which by reason of their poverty the undertrial prisoners are unable to furnish and which, therefore, effectively shuts out for them any possibility of release from pre-trial detention… We do not think it is possible to reach the benefits of the legal process to the poor, to protect them against injustice and to secure to them their constitutional and statutory rights unless there is a nation-wide legal service programme to provide free legal services to them. It is now well settled, as a result of the decision of this Court in Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India [(1978) 1 SCC 248] that when Article 21 provides that no person shall be deprived of his life or liberty except in accordance with the procedure established by law, it is not enough that there should be [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1775 Suhas Chakma v. Union of India & Ors. some semblance of procedure provided by law, but the procedure under which a person may be deprived of his life or liberty should be “reasonable, fair and just”. Now, a procedure which does not make available legal services to an accused person who is too poor to afford a lawyer and who would, therefore, have to go through the trial without legal assistance, cannot possibly be regarded as “reasonable, fair and just”. It is an essential ingredient of reasonable, fair and just procedure to a prisoner who is to seek his liberation through the court’s process that he should have legal services available to him….. (Emphasis supplied) Further, this Court in Khatri and Others (2) v. State of Bihar and Others (1981) 1 SCC 627, para 6, held as under: 6. But even this right to free legal services would be illusory for an indigent accused unless the Magistrate or the Sessions Judge before whom he is produced informs him of such right.