Such an approach does not commend itself to this Court in the facts and circumstances of this case. 20. APPLICATION OF MIND AT THE STAGE OF SECTION 227, Cr.P.C 20.1 We may note that there is no quarrel with the broad proposition canvassed by learned counsel for the respondent- CBI that at the stage of Section 227, Cr.P.C., the Special Judge, CBI had to sift the evidence to find out whether there was sufficient ground for proceedings against the appellants. That exercise would include taking a prima facie view on the nature of the evidence recorded by the CBI and the documents placed before the court so as to frame any charge. At the same time, one must be mindful of the language used in Section 227 of the Cr.P.C, which is extracted below: “227. Discharge.—If, upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents submitted therewith, and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the prosecution in this behalf, the Judge considers that there is not sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused, he shall discharge the accused and record his reasons for so doing.” 1254 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 20.2. As observed in Prafulla Kumar Samal (supra) the expression “not sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused” clearly shows that the Judge is not a mere post office to frame the charge at the behest of the prosecution. The Judge must exercise the judicial mind to the facts of the case in to determine whether a case for trial has been made out by the prosecution. The principles governing the scope of Section 227, Cr.P.C. have been succinctly summarized in the caption case as below: “10. Thus, on a consideration of the authorities mentioned above, the following principles emerge: (1) That the Judge while considering the question of framing the charges under Section 227 of the Code has the undoubted power to sift and weigh the evidence for the limited purpose of finding out whether or not a prima facie case against the accused has been made out. (2) Where the materials placed before the Court disclose grave suspicion against the accused which has not been properly explained the Court will be fully justified in framing a charge and proceeding with the trial. (3) The test to determine a prima facie case would naturally depend upon the facts of each case and it is difficult to lay down a rule of universal application. By and large however if two views are equally possible and the Judge is satisfied that the evidence produced before him while giving rise to some suspicion but not grave suspicion against the accused, he will be fully within his right to discharge the accused. (4 ) That in exercising his jurisdiction under Section 227 of the Code the Judge which under the present Code is a senior and experienced court cannot act merely as a Post Office or a mouthpiece of the prosecution, but has to consider the broad probabilities of the case, the total effect of the evidence and the documents produced before the Court, any basic infirmities appearing in the case and so on.