At this stage, the scope of issues that needs to be addressed relating to health and environmental safety can be discussed and defined on a case-wise basis keeping in mind the overall phases of risk assessment: hazard identification; hazard characterization; exposure assessment; risk characterization; and mitigation options. Need, socio-economic factors and sustainability should also be considered and thoroughly discussed at this stage. If a GMO is initially declared for research and at a later stage it is to be considered for commercialization then that would be treated as a fresh application. The overall process of risk assessment should follow the Flowchart for the Risk Assessment Process in the Guidance on Risk Assessment of LMIOs (UNEP/CBD/BS/COP MOP/6/13/Add.1) of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety (CPB). In the case of health safety, the regulator should expect a suitable response to all relevant paragraphs of the Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC) Guideline for the Conduct of Food Safety Assessment of Foods Derived from Recombinant DNA (rDNA) [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1983 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Plants (CAC/GL 45-2003) and any other chosen risk assessment procedure. In doing so the regulator establishes a minimum expectation of the risk assessment meeting international requirements. It was pointed out that both the CPB and CAC guidelines provide guidance with regard to principles and issues that are to be addressed. They leave open the details of specific tests to be carried out which is left to the national system and the regulator. b. The majority, thus, noted the need to include chronic and transgenerational toxicity testing in feeding studies of rodents based on the fact that food is consumed over the entire lifetime and that nutritional stress can also lead to adverse or unintended effects over long-term exposure. The sensitive stages of reproduction also need to be included. c. In addition, the majority emphasized that the regulatory process should be open to new scientific information that may have a bearing on the risk assessment, if necessary, even after deregulation of an event. d. The majority also emphasised that the applicant should be responsible for providing to the regulator, all information that has a bearing on the risk assessment, regardless of whether it was obtained for the purpose of the risk assessment. In cases where the applicant is a collaborator/partner/ subsidiary in the development of the GMO, the applicant should provide this information along with the consent of all parties. e. With regard to the nature of tests for Bt in food crops, the majority was of the view that the safety of Bt transgenics with regard to chronic toxicity has not been established and this needs to be done before it can be considered safe. In this regard, it was pointed out that by far, the largest deployment 1984 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of transgenics worldwide is in soyabean, corn, cotton, and canola, all of which are used primarily for oil or feed after processing. Nowhere are Bt transgenics being widely consumed in large amounts for any major food crop, that is, directly used for human consumption.