As per section 193 of the Code, a written notice of the intended sale of immovable property and its time and place is required to be affixed in the office of Collector of District, office of Tahsildar of the Taluka in which the immovable 490 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports property is situate and other public building in the Village in which it is situate and the dwelling place. 35. As per section 195, if the sale is postponed for a period longer than 30 days, for sufficient reason, a fresh proclamation and notice is required to be issued unless defaulter consents for waiver of it. 36. Section 202 to 210 provide a procedure when payment to be made, when confirmation of auction sale to be done, how to deal with objections before confirmation etc. 37. In the present proceedings, admittedly, a fresh notice was issued by the Authority on 08/11/2008 for public auction in two newspapers i.e. “Nirdhar” and “Dahanu Times” informing the details of the property and time and date of auction. The Authority Mandal Adhikari, Talasari issued letter dated 19/11/2008 to the owner of the property informing that they have pasted the copy of notice on the gate of the suit property. The auction was held by the Tahasildar on 03/12/2008 and same was confirmed on the same date. This shows that the auction took place before expiry of 30 days from the date of proclamation which is contrary to section 193 of the Code. Moreover, the Tahasildar confirmed the said auction sale in favour of the Petitioner on the same day and handed over possession to the suit property receipt executing a possession receipt. This means, without waiting for 30 days from the date of proclamation, the Tahasildar held a public auction and handed over possession to the Petitioner, which was contrary to law. 38. It is interesting to note that after handing over possession to the Petitioner, the Collector, by dated 16/01/2009 confirmed the sale of the suit property in favour of the Petitioner. That means, before confirmation of the auction sale in favour of the Petitioner, the Tahasildar on his own, without any authority, handed over possession to the Petitioner. This court, in the matter of Shravan Vithoba Dekate (supra) in paragraph 12 specifically held that the provisions of the Code in respect of the auction sale to be strictly followed. The Apex Court, in the matter of Mathew [2024] 7 S.C.R. 491 M/s Al-Can Export Pvt. Ltd. v. Prestige H.M. Polycontainers Ltd. & Ors. (supra) categorically held that if the Rules framed for public auction under the SARFAESI Act are not followed strictly, the auction sale is required to be set aside. These facts are considered by the Additional Commissioner at the time of passing the impugned . The Additional Commissioner categorically held that the s passed by the Tahasildar as well as the Additional Collector were contrary to the provisions of the Code. Hence, the Additional Commissioner Konkan Division set aside both the s and the matter was remanded to the Additional Collector to decide on its own merits.