The reason cited for inserting the amendment was to overcome a ‘lacuna’ in the law. What could have been the lacuna in the law that impelled the insertion of this amendment? 10. In our view, the answer to this question can be derived by referring to the provisions in Chapter XXXIV of the 1973 Code which is titled as ‘Disposal of Property’. Section 457 Cr.P.C. sets out the procedure to be followed by police upon seizure of the property. Sub section (1) begin with the words: ‘Whenever the seizure of property by any police officer is reported to a Magistrate under the provisions of 14 [1976] 1 SCR 779 : AIR 1976 SC 680 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 419 Shento Varghese v. Julfikar Husen & Ors. this Code, and such property is not produced before a Criminal Court during an inquiry or trial…..”. Similarly, we may refer to Section 459 Cr.P.C. which empowers the Magistrate with the power to auction/ sell seized property in certain situations. It begins with the words: ‘If the person entitled to the possession of such property is unknown or absent and the property is subject to speedy and natural decay, or if the Magistrate to whom its seizure is reported is of opinion that……”. 11. Both, Section 457 Cr.P.C. and Section 459 Cr.P.C. contemplates the act of seizure by police to be reported to the Magistrate so that necessary steps could be taken for its custody and disposal. However, the provision [Section 102(1) Cr.P.C.] which conferred substantive power on the police to seize property linked to a crime, did not impose on such officers a consequent duty to report the seizures made to the Magistrate. Section 523 in the 1882 Code had coupled the power to seize property linked to the crime and the duty to report forthwith the seizure to the Magistrate in the same provision. Since the relevant provisions in the 1898 Code and the 1973 Code provided only for the substantive power to seize and did not impose any duty on such seizing officer to report to the Magistrate, there arose a need for amendment. That appears to us to be the lacuna in the law which was sought to be overcome. In fact, there are several decisions which indicate that the purpose of reporting to the Magistrate is to ensure an of the disposal of the seized property either on superdari, or otherwise, during the pendency of the case/investigations under Section 457 Cr.P.C. This further reinforces our view regarding the lacuna which was sought to be fixed. Therefore, the main object underlying the amendment appears to be a mere gap-filling exercise and an attempt to fix a basic omission in legislative drafting. 12. It is in this background that we must consider whether ‘seizure s’ can be set at naught for non-compliance with the procedural formality of reporting such seizure forthwith to the Magistrate. 13. This requires us to consider whether validity of the seizure is contingent on compliance with the reporting obligation?