(iv) Whether the Impugned interferes with the contract executed between the parties? (v) Whether charging rate of interests by banks in the manner as advised by Reserve Bank of India vide its master circulars & notifications being independent of a standard ceiling rate prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India, constitute an unfair trade practice? ANALYSIS i. Whether the Respondent organization has the locus to approach the National Commission? 40. To maintain a complaint under the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, a complainant must be either a ‘consumer’ within the meaning of Section 2(1)(d) of the Act or it must fit into Section 12(1) of the Act. The definition of the term “consumer” is defined herein as under: “2. (1)(d) “consumer” means any person who— (i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such use is made with the approval of such person, but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose; or (ii) hires or avails of any services for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any beneficiary of such services other than the person who hires or avails of the services for consideration [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1505 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd. v. Awaz & Ors. paid or promised, or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such services are availed of with the approval of the first mentioned person; but does not include a person who avails of such services for any commercial purpose; Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, “commercial purpose” does not include use by a person of goods bought and used by him and services availed by him exclusively for the purposes of earning his livelihood by means of self-employment;” 41. Section 12(1)(b) also permits a “any recognised consumer association whether the consumer to whom the goods sold or delivered or agreed to be sold or delivered or service provided or agreed to be provided is a member of such association or not” to file a complaint, in terms of the procedure prescribed under section 13 of the Act. The Respondent nos. 1 and 2 herein, have taken refuge under this provision claiming themselves to be a voluntary consumer association, to approach the National Commission. 42. The Complaint however, failed to meet the threshold of section 12(1) and 13 of the Act. The original Complaint before the Commission, which is said to have been filed in a representative capacity, by the Trust, representing all consumers who have been purportedly aggrieved owing to the exorbitant rates of interest charged by the banks, was filed without complying with the mandate of I Rule 8, prescribed under Section 13(6) of the Act.