32. A vendee may be happy to gain title to immovable property at the pains of the vendor having lost title and since possession was pursuant to title, being labelled as an unauthorised occupant if after execution of sale deed and possession being required to the delivered refuses to do so. In such eventuality, the vendor would be liable to pay damages/mesne profits for unauthorised occupation. This would be an entirely separate cause of action post- execution of the sale deed. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1295 Rohit Kochhar v. Vipul Infrastructure Developers Ltd. & Ors. 33. I accordingly decide the objection raised by the defendants against them. It is held that this Court has jurisdiction to entertain the suit.” 10. The defendants, being aggrieved by the passed by the learned Single Judge, preferred three appeals before a Division Bench of the High Court under Section 10 of the Delhi High Court Act, 1966. 11. The Division Bench of the High Court allowed the appeals and ed the plaint to be returned to the plaintiff in accordance with law so as to be presented before the court of competent jurisdiction. 12. The Division Bench of the High Court in its impugned took into consideration the provisions of Section 16 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 as also Section 55 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 and recorded the following findings:- “18. In the present case, it is an admitted position that the appellant had entered into the aforesaid alleged contract at its Corporate office at Delhi. It is the specific stand of the appellant that they were initially residents of Delhi and that they had moved to Gurgaon and their corporate office is now also located at Gurgaon. It is the contention of the counsel appearing for the respondents that the proviso to Section 16 of Code of Civil Procedure is applicable which is sought to be invoked, for, the relief which is sought for could be entirely enforced through the personal obedience of the defendants in Delhi. There is however not only a prayer in the plaint for declaration of the right and title, but also to transfer the right, title and interest in the suit premises situate at Gurgaon. As, in our opinion, the suit can be decreed in favour of the plaintiff only when the Court can get the sale deed executed and registered in favour of the plaintiff which would confer the title of the suit premises on the plaintiff, and the execution and the registration of the sale document would have to take place at Gurgaon and, for this the Court will also have to pass a decree directing the defendant to get the sale deed executed and registered at Gurgaon, implication of the same will be that a direction will have to be given to the defendant 1296 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that he shall have to move out of Delhi and go to Gurgaon and get the same registered. No sale deed is sought to be registered at Delhi and, therefore, in our considered opinion such a relief cannot be entirely obtained through the personal obedience of the defendant, who in this case has to go to the jurisdiction of another court to get the decree executed and the sale deed registered.