[2024] 3 S.C.R. 871 Satyanand Singh v. Union of India & Ors. while directing that he could avail of the available statutory remedies. (xi) The appellant availed of his statutory remedy by making an application to the Director General Armed Forces Medical Service (“DGAFMS” hereafter) seeking a Review Medical Board. The DGAFMS, vide dated 20th October, 2009, rejected the appellant’s prayer on the ground that the criteria for discharge was satisfied in terms of the Army’s prevailing policy at the time, i.e., the “Guidelines for Prevention and Control of HIV Infections in the Armed Forces” dated 30th November, 1992 (“1992 Guidelines” hereafter). Furthermore, the appellant was also denied disability pension, AIDS being categorised as a self-inflicted condition. (xii) The passed by the DGAFMS was subjected to challenge by the appellant before the AFT which, vide the impugned , rejected his prayer on the ground that the Medical Report had concluded after sufficient investigation and detail that he was suffering from (i) CNS Tuberculosis and (ii) Immune Surveillance for HIV. The IMB, which confirmed the findings of the Medical Report, was held to have been rightly constituted with the required experts. The appellant argued that he was misdiagnosed with AIDS, his CD4 cell count being 379 cells/ mm3 till as late as 05.08.2012 as opposed to the benchmark of 200 cells/mm3 set by the World Health Organisation. The AFT rejected this argument on the ground that such a CD4 cell count was marginal and would not entitle the appellant to be declared AIDS free, thus obviating the need for referring him to a Review Medical Board. CONTENTIONS OF THE PARTIES 3. Learned counsel for the appellant, Ms. Kawalpreet Kaur, relied on the 1992 Guidelines to argue that in terms thereof, all personnel with HIV infection were to be retained in service, the only restriction on their employment being, inter alia, that they would not be posted to high altitude areas. Ms. Kaur further contended that there had been an error in diagnosis in the Medical Report itself, since the appellant never suffered from tuberculosis which was taken as a defining illness for AIDS. It was urged that the appellant was merely suffering from double vision, which cleared up by 15th November, 2001. However, the doctors misdiagnosed the appellant’s double 872 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports vision for a tuberculosis related symptom of blindness. Consequently, in view of the Notice, the appellant having been found to be both HIV+ve and suffering from tuberculosis, was invalided from service. Ms. Kaul further argued that as per the Army’s 2003 Guidelines, the appellant was fit for service since his CD4 cell count remained above 200/mm3 till as late as 2012. This defining indicator for AIDS was argued to have been erroneously disregarded by both, the IMB and the AFT. In support of the same, it was further argued that the appellant was asymptomatic till date, without undergoing any anti-retro viral therapy as would have been prescribed for a person suffering from AIDS; thus, establishing without a doubt, that the appellant never developed AIDS to begin with.