Regarding Dr Ambedkar’s statement that the proposed amendment is already included within the provision, she contended that this was limited to the fact that the natural resources listed in the proposed amendment were covered by the existing clause. In the absence of any discussion on the “vesting” of such resources in the state, she argued that Ambedkar’s response cannot be interpreted to incorporate such an understanding. 175. On the other hand, Mr Tushar Mehta learned Solicitor General for India and Mr Rakesh Dwivedi, senior counsel appearing for the State of West Bengal contend that Dr Ambedkar’s response to the proposed amendment indicates that the clause includes within its fold the vesting or acquisition of privately owned resources as well. The provision, according to them,was deliberately framed in expansive terms, to include all types of resources, including privately owned [2024] 11 S.C.R. 153 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. resources. The idea was to keep the provision widely worded so that future governments could mould it according to the economic priorities and dynamics of the day. 176. In our view, Dr Ambedkar’s objection to the proposed amendment must be interpreted in view of his earlier observations on the nature of the Directive Principles and his vehement objection to any attempts to lay down a rigid ‘economic structure’ in the Constitution. Dr Ambedkar was clear that he was opposed to laying down any particular school of economic thought in the Directive Principles, notwithstanding a passing remark about the socialistic direction of Part IV, discussed above. This passing remark too may be understood in light of the Directive Principles being used as a tool by the framers to accommodate ideological dissenters who would otherwise lose out in constitutional negotiations. As Directive Principles were understood as non-justiciable exhortations, the framers often made strategic concessions in their text to accommodate diverse views and ensure the deliberations did not break down. 177. However, in view of the fact that Article 39(b) has evolved beyond a non-justiciable directive,we must pay heed to Dr Ambedkar’s prescient warning that the Constitution must not be interpreted in a way that imposes a rigid economic structure. With this principle in mind, Dr Ambedkar’s response to the proposed amendment to Article 39(b) cannot be interpreted to indicate that the provision encompasses all private property, and any legislation to convert private ownership to public ownership would fall within its ambit. At best, the response suggests that natural resources including rivers and seas may be vested in the state for the “common good” in certain specific cases. 178. With this historical context in mind, we now turn to examine how this Court has interpreted the provision over time, including in the s that have been called into question in the present reference. v. Interpretation of Article 39(b) that has been doubted 179. The genesis of this reference lies in the judgement of this Court in Ranganatha Reddy. A seven-judge bench of this Court adjudicated on the constitutionality of the Karnataka Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Act, 1976, which dealt with the acquisition of private contract carriages by the State.