‘Illegal Charges’ are by their nature prescribed, sanctioned and notified by law as a lawful levy even- though they may be inherently wrong or in contravention of the law. Thus, despite the exercise of a reasonable degree of diligence, there could be no real reason to doubt their legality. A consignee cannot be reasonably expected to be capable of discovering such patent or perverse error in the very genesis of the charge. It is something which only the authority that calculates, determines and notifies the levy of the charge could be said to know or at the very least ought to have known. Thus, Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989 cannot be said to encompass even “Illegal Charges” which are beyond the intention and object of the said provision, and the applicability of the prescribed time-limit must be confined only to claims for an ‘overcharge’. 94. Therefore, a distinction has been envisaged between an ‘overcharge’ and an ‘illegal charge’, where the former relates to any excess sum paid due to a mistake which was capable of being discovered by exercise of proper vigilance and thus, ought to have been claimed within a period of 6-months. 95. Lastly, we must also caution the courts and the railway claims tribunal of one another aspect, which is that where the court or tribunal whilst examining a claim for refund finds that a particular charge for which refund is sought is not an overcharge, they must not jump to the conclusion that the said charge then is an illegal charge. The purpose of the above discussion was only to bring clarity over what would be an ‘overcharge’ for the purposes of Section 106 sub-section (3) of the Act, 1989. 96. There may be situations, where a charge for which refund is sought may no be an overcharge or even an illegal charge and rather would be a lawful charge perfectly valid in the eyes of law, or a charge though valid but in the extant of equity may be refundable, the same has to be determined upon appraisal of the entire facts of the case. The courts and tribunal must be mindful of the fact that, the question as to what is the nature of a particular charge, be it overcharge or 1126 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports illegal charge or valid charge etc. is for ultimately determining whether it is liable for refund or not, without jumping to any conclusion. 97. This is evinced from the decisions of Steel Authority of India Ltd. (supra) and National Aluminium Co. Ltd. (supra), where as per the mandate of the Central Government’s policy, the goods in question were required to be carried only over the longer route. Accordingly, the goods were booked and freight was also realized for the longer route, but the railways dispatched the goods by the shorter-route due to logistical issues. Even though the High Court found nothing wrong with either the policy or the freight charge realized, and held both to be lawful, yet it directed refund in view of principles of equity by taking recourse to Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.