908 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. As such, the scope of the dispute in the second round was very limited. The Full Bench of the High Court, after coming to a finding of fact that the lands in question were within the ceiling limit, partly allowed the petition. The operative part of the of the Full Bench of the High Court has already been reproduced by us hereinabove in paragraph 2.4. 17. The State was not aggrieved with the findings on issue nos. (i), (ii) and (iv). By clause (i), the Full Bench of the High Court held that sub-section (6) of Section 2(g) of the 1961 Act and the explanation appended thereto is only an elucidation of the existing provisions of the said Act read with the provisions contained in the Consolidation Act. By clause (ii), it held that the unamended provisions of the 1961 Act and, in particular, Section 2(g)(1) read with Sections 17 and 23-A of the Consolidation Act and Rule 16(ii) of the Consolidation Rules cover all such lands which have been specifically earmarked in a consolidation scheme prepared under Section 14 read with Rules 5 and 7 and confirmed under Section 20, which has been implemented under the provisions of Section 24 and no other lands. By clause (iv), the Full Bench of the High Court held that, all such lands in the consolidation scheme which were reserved for common purposes, whether utilized or not, shall vest with the State Government or the Gram Panchayat, as the case may be; even though in the column of ownership the entries may be ‘Jumla Mustarka Malkans Wa Digar Haqdaran Hasab Rasad Arazi Khewat’ etc. 18. The grievance of the State was only with regard to clause (iii), wherein it has been held that the lands which had been contributed by the proprietors on the basis of pro-rata cut on their holdings imposed during the consolidation proceedings and which have not been earmarked for any common purpose in the consolidation scheme prepared under Section 14 read with Rules 5 and 7 and have been entered in the column of ownership as ‘Jumla Malkan Wa Digar Haqdaran Hasab Rasad Arazi Khewat’, and in the column of possession with the Gram Panchayat or the State Government, would not vest in the Gram Panchayat or the State Government but continue to vest with the proprietors. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 909 Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors. 19. This Court in the JUR has held that conclusion no. (iii) arrived at by the High Court was erroneous and not sustainable and accordingly set it aside. It has been held that the unutilized land was not available for redistribution amongst the proprietors. This Court further held that the findings recorded by the different benches of the High Court were clearly erroneous and not sustainable. This Court held that the land reserved for common purposes cannot be re-partitioned amongst the proprietors only because at a particular given time, the land so reserved has not been put to common use.