Section 19 of the UAP Act states: 19. Punishment for harbouring, etc.—Whoever voluntarily harbours or conceals, or attempts to harbour or conceal any person knowing that such person is a terrorist shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that this section shall not apply to any case in which the harbour or concealment is by the spouse of the offender.” 28. Having examined the provisions of law, let us now consider the material available on record to ascertain whether the case of the Appellant satisfies the tests as mentioned herein above. 29. The Appellant’s counsel contended that the Appellant’s mobile phone has not undergone scrutiny, and therefore, no conclusive connection to the charged offenses could be established. However, the scrutiny report of Bikramjit Singh @ Vicky’s (Accused No. 3) mobile phone, marked as M-5 reveals at serial no. 10, that the present Appellant was in communication with Accused No.3 multiple times. The Call Detail Records (CDRs) unveils a consistent pattern of communication between the Appellant and Bikramjit Singh (Accused No.3) even prior to their trip to Srinagar for procurement of weapons. Detailed scrutiny of the CDRs indicates that the Appellant had engaged in communication with Bikramjit Singh (Accused No.3) approximately 26 times, spanning from June 22, 2018 to October 19, 2018, the day of his arrest. 30. The Appellant’s counsel has objected to the denial of bail by the High Court and Special Court upon relying on the disclosure statements of Bikarmjit Singh @ Vicky (Accused No.3) and the Appellant himself. 150 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Accused No.3 in his disclosure statement (Annexure P3) has stated that on 08.07.2018, he along with Harpreet Singh @ Happy and Gurwinder Singh @ Gurpreet Singh Gopi (the present Appellant) went to Srinagar for the purchase of pistol which was sought to be used by them to take revenge of the Sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib. Further, the disclosure Statement of the present Appellant (Annexure P4) corroborated the disclosure Statement of Accused No.3 wherein he stated that he went with Accused No.3 and Harpreet Singh @ Happy to Srinagar. Though the present Appellant has taken the stance of not knowing the purpose of the visit to Srinagar, in his disclosure statement, he has admitted to the fact that he suggested both Bikramjit Singh (Accused No.3) and Harpreet Singh (Accused No.7) to purchase the weapon from western Uttar Pradesh. 31. The Appellant’s counsel has stated that in the terror funding chart the name of the Appellant does not find place. It is pertinent to mention that the charges in the present case reveals the involvement of a terrorist gang which includes different members recruited for multiple roles. Hence, the mere fact that the accused has not received any funds or nothing incriminating was recovered from his mobile phone does not absolve him of his role in the instant crime.