The Plaintiff (Rehan Ahmed) further stated that he does not want to pursue any proceedings against Saeeduddin and also Ahsan Ahmed-Defendant Nos.2 and 3, as such the suit was dismissed against Saeeduddin and Ahsan Ahmed. It was decreed against Ghulam Mohiuddin as per the compromise. Accordingly, a decree was drawn. As per the decree, when the defendant did not execute the Sale Deed, the Plaintiff -Decree holder initiated the proceedings for execution. In the execution proceedings Defendant No.1 Ghulam Mohiuddin filed objections stating that the Plaintiff had not paid the balance sale consideration, and had allowed substantial time to pass for about six to seven years, during which time the value of the property had doubled and as such the decree could not be executed now on account of the default of the Plaintiff-Decree holder. These objections were dismissed by the Executing Court by a detailed dated 09.12.1998 on the findings that before the registration of the Sale Deed, Defendant No.1 was required to fulfil his obligations which included getting the third floor vacated, getting the NOC and also getting the rent deeds transferred in the name of the Plaintiff. As such there was no default on the part of the Plaintiff. In the meantime, the Defendant No.1 Mohiuddin died. The dated 09.12.1998 was challenged by one General Tariq, s/o. Defendant No.2- Saeeduddin and legal heir of Defendant No.1 Gulam Mohiuddin, claiming rights under a sale executed by Defendant No.1 Mohiuddin by way of S.B.Civil Revision Petition No.55 of 1999. The said revision came to be dismissed by the High Court vide dated 02.06.2006. General Tariq preferred a Special Leave Petition before this Court registered as S.L.P. (C) No.12463 of 2006, which [2024] 4 S.C.R. 703 Rehan Ahmed (D) Thr. Lrs. v. Akhtar Un Nisa (D) Thr. Lrs. came to be dismissed by this Court vide dated 11.08.2006. With the dismissal of the Special Leave Petition the innings of the objections under Section 47 CPC filed by the -debtor – Defendant No.1 Mohiuddin came to an end. General Tariq, s/o. Defendant no.2- Saeeduddin did not carry the matter any further by way of review or otherwise before this court. However, a new round of objections under Section 47 CPC came to be initiated by respondent no.1 – Akhtar Un Nisa, wife of Defendant No.2-Saeeduddin and the mother of General Tariq. The objections by respondent No.1 Akhtar Un Nisa are to the following effect: I. The decree dated 09.05.1979 is without jurisdiction and a nullity; II. The property in the suit was a joint property of Ghulam Mohiuddin and Saeeduddin– Defendants No. 1 and 2 respectively; III. The suit having been filed as against both the brothers, the compromise deed could not have been arrived at between the Plaintiff and Defendant No.1 alone; IV. The Trial Court could not have accepted the settlement/ compromise between the Plaintiff and Defendant No.1 regarding Defendant No.2 vacating the third story of the house in question and the rent notes being transferred in favour of the plaintiff.