53. It was further submitted that vide letter dated 26.12.2023, the Director General of Civil Aviation confirmed that no further extension of the AOC was granted to the Corporate Debtor beyond 03.09.2023. The NCLAT in its impugned dated 12.03.2024 required the SRA to submit an application for re-issuance of the AOC within 90 days from the date of its and the deadline for the same had expired on 12.06.2024. It was submitted that, even today, the Respondents do not have a valid AOC and the fact that the Respondents are contending that they had not renewed the AOC solely because of the matter being under litigation, only exposes their disinterest and disinclination in taking their obligations forward. 54. It was then submitted that Clause 7.6.1(c) requires the SRA to obtain Slot Allotment Approval. The NCLT in its dated 13.01.2023 vide para 124 had clearly rendered a finding that “there is no dispute that slots for which SRA applied were granted to them by the concerned competent authority including the slots in Delhi and Mumbai on settling the old dues and as such, it cannot be considered as non-allotment of slots, as SRA has received the slots it requested for in compliance with the plan approval .” The ASG also referred to the email dated 27.06.2022 issued by MAIL and the same reads as under: “We are happy to consider your request for slots on parking bay during the ongoing summer schedule. The same is subject to the closure 2098 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports of ongoing discussions pertaining to settlement of outstanding dues of jet airways towards MAIL.” 55. While the NCLT had correctly recorded a finding that the slot allotment is subject to the payment of airport dues (which the Respondents had not paid even today), the NCLAT vide para 50 and Para 55 erroneously concluded that “the adjudicating authority has rightly observed that settling of old dues cannot be considered as non- allotment of slots” and therefore condition 7.6.1(c) stands fulfilled. This finding is contrary to the finding recorded by NCLT and the Resolution Plan and as a consequence, the Respondents could be said to have breached this condition precedent as well. 56. The ASG submitted that Clause 7.6.1(d) requires the SRA to obtain the International Traffic Rights Clearance. The NCLT, vide Para 125, had righty held that “the international traffic rights clearance is required to be obtained in compliance with the applicable laws which stipulates that minimum 20 aircrafts are required to be deployed before applying for such clearance”. However, after holding so, the NCLT proceeded to conclude that this condition cannot be satisfied upfront and can be fulfilled only when the operations have recommenced successfully and that, therefore, this condition precedent stood fulfilled. In simple terms, the NCLT could be said to have modified a condition precedent to a condition subsequent and this view of the NCLT has been upheld by the NCLAT in Paras 56 to 58. These findings are in clear contradiction to the express stipulation in the Resolution Plan and therefore, this condition too stands breached by the respondents.