Alternatively, the State could decide to actually distribute the “material resources of the community” to eligible and deserving persons by way of assignment, lease, allotment, grant, etc. The same would also come within the scope and ambit of the expression “distribution”. [Para 23(f)] 10. The s of this Court in Ranganatha Reddy, Sanjeev Coke, Abu Kavur Bai and Basantibai correctly decided the issues that fell for consideration and do not call for any interference on the merits of the matters. The observations of the Judges in those decisions would not call for any critique in the present times. Neither is it justified nor warranted. [Para 24] Held (per Sudhanshu Dhulia, J. ): 1. The question as to whether privately owned resources are part of “material resources of the community” as used in Article 39(b), has been answered by the learned Chief Justice as “yes”, “the phrase may include privately owned resources”, but not in the expansive manner as held by the three learned 18 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports judges in State of Karnataka v. Ranganatha Reddy and later in Sanjeev Coke Mfg. Co. v. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. The further sets limits on what could be “material resources of the community”. I am unable to accept the above proposition as this view ultimately holds that not all privately owned resources are “material resources of the community”. Not only this it further limits the hands of the legislature to a non-exhaustive list of factors to determine which resources can be considered as “material resources”. In my opinion there is no need for this pre-emptive determination. The definition of “material resources of the community” was purposely kept in generalized and broad-based terms. I entirely endorse the view taken by the Three learned Judges in Ranganatha Reddy and by the Five learned Judges in Sanjeev Coke, as to the scope and ambit of “material resources of the community”. Privately owned resources are a part of the “material resources of the community”. [Para 3] 2. “We may have democracy, or we may have wealth concentrated in the hands of a few, but we cannot have both.” This expression is attributed to Justice Louis D. Brandeis, an eminent Jurist and a former Judge of US Supreme Court. Without doubt, when Articles 38 and 39 of the Constitution of India were being incorporated in Part IV of our Constitution, a similar thought dominated the minds of the framers of our Constitution. It is for this reason that Granville Austin calls the Indian Constitution, “first and foremost a social document”. Our Constitution is not merely a roadmap for governance, it is also a vision for a just and equitable society. [Para 5] 3. In Mafatlal, the question before this Court primarily was of unjust enrichment. The observations of Justice Jeevan Reddy are only incidental and were not related to the core issue. I agree with the learned Chief Justice on this point and I adopt the detailed reasoning given by him in holding that the majority opinion in Mafatlal constitutes obiter dicta and is not binding on this Court.