S. 196. Sale of perishable articles.—Nothing in sections 192, 193, 194 and 195 applies to the sale of perishable articles. Such articles shall be sold by auction with the least possible delay, in accordance with such s as may from time to time be made by the Collector either generally or especially in that behalf. S. 197. When sale may be stayed.—If the defaulter or any person on his behalf, pays the arrear in respect of which the property is to be sold and all other charges legally due by him at any time before the property is knocked down, to the person prescribed under section 170 to receive payment of the land revenue due, or to the officer appointed to conduct the sale or if furnishes security under section 191, the sale shall be stayed. xxx xxx xxx S. 200. Mode of payment when sale is subject to confirmation.—(1) When sale is subject to confirmation, the party who is declared to be the purchaser shall be required to deposit immediately twenty-five per centum of the amount of his bid, and in default of such deposit, the property shall forthwith be again put up and sold. (2) The full amount of purchase money shall be paid by the purchaser before the sunset of the third day after he is informed of the sale having been confirmed, or if the said third days be a Sunday or other authorized holiday, 502 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports then before sunset of the first office day after such day. On payment of such full amount of the purchase money, the purchaser shall be granted, a receipt for the same, and the sale shall become absolute as against all persons whomsoever 2[after the expiry of a period of seven days from the date of sale, if no application is made under section 206, or if made, after it is rejected.] xxx xxx xxx S. 207. Application to set aside sale of immovables.—(1) At any time within thirty days from the date of sale of immoveable property an application may be made to the Collector to set aside the sale on the ground of some material irregularity, or mistake, or fraud, in publishing or conducting it, but, except as is otherwise provided in sections 208, 209 and 210, no sale shall be set aside on the ground of any such irregularity or mistake, unless the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Collector that he has sustained substantial injury by reason thereof : [Provided that, such application may be made by a defaulter who is a person belonging to a Scheduled Tribe or any person on his behalf, within one hundred and eighty days from such date.] (2) If the application be allowed, the Collector shall set aside the sale, and direct fresh one. xxx xxx xxx S. 208. confirming or setting aside sale.—On the expiration of thirty days or, as the case may be, one hundred and eighty days] from the date of the sale, if no such application as is mentioned in section 207 has been made, or if such application has been made and rejected the Collector shall make an confirming the sale : Provided that, if he has reason to think that the sale ought to be set aside notwithstanding that no such application has been made, or on ground other than those alleged in any application which has been rejected, he may, after recording his reasons in writing, set aside the sale.