53. On a plain reading of these provisions, it becomes clear that the terms and conditions mentioned in the Affiliation Bye-laws may be incorporated in the contract to be entered into between the school and the employee concerned. It does not say that the terms and conditions have any legal force, until and unless they are embodied in an agreement. To put it in other words, the terms and conditions of service mentioned in Chapter VII of the Affiliation Bye-laws have no force of law. They become terms and conditions of service only by virtue of their being incorporated in the contract. Without the contract they have no vitality and can confer no legal rights. The terms and conditions mentioned in the Affiliation Bye-laws have no efficacy, unless they are incorporated in a contract. In the 2226 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports absence of any statutory provisions governing the services of the employees of the school, the service of Respondent 1 was purely contractual. A contract of personal service cannot be enforced specifically. Therefore, Respondent 1 cannot find a cause of action on any breach of the law, but only on the breach of the contract. That being so, the appellant’s remedy lies elsewhere and in no case the writ is maintainable. 54. Thus, the aforesaid passed by this Court makes it very clear that in a case of retirement and in case of termination, no public law element is involved. This Court has held that a writ under Article 226 of the Constitution against a private educational institution shall be maintainable only if a public law element is involved and if there is no public law element is involved, no writ lies. 55. In T.M.A. Pai Foundation v. State of Karnataka (2002) 8 SCC 481, an eleven-Judge Bench of this Court formulated certain points in fact to reconsider its earlier decision in Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society v. State of Gujarat (1974) 1 SCC 717, and also Unni Krishnan, J.P. v. State of A.P. (1993) 4 SCC 111, regarding the “right of the minority institution including administration of the student and imparting education vis-à-vis the right of administration of the non-minority student”. 56. In the said case, very important points arose as follows:- (T.M.A. Pai Foundation case, SCC pp. 709-10, para 450) “450. … Q.5. (c) Whether the statutory provisions which regulate the facets of administration like control over educational agencies, control over governing bodies, conditions of affiliation including recognition/withdrawal thereof, and appointment of staff, employees, teachers and principals including their service conditions and regulation of fees, etc. would interfere with the right of administration of minorities? A. So far as the statutory provisions regulating the facets of administration are concerned, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2227 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. in case of an unaided minority educational institution, the regulatory measure of control should be minimal and the conditions of recognition as well as conditions of affiliation to a university or board have to be complied with, but in the matter of day-to-day management, like appointment of staff, teaching and non-teaching and administrative control over them, the management should have the freedom and there should not be any external controlling agency.