It held that, if the State has in substance acquired all the rights in the land for its own purposes, even if the title remains with the owner, it cannot be said that it is not acquisition within the second proviso to Article 31-A. 34. In paragraph 11, this Court recorded the facts in the said case. It recorded that some of the lands were owned by the Gram Panchayat prior to consolidation, which was used for common purposes. Some further area was reserved for common purposes as khals, paths, khurrahs, panchayat ghars and schools etc. after applying a cut upon the rightholders on pro-rata basis. It observed that apart from what was already owned by the Panchayat, no other land was reserved for providing income to the Panchayat. As such, the Court was not concerned with the validity of acquisition for such a purpose. 35. It will also be relevant to refer to the following paragraphs of the said in Ajit Singh: “12. Rule 16 (ii) of the Punjab Holdings (Consolidation and Prevention of Fragmentation) Rules, 1949, provides: “In an estate or estates where during consolidation proceedings there is no shamlat Deh land or such 918 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports land is considered inadequate, land shall be reserved for the Village panchayat and for other common purposes, under Section 18(c) of the Act, out of the common pool of the village at a scale prescribed by the Government from time to time. Proprietary rights in respect of land so reserved (except the area reserved for the extension of abadi of proprietors and non-proprietors) shall vest in the proprietary body of estate or estates concerned and it shall be entered in the column of ownership of record of rights as (Jumla Malkan wa Digar Haqdaran Arazi Hasab Rasad Raqba). The management of such land shall be done by the Panchayat of the estate or estates concerned on behalf of the village proprietary body and the panchayat shall have the right to utilise the income derived from the land so reserved for the common needs and benefits of the estate or estates concerned.” It will be noticed that the title still vests in the property body, the management of the land is done on behalf of the proprietary body, and the land is used for the common needs and benefits of the estate or estates concerned. In other words a fraction of each proprietor’s land is taken and formed into a common pool so that the whole may be used for the common needs and benefits of the estate, mentioned above. The proprietors naturally would also share in the benefits along with others. 13. In Attar Singh v. State of U.P. [(1959) Supp 1 SCR 928 at p 938] Wanchoo J., speaking for the Court, said this of the similar proviso in a similar Act, namely, the U.P. Consolidation of Holdings Act (U.P. Act 5 of 1954) as amended by the U.P. Act 16 of 1957: “Thus the land which is taken over is a small bit, which sold by itself would hardly fetch anything.