Supreme Court Reports communities and the primary decision-makers in managing sacred groves should be the local community members who nurture and protect them. (ii) The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) should be directed to frame a comprehensive policy for the governance of sacred groves. (iii) Identified sacred groves should be classified as ‘forest’ based on their ecological and cultural significance, regardless of their size. (iv) Wherever appropriate, sacred groves should be recognized and managed as ‘community reserves’ under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. (v) The State of Rajasthan should complete the survey and notification process for sacred groves across all districts within eight months. V. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN 34. Shri Shiv Mangal Sharma, learned AAG for the State of Rajasthan, submitted that pursuant to the dated 03.07.2018, an expert committee was constituted by an dated 06.11.2018. Subsequently, a preliminary identification process was undertaken, and district-wise draft notifications were issued to designate Orans, Dev-vans, and other lands as ‘deemed forests.’ Public objections to these draft notifications were invited, with the deadline for submissions set as 03.03.2024. This process follows the completion of the preliminary identification and inventory exercise in accordance with Clause 5.10.2 of the Rajasthan State Forest Policy, 2010. 35. It was further submitted that while the specific language from the Rajasthan State Forest Policy, 2010 was not replicated in the Rajasthan Forest Policy, 2023, the new policy incorporates provisions for Dev-vans/Orans under Clause 6.5.11, emphasizing their identification and management in consultation with local communities. 36. An expert committee finalized its recommendations on 07.03.2024 after reviewing public objections regarding deemed forests. A draft notification has been prepared and sent to the State Government, with instructions for District Collectors to address objections as per the Court’s directions. However, public hearings on the objections were delayed due to the model Code of Conduct. The recommendations of the expert committee are under consideration by the competent authority. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1857 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. 37. It was further submitted that, if this Court deems it necessary to include the previous policy’s language, the State is prepared to seek appropriate directions, review the Rajasthan Forest Policy, 2023, and place a revised version before the Court. VI. DISCUSSION 38. This Court while speaking through Hon’ble Mr. Justice G.S. Singhvi, in Nature Lovers Movement v. State of Kerala and Others,16 eloquently reflected upon Indian society’s deep-rooted commitment to environmental protection. The underscored how ancient traditions and teachings in India have consistently emphasized the harmonious co-existence of human life with nature. The relevant para is extracted herein below: “2. The Indian society has, for many centuries, been aware and conscious of the necessity of protecting environment and ecology. Sages and saints of India lived in forests. Their preachings contained in vedas, upanishads, smritis, etc. are ample evidence of the society’s respect for plants, trees, earth, sky, air, water and every form of life. The main motto of social life is to live in harmony with nature.