[2024] 1 S.C.R. 743 : 2024 INSC 24 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others (Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 491 of 2022) 08 January 2024 [B.V. Nagarathna* and Ujjal Bhuyan, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Writ petition filed u/Art. 32 by one of the victims challenging the of State of Gujarat granting remission and early release of 11 convicts held guilty in Bilkis Bano matter, if maintainable; writ petitions filed as Public Interest Litigation, assailing the impugned s of remission dated 10.08.2022, if maintainable; Government of State of Gujarat, if competent to pass the impugned s of remission in favour of convicts in Bilkis Bano case; of remission passed by the State of Gujarat in favour of convicts in Bilkis Bano case, if in accordance with law; and the 11 convicts having been granted liberty and released from imprisonment by virtue of the s of remission which has been declared and quashed as wholly without jurisdiction and non est, should the convicts be sent back to prison. Headnotes Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – ss. 432, 433, 433A and 435 – Grant of remission – Bilkis Bano matter – of State of Gujarat granting remission and early release of 11 convicts held guilty of committing heinous crimes of gangrape, murder and rioting armed with deadly weapons during the large-scale riots in Gujarat in the aftermath of the Godhra train burning incident – Challenge to: Held: Government of State of Gujarat was not competent to pass the s of remission in favour of the convicts as it was not the appropriate Government – State of Maharashtra, had the jurisdiction to consider the application for remission as the convicts were sentenced by the Special Court, Mumbai – Government of the State of Gujarat usurped the powers of the State of Maharashtra which only could have considered the applications seeking remission – Also the Remission Policy of 1992 of the State of Gujarat was not applicable to the convicts – Thus, the s of remission dated * Author 744 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 10.08.2022 not being in accordance with law is illegal, vitiated and thus, quashed – Also the dated 13.05.2022 passed by this Court directing the State of Gujarat to consider the application for pre mature release is a nullity and is non est in law since the said was fraudulently obtained at the hands of this Court, and the said being contrary to the larger bench decisions of this Court, is per incuriam – Thus, the rule of law is to prevail – 11 convicts to report to the concerned jail authorities within the stipulated period. [Paras 56, 70] Constitution of India – Art. 32 – Bilkis Bano matter – Writ petition filed u/Art. 32 by one of the victims challenging the of State of Gujarat granting remission and early release of 11 convicts held guilty of committing heinous crimes of gangrape, murder and rioting armed with deadly weapons during the large-scale riots in Gujarat in the aftermath of the Godhra train burning incident – Maintainability: Held: Writ Petition filed u/Art.