However, it observed that the only objection to be considered against this date is that there is a significant lapse of time between the decree and its execution.31 iv. The Court rejected the fourth date, i.e., the date of court for execution, despite the same being used in English law as per the decision in Miliangos (supra). It noted that the process of execution in India is a lengthy one that may require attachment of property, deciding third party claims to such property, proclamation with particulars, and auction sale. Moreover, multiple applications for execution may be required if the initial attachment and sale does not cover the decretal amount. Hence, it may lead to a situation where there are multiple execution s, meaning multiple exchange rates would have to be considered. Another difficulty is that the execution application itself requires the amount to be expressed in Indian currency.32 v. The date of payment was also rejected as the proper date due to practical and procedural difficulties of having to pay court fees on a determined amount in Indian rupee; the pecuniary limit of the jurisdiction of courts would depend on the amount claimed, which must again be in Indian rupee; and execution is for a specific sum expressed in Indian rupee. For these reasons, the Court held that the conversion of the amount to the domestic currency cannot be left to the date of payment as the legal procedures in India require the amount to be determined in domestic currency before that.33 vi. Among the remaining dates, the Court was of the opinion that the date of the /decree is the most appropriate.34 It rejected the date of the arbitral award as the proper date while observing that the Jugoslavenska case (supra), where this date was used, was doubted even 31 ibid, para 43. 32 ibid, paras 44-46. 33 ibid, paras 47-52. 34 ibid, para 53. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 307 DLF Ltd. (Formerly Known as DLF Universal Ltd) and Anr. v. Koncar Generators and Motors Ltd. by the House of Lords in Miliangos (supra). If the law laid down in Miliangos (supra) were to be applied to arbitral awards, the date of conversion would be when the court grants leave under Section 26(1) of the Arbitration Act, 1950 (UK) to enforce such award in the same manner as a or to the same effect.35 Further, noting the differences between the statutory scheme for enforcement of foreign arbitral awards in the UK and in India, it held that the Jugoslavenska case (supra) will not apply in the Indian context considering the procedure under Section 17 is different from the procedure under English law.36 Section 17 of the Arbitration Act, 194037 required a and decree to give an award the status of a decree, i.e., making it a rule of court, for the award to become enforceable. On the other hand, English law38 did not require a to be passed in all cases and it was sufficient for the court to grant leave to enforce the award in the same manner as a .