It was his stand that once the respondent tendered his resignation on 24.03.2011, which was accepted and he was relieved from service on 09.05.2011, pursuant whereto he accepted the full and final settlement on 23.06.2011 along with receipt of SIP on 26.08.2011, he had clearly accepted what had transpired. It was advanced that, therefore, after a period of over 1½ years raising an industrial dispute before the Deputy Labour Commissioner and Conciliation Officer, Bengaluru, on the ground that his resignation was obtained under coercion and duress, was not tenable and was rightly rejected by the Labour Court. It was submitted that ironically the documents relied upon by the respondent himself clearly demonstrated that he was a member of the senior management cadre, being in-charge of and supervising the Accounts Managers in the four Southern States as noted hereinbefore, which, by no stretch of imagination can lead to the conclusion that he was a “workman”. Learned Senior counsel submitted that in the written statement filed by the Company in reply to the Statement of Claim of the respondent, it was specifically pleaded that the respondent was not a “workman” and the nature of his duties were described in detail. However, the learned Single Judge grossly erred and misread the documentary and oral evidence while reaching the incorrect conclusion that the respondent was a “workman” within the meaning of Section 2(s), ID Act. 9. On the legal aspect, it was contended that the High Court had exceeded its jurisdiction in such matters, as the law was that a writ of certiorari under Article 226 of the Constitution can be issued only to correct errors of jurisdiction where a Court or Tribunal acts with material irregularity or in violation of natural justice but not for the 108 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports purpose of re-appreciation of evidence or acting as a Court of appeal. For such proposition, reliance was placed on the in Syed Yakub v K S Radha Krishnan, AIR 1964 SC 477, the relevant being Paragraph 74. Similarly, it was contended that in matters pertaining to industrial law, it has been held that unless the High Court first concludes that the Award or of a Labour Court or Industrial Tribunal is based on no evidence or is perverse, the High Court cannot proceed to reappreciate the evidence under Articles 226 or 227 of the Constitution. In this regard, following s were relied on - Indian Overseas Bank v IOB Staff Canteen Workers Union, (2000) 4 SCC 245; Anoop Sharma v Public Health Division, Haryana, (2010) 5 SCC 497, relevant being Paragraphs 12-145, and; 4 ‘7. The question about the limits of the jurisdiction of High Courts in issuing a writ of certiorari under Article 226 has been frequently considered by this Court and the true legal position in that behalf is no longer in doubt. A writ of certiorari can be issued for correcting errors of jurisdiction committed by inferior courts or tribunals : these are cases where s are passed by inferior courts or tribunals without jurisdiction, or is in excess of it, or as a result of failure to exercise jurisdiction.