Digital Supreme Court Reports Government. Rule 45 pronounces the conditions of a mining lease. It is pertinent to note that the said provision adopts the conditions prescribed under clauses (b) to (l) and (p) to (u) of sub-rule (1) of Rule 27 which relate to mining leases in respect of land in which minerals vest in the Government, and makes the said conditions applicable to mining leases in respect of land in which minerals vest exclusively in a person other than the Government, with the modification that in clauses (c) and (d) for the words “State Government” the word “lessor” shall be substituted. Further, in addition to the aforesaid conditions that are statutorily prescribed, Rule 45 (iii) permits the parties to set down and mutually agree upon such other conditions in the instrument of lease, so long as such additional conditions are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act and the Rules. Rule 45 (iv) enjoins upon the lessor, the duty to give notice to the lessee requiring him to pay royalty due under Section 9 of the Act, on failure of the lessee to remit the same as required. Should the lessee not act upon such notice and duly make the payment of royalty within sixty days from the date of receipt of notice, the lessor shall be bound to determine the lease. 10.8.7 Chapter VI pertains to grant of mining leases in respect of land in which the minerals vest partly in the Government and partly in private persons. Rule 53 provides that the provisions of Chapter IV shall apply to mining leases in respect of minerals which vest partly in the Government and partly in a private person as they apply in relation to the grant of prospecting licences and mining leases in respect of minerals which vest exclusively in the Government. The proviso to Rule 53 clarifies that the dead rent and royalty payable in respect of mineral which partly vest in the Government and partly in a private person shall be shared by the Government and by that person in proportion to the shares they have in the minerals. 10.8.8 The pertinent provisions prescribing the liability of a lessee to pay royalty and dead rent in respect of mining leases over different categories of lands as described under Chapters IV, V and VI of the Rules, have been summarised and presented in the following tabular statement: [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1771 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. Sl. No. Category of Procedure for Liability to pay land over grant of lease Royalty and Dead which mining and Conditions Rent prescribed lease is of mining lease under: granted: prescribed under: 1. Mining lease Chapter IV of the Royalty: in respect of Rules: Section 9 of the Act, land in which Rule 27 - r/w Second Schedule minerals vest in Conditions to the Act which the Government prescribes the rate of royalty; Rule 27 (1) (c) and the proviso thereto; Part V of Form K of the Rules; Dead Rent: Section 9A of the Act, r/w Third Schedule to the Act which prescribes the amount of dead rent payable per hectare of land; Rule 27 (1) (c) and the proviso thereto; Part V of Form K of the Rules.