37) This is because in the application filed by respondent no.5 at Sr. no.13 where land details are to be furnished, respondent no.5 could have mentioned that Leeladhar and others were co-owners of the land, but instead, he mentioned only Leeladhar and did not mention either about the other co-owners or about the pendency of the civil suit between Leeladhar and his brother Dinesh Kumar. 38) In view of the undertaking given in the said application as well as declaration signed by respondent no.5 that wrong information/misrepresentation/ suppression of facts would make him ineligible the retail outlet dealership, which would bind the 5th respondent, not only respondents no.2 to 4 cannot grant him the retail outlet dealership but cannot also they cannot defending their action in giving him the Letter of Intent by calling the petitioner as a medlesome interloper. 39) We fail to see how the petitioner can be considered as a medlesome interloper in the facts and circumstances of the case, when he was also a contender for the allotment of the retail outlet alongwith the respondent no.5. 40) As held in the decision of Ramana Dayaram Shetty versus The International Airport Authority of India & Others, (1979) 3 SCC 489 if an executive agency lays down certain standards which it professes its actions to be judged, it must scrupulously observe those standards. In the said case, the Supreme Court held that today the Government in a welfare State is the regulator and dispenser of special services and provider of a large [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1259 Pawan Kumar v. Union of India & Ors. number of benefits, including jobs, contracts, licenses, quotas etc. ; the valuables dispensed by Government take many forms; many individuals and many more businesses enjoy largess in the form of Government contract, and the discretion of the Government or its agency is not unlimited, in that, it cannot give or withhold largess in its arbitrary discretion or its sweet will. 41) This was reiterated in B.S. Minhas versus Indian Statistical Institute & Others (1983) 4 SCC 582, where the Supreme Court held that it is obligatory on the part of the respondent to follow its bye-laws since they have been framed for the conduct of its affairs to avoid arbitrariness and the respondent cannot escape liability for not following the procedure prescribed in the bye-laws. 42) Recently, this was reiterated in M.P. Power Management Company Limited versus Sky Power Southeast Solar India Private Limited & Others (2023) 2 SCC 703 and it was held that if an agency of the State had laid down astandard or a norm of eligibility and if a person submitting a tender did not satisfy this condition of eligibility, his tender would not be eligible for consideration. It held that this Principle had an independent existence apart from Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 43) Having regard to the settled legal position, we are of the opinion that the award of the retail outlet dealership by respondents No.2 to 4-BPCL to respondent no.5, cannot be sustained since respondent no.5 had misrepresented in his application that Leeladhar was the sole owner of the land offered for setting up the said outlet, but the truth was otherwise, and the land was co-owned by Dinesh Kumar and there was also a civil litigation pending before the Civil Court, which was not disclosed by respondent no.5.