Per contra, Mr. Saurabh Mishra, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent bank would argue that since the appellant is made accused on the basis of statement made by PW-1/Narendra Singh Parmar recorded in course of trial on 31.03.2022 and not on the basis of appellant’s pre-summoning statement recorded on 3 ‘of the Act’ 4 [2015] 5 SCR 605 : (2015) 7 SCC 497 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 367 Raghuveer Sharan v. District Sahakari Krishi Gramin Vikas Bank & Anr. 19.03.2016, therefore, Section 132 of the Act, has no application in the facts and circumstances of the case. It is also argued that the statement recorded at the pre-summoning stage is not admissible in evidence as held by this Court in Sashi Jena and Others v. Khadal Swain and another.5 ANALYSIS 9. The issue to be decided herein is whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, the appellant is entitled for protection under Section 132 of the Act, as his statement was recorded earlier at the pre-summoning stage as a witness for the complainant/ respondent bank. 10. Before proceeding further, it would be appropriate to refer and reproduce the provisions contained in Section 132 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 as under: - “132. Witness not excused from answering on ground that answer will criminate. - A witness shall not be excused from answering any question, as to any matter relevant to the matter in issue in any suit or in any civil or criminal proceeding, upon the ground that the answer to such question will criminate, or may tend directly or indirectly to criminate, such witness, or that it will expose, or tend directly or indirectly to expose, such witness to a penalty or forfeiture of any kind: Proviso:- Provided that no such answer, which a witness shall be compelled to give, shall subject him to any arrest or prosecution, or be proved against him, in any criminal proceeding, except a prosecution for giving false evidence by such answer.” 11. In to have clear understanding of the sweep and import of the provisions contained in Section 132 of the Act and the proviso, in particular, it is necessary to dwell on the principle on which the provision is introduced in the statute. 12. The proviso to Section 132 of the Act is based on the maxim nemo Tenetur prodere seipsum i.e. no one is bound to criminate himself 5 [2004] 2 SCR 260 : (2004) 4 SCC 236 368 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and to place himself in peril. In this regard the law in England, (with certain exceptions) is that a witness need not answer any question, the tendency of which is to expose the witness, or to feed hand of the witness, to any criminal charge, penalty or forfeiture.6 The privilege is based on the principle of encouraging all persons to come forward with evidence, by protecting them, as far as possible, from injury or needless annoyance in consequence of so doing.7 This absolute privilege, in some cases tended to bring about a failure of justice, for the allowance of the excuse, particularly when the matter to which the question related was in the knowledge solely of the witness, deprived the court of the information which was essential to its arriving at a right decision.