In the said case, there was no dispute between the parties in regard to the FSI or TDRs granted to them for the surrendered plots of land. The controversy was with regard to the FSI or TDRs for roads constructed on the surrendered lands at the owner’s cost. The landowners claimed that for constructing the roads they were entitled to FSI or TDRs for the whole of the surface area of the roads. They relied upon Para 6 of Appendix-VII to the DCRs. The Mumbai Municipal Corporation however relied upon a Circular dated 09.04.1996 issued by the Municipal Commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay, which envisaged a graded scheme for grant of additional development rights for construction of amenities by the landowner, e.g. in case of amenities like general hospital, municipal primary school, etc. which allowed FSI equal to the built-up area of the structure but in case of DP road only 15% of the area of the road surface. The Circular was assailed by the landowners. 12.4 In the said case, the Bombay High Court had accepted the contention advanced on behalf of the State of Maharashtra to the effect that by introducing a graded scheme for grant of additional FSI or TDR the Circular had eliminated the possibility of any discriminatory or arbitrary action on the part of the authority competent to issue the development right certificate. It was contended that grant of further additional TDR was commensurate to the value of the amenity constructed/developed on the surrendered land. Therefore, it was contended that Para 6 of the Appendix-VII, unlike Para 5 didn’t use the words “equal to the gross area of the reserved plot” or “equal in area”. Instead, Para 6 used the words “equivalent to the area of construction/ development”. That, Para 6 of Appendix-VII to the Regulations must be read with Section 126(1)(b) of the Act. It was evident that the said provision used the words “against the area of the land surrendered” and “against the development or construction of amenity on the surrendered land”. Therefore, the grant of 862 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports additional development right was proportionate to the value of the amenity constructed by the owner at his own cost and the Circular issued by the Municipal Commissioner simply quantified the exchange value of different kinds of amenities in percentage terms depending upon their cost of construction and other relevant considerations. 12.5 However, the aforesaid submission, which was accepted by the Bombay High Court was not agreed to by this Court and the of the Bombay High Court was set-aside. While doing so, the submission on behalf of the appellants therein was accepted that the provision clearly envisaged grant of the FSI or TDR under two separate heads: one, for the land, and the other, for the construction of the amenity for which the land was designated in the development plan at the cost of the owner. The Court also held that Section 2(9-A) defined “development right” to include TDR and Section 126(1)(b) provided for: (i) grant of FSI or TDR against the area of land surrendered free of cost, and (ii) further, additional FSI or TDR against the development or construction of the amenity on the surrendered land at the owner’s cost as the final Development Control Regulations should provide.