This would result in multiple States as well as the Union having powers to make laws which would lead to the scheduled industries under IDRA pale into insignificance. This would defeat the purpose of Entry 52 – List I and the laws made thereunder; such as IDRA. Fourthly, the critical importance of scheduled industries in the Indian economy must not be lost sight of. The object and purpose of Entry 52 – List I and passing of laws on 2174 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the strength of the said Entry by the Parliament taking over control of certain industries by a declaration made by law as expedient in the public interest, is a factor which cannot be lost sight of while answering the reference made to this Bench in the form of various questions raised. This aspect has been borne in mind in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) while deciding the issues raised therein. Fifthly, if the in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) is overruled then all State legislatures can also make laws under Entry 33(a) – List III in respect of scheduled industries. This would result in IDRA made under Entry 52 – List I and Entry 52 – List I itself losing significance as the object and purpose of taking control of certain industries by insertion of the said industries as scheduled industries under the said Act would be defeated. Sixthly, if industries of critical importance to the Indian economy which are scheduled industries under the IDRA which are under the control of the Union by a declaration made by Parliament by law are allowed to be legislated upon by the State legislatures, the whole object of taking control of such industries by the Union for ensuring uniformity in their development and for ensuring the object and purpose of the IDRA would be defeated. This would result in a haphazard development of such scheduled industries in the country. For instance, if “industrial alcohol” is read as coming within the scope and ambit of Entry 8 – List II then it would be excluded from the scheduled industry. Such a state of affairs would not be conducive to the economy as the scheduled industries such as “Fermentation Industries”, minus potable alcohol play a significant role in the Indian economy. Seventhly, the interpretation of the constitutional Entries and the provisions of the Constitution must be so made bearing in mind the intentions of the framers of the Constitution and the nature and structure of the Indian economy and the need for a uniform development throughout the country of certain industries which have been taken control of by the Union. This approach has been adopted in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J). [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2175 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Eighthly, the principle of federal balance must yield to the doctrine of Parliamentary supremacy in certain areas such as when laws are made under Entry 52 or Entry 54 or Entry 7 – List I such as in the present cases.