From the contents of the letter, it is clear that the department has admitted the non-availability of India Insurance stamps and has also stated that it is not concerned with their supply and distribution as they are the property of the central government. The appellant submits that due to such representation by the respondent-government, they were compelled to purchase the stamps from Maharashtra, without which they could not have issued the insurance policies in the state of Rajasthan. The High Court, in the impugned , has held that the correspondence of the appellant with the department pertained to Agents License Fee stamps.41 However, it has evidently not taken note of the letter dated 07.10.1991 while arriving at such finding. The High Court has therefore erred in this regard. 34. Further, the High Court has held that even if the stamps were unavailable, the appellant was duty-bound to pay the stamp duty to the state government in cash as provided under Section 3A(1) of the 1952 Act.42 The relevant portions of Section 3A have been extracted: “3A. Payment of stamp duty in cash.— (1) Where the State Government or the Collector under instructions of the State Government, by published in the Official 41 Impugned , p. 15 42 Impugned , p. 15 268 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Gazette, declares that adhesive or impressed stamps of any denomination are not in stock for sale in sufficient quantity; then, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the rules made thereunder and during the period the said remains in force,— (i) any instrument chargeable with the stamp duty under this Act may be executed on an unstamped paper; (ii) the stamp duty chargeable on such instrument under this Act may be paid to or collected by any Government treasury in cash and a receipt or challan therefor shall be duly given by the officer receiving the cash; (iii) the officer-in-charge of the Government treasury shall, as soon as may be, after the stamp duty chargeable on any such instrument under this Act has been received in cash, make on the instrument for which the stamp duty has been paid in cash, the following endorsement, after due verification that the stamp duty had been paid in cash for such instrument, and after cancelling such receipt or challan so that it cannot be used again, namely:- ‘Stamp duty of Rs. ……………………paid in cash, vide receipt/challan No. …………………….dated………………… (iv) the instrument endorsed under clause (iii) shall be deemed to be duly stamped under this Act and may be used or acted upon as such to all intents and for all purposes; Explanation.- For the purposes of sub-section (1) “Government treasury” includes a Government sub- treasury and any other place as the State Government may by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint in this behalf. *** (4) Nothing contained in this section shall apply to the payment of stamp duty chargeable on the instruments specified in entry 91 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India.” 35.