At this juncture it is imperative to address the question that when the selection and appointment is made in blatant violation of the principle(s) of natural justice what effect would it have on the selection of such candidates? 18. In the case at hand, the appellants countered the findings of Collector, Commissioner, learned Single Judge and the Division Bench on the ground of violation of audi alteram partem. It was contended that their appointment was cancelled without joining them at in initial proceedings before the Collector. The principle of natural justice does not solely depend on audi alteram partem. It needs to be prefaced by an action of the administrative or quasi- judicial authorities and the courts of common law jurisdiction in India to invalidate the s based on rule of principle doctrine. The principle of natural justice emphasises the basic values which a common man cherishes throughout. The said principle is based on rules relating to fairness, reasonableness, equity and justice, good faith, and good conscience. It gives assurance of justice with the intent to develop confidence in the justice delivery process. The English law recognized two facets of natural justice “nemo debet esse judex in propia causa” which means no one can be a judge in his own cause and “audi alteram partem” means no one should be condemned unheard. The preceding principle emphasises about the decision-making authority and the latter emphasises a procedure to be adopted in decision making, however, the deciding authority must be impartial and without bias, therefore, the element of the bias in the mind of the authority is an essential facet and the initial step to observe the principle of natural justice. The preceding principle emphasises that a man should not be a judge in his own cause. Thus as per the first requirement, the person who is involved in [2024] 4 S.C.R. 171 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. the process including a judge should be impartial and neutral and must be free from bias. 19. In the English judgement of R Vs. Rand, (1866) LR 1 QB 230, Blackburn, J observed thus “…Wherever there is a real likelihood that the judge would, from kindred or any other cause, have a bias in favour of one of the parties, it would be very wrong in him to act; and we are not to be understood to say, that where there is a real bias of this sort this Court would not interfere;..” 20. In another English R Vs. Sussex JJ, ex parte McCarthy (1924) 1 KB 256, the King’s Bench quashed the conviction on the ground of bias. Lord Hewart, CJ posed the question as thus: - “… The question therefore is not whether in this case the deputy clerk made any observation or offered any criticism which he might not properly have made or offered; the question is whether he was so related to the case in its civil aspect as to be unfit to act as clerk to the justices in the criminal matter.” and answered as under: - “… The answer to that question depends not upon what actually was done but upon what might appear to be done.