He therefore held that the fixed deposits with Imperial Bank were held as an investment quite apart from the business of the appellant and the interest from these deposits was not exempt from income tax. He further held that the exemption as to the profit of a cooperative society extended to its sphere of cooperative activities and therefore interest from investments was no part of the appellant’s business profits exempt from taxation. Against this an appeal was taken to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal and it was there contended that the Bank did not make the deposits as investments, but in that cash might be available to the appellant “continuously” for the carrying on of the purposes of its business, and that the deposits were intimately connected with the business of the appellant and therefore the interest should have been held to be profits arising from the business activities of the 884 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Bank, and that the finding that the short-term deposits in Imperial Bank were separate from the appellant’s Banking business was erroneous. The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, by its dated 11-4-1955, held: “(1) That the interest was an income rightly to be included under the head of ‘other sources’. *** (2) The profits of a cooperative society indicates the profit derived from the business which can be truly called the business of the cooperative society. Investments by the society either in securities or in shares or in Bank fixed deposits are made out of surplus funds. The interest or dividend derived from such investment cannot be regarded as part of the profits of the business (sic) qua such Bank and therefore, it is not exempt from income tax (vide Hoshiarpur Central Cooperative Bank v. CIT [24 ITR 346, 3501], 24 I.T.R. 346, 350).” Against this a case was stated at the instance of the appellant under Section 66(1) of the Act, and the following two questions of law were referred for the opinion of the High Court: (1) Whether, in the facts and circumstances of this case, the receipt of interest on fixed deposits was an income under the head of “other sources”: and (2) Whether in the facts and circumstances of this case, the receipt of interest from the fixed deposits was an income not exempt from taxation under the CBR Notification No. 35 dated 20-10-1934 and No. 33 dated 18-8-1945.” In paragraphs 9 and 10, this Court proceeded to hold thus: “9. In the instant case the cooperative society (the appellant) is a Bank. One of its objects is to carry on the general business of Banking. Like other Banks money is its stock-in-trade or circulating capital and its normal business is to deal in money and credit. It cannot be said that the business of such a Bank [2024] 10 S.C.R. 885 Bank of Rajasthan Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax consists only in receiving deposits and lending money to its members or such other societies as are mentioned in the objects and that when it lays out its moneys so that they may be readily available to meet the demand of its depositors if and when they arise, it is not a legitimate mode of carrying on of its Banking business.