It stipulates that a High Court shall consist of a Chief Justice and such other judges as the President may from time to time deem it necessary to appoint. In other words, once appointed to the High Court, every Judge ranks at par. Once appointed, no distinction can be made between judges for the purpose of the payment of salary and for extending other service conditions both during and after they cease to be in service. 22. Article 217, which provides for the appointment and conditions of service of a Judge of the High Court specifies the sources from which the judges are drawn, namely, the district judiciary, and the Bar. The source from which the judges of the High Court are appointed, however, has no bearing on the position that once appointed to the High Court, all judges constitute a homogenous class without distinction. Making a distinction between judges of the High Court based on whether they were drawn from the Bar or, as the case may be, the district judiciary and to place judges drawn from either of the sources at a relative disadvantage would fundamentally militate against the sense of homogeneity which is envisaged by the constitutional provisions, particularly, Article 216. 23. Apart from the principle underlying the creation of a homogenous class of judges appointed to the High Courts, the Constitution has made specific provisions which guarantee financial independence of judges. Financial independence for judges is a necessary ingredient of maintaining judicial independence. The Constitution made a departure from the provisions of the Government of India Act 1935 under which the salaries and allowances as well as pension payable to judges of the High Court were to be determined by an Act of the provincial legislature. 24. Though, initially, a similar provision was contained in the draft articles of the Constitution, a conscious departure was made in the Constitution as it was framed. Before the 54th Amendment, the Constitution provided that the salaries of judges would be such as are specified in the Second Schedule. After the said Constitutional amendment which was brought into force on 1 April 1986, the salaries of judges of the High Court are determined by Parliament by law. Likewise, matters pertaining to allowances, leave of absence and pension are governed by Parliamentary enactments. The object of providing for a Parliamentary determination of service conditions, [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1055 Justice Shailendra Singh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. in particular, the salary, allowances and pension was to bring about national uniformity in the conditions of service both of sitting and former judges of High Courts. 25. Clearly, therefore, it is not within the contemplation of the Constitution that the payment of salaries and the extension of other benefits both during and after service should be left to the vagaries of determination by individual States and the schemes which are applicable to civil service officers discharging duties in each State. The payment of salaries and allowances to sitting judges is charged to the Consolidated Fund of every State in terms of Article 202(3) (d).