19. In sum and substance, the writ of certiorari is expended as a remedy and is intended to cure jurisdictional error, if any, committed by the Courts/forums below. It should not be used by superior Court to substitute its own views by getting into fact-finding exercise unless warranted. [See Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences and Another Vs. Bikartan Das and Others, 2023 SCC OnLine 996 – Para 51 and 52; Syed Yakoob Vs. K.S. Radhakrishnan, AIR 1964 SC 477 – Para 7]. At this juncture, it would also be profitable to refer relevant extract from delivered by this Court in ‘Indian Overseas Bank’ (supra), wherein para 17, it was observed as thus – “17. ……..The findings of fact recorded by a fact-finding authority duly constituted for the purpose and which ordinarily should be considered to have become final, cannot be disturbed for the mere reason of having been based on materials or evidence not sufficient or credible 148 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the opinion of the writ Court to warrant those findings at any rate, as long as they are based upon such materials which are relevant for the purpose or even on the ground that there is yet another view which can be reasonably and possibly undertaken……” Such being the situation, in the instant case, the High Court went into a probe regarding credibility of the opinion of the Scrutiny Committee because the writ Court felt the need to substitute it’s own views. In case if the findings of the Scrutiny Committee are based on the materials specified under Rule 16 followed by its subjective satisfaction, then exercise of jurisdiction under writ of certiorari to quash the of validation of caste claim by Scrutiny Committee is unwarranted and uncalled for. 20. In a recent reference in ‘Mah. Adiwasi Thakur Jamat Swarakshan Samiti’ (supra), while answering the question as to ‘whether paramount importance should be given to the affinity test while adjudicating upon a caste claim on the basis of a caste certificate issued by a Competent Authority, or in other words, whether the affinity test is a litmus test for deciding a caste claim’, this Court observed that if the Scrutiny Committee is satisfied with the documents, it need not mechanically forward the same to the Vigilance Cell for verification in a routine manner. Even as per Rule 17(7) of the 2012 Rules, the Scrutiny Committee is not required to send every document to Vigilance Cell. It is only when the Scrutiny Committee after holding an enquiry is not satisfied with the material produced by the applicant, it may refer to Vigilance Cell. Therefore, in our considered view, the observations made by the High Court in the case at hand regarding not sending the documents to Vigilance Cell is not justified. 21. Lastly, the documents which are furnished by an applicant before the Scrutiny Committee are a reference point for the Scrutiny Committee to verify the caste claim of an Applicant. In such a case, where the Applicant is tracing the caste genealogy based on documents from pre-independence era, the task of Scrutiny Committee is to validate or reject a claim of validity certificate based on assessment of documents that are filed by the Applicant.