Supreme Court Reports seven Hon’ble Judges. The reason that the Court in Anjuman-e- Rahmania & Ors [supra] provides is that as per the judgement in Azeez Basha [supra], if after the establishment of an institution, the institution is registered as a society, its status as a minority institution changes. It has been pointed out that the AMU and the decision in Azeez Basha [supra], had nothing to do with a society or Societies Registration Act as the AMU is governed by way of a standalone legislation. The other reason the Court in Anjuman [supra] cites for making a reference is the criticism of the judgement by jurists like Mr. Seervai. It has been argued that while opinions of jurists hold persuasive value, the same cannot be a ground for making reference to a larger bench. The reference in Anjuman [supra] does not point towards a future or previous judgement of equal or larger strength from Azeez Basha [supra], being contrary to the judgement in Azeez Basha [supra]. In effect, a Bench of two hon’ble Judges has directly referred to the correctness of a decision rendered by five Hon’ble Judges to seven Hon’ble Judges, without the presence of a Chief Justice despite being prima facie bound by the opinion of the larger Bench. 107. A similar situation arose in relation to the of this Court in Sardar Syedna Taher Saifuddin Saheb v. State of Bombay, 1962 Supp (2) SCR 496. In the said case, which concerned the powers of excommunication of the head of Dawoodi Bohra community, a five-Judge Bench of this Court, ruled by a majority of 4:1, that the Bombay Prevention of Excommunication Act (Act 42 of 1949) was ultra vires the Constitution as it violated Article 26(b) of the Constitution and was not saved by Article 25(2). 108. Decades later, on 26-2-1986, a fresh petition was filed seeking reconsideration and overruling of the decision of this Court in Sardar Syedna [supra] and for issuing a writ of mandamus directing the State of Maharashtra to give effect to the provisions of the Bombay Prevention of Excommunication Act, 1949. 109. The said matter came up for hearing before a two-Judge Bench of this Court which on 25-8-1986 directed “rule nisi” to be issued. On 18-3-1994 a two-Judge Bench directed the matter to be listed directly before a seven-Judge Bench for hearing. On 20-7-1994 the matter did come up before a seven-Judge Bench which adjourned the hearing awaiting the decision in WP No. 317 of 1993 [T.M.A. Pai (supra)]. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1953 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. 110. On 26-7-2004 IA No. 4 was filed on behalf of Respondent 2 seeking a direction that the matter be listed before a Division Bench of two Judges. Implicitly, the application sought a direction for non-listing before a Bench of seven Judges and rather the matter being listed for hearing before a Bench of two or three Judges as is the normal practice of this Court. In the contents of the application reliance was placed on the Constitution Bench decisions of this Court in Bharat Petroleum Corpn.