Supreme Court Reports recovered, in that case NOIDA is obligated to compensate NTBCL the deficiency in Total Project Cost, returns, and any other expenses, as specified in Section 8.1 of the Agreement. 73. As previously mentioned, a letter dated 29.08.2007 from the CEO of the Appellant to NOIDA indicated that the Total Project Cost after 30 years would be approximately Rupees 5,353 crores, suggesting that the term of the Project should be extended to 100 years. The CAG Report pertinently states that, if NTBCL continues to operate under the current terms of the Concession Agreement, with extensions as per its provisions, the unrecovered Total Project Cost could rise to around Rupees 7,200 crores by 31.03.2020 and Rupees 15,200 crores by 31.03.2029. This unending escalation in the Total Project Cost leaves no room to doubt that the Concession Agreement was cleverly designed to remain perpetually operational. 74. A conjoint reading of these aspects reveals that NOIDA effectively faced two options: (i) allow NTBCL to recover the Total Project Cost and returns through user fees, even after the initial 30-year concession period, by granting indefinite 2-year extensions, or (ii) pay the Total Project Cost of and returns themselves, to terminate the Concession Agreement either at the end of 30 years or before. Therefore, NOIDA’s ‘choice’ was limited to either bearing the financial burden itself—by paying Rupees 5,353 crores through public funds—or allowing the Concession Agreement to continue, forcing the general public to pay user fees indefinitely. In either case, the inevitable result is the unjust enrichment of NTBCL at the cost of public suffering. 75. In such dire circumstances, NTBCL cannot assert that NOIDA has a genuine ‘choice’ or the ability to ‘withhold consent’ from extending the Concession Agreement. NOIDA effectively has no choice and is perversely being browbeaten to continue enforcing the Concession Agreement. Despite the supposed ‘choice,’ it is burdened with the obligation to repay an exorbitant sum, which we have already established is unreasonably calculated. 76. This ‘consensual’ extension is solely a show of smoke and mirrors and has been cunningly engineered by NTBCL and IL&FS. They successfully ensured that: first, the formula was designed in such a way that the Total Project Cost and returns would escalate each year; second, inflated and unnecessary expenses could be included [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2037 Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. v. Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association and Others in the Total Project Cost, making repayment impossible; third, the Concession Agreement would only terminate upon full repayment of the Total Project Cost and returns, knowing as early as 2007 that 30 years would not suffice for recovery; and finally, NOIDA was left with no real choice but to extend the concession period due to the ultimatum presented in Article 18, masked as ‘consent.’ 77. Contracts loaded with terms which are so unfair and unreasonable, that they truly baffle this Court, are undoubtedly opposed to public policy and must be adjudged void.20 The Court is always cautious when determining if a particular contract or action is opposed to public policy, but in doing so, it cannot shirk from its duty and approve helplessly the interpretation of a Statute or a document or of an action which is certain to subvert the societal goals and endanger the public good.21 78.