He pointed out that there was a fan and light bulb in their cell. In their room, there was usually more than one inmate. Moreover, they had access to an open ground. He, therefore, submitted that in view of the law laid down by this Court in the case of Vinay Sharma v. Union of India & Ors,8 it cannot be said that the convicts were kept in solitary confinement. 16. The learned counsel submitted that in the execution warrants, more than a reasonable period was provided from the date of warrants till the date of execution. Copies of the warrants were immediately supplied to the convicts. He submitted that merely because the convicts were not brought before the Sessions Court while proceeding with issuance of warrants, this lapse by itself, was not sufficient to commute the sentence to life imprisonment. The learned counsel also made suggestions for issuing guidelines for effective compliance with Sections 413 and 414 of the CrPC corresponding to Sections 453 and 8 [2020] 10 SCR 393 : (2020) 4 SCC 391 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 587 State of Maharashtra & Ors. v. Pradeep Yashwant Kokade & Anr. 454 of the Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short, ‘the BNSS’). In short, the submission of the learned counsel appearing for the appellants is that there was no warrant for commuting the death sentence. 17. Ms. Payoshi Roy, the learned counsel representing the respondents- convicts submitted that as held by this Court in the case of Sher Singh & Ors,2 Article 21 of the Constitution of India inheres in every person till his last breath. The learned counsel submitted that unreasonable delay in adjudicating upon the mercy petitions makes the punishment barbaric and, hence, unconstitutional. She submitted that, in fact, avoidable delay in deciding the mercy petitions violates constitutional due process, which includes fair, just and reasonable procedure. The learned counsel relied upon the observations made by this Court in the cases of Sher Singh & Ors2 and Ajay Kumar Pal.5 The learned counsel submitted that the executive authorities should follow a self-imposed rule that every mercy petition must be disposed of within three months. The delay beyond a period of three months must be, prima facie, presumed to be excessive, which puts the burden on the State Government to explain the delay. She submitted that no fixed length of delay can be determinative, and, in that context, the High Court observed that the quantum of delay is not material. She pointed out that the total delay in execution of the death sentence, in this case, starting from the date of filing of mercy petitions till the date of issuance of execution warrants, was three years, eleven months and fifteen days. 18. The learned counsel for the convicts submitted that the poor economic condition of the convicts was not considered by the Hon’ble Governor of the State of Maharashtra and the Hon’ble President of India. Even the fact of relatively young ages of the convicts has not been considered while deciding the mercy petitions.