29. He further submitted, that the decision to cancel the tender was bona fide and had to be taken considering the technical faults in the same. He submitted, that there was ambiguity in the tender as regards whether it was lawful to put up advertisements at the places outside the underpasses, due to which, many interested bidders might not have participated in the tender. The respondent was of the view that a higher license fee could be fetched by rectifying such ambiguity. 30. Mr. Dwivedi also submitted that the decision to cancel the tender had to be taken to enable the respondent to float separate tenders, one for the maintenance of the underpasses and the other for the licensing advertisement rights. Thus, the decision was taken in public interest. He submitted that the decision to cancel the tender was on the basis of a change in the policy, and thus cannot be said to be arbitrary. 31. He further submitted that no reliance could have been placed on the notings in the file maintained by the respondent, as the file notings 556 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports are only internal deliberations. Such notings cannot be construed as decisions of the respondent and thus, creates no right in favour of the appellant. 32. In the last, Mr Dwivedi submitted that since during the pendency of the present appeal, the operation, maintenance and the licensing rights for the advertisements have been taken over by a third party, the present appeal has been rendered infructuous. F. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION 33. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the two pivotal questions that fall for our consideration are as under: - I) What is the scope of judicial review of the actions of the State in the matters relating to contract / tender disputes under writ jurisdiction? II) Whether the action on the part of the respondent herein in cancelling the tender vide its notice dated 07.02.2023 was amenable to the writ jurisdiction of the High Court? If so, whether the said action could be termed as arbitrary or unfair and in consequence of violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India? G. ANALYSIS i. Scope of Judicial Review of the actions of the State in matters relating to Contract / Tender under Writ Jurisdiction. a. Earlier Position of Law and Misconception of the State as a Largesse. 34. Over the years, the scope of judicial review and the extent to which a Court can interfere in disputes arising out of contracts or tenders has seen a significant development, marked by a nuanced understanding of the critical role of administrative discretion. The judicial quest in administrative matters has always been to find a right balance between i) allowing leeway to the States in deciding the exercise of their administrative discretion in matters pertaining to policy and ii) the need to ensure fairness and propriety in such administrative actions. 35. Earlier, the position of law was that any dispute arising out of a contract entered into with the State or its instrumentalities could not [2024] 7 S.C.R.