Held: The High Court, being the Appellate Court, while substituting Respondent No.6 as the appellant in the Second Appeal did not follow the correct procedure – The High Court has misread Rule 5, as well as the previous of the Supreme Court, as it failed to consider the objections against the Trial Court report while making its determination on substitution – The High Court did not discuss the evidence in support of the claim of the Respondent No. 6 nor did it consider the objections of the other party on such claims. [Paras 13, 15-16] Case Law Cited Jaladi Suguna v. Satya Sai Central Trust [2008] 7 SCR 734 : (2008) 8 SCC 521 – referred on. List of Acts Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. List of Keywords Substitution application; Legal Representatives; Significance of substitution; Appellate Court; Discretion. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal Nos. 5569-5570 of 2024 From the and dated 19.06.2019 of the High Court of Judicature at Patna in IA Nos. 7 and 8 of 2019 in S.A. No. 169 of 1993 464 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Appearances for Parties Shyam Divan, Sr. Adv., Sabarish Subramanian, Vishnu Unnikrishnan, C Kranthi Kumar, Naman Dwivedi, Danish Saifi, Advs. for the Appellants. Krishnan Venugopal, Sr. Adv., Vijay K. Jain, Rohit K. Singh, Pritam Bishwas, Avinash Mathews, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Leave granted. 2. The present appeals arise out of an in a pending Second Appeal before the High Court of Judicature at Patna. The necessary facts for our consideration are as follows: 3. Respondent Nos.1 to 4 were plaintiffs in a civil suit where Swami Shivdharmanand Ji Maharaj @ Deo Shankar Tiwary (hereinafter referred to as ‘Swami Shivdharmanand’) was one of the defendants. It was a title suit seeking declaration regarding the suit property which is situated in Bihar. The suit was dismissed by the Trial Court on 26.03.1991. The First Appellate Court allowed the appeal and decreed the suit. Consequently, the defendant Swami Shivdharmanand filed a second appeal, which is still pending before the Patna High Court. Meanwhile the defendant, who had filed the second appeal passed away on 20th March, 1999. There were two claimants, or successors of the “Gaddi” of Swami Shivdharmanand, who sought substitution in place of Swami Shivdharmanand in the Second Appeal. These were (a) Swami Triyoganand Ji Maharaj @ Ram Narayan Bind (hereinafter referred to as ‘Swami Triyoganand) and (b) Swami Satyanand Ji Maharaj @ Ramjee Singh (hereinafter referred to as ‘Swami Satyanand’) who is respondent no.6 in the present appeal. 4. Initially, Patna High Court directed the Trial Court to conduct an enquiry in the matter as laid down under Rule 5 of 22 of Civil Procedure Code, for the purpose of substitution. The Trial Court did its enquiry and submitted the report before the Patna High Court, where the findings were that Swami Satyanand (i.e., present respondent No.6) is the Legal Representative (hereinafter referred to as ‘LR’) of Swami Shivdharmanand and is liable to be substituted as the [2024] 5 S.C.R.