Thus, he urged that there being an ex-facie factual error while deciding Bir Singh (supra), parity could not be sought with that decision which was only binding inter partes and ought not to be treated as a precedent. 13. Learned Senior Counsel contended that the landowners could not invoke Section 28A of the 1894 Act for re-determination of the market value of their lands as the said provision was restricted to the compensation determined by the Reference Court. Reliance has been placed on the decision of this Court in Ramsingbhai Jerambhai v. State of Gujarat.1 He also argued that the sale deeds produced before this Court by the landowners were of abadi land whereas, in the present case, agricultural or non-abadi land has been acquired. Mr. Kumar then highlighted that the acquired land is a huge chunk of land and cannot be utilised for non-agricultural purposes unless major developmental works are carried out, in the form of roads, water supply, sewage, open spaces, schools, hospitals, parks etc., as a result of which not more than 50% of it will be left for carving out industrial or institutional plots for actual sale. 14. Mr. Kumar, Learned Senior Counsel, proffered that a uniform rate of compensation ought to be fixed for the entire acquisition rather than individual rates applicable for different parcels of land. The relevant factors while affixing compensation ought to include the fact that the 1 [2018] 3 SCR 1019 : (2018) 16 SCC 445 452 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports authorities do not derive any income from the land. He highlighted the aims and objects of NOIDA to impress upon the fact that the Statutory Authority is an extended hand of the State, with the responsibility of implementing development projects and several concessional allotments have been made towards marginalised sections of society, on a no profit basis. Additionally, he canvassed that the compensation cannot be fixed at the current market value considering the fact that the rates would have increased over time on account of planned development carried out in neighbouring areas post-acquisition. A pointed reference was also made to the overall development of the Township in the National Capital Region. Further, he maintained that the circle rate might not accurately reflect the correct market value of the acquired land at the relevant cut off dates, as the acquisition was made of an undeveloped large tract of agricultural land. 15. In the context of the Miscellaneous Applications seeking to rely on Bir Singh (supra), for recalling the s dismissing the SLPs, Mr. Kumar argued that they ought not to be entertained, being not maintainable, as none of these applicants invoked the review jurisdiction of this Court within a reasonable period of time. He pointed out significant delays of over nine years in some of the cases, and vehemently urged this Court to not enhance compensation considering that the land had already been allocated to third parties and it is now impossible to recover the enhanced compensation amount from such allottees in the absence of any binding contract to this effect.