Keeping such parameters in view, it cannot be ignored that both eyewitnesses, P.W.10 and P.W.11, are illiterate labourers, and their testimonies were recorded after a considerable length of time had passed since the occurrence. Both the witnesses have emphatically denied that they were tutored by Police or anyone else. The unfiltered testimony of a rustic witness, even if marred with some minor inconsistencies or discrepancies, cannot debilitate its perseverance. The evidence of such witnesses has to be evaluated comprehensively and carefully, especially when the cross-examination discreetly suggests that the accused person(s) did make a bid to win them over by exerting some extraneous pressure. We are, thus, satisfied that the statements of P.W.10 and P.W.11 do not suffer from the discrepancy of such a nature that they should be discarded. Even the testimony of the Investigating Officer (P.W.14) is devoid of any ulterior motive or attempt to fabricate evidence or falsely implicate the Appellant and his co-accused. 58. It would be too unfair and unreasonable to expect a witness, unless parroted, to recall every minute detail of the occurrence and present it with a totally accumulative narrative. The Appellant’s contention is thus bereft of any merit. B. Effect of Absence of Blood Group Classification on Prosecution’s Case 59. Learned Senior Counsel on behalf of Appellant asserted that the knife purportedly retrieved from him underwent examination at the Forensic Science Laboratory, where the test results were inconclusive, particularly regarding the determination of the blood group on the weapon. Consequently, the absence of a conclusive match in the blood group analysis should be construed in favour of the Appellant and against the prosecution. 60. Upon a thorough examination of the FSL report, it stands confirmed that the blood group classification test conducted on the recovered knife yielded inconclusive results. However, it is crucial to note that human blood was detected on the knife recovered at the instance of the Appellant (Exhibit “I” before FSL). This fact gains some importance, considering that various weapons, including lathis and even the knife 242 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports attributed to accused Asgar, underwent an FSL examination, yet, no traces of human blood were found on them. Notably, human blood was solely found on the knife used by the Appellant. 61. In line with the precedents set forth by this Court in Raja @ Rajinder v. State of Haryana7 and John Pandian v. State8, the non-explanation of human blood on the weapon of crime constitutes a circumstance against the accused. It is incumbent upon the accused to provide an explanation regarding the presence of human blood on the weapon. The Appellant has failed to do so. The s delivered by both the Trial Court and the High Court also do not reveal that the Appellant rendered any satisfactory explanation concerning the presence of blood on the recovered knife. Top of Form While it may not be a decisive factor to determine the guilt, but a conspicuous silence does lend support to the prosecution case.