The general principle is that legislative lists must be interpreted widely. The question that the Court must pose is whether the two entries would overlap when interpreted widely. If they overlap, the Court must reconcile them. But the method of reconciliation must maintain the federal balance. The courts must not apply the principle of legislative supremacy of Parliament at the stage of reconciliation. As explained above, such an exercise would tilt the federal balance towards the Union; b. The only limitation in Entry 52 is that the control of the industry by the Union must be necessary for public interest. Parliament can legislate on any industry, provided that it satisfies the condition prescribed in the Entry. Thus, Entry 52 when read independent of any other entry of List I, List II and List III does not preclude the inclusion of the industry of intoxicating liquor (provided that the Union is able to prove that its control is necessary in public interest). Similarly, Entry 8 of List II, when read independently also includes, inter alia, the production and manufacture of intoxicating liquor which is included within the meaning of industry. Thus, Entry 52 of List I and Entry 8 of List II overlap on the aspect of ‘industry’ of intoxicating liquor; c. Entry 8 of List II is not subject to Entry 52 of List I. Thus, the State Legislature has the exclusive competence to enact a law on the field in Entry 8. The Court must distinguish between entries that are expressly subject to entries in the Union List and entries that are not. When one entry is not subject to the other, the Court must harmonise the overlap of the entries; d. The only way to reconcile the entries is either to exclude the industry of intoxicating entry from Entry 52 of List I or Entry 8 of List II. The Court while reconciling the provisions, must ensure that neither of the entries is rendered redundant. The principle of generalia specialibus non derogant is used by courts to ensure that the harmonisation of the entries does not render an entry redundant. In Wavery Jute Mills Co. Ltd. v. Raymon & Co,124 124 [1963] 3 SCR 209 2004 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the issue was whether Parliament or the State Legislature had the competence to enact laws with respect to ‘forward markets’. Applying the principles of generalia specialibus non derogant, this Court held that the Union will have competence over ‘forward contracts’ in terms of Entry 48 of List I (stock exchanges and future markets) and that if it is brought within Entry 26 of List II (trade and commerce), Entry 48 will become redundant. Similarly, in Jayant Verma v. Union of India,125 this Court applied the principle to resolve the overlap between Entry 30 of List II and Entry 45 of List I. A special entry must prevail over a general entry, otherwise, the special entry may become redundant; and e. Entry 52 of List I is a general entry dealing with industry.