However, as stated earlier, the expression “plant or machinery” has not been defined under the CGST Act. It is pertinent to note that clauses (c) and (d) do not altogether exclude every class of immovable property from the applicability of ITC. In the case of clause (c), if the construction is of “plant and machinery” as defined, the benefit of ITC will accrue. Similarly, under clause (d), if the construction is of a “plant or machinery”, ITC will be available. 36. The Union legislature cannot levy taxes on lands and buildings as it is exclusively a State subject at item no.49 in List II of Schedule VII of the Constitution of India. It is, therefore, necessary to consider the categories of services concerning land and buildings, which are within the purview of the CGST Act. Section 2(102) defines service as meaning anything other than goods, money and securities but includes activities relating to the use of money or its conversion by cash or by any other mode, from one form, currency or denomination, to another form, currency or denomination for which a separate consideration is charged. Under the CGST Act, the supply of service is taxable. The scope of supply of services or goods is laid down in Section 7 of the CGST Act, which reads thus: “7. Scope of supply.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, the expression “supply” includes— (a) all forms of supply of goods or services or both such as sale, transfer, barter, exchange, licence, rental, lease or disposal made or agreed to be made for a consideration by a person in the course or furtherance of business; (aa) the activities or transactions, by a person, other than an individual, to its members or constituents or vice-versa, for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration. Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, it is hereby clarified that, notwithstanding anything 832 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports contained in any other law for the time being in force or any , decree or of any Court, tribunal or authority, the person and its members or constituents shall be deemed to be two separate persons and the supply of activities or transactions inter se shall be deemed to take place from one such person to another; (b) import of services for a consideration whether or not in the course or furtherance of business; and (c) the activities specified in Schedule I, made or agreed to be made without a consideration; (1-A) where certain activities or transactions constitute a supply in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1), they shall be treated either as supply of goods or supply of services as referred to in Schedule II. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1),— (a) activities or transactions specified in Schedule III; or (b) such activities or transactions undertaken by the Central Government, a State Government or any local authority in which they are engaged as public authorities, as may be notified by the Government on the recommendations of the Council, shall be treated neither as a supply of goods nor a supply of services.