Regulation 10 of the regulations, therefore, has no applicability in the case of direct appointment to the post of Assistant Professor. 31. We are persuaded to take such a view as reference to teaching experience in table 3A has to be read in conjunction with post-doctoral experience as they constitute a composite class in itself. In the event regulation 10 conditions teaching experience, as is suggested by the respondents, the term post-doctoral experience would also have to be necessarily conditioned by regulation 10. This, however, does not appear to be the intent of the scheme contained in the regulations. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1805 Allahabad University Etc. v. Geetanjali Tiwari (Pandey) & Ors. Etc. Etc. 32. Limiting teaching experience to the experience of teaching as an Assistant Professor, by drawing emoluments not less than the monthly gross salary of a regularly appointed Assistant Professor would clearly be reading something more than what is specified in the regulations itself. Counting of past services for direct recruitment or promotion under CAS to the post of Assistant Professor otherwise is not contemplated. Such a construction would also be unworkable once a condition of the kind is attached to the post-doctoral experiences also. 33. Post-doctoral experiences can be of different kinds, including research activity, teaching activity etc. If the provisions of regulation 10 are applied while awarding marks in clause 7 of table 3A then an anomalous situation may arise, inasmuch as teaching experience gathered by a post-doctoral candidate would entitle him to two marks if teaching by him is considered as post-doctoral experience but such marks would be denied if it is treated as teaching experience only. It is for this reason that table 3A of the regulations does not refer to or rely upon regulation 10. The interpretation drawn by the respondents to read regulation 10 in table 3A, which specifically lays down the criteria for short-listing of candidates for interview for the post of Assistant Professors, therefore, cannot be approved. 34. In our opinion, regulation 10 of the regulations would be attracted only where past services are required to be counted for direct recruitment and promotion under CAS. It cannot be transposed to be made applicable in criteria for short-listing of candidates to be called for interview, to the post of Assistant Professor, by any recognized process of interpretation. Such construction otherwise is not culled out from the scheme contained in the regulations nor it helps in short-listing of candidates to be called for interview. 35. Table 3A specifies the marks to be awarded to a candidate on different parameters specified therein. Apart from awarding marks for graduation; post-graduation; M.Phil. ; NET with JRF or NET; SLET/SET the table provides for teaching/post-doctoral experience of two marks for each 1806 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports year. Since the term teaching/post-doctoral experience is not defined in the regulations the ordinary/commonsensical meaning would have to be assigned to it. 36. Teaching experience as a full time teacher in a recognized university or its affiliated or constituent colleges with requisite qualification as per regulations for the post of Assistant Professor would sufficiently entitle a candidate to award of two marks for each year of teaching experience in clause 7 of table 3A.