All these enactments prohibit any act of violence against medical professionals. The offence is non- bailable and punishable with three years of imprisonment. However, these enactments do not address the institutional and systemic causes that underlie the problem. An enhanced punishment without improving institutional safety standards falls short of addressing the problem effectively. 9. We have attempted to flag here the ground reality indicating the lack of institutional safety standards in health care establishments. A non-exhaustive formulation is set out below: a. Medical professionals who are posted for night-duties are not provided adequate resting spaces. More often, doctors rest in the patients’ room or in available public spaces. Duty rooms are scant. Separate duty rooms for male and female medical professionals are conspicuous by their absence in most health care establishments; b. Interns, residents and senior residents are made to perform thirty-six hour shifts in conditions where even basic needs of sanitation, nutrition, hygiene and rest are lacking. There is an absence of uniformity in terms of a standard national protocol. The fear of retribution prevents most health care professionals from questioning the absence of facilities for basic well-being; c. Lack of security personnel in medical care units is more of a norm than an exception. More often than not, medical professionals, which includes young resident doctors, interns and nurses are left to handle unruly attenders. Open access to healthcare facilities leaves medical professionals vulnerable to undesirable elements; d. Medical care facilities do not have sufficient toilet. Most often there is only one common toilet for medical professionals in one department; e. The hostels or places of stay for medical professionals are situated far from the hospital. Doctors and nurses who have to travel to and from the hospital are not provided transport facilities by the institution. Even within the precincts of the sprawling 1054 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports spaces of public hospitals there is either inadequate or no transportation facilities for the safe commute of professionals; f. There is an absence or lack of properly functioning CCTV cameras to monitor ingress and egress to the hospital and to control access to sensitive areas; g. The patients and their attenders have unrestricted access to all places within the hospital, including Intensive Care Units and the doctors resting rooms; h. Lack of screening for arms and weapons at the entrance of the hospitals; i. Dingy and ill-lit places within the hospitals; j. Medical professionals have to shoulder the responsibility of being both medical and ‘emotional’ caregivers to patients and their relatives. There are no supportive facilities and no training in communication skills; and k. Certain spaces within hospitals such as the Intensive Care Unit and the Emergency Wards are prone to a greater risk of violence because of the severity of medical conditions of patients in these departments. 10. We have in this backdrop formed the view that a national consensus must be evolved - after due consultation with all stake-holders - on the urgent need to formulate protocols governing the issues which this has highlighted.