Digital Supreme Court Reports the transferred location. This situation cannot be allowed to continue in the light of the subsequent guidelines formulated by both the Corporations. Sri N. Praveen Reddy, learned counsel appearing for the TSRTC, would inform this Court that his client is ready and willing to accept the employees sought to be repatriated by the present APSRTC. In that view of the matter, there shall be interim suspension as prayed for. The employees covered by the repatriated s, the Respondents in these appeals, shall forthwith report in their parent zones under the TSRTC where they were appointed. The issue of payment of salaries to the Respondents-employees will be considered on the next date of hearing. Learned Advocate General for the State of Andhra Pradesh appearing for the APSRTC undertakes to use his good offices to see that the issue as to payment of salaries is resolved amicably. Post on 13.06.2018.” 7. In continuation of the above-referred , the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Amaravati took up the writ appeals and passed the impugned before us. This time, the High Court took a different view of the matter and directed permanent allocation of the respondents in their deputational posts falling in the State of Andhra Pradesh. The High Court also ruled on their seniority. In coming to this conclusion, the High Court drew an analogy with the 3rd proviso to Section 77(2) of the Act. It held that even though Section 77 applies to state government employees, an analogy must be adopted by the appellant for allocation of its own employees. Hence, local, district, zonal, and multi-zonal cadre employees, even of corporations, will be deemed to be allotted to the successor state where they are serving on the appointed date. Since the respondents were posted and serving under the appellant on 02.06.2015, it was directed that they shall be deemed to be permanently allocated to the APSRTC in the zones where they were working. 8. Mr. Gourab Banerji, learned senior counsel, appearing for the appellant has submitted that the High Court’s analogy with Section [2024] 9 S.C.R. 81 Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation & Ors. v. V.V. Brahma Reddy & Anr. 77 is incorrect and that it has not taken note of Section 82 of the Act or properly considered the guidelines framed by the Corporations for allocation of Class III and Class IV employees. He has taken us through the Agenda Note dated 16.08.2017, which provides that Class III and Class IV employees are recruited at a regional level and belong to the respective Corporation in which the region falls after bifurcation. Hence, the Board found that there is no necessity for formulating guidelines for the allotment of these employees between the two Corporations. He submits that this decision has not been challenged and is hence final. He has also submitted that pursuant to the interim dated 18.04.2018, the respondents have already reported at their parent zones falling under TSRTC. Sri Ruma Sarasani, learned counsel appearing for TSRTC, respondent no.