These were some of the relevant factors that were kept in mind in the cases noticed above while weighing the pros and cons of the matter. The Court would be additionally justified in considering the conduct of the convict in jail; and the period already undergone to arrive at the number of years which the Court feels the convict should, serve as part of the sentence of life imprisonment and before which he cannot apply for remission. These are not meant to be exhaustive but illustrative and each case would depend on the facts and circumstances therein. 58. How do these factors apply to the case at hand? The act committed by the accused was pre-planned/premeditated; the accused brutally murdered 4 (four) persons who were unarmed and were defenseless, one of whom was a child and the other an aged lady. It is also to be noted that by the act of the accused, three generations of single family have lost their lives for no fault of theirs; Nature of injuries inflicted on Latha, Ramachandran and Chitra highlights the brutality and cold-bloodedness of the act. 59. On the mitigating side, the accused was quite young when he committed the act i.e., 28 years old; The act committed by the accused was not for any gain or profit; accused did not try to flee and in fact tried to commit suicide as he was overcome with emotions after the dastardly act he committed; accused has been in jail for a period of 18 years and 4 months and the case is based on circumstantial evidence. We called for a conduct report of the appellant from the Jail Authorities. The report dated 05.03.2024 of the Superintendent, Central Prison and Correctional Home, Viyyur, Thrissur has been made available to us. The report indicates that ever since his admission to jail, he had been entrusted with prison labour work such as duty of barber, day watchman and night watchman. Presently, 946 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports he has been assigned the job as convict supervisor for the last one and a half years. The report clearly indicates that no disciplinary actions were initiated against him in the prison and that the conduct and behavior of the appellant in prison has been satisfactory so far. Conclusion: 60. For the reasons stated above, we uphold the of the High Cout insofar as the conviction of the appellant under Sections 302, 449 and 309 IPC is concerned. We also do not interfere with the sentence imposed on the accused for the offence under Section 449 and Section 309 of IPC. We hold that the High Court was justified on the facts of the case in following Swamy Shraddananda (supra) principle while imposing sentence for the offence under Section 302 IPC. However, in view of the discussion made above, we are inclined to modify the sentence under Section 302 imposed by the High Court from a period of 30 years imprisonment without remission to that of a period of 25 years imprisonment without remission, including the period already undergone.