This is in exercise of power under Section 13 of the Act which is as under: “13. Power of Competent Authority to redevelop clearance area: (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of Section 12 the Competent Authority may, at any time, after the land has been cleared of buildings in accordance with a clearance , but before the work of redevelopment of that land has been commenced by the owner, by , determine to redevelop the land at its own cost, if that Authority is satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest to do so. 4 By dated 14.10.2022, reported as 2022 SCC Online Bom 3712, hereinafter referred to as the impugned . 1450 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (2) Where land has been cleared of the buildings in accordance with a clearance , the Competent Authority, if it is satisfied that the land has been, or is being, redeveloped by the owner thereof in contravention of plans duly approved, or any restrictions or conditions imposed under sub-section (10) of Section 12, or has not been redeveloped within the time, if any, specified under such conditions, may, by , determine to redevelop the land at its own cost. Provided that, before passing such , the owner shall be given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause why the should not be passed.” (emphasis supplied) 7. Section 13(2) of the Act specifically empowers the competent authority to re-determine the agreement if it is satisfied that the re-development has not been done within the time specified. The provision is certainly a statutory incorporation of time integrity in the performance of the duty. We recognise this as a statutory duty of the competent authority to ensure that the project is completed within the prescribed time. We have no hesitation even in holding that a writ of mandamus would lie against the concerned authorities if they do not perform the statutory duty of ensuring that the project is completed within the time prescribed. 8. In Susme Builders Pvt. Ltd. v. CEO, Slum Rehabilitation Authority & Ors.,5 this Court held that Section 13(2) of the Act empowers the statutory authorities to take action and hand over the project to some other agency if the development is being delayed. The relevant portions of the are as under:- “49. Otherwise, there would be an anomalous situation where the Society would have terminated its contract with Susme but the letter of intent issued by the SRA would continue to hold the field and it would be entitled to develop the land. The Society approached the SRA, in fact, asking it to take action against Susme. Since the SRA is the authority which issued the letter of intent, it will definitely have the power to cancel the letter of intent... 5 [2018] 1 SCR 1 : (2018) 2 SCC 230 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1451 Yash Developers v. Harihar Krupa Co-Operative Housing Society Limited & Ors. … 52. A bare reading of these provisions shows that in terms of clauses (c) and (d) of sub-section (3) of Section 3-A of the Slum Act, the SRA not only has the power, but it is duty-bound to get the slum rehabilitation scheme implemented and to do all such other acts and things as will be necessary for achieving the object of rehabilitation of slums.