Chief Metropolitan Magistrate had, on a proper appreciation of evidence and on evaluation of the statement of witnesses, rightly formed a prima facie case against A4 & A5 which ought not to be quashed by the High Court at this stage. The appellant also submitted that the accused-police officials killed the deceased while he was in judicial custody in to suppress the truth about the murder of Edupuganti Satyanarayana of Telugu Desam Party and to protect the real culprits behind the killing. Lastly, the appellant had pleaded that a proper trial ought to have been conducted to uncover the truth wherein the ground of self-defence which has been adopted by the accused persons could have been assessed based on evidence and witness statements, and therefore, the High Court’s interference with the FIR at the threshold was highly unwarranted. 4.13 Before moving to the respondents’ arguments before us, we find it pertinent to recount herein the chain of events which led to the killing of the deceased as per the accused-police officials and the same have been submitted by them before the investigating agency, i.e. the CBI. It was claimed by the Sub-Inspector of Police (A3) that at about 03.00 am on 14.07.2002, A3 had taken the deceased K. Srinivasa Rao from the lock up to elicit more information about the murder of Edupuganti Satyanarayana. It was alleged that while A3 was questioning the deceased, the deceased snatched the Service Revolver of A3 which was kept on the table and fired two rounds at A3. Then as per s of A3, A4 fired two rounds from his 303 Rifle on the deceased to save A3 and resultantly, the deceased died of the injuries sustained due to the firing. 1694 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4.14 As such, it has been pleaded by the accused-respondents that the deceased person was killed in the police firing in an act of self-defence. The said act being committed in due discharge of their official duty as public servants and in exercise of the right of private defence, the Magistrate was barred under law from taking cognizance of the alleged offence without there being any prior sanction from the competent authority as contemplated under Section 197 of Cr.P.C. 4.15 Further, it was submitted that the complainant is not an eye-witness to the alleged case of fake encounter and the CBI, in its final report, had conclusively observed that occurrence took place in exercise of right of self-defence, therefore, the High Court had rightly allowed the revision petition and set aside the committal against accused-respondents. 5. Criminal Appeal No. 1359/2024 5.1 In this matter as well, the accused-respondents were working as police officers in Vijayawada at the time of the alleged incident. The appellant herein is the original complainant and sister of V. Durga Prasad @ Pilli Durga Prasad (hereinafter referred to as ‘the deceased’). It was alleged in the written complaint filed by the complainant under Sections 190 and 200 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (‘Cr.P.C.’, hereinafter) before the Court of III Metropolitan Magistrate, Vijayawada that her brother, Durga Prasad (the deceased), was shown as an accused in Cr.