The High Court held against Karikho Kri not only under Sections 100(1)(d)(i) and (iv) but also under Section 100(1)(b) of the Act of 1951, as it was of the opinion that his failure to disclose the three vehicles, that still stood registered in the names of his dependent family members, amounted to a corrupt practice. Insofar as Section 100(1)(b) of the Act of 1951 is concerned, the requirement thereof for the purpose of invalidating the election of the returned candidate is that the High Court must form an opinion that a ‘corrupt practice’ was committed by the returned candidate or his election agent or any other person with the consent of the returned candidate or his election agent. Section 123 of the Act of 1951 inclusively defines ‘corrupt practices’, by stating that what have been enumerated thereunder shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for the purposes of the Act of 1951. Insofar as the present case is concerned, Section 123(2) of the Act of 1951 is of relevance. This provision reads as under: [2024] 4 S.C.R. 409 Karikho Kri v. Nuney Tayang and Another ‘123. Corrupt practices.— The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for the purposes of this Act:— …… (2) Undue influence, that is to say, any direct or indirect interference or attempt to interfere on the part of the candidate or his agent, or of any other person with the consent of the candidate or his election agent, with the free exercise of any electoral right: ……’ 21. The High Court opined that non-disclosure of the Kinetic Zing Scooty and the Maruti Omni Van that had belonged to Bagilu Kri and the TVS Star City Motorcycle that had belonged to Goshinso Kri, the dependent wife and son of Krikho Kri, was sufficient in itself to constitute ‘undue influence’, thereby attracting Section 123(2) of the Act of 1951. However, what is of significance is that the High Court did not doubt that these vehicles had been sold or gifted long before the submission of the nomination by Karikho Kri in 2019. This is clear from the observations in Para 13 (xiii) of the , wherein the High Court observed: ‘….at the time of presentation of nomination paper of respondent No. 1, and on the date of scrutiny of the nomination paper on 26.03.2019, notwithstanding the aforesaid vehicles were gifted/sold to other persons by Smti. Bagilu Kri, wife of respondent No. 1 as well as Shri. Goshinso Kri, son of respondent No. 1; it has now become imperative to decide as to who was the owner of the aforesaid vehicles at the time presentation of the nomination paper by the respondent No. 1, and on the date of scrutiny of the nomination paper on 26.03.2019’. This finding of the High Court has attained finality as Nuney Tayang did not choose to challenge the same before this Court. 22. Though it appears that the three vehicles in question still remained registered in the names of the wife and son of Karikho Kri, the question that arises is as to whether non-disclosure of such vehicles justified the attributing of a corrupt practice to Karikho Kri and the negating of his election on that ground.