The ratio behind this distinction between a sale to a decree-holder and a sale to a stranger is that the court, as a matter of policy, will protect honest outsider purchasers at sales held in the execution of its decrees, although the sales may be subsequently set aside, when such purchasers are not parties to the suit. But for such protection, the properties which are sold in court auctions would not fetch a proper price and the decree-holder himself would suffer. The same consideration does not apply when the decree-holder is himself the purchaser and the decree in his favour is set aside. He is a party to the litigation and is very much aware of the vicissitudes of litigation and needs no protection. 14. In the case of Satis Chandra Ghose v. Rameswari Dasi [AIR 1915 Cal 363: 20 CWN 665], the Calcutta High Court relied upon these observations of the Privy Council and held that the decree-holders and those who claim under decree-holders will form one class as against strangers to the decree who purchase in a court auction sale. The title of a purchaser from one who has bought at the sale in execution of his own decree is liable to be defeated when the decree is subsequently set aside. The Calcutta High Court said: “The Court as a matter of policy has a tender regard for honest purchasers at sales held in execution of its decrees though the sales may be subsequently set aside, where those purchasers are not parties to the suit and the decree has not been passed without jurisdiction. But the same measure of protection is not extended to purchasers who are themselves the decree- holders; nor can the purchasers from such decree-holders claim that the Court owes them any duty….” 644 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The policy which prompts the extension of protection to the strangers who purchase at court auctions is based on a need to ensure that proper price is fetched at a court auction. This policy has no application to sales outside the court. The purchasers from a decree-holder auction-purchaser have bought from one whose title is liable to be defeated. The title acquired by the purchaser from the decree-holder is similarly defeasible. The Court further observed: “… the defeasibility of a decree-holder’s title where the decree is ex parte is of such common occurrence that the plea of a purchaser for value without notice hardly applies”. 15. The same view has been reaffirmed by the Calcutta High Court in the case of Abdul Rahman v. Sarat Ali [AIR 1916 Cal 710: 20 CWN 667] where it has been held that the assignee of a decree-holder auction-purchaser stands in no better position than his assignor. The special protection afforded to a stranger who purchases at an execution sale is not extended to an assignee of the decree-holder auction-purchaser. 16. The distinction between a stranger who purchases at an auction sale and an assignee from a decree-holder purchaser at an auction sale is quite clear.