Section 77 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, requires monetary limits to be prescribed for expenditures incurred by candidates.® As political parties are at the helm of the electoral process, including its finances, the argument that the right of the voter does not extend to knowing the funding of political parties and is restricted to antecedents of candidates, will lead to an incongruity. |, respectfully, agree with Hon'ble the Chief Justice, that denying voters the right to know the details of funding of political parties would lead to a dichotomous situation. The funding of political parties cannot be treated differently from that of the candidates who contest elections. 22. Democratic legitimacy is drawn not only from representative democracy but also through the maintenance of an efficient participatory democracy. In the absence of fair and effective participation of all stakeholders, the notion of representation in a democracy would be rendered hollow. In a democratic set-up, public participation is meant to fulfil three functions; the epistemic function of ensuring reasonably sound decisions,® the ethical function of advancing mutual respect among citizens, and the democratic function of promoting “an inclusive process of collective choice”.® James Fishkin lists five criteria which define the quality of a deliberative process.® These are: > — Information (the extent to which participants are given access to accurate and reliable information); 65 Under Explanation 1 to Section 77 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the expenditure incurred by ‘leaders of political parties’ on account of travel for propagating the programme of the political party, is not deemed to be election expenditure. 66 See observations of this court in Kanwar Lal Gupta v. Amar Nath Chawla & Ors., [1927 S5CR ]25 9 : (1975) 3 SCC 646. 67 This function is elaborated as to “produce preferences, opinions, and decisions that are appropriately informed by facts and logic and are the outcome of substantive and meaningful consideration of relevant reasons(...). Because the topics of these deliberations are issues of common concern, epistemically well-grounded preferences, opinions, and decisions must be informed by, and take into consideration, the preferences and opinions of fellow citizens”, Jane Mansbridge and others, ‘A Systemic Approach to Deliberative Democracy’ in John Parkinson and Jane Mansbridge (eds), Deliberative Sysiems (1st edn, Cambridge University Press 2012) 11. 68 Ibid at 12. 69 James 5 Fishkin, When the People Speak: Deliberative Democracy and Public Consultation (Oxford University Press 2011) 33- 34. 582 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports > Substantive balance (the extent to which arguments offered by one side are answered by considerations offered by those who hold other perspectives); » Diversity (the extent to which major positions in the public are represented by participants); >» Conscientiousness, (the degree to which participants sincerely weigh the merits of the arguments); and » Equal consideration (the extent to which arguments offered by all participants are considered on its merits regardless of who offered them).” 23. The State has contested the writ petitions primarily on three grounds: (i) | Donors of a political party often apprehend retribution from other political parties or actors and thus their identities should remain anonymous.