It is said that this conflict, when seen objectively, must militate 1212 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports against the application of English law to the arbitration and to the seat being London. In my none of these matters will bear the weight which the defendant seeks to put upon them. 29. The defendant contends that the law of the agreement to arbitrate is Indian law, essentially because the proper law of the Shareholders Agreement is Indian law. As appears from the decided authorities however, although there have been dicta to this effect, recent decisions, where the focus has been on the seat of the arbitration and the agreement to arbitrate, establish that it is much more likely that the law of the arbitration agreement will coincide with the curial law. This does not therefore much assist the defendant and the argument that the nature of the Shareholders Agreement points to Indian law as the curial law is in reality no more than an argument that its nature points to Indian law as the substantive law of the Shareholders Agreement, which is in any event expressly provided. [...] xxx 34. “London arbitration” is a well known phenomenon which is often chosen by foreign nationals with a different law, such as the law of New York, governing the substantive rights of the parties. This is because of the legislative framework and supervisory powers of the courts here which many parties are keen to adopt. When therefore there is an express designation of the arbitration venue as London and no designation of any alternative place as the seat, combined with a supranational body of rules governing the arbitration and no other significant contrary indicia, the inexorable conclusion is, to my mind, that London is the juridical seat and English law the curial law. In my it is clear that either London has been designated by the parties to the arbitration agreement as the seat of the arbitration or, having regard to the parties’ agreement and all the relevant circumstances, it is the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1213 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze seat to be determined in accordance with the final fall back provision of section 3 of the Arbitration Act.” (Emphasis supplied) 51. In Roger Shashoua (2) v. Mukesh Sharma reported in (2017) 14 SCC 722 this Court held that the test that was applied in NTPC (supra) was no longer a good law in view of the repeal of Section 9(b) of the Act, 1961. It further, held that the principle enunciated in Roger Shashoua (1) had been expressly approved by the 5-Judge Bench decision of this Court in BALCO (supra). Accordingly, this Court applying the Shashoua Principle held that the mention of London in the arbitration agreement was not merely as a location but as a juridical seat. The relevant observations read as under: - "46. As stated earlier, in Shashoua Cooke, J., in the course of analysis, held that “London arbitration” is a well-known phenomenon which is often chosen by foreign nationals with a different law, such as the law of New York, governing the substantive rights of the parties and it is because of the legislative framework and supervisory powers of the courts here which many parties are keen to adopt.