Learned trial Judge found that the evidence of this witness was also totally improvised. Learned trial Judge also found that there was extreme exaggeration in the depositions given by this witness in the Court as compared to the statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C. (Exh. D-2). The learned trial Judge, as a result, disbelieved the evidence of these two witnesses, i.e., the father and mother of the deceased. 12.5 Learned trial Judge also found that the prosecution had relied on the evidence of Raju (PW-4), Dharmendra Singh (PW-5) and Govind (PW-7) to establish the circumstances regarding the accused being last seen with the deceased Mahesh Sahu. Further all these three witnesses had turned hostile and not supported the prosecution case. 12.6 Learned trial Judge also discarded the circumstances relied on by the prosecution regarding cutting the nails of both the hands of the accused Ballu Chaurasiya and the said nails containing the blood of the deceased Mahesh Sahu. Learned trial Judge also found that the nails were cut after a period of six days from the date of the incident. The prosecution has also relied on the circumstances of recovery of the blood stained clothes and the knife. Learned trial Judge found that the said circumstances were also of no assistance in the case of the prosecution, inasmuch as there were no evidence to show that the blood found on these articles was a human blood. 12.7 Insofar as the circumstances with regard to the mother of the appellant No. 1, Jamuna Bai (appellant No. 2), are concerned, the learned trial Judge found that the independent witnesses had turned hostile, and the only evidence in that regard was that of S.K. Banerjee @ S.K. Banerji @ Sukant Banerjee/ Investigating Officer (PW-15). 12.8 Learned trial Judge found that Rajesh Kumar (PW-14), who was a panch witness, in his evidence, had stated that the [2024] 4 S.C.R. 59 Ballu @ Balram @ Balmukund and Another v. The State of Madhya Pradesh deceased was his cousin brother and he has signed the documents on the directions of the S.K. Banerjee/Investigating Officer (PW-15). As such, the learned trial Judge found that the circumstances with regard to the memorandum under Section 27 of the Evidence Act, 1872 and subsequent recovery was also not proved beyond reasonable doubt. Learned trial Judge further found that though from the panchnama, it was shown that the blood was found at various places, he had not made any attempt to seize the samples nor had he provided an explanation as to why he had not seized the samples of the said blood. 12.9 Learned trial Judge found that the knife was seized on a memorandum of the accused (Exh. P-14) on 14th June 1992 from an open place in the same room as mentioned in panchnama (Exh. P-11). Learned trial Judge also found that if immediately on the next day of incident, the Investigating Officer had visited and searched the room but he did not see the knife, then the subsequent recovery of knife from the very same room appears to be planted.