13. Learned counsels also contend that the advertisement of 31.05.2008 did not sanction the grant of bonus marks and the administrative guidelines dated 27.05.2008 were not brought in public domain. It was argued that the rules of the game have been changed after the match has begun. It was contended that if the intention of the legislature was to create the said post only for para teachers working in project, the same would not have been offered to private and other teachers at all. Learned counsels further contend that the Rules do not provide for grant of any bonus marks. Learned counsels for the appellants argued that the effect of awarding extra bonus marks for project experience has the effect of an indirect absorption of all the project appointees and this, according to learned counsels, was contrary to the Rules. Learned counsels for the appellants relied on the in Bedanga Talukdar vs. Saifudaullah Khan & Ors., (2011) 12 SCC 85 to argue that the selection process should be strictly in accordance with the stipulated selection procedure. Learned counsels also cited State of Maharashtra vs. Raj Kumar, (1982) 3 SCC 313. Contentions of the State: 14. The State contended that there was a historical background to the introduction of the Rules; that there was a laudable objective of achieving the universalization of elementary education and such educational projects initiatives had led to significant increase in literacy rate in Rajasthan from 38% to 66% between 1991 to 2011; that persons who had worked in the aforesaid educational projects were having valuable experience working in far flung areas and had direct interaction and connection with children. That the projects were started to mitigate the absenteeism of teachers in the rural areas especially in small villages. Added to this, there were dropouts [2024] 7 S.C.R. 207 Mahesh Chand Bareth & Anr. v. State of Rajasthan & Ors. from schools and to tackle all these several initiatives in the form of educational projects were introduced. 15. According to the State, ‘Prabodhak’ was to facilitate and encourage children to attend schools. The State contended that as part of the selection process guidelines for the purpose of giving marks for experience can always be legally prescribed. All the Prabodhaks who were recruited possessed the minimum educational qualification and according to the State that was clear from the advertisement, which contained a specific clause with regard to the minimum qualification of Basic School Teaching Certificate (BSTC) for primary and Bachelor of Education (B.Ed) for imparting education for middle school students. 16. The State contended that the experience gained in the projects has reasonable nexus with the concept of Prabodhak for which the newly framed Prabodhak Rules and Cadre were created. Insofar as age relaxation was concerned, it was contended by the State that it was meant for persons who worked in the projects after joining within the age limit but have now become over age. According to the State, the idea was not to oust from consideration these persons who had worked in the education projects for significant number of years.