1, which had been brought to sell in execution to satisfy the decree passed by the Trial Court. The claimant was the advocate who appeared for the defendant no. 1 in the execution proceedings, and his claim was dismissed. Aggrieved thereby, he preferred the said appeal i.e. Ex. F.A. 6 of 2011. 7. Under the impugned judgement of the High Court, the appeal preferred by the defendant no. 1 has been allowed in part, modifying the decree and allowing the plaintiff to recover only a sum of Rs. 3,00,000/- (Three Lakhs only) with 12% interest per annum from the date of suit till realisation from the defendant no. 1 and at the same time rejecting the claim petition of the claimant who was the appellant in Ex. F.A. No. 6 of 2011. 8. In this Civil Appeal, we are concerned with the appeal preferred by the plaintiff who alone has approached this Court. The claimant in Ex. F.A. No. 6 of 2011 is not before us, therefore, the said part of the has attained finality. 9. It is also to notice that in so far as the declining of the specific relief of the agreement of sale, there is no further challenge from the plaintiff by preferring First Appeal before the High Court. Therefore, the same has become final and we are only concerned with the refund part of the relief allowed in favour of the plaintiff by the Trial Court and modified by the High Court. 10. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties and perused the material papers available on record of the Civil Appeal as also the copy of the agreement which was made part of the record in course of hearing. 11. Since the defendant no. 1 has not preferred any appeal before this Court challenging the findings of the First Appellate Court that the execution of the agreement is proved, we are not considering the said issue. The material issue to be decided in this appeal is whether the plaintiff has proved payment of Rs. 3,00,000/- (Three Lakhs only) initially and another sum of Rs. 15,00,000/- (Fifteen Lakhs only) totalling to Rs. 18,00,000/- (Eighteen Lakhs only) to the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 27 R. Radhakrishna Prasad v. Swaminathan & Anr. defendant no. 1. Both the Courts below have found that payment of Rs. 3,00,000/- (Three Lakhs only) on the date of agreement has been duly proved in the evidence of PW-1 and PW-3. The bone of contention between the parties is the payment of additional advance consideration of Rs. 15,00,000/- (Fifteen Lakhs only) as evidenced by exhibit A-1(a) endorsement. On this aspect, the only evidence is that of the plaintiff himself without any corroboration from any other witness. The High Court has noted that PW-1 would state that stamp receipts had been collected whenever such subsequent payment were made but none of the stamp receipts were produced. We have perused the xerox copy of the document which was made available to us at the time of hearing.