The distribution of land or the allotment of the revenue may very well stand, but I do not see how Section 154 can deprive a man of his title to the land. If the defendants had no title thereto, then the mere fact that the lands have been distributed or revenue allotted, will not confer any title on them, and it would be always open to the Civil Court to adjudicate upon the question of title irrespective of the provisions of Section 154. A reference in this connection may be made to a decision of the Calcutta High Court in “Mt. Rukeya Banu and Ors. v. Mt. Nazira Banu and Ors. (1928 Cal. 130) where it was pointed out that a partition, whether perfect or imperfect, of revenue-paying properties must be made by the Revenue authorities. This follows from a perusal of Section 96 with Section 154(1)(e) of the Assam Land and Revenue Regulation. But the jurisdiction of the Civil Court to determine the right of the parties to the property in dispute as well as shares to which they are entitled has not been taken away by the Regulation in question, and it is for the Civil Court to decide whether the property is or is not liable to partition. The same view applies to other clauses of Section 154. In the circumstances, I find no substance in the point urged by the learned [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1943 Abdul Rejak Laskar v. Mafizur Rahman & Ors. counsel for the appellant. In my opinion, the appeal is without any merit and must be dismissed with costs and the decision of the Court of Appeal below should be maintained.” 8. In the case of “The State of Assam v. Sifat Ali and Ors.” reported in AIR 1967 Assam & Nagaland Page-3, a Division Bench of this Court also held that Section 154(1)(a) of the Regulation does not debar the civil court from entertaining the suit based on title to property. xxx xxx xxx 19. Keeping in view the above cited authorities relating to the jurisdiction of Civil Court under Section 154 of the Regulation and also on ordinary reading of the provisions of Section 154 as well as Section 62 which is also a saving clause as noted above, it can be safely said that the legal position is well settled that Civil Court has the jurisdiction to agitate upon the matter relating to title over the property. It is correct that if any claim is made as regards perfect partition, no Civil Court shall exercise its jurisdiction as envisaged under Section 154(1)(d) of the Regulation. Section 154 of the Regulation provides that except where otherwise expressly provided in this Regulation or in Rule framed thereunder, no civil court shall exercise the jurisdiction in any matter mentioned in the various clauses under the Section including Clause (d) which relates to claim of person to perfect partition. Revenue Court has been vested with the power to effect the partition whether perfect or imperfect, of the revenue paying properties.