Various provisions of the 1957 Act were referred to by him for persuading us to hold that the view taken by the High Court was grossly erroneous. Accordingly, it was prayed by him that the impugned be set aside and the civil appeal be allowed with liberty to the respondent to take steps in accordance with the of the Trial Court. 8. Mr. Guru, learned counsel for the respondent, defended the impugned by asserting that it is correct both in law as well as on facts. It was argued that setting aside of the Trial Court’s by the impugned was indeed justified since the GPA having been admitted in evidence, such admission could not have been reviewed by the same court under any circumstance. Emphasis was placed on the need for an objection to the document’s admissibility being raised when it was first tendered for being admitted and then marked as an exhibit. Citing section 35 of the 1957 Act, it was contended that once an instrument is admitted in evidence, the admission cannot be questioned by the trial court or any appellate or revisional court; and that the only remedy that the 1957 Act provides is a revision under section 58 thereof in the manner as provided. Thus, he submitted that the civil appeal being devoid of any merit deserved outright dismissal. 9. A short but interesting question has engaged our consideration. There is no doubt that the GPA is insufficiently stamped. What we need to consider on facts and in the circumstances is, which of the two conflicting views taken by the Trial Court and the High Court is right. 10. Despite the GPA having been admitted in evidence and marked as an exhibit without objection from the side of the appellant, we propose to hold for the reasons to follow that the Trial Court did have the authority to revisit and recall the process of admission and marking of the instrument, not in the sense of exercising a power of review [2024] 7 S.C.R. 323 G.M. Shahul Hameed v. Jayanthi R. Hegde under section 114 read with XLVII, CPC but in exercise of its inherent power saved by section 151 thereof, and that the other remedy made available by the 1957 Act was not required to be pursued by the appellant to fasten the respondent with the liability to pay the deficit duty and penalty. 11. We may refer to the statutory framework of the 1957 Act. Sections 33, 34, 35 and 58, to the extent relevant for a decision on this appeal, read as follows: “33. Examination and impounding of instruments.- (1) Every person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence, and every person in charge of a public office, except an officer of police, before whom any instrument, chargeable in his opinion, with duty, is produced or comes in the performance of his functions, shall, if it appears to him that such instrument is not duly stamped, impound the same. (2) For that purpose every such person shall examine every instrument so chargeable and so produced or coming before him, in to ascertain whether it is stamped with a stamp of the value and description required by the law in force in the State of Karnataka when such instrument was executed or first executed: Provided that,— (a) *** (b) *** (3) For the purposes of this section, in cases of doubt, the Government may determine,— (a) what offices shall be deemed to be public offices; and (b) who shall be deemed to be persons in charge of public offices.