However, closure of the bank accounts within a few weeks of issuance of the cheque raises serious questions about the conduct and intent of the respondent. The learned Trial Court, in our view, has meticulously gone into each and every issue while holding in favour of the appellant and the Appellate Court as also the High Court have only gone by scrutiny of the interest amount mentioned on the pronote and effected in the Statement of Accounts of the appellant and the evidence produced before the Appellate Court by the respondent to indicate that some repayment(s) was/were made. This, according to us, is erroneous and cannot be sustained. 17. Furthermore, the reasoning given by the Appellate Court, having taken note of the Tamil Nadu Act, fails to appreciate that even going by what has been written on the pronote i.e., 1.8% per month would lead to the interest being 21.6% per annum, which also is above the cap of 12% per annum prescribed in the Tamil Nadu Act. Thus, if the parties amongst themselves, agreed to a rate which is not in conformity with the Tamil Nadu Act, it was for the respondent to raise an objection or move the appropriate forum for getting the same corrected/taken care of, so that the interest rate did not exceed [2024] 8 S.C.R. 331 Sri Sujies Benefit Funds Limited v. M. Jaganathuan 1% per month but having agreed to a rate of 1.8% per month, the subsequent amount of interest calculated @ 3% per month does not have much force for it was upon the respondent to challenge the rate of interest. The respondent also cannot be said to be a layman, and being a subscriber to a chitfund company, he is expected to be aware of the laws and also of what is beneficial for him. Having issued the pronotes, he cannot now take a plea in these collateral proceedings under the N.I. Act to contend that the rate of interest was more than what was permissible under the Tamil Nadu Act. 18. For reasons aforesaid, the Appellate Court’s as also the impugned are set aside. The of the learned Trial Court stands restored albeit with certain modifications. It is considered appropriate to direct the respondent to pay fine amounting to one and a half (1½) times the amount mentioned in the cheque. Accordingly, the respondent is held liable to pay an amount of Rs.28,50,000/- (Rupees Twenty Eight Lakhs and Fifty Thousand). Further, as has been averred by the respondent in his compliance affidavit that he is 86 years old and living with his wife who is also advanced in age and without issue, the sentence of imprisonment is waived, however, subject to payment, in terms of the present within eight months from today, failing which such sentence of simple imprisonment for one year shall stand revived. 19. The appeal, accordingly, stands allowed in the aforesaid terms. 20. Parties are left to bear their own costs. Result of the case: Appeal allowed.