[See: Indira v. Arumugam and Another reported in (1998) 1 SCC 614.] 32. In C. Mohammad Yunus v. Syed Unnissa reported in AIR 1961 SC 808, it has been laid down that in a suit for declaration with a further relief, the limitation would be governed by the Article governing the suit for such further relief. In fact, a suit for a declaration of title to immovable property would not be barred so long as the right to such a property continues and subsists. When such right continues to subsist, the relief for declaration would be a continuing right and there would be no limitation for such a suit. The principle is that the suit for a declaration for a right cannot be held to be barred so long as Right to Property subsist. 33. This Court in Government of Kerala & Anr. v. Joseph & Ors. reported in 2023 SCC Online SC 961 has held as under: “35. Mere possession over a property for a long period of time does not grant the right of adverse possession on its own; (a) In Gaya Prasad Dikshit v. Dr. Nirmal Chander (two-Judge Bench)(1984) 2 SCC 286, this court observed- “1… It is not merely unauthorised possession on termination of his licence that enables the licensee 1906 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports to claim title by adverse possession but there must be some overt act on the part of the licensee to show that he is claiming adverse title. It is possible that the licensor may not file an action for the purpose of recovering possession of the premises from the licensee after terminating his licence but that by itself cannot enable the licensee to claim title by adverse possession. There must be some overt act on the part of the licensee indicating assertion of hostile title. Mere continuance of unauthorised possession even for a period of more than 12 years is not enough.” xxx xxx xxx 47. It has also been held in the case of State of Uttrakhand v. Mandir Sri Laxman Sidh Maharaj (2017) 9 SCC 579 (two-Judge Bench): “…The courts below also should have seen that courts can grant only that relief which is claimed by the plaintiff in the plaint and such relief can be granted only on the pleadings but not beyond it. In other words, courts cannot travel beyond the pleadings for granting any relief…” 48. Mandir Sri Laxman Sidh Maharaj (supra) was relied on in Dharampal (Dead) v. Punjab Wakf Board (2018) 11 SCC 449 (two-Judge Bench) on the same principle. 49. Claim of independent title and adverse possession at the same time amount to contradictory pleas. The case of Annasaheb Bapusaheb Patil v. Balwant (1995) 2 SCC 543 (two-Judge Bench) elaborated this principle as: “15. Where possession can be referred to a lawful title, it will not be considered to be adverse. The reason being that a person whose possession can be referred to a lawful title will not be permitted to show that his possession was hostile to another’s title.