[Para 24] 4. The question is that when in Sanjeev Coke, the Five Judge Constitution Bench unanimously followed the minority judgement in Ranganatha Reddy did it violate judicial discipline of not following the majority but the minority decision. In my opinion, it did not break any judicial discipline, since in [2024] 11 S.C.R. 19 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Sanjeev Coke, the Five Judges did not go against the law laid down by the majority Judges in Ranganatha Reddy but only adopted the logic of the Three Judges on which the majority of Four Judges were silent. [Para 30] 5. It is difficult to even come to the conclusion that the Four Judges in Ranganatha Reddy entirely disagreed with the minority opinion of Justice Krishna Iyer. It merely says “we must not be understood to agree with all that he has said in his in this regard.” This is not exactly a disagreement. The majority of the Four Judges chose to remain silent on the subject. It cannot be said that the Four Judges, in any way, said anything contrary or in opposition to what was laid down by the Three Judges in Ranganatha Reddy, and therefore, no judicial discipline was broken by Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy when he authored the unanimous in Sanjeev Coke by adopting the logic of the Three Judges in Ranganatha Reddy. The logic is very clear, in cases where a Judge or Judges of the Supreme Court in minority have given a decision on a point on which the majority has remained silent, that it would be binding on the High Courts and all other Courts, and for this Court the least it will have is persuasive value. The five learned judges in Sanjeev Coke relied upon the decision of the minority judges in Ranganath Reddy as they were persuaded by the logic and the interpretation given by Justice Krishna Iyer to the phrase “material resources of the community”. [Para 31] 6. The provisions in Article 39(b) & (c) have to be read in the light of Article 38 of the Constitution of India. Once one does that, one cannot but give an expansive meaning to the phrase “material resources of the community”. The meaning which must be given to “material resources of the community” is what has been given to it in Ranganatha Reddy by the Three Judges and what has been followed in the Constitution Bench decision in Sanjeev Coke. To my mind, this has been the interpretation of the phrase “material resources of the community”. [Para 48] 7. It is for the legislature to decide how the ownership and control of material resources is to be distributed in to subserve common good. Once the expansive meaning of “material resources of the community” is determined, there is 20 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports no necessity of drawing further guidelines for the legislatures to determine as to what will constitute material resources. How to control and distribute a material resource is also the task of the Legislature, but while doing so what has to be seen is that the control and ownership of the material resource be so distributed that it subserves common good of the community.