7.5 We do not think that such a narrow interpretation could be given to the expression “the accused” in Section 8 of the NIA Act to not include any other accused. The expression “Agency may also investigate any other offence which the accused is alleged to have committed” has no doubt to be read with the rigour of “if the offence is connected with the Scheduled Offence”. In other words, if any other offence is connected with the Scheduled Offence, then the NIA may investigate such other offence which the accused is alleged to have committed provided there is a connection of such other offence with the Scheduled Offence. 7.6 The question is, whether, the expression “the accused” in Section 8 of the NIA Act has to refer to only the accused in respect of whom a Scheduled Offence is being investigated or it could include any other accused whose name would emerge during the course of investigation of a Scheduled Offence [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1773 Ankush Vipan Kapoor v. National Investigation Agency and who has committed an offence which has a connection with the Scheduled Offence. In our view, the expression “the accused” in Section 8 of the NIA Act cannot be restricted in its meaning and connotation to only the accused in respect of whom investigation is being carried out pursuant to sub- sections (4) and (5) of Section 6 of the NIA Act in respect of a Scheduled Offence. It could also include any other accused who has committed any other offence provided that other offence committed by any other accused has a connection or a nexus with the Scheduled Offence which is detected during the course of investigation of any Scheduled Offence. More importantly, in the case of any other accused, the offences alleged need not be Scheduled Offences, it could be any offence but must necessarily have a connection with the Scheduled Offence. In such an event, on the basis of Section 8 of the NIA Act, a report may be made to the Central Government which can direct investigation against any other accused (i.e., an accused other than the accused who is being investigated) provided it has a connection with the Scheduled Offence. In such a contingency, the Central Government while invoking sub-section (5) of Section 6 read with Section 8 of the NIA Act can direct investigation of any other accused alleging he has committed an offence which is connected with the Scheduled Offence already being investigated. On such a direction by the Central Government the NIA can assume jurisdiction to investigate any other accused on the basis that he has committed an offence which has to be investigated along with the Scheduled Offence already under investigation. 7.7 The reasons for holding so shall be discussed. One reason being that Section 8 of the NIA Act applies not only when it is acting under sub-section (5) of Section 6 of the NIA Act; it also applies to sub-section (4) of Section 6 of the NIA Act where the Central Government acts on the receipt of a report from the State Government when information received by the officer-in-charge of the Police Station relates to any Scheduled Offence and the State Government has forwarded the report to the Central Government.