Not each and every undertaking which may have to close down can be taken charge of temporarily by the Government. (2) The undertaking must be an economic unit. If it appears that it is completely uneconomic and cannot be managed at all, there is no sense in the Government taking charge of it. If anything, it will mean the Government will have to waste money which belongs to the taxpayer on an uneconomic unit. (3) There must be a technical report as regards the condition of the plants, machinery, etc., which either as they stand, or after necessary repairs and reconditioning can be properly utilised. (4) Lastly, and this is of considerable importance, there must be a proper enquiry held before the Government takes any action. The enquiry should show that managing agents have so misbehaved that they are no longer fit and proper persons to remain in charge of such an important undertaking. [Parliamentary Debates, Vol. III, No. 14, 31- 3-1950 at pp. 2394-95] [2024] 10 S.C.R. 459 Khalsa University and Another v. The State of Punjab and Another It appears from the same proceedings that Sholapur Mill is one of the largest mills in Asia and employs 13,000 workers. Per shift, it is capable of producing 25 to 30 thousand pounds of yarn, and also one lakh yards of cloth. It was working two shifts when it was closed down on 29-8-1949. The closure of the Mill meant a loss of 25 lakhs yards of cloth and one-and- a-half lakhs pounds of yarn per month. Prior to 1947, the highest dividend paid by the Company was Rs 525 per share and the lowest Rs 100, and, in 1948, when the management was taken over by the managing agents who have been removed by the impugned Act, the accounts showed a loss of Rs 30 lakhs, while other textile companies had been able to show very substantial profits during the same period. Another fact which is brought out in the proceedings is that the managing agents had acquired control over the majority of the shares of the Company and a large number of shareholders who were dissatisfied with the management had been rendered powerless and they could not make their voice heard. By reason of the preponderance of their strength, the managing agents made it impossible for a Controller under the Essential Supplies Act to function and they also made it difficult for the Company to run smoothly under the normal law. It was against this background that the Act was passed, and it is evident that the facts which were placed before the legislature with regard to Sholapur Mill were of an extraordinary character, and fully justified the Company being treated as a class by itself. There were undoubtedly other mills which were open to the charge of mismanagement, but the criteria adopted by the Government which, in my opinion, cannot be said to be arbitrary or unreasonable, is not applicable to any of them. As we have seen, one of the criteria was that a mere allegation of mismanagement should not be enough and no drastic step such as is envisaged in the Act should be taken without there being a complete 460 [2024] 10 S.C.R.