A law/rule should be beneficial in the sense that it should suppress the mischief and advance the remedy. The harsh consequence of forfeiture of the entire earnest-money deposit has been consciously incorporated by the legislature in Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules so as to sub-serve the larger object of the SARFAESI Act of timely resolving the bad debts of the country. The idea behind prescribing such a harsh consequence is not illusory, it is to attach a legal sanctity to an auction process once conducted under the SARFAESI Act from ultimately getting concluded. 102. Any dilution of the forfeiture provided under Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules would result in the entire auction process under the SARFAESI Act being set at naught by mischievous auction purchaser(s) through sham bids, thereby undermining the overall object of the SARFAESI Act of promoting financial stability, reducing NPAs and fostering a more efficient and streamlined mechanism for recovery of bad debts. 103. This Court in Mardia Chemical (supra) observed that the provisions of the SARFAESI Act & SARFAESI Rules must be interpreted keeping in mind the economic object which is sought to be achieved by the legislature, the relevant observations read as under: - “34. Some facts which need to be taken note of are that the banks and the financial institutions have heavily financed the petitioners and other industries. It is also a fact that a large sum of amount remains unrecovered. 82 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Normal process of recovery of debts through courts is lengthy and time taken is not suited for recovery of such dues. For financial assistance rendered to the industries by the financial institutions, financial liquidity is essential failing which there is a blockade of large sums of amounts creating circumstances which retard the economic progress followed by a large number of other consequential ill effects. Considering all these circumstances, the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act was enacted in 1993 but as the figures show it also did not bring the desired results. Though it is submitted on behalf of the petitioners that it so happened due to inaction on the part of the Governments in creating Debts Recovery Tribunals and appointing presiding officers, for a long time. Even after leaving that margin, it is to be noted that things in the spheres concerned are desired to move faster. In the present day global economy it may be difficult to stick to old and conventional methods of financing and recovery of dues. Hence, in our view, it cannot be said that a step taken towards securitisation of the debts and to evolve means for faster recovery of NPAs was not called for or that it was superimposition of undesired law since one legislation was already operating in the field, namely, the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act. It is also to be noted that the idea has not erupted abruptly to resort to such a legislation.