The existence of a religious place for prayer and worship is not a necessary indicator of the minority character because institutions wholly maintained out of State funds are constitutionally barred from providing religious instructions; and b. The existence of religious symbols in the precincts of the educational institution are not necessary to prove the minority character because educational institutions could be established for minorities to provide secular education without imparting any lessons on religion. 134. As discussed above, ‘establishment’ or formation of an institution can be at any point of time and even before the commencement of the Constitution. If an institution was established before the commencement of the Constitution, the enquiry on the question of ‘establishment’ must relate back to the date when the institution was established or formed to ascertain whether it would qualify as a minority institution upon the commencement of the Constitution. 135. To determine who established the institution, the Courts must consider the genesis of the educational institution. For this analysis, the Courts must trace the origin of the idea for the establishment of the institution. The Court must identify who was the brain behind the establishment of the educational institution. Letters, correspondence with other members of the community or with government/State officials and resolutions issued could be valid proof for establishing [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1749 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. ideation or the impetus to found and establish. The proof of ideation must point towards one member of the minority or a group from the community.122 136. The second indicia is the purpose for which the educational institution was established. Though it is not necessary that the educational institution must have been established only for the benefit of a religious or linguistic minority community, it must predominantly be for its benefit. It is not necessary that education must be provided in the language spoken by the minority or on the religion of the minority. For example, it is not necessary that an educational institution established for the Tamils in Uttar Pradesh must necessarily prescribe Tamil as the language of instruction. However, it must be proved that the institution was established for the benefit of the tamil-speaking community. This indicia could be proved by a reference to private communication or speeches about the necessity of establishing an educational institution for the community and a recognition of the educational difficulties faced by the community. 137. The third test is tracing the steps taken towards the implementation of the idea. Information on who contributed the funds for its creation, who was responsible for obtaining the land, and whether the land was donated by a member of the minority community or purchased from funds raised by the minority community for this purpose or donated by a person from some other community specifically for the establishment of a minority educational institution are elements that must be considered. Similar questions must be asked of its other assets. Other important questions are: who took the steps necessary for establishing the institution (such as obtaining the relevant permissions, constructing the buildings, and arranging other infrastructure)?