This figure has not been disputed by the respondent – CBI. The quantity of the rejects upto May, 2012 was 75,63,934.800 MT of the washed coal which figure has also not been disputed by the respondent-CBI. An inference would therefore have to be drawn that, at best, the difference between both the aforesaid figures would be the extent of the rejects of coal. It has been urged that once the extent of production and the quantum of coal sent to KPCL has not been disputed, there is no question of inflating the quantum of rejects, as alleged. The respondent–CBI has therefore blindly accepted the version put forth by GCWL that it 1212 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports had supplied good coal to KPCL from its own pocket, which suits its purpose because when the washing activity was stopped at Majri on 22nd May, 2012, disputes had arisen between KECML and GCWL, that are pending adjudication before the Arbitration Tribunal and GCWL has inflated its claims to raise exorbitant demands on KECML. D. DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 7.1 We have given our anxious consideration to the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the parties, gone through the records and perused the impugned s. The grievance of the appellants arises from the decision taken by the learned Special Judge, CBI to reject the application moved by them for seeking discharge in the matter and proceeding to frame charges against them alongwith the other co-accused for having entered into a criminal conspiracy with an object to facilitate illegal sale of coal rejects by GCWL that were generated during washing of coal and to have gained undue pecuniary advantage therefrom. 7.2 The genesis of the investigation conducted by the respondent– CBI in respect of the coal block allocation lies in the judgement of this Court dated 25th August 2014 rendered in Manohar Lal Sharma vs. Principal Secretary and Another.74 The petitioner therein filed a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India and challenged the allocation of coal blocks to Private Companies for the period between 1993 and 2011 on the ground that they violated the principles of trusteeship of natural resources by giving away precious resources as largesse without complying with the mandatory provisions of the MMDR Act and 1973 Coal Act. After a detailed scrutiny, this Court declared that the entire allocation of coal blocks as per the recommendations made by the Screening Committee from the year 1993 onwards through the Government dispensation route suffered from arbitrariness, and that no fair and transparent procedure had been adopted. 7.3 In the course of the proceedings in the aforesaid matter, the respondent–CBI registered a Preliminary inquiry to investigate 74 [2014] 8 SCR 446 : (2014) 9 SCC 516 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1213 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation the irregularities in allocation of coal blocks under the Government Dispensation Route and to State PSUs, who were allowed to form JVA by joining hands with Private Companies for purposes of development and operation of coal mines.