Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) deliberate withholding of relevant information by such person to the consumer” 37. As can be seen, the definition of ‘service’ is divided into three parts – the first part is explanatory in nature and defines service to mean service of any description which is made available to the potential users; the second part is inclusionary part, which expressly includes the provision of facilities in connection with the specific services; and the third part is exclusionary part which excludes rendering of any service free of charge or under a contract of personal service. Therefore, let us consider whether the service rendered by the Advocates practising Legal Profession could be said to be the Service under “a contract of personal service,” so as to exclude it from the definition of “Service” contemplated under the Act. 38. The question as to whether a given relationship should be classified as a contract ‘for services’ as opposed to a contract ‘of service’ [i.e. contract ‘of personal service’] is a vexed question of law and is incapable of being answered with exactitude without reference to the underlying facts in any given case. This Court in Dharangadhra Chemical Works Ltd. vs. State of Saurashtra and Others10, recognized this position of law and held that “the correct method of approach, therefore, would be to consider whether having regard to the nature of the work there was due control and supervision by the employer”. In the words of Fletcher Moulton, L.J. at P.549 in Simmons v. Heath Laundry Company [(1924) 1 KB 762] which were cited with approval in Dharangadhra Chemcial Works Ltd. (supra): “In my opinion it is impossible to lay down any rule of law distinguishing the one from the other. It is a question of fact to be decided by all the circumstances of the case. The greater the amount of direct control exercised over the person rendering the services by the person contracting for them the stronger the grounds for holding it to be a contract of service, and similarly the greater the degree of independence of such control the greater the probability that the services rendered are of the nature of professional services and that the contract is not one of service.” 10 [1957] 1 SCR 152 : AIR 1957 SC 264 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 517 Bar of Indian Lawyers Through its President Jasbir Singh Malik v. D. K. Gandhi PS National Institute of Communicable Diseases and Anr. 39. What is sought to be opined in the above cases is that the greater the amount of direct control exercised over the person rendering the services by the person contracting for them, the stronger would be the grounds for holding it to be a “contract of service.” Hence, let us see whether in case of Advocate-Client relationship, the client exercises direct control over the Advocate who is rendering his legal professional services to him. At this stage, it would be beneficial to refer to some of the important provisions of Code of Civil Procedure, which pertain to the representation of party-litigant through Advocates.