15. So far as the facts of this case are concerned, the vehicle in question appears to have been seized as it was allegedly carrying huge quantity of liquor exceeding the prescribed quantity. However, there is nothing on record to suggest as to whether the said vehicle was [2024] 4 S.C.R. 615 Khengarbhai Lakhabhai Dambhala v. The State of Gujarat sought to be produced before the concerned court so as to invoke Section 451 of Cr.P.C or whether such vehicle was forwarded by the police officer to the concerned Magistrate as contemplated in Clause (a) of Section 132 of the said Act. In absence of any such factual material placed on record, it is difficult to release the vehicle in question in favour of the appellant. 16. It is true that when the property/vehicle is seized during the course of investigation and the same is produced before the concerned Criminal Court, it is incumbent on the part of the concerned Court to pass appropriate s for keeping the vehicle in proper custody pending the trial. It is also true that as held by this Court in case of Sunderbhai Ambalal Desai vs. State of Gujarat1, it is of no use to keep the seized vehicles at the police stations for a long period and it is for the magistrate to pass appropriate s for the proper custody of the said such vehicles during the pendency of the trial. However, as observed earlier, the appellant without approaching the concerned criminal court under Section 451 of the Cr.P.C seeking custody of the vehicle in question, directly approached the High Court by filing Special Criminal Application under Article 226/227 of the Constitution of India, which was not the proper course as adopted by the appellant. 17. In that view of the matter, the present Appeal deserves to be dismissed and is hereby dismissed. It is however clarified that it shall be open for the Appellant to approach the concerned Court where the property/vehicle in question is sought to be produced during the course of inquiry or trial. 18. The Appeal stands dismissed accordingly. Headnotes prepared by: Result of the case: Adeeba Mujahid, Hony. Associate Editor Appeal dismissed. (Verified by: Shadan Farasat, Adv.) 1 [2002] Supp. 3 SCR 39 : (2002) 10 SCC 283