Public Policy Consideration to Constitute an Independent Tribunal. Under the Contract Act, public policy considerations limit contractual freedom to the extent of declaring an agreement void when the court regards it as opposed to public policy.42 The power of determining the meaning and scope of public policy is of the court.43 13. The public policy principle has been interpreted to mean that parties to a contract cannot agree to terms or to an object which have the 42 Section 23 of the Contract Act. 43 Indian Financial Association of Seventh Day Adventists v. M.A. Unneerikutty (2006) 6 SCC 351, para 17. 2302 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports tendency to harm the public good and public interest.44 The freedom of contract is restricted by taking into account the protection and promotion of public welfare, and the larger interest of the community, which must be beyond the parties contracting freedom.45 Courts in India have relied on and applied the public policy principle in the following broad categories of cases: i) where the object is injurious to good government in domestic and foreign affairs; ii) whose object interferes with the proper administration of justice; iii) whose object is injurious to marriage and which promotes sexual immorality; and iv) agreements in restraint of trade.46 14. The limits of public policy considerations for commercial transactions and inapplicability of unconscionability. One of the most significant instances wherein our courts have travelled beyond the above categories of public policy restrictions on contractual freedom is in the case of Central Inland Water Transport v. Brojo Nath Ganguly47 where Court expounded on ‘unconscionability’ as a facet of public policy. This ground is particularly relevant for our analysis as Mr. Banerji has pointed out several US cases wherein arbitration agreements that allow one party to control the pool of potential arbitrators were held to be unconscionable. Therefore, it is necessary to set out the contours of unconscionability under Indian contract law. 15. Through the doctrine of unconscionability, this Court in Brojo Nath Ganguly (supra) introduced inequality of bargaining power as a ground to refuse enforcement of unreasonable and unfair contracts that shock the conscience of the court. It has envisaged for this principle to apply in cases where the weaker party does not exercise meaningful choice and must agree to a standard form of contract.48 However, the Court has also circumscribed the applicability of unconscionability and held that it will not apply when parties have equal or almost equal bargaining power, such as in commercial transactions and contracts 44 Gherulal Parekh v. Mahadeodas Maiya (1959) Supp 2 SCR 406, para 23; Central Inland Water Transport Corpn Ltd v. Brojo Nath Ganguly (1986) 3 SCC 156, para 92; Rattan Chand Hira Chand v. Askar Nawaz Jung (1991) 3 SCC 67, para 17; Indian Financial Association of Seventh Day Adventists (supra), para 19; Assistant General Manager v. Radhey Shyam Pandey (2020) 6 SCCC 438, para 72. 45 Pollock and Mulla, The Indian Contract and Specific Relief Acts, vol 1 (14th edn, Lexis Nexis 2013), 524.