Article 9(2)(a) elaborates on these obligations by detailing the areas that require targeted action, such as ensuring that the design and construction of buildings and public facilities adhere to universal design principles.14 This commitment extends to digital spaces and information technologies, reflecting the need for inclusive approaches in an increasingly digital world. Accessibility under this article is meant to influence both public and private sectors, encouraging a society where all members can participate without barriers.15 11 Article 9 reads: (1) To enable persons with disabilities to live independently and participate fully in all aspects of life, States Parties shall take appropriate measures to ensure to persons with disabilities access, on an equal basis with others, to the physical environment, to transportation, to information and communications, including information and communications technologies and systems, and to other facilities and services open or provided to the public, both in urban and in rural areas. These measures, which shall include the identification and elimination of obstacles and barriers to accessibility, shall apply to, inter alia: a) Buildings, roads, transportation and other indoor and outdoor facilities, including schools, housing, medical facilities and workplaces; b) Information, communications and other services, including electronic services and emergency services. 12 Referred to Francesco Seatzu, ‘Article 9 [Accessibility]’, in The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities: A Commentary, ed. Valentina Della Fina, Rachele Cera and Giuseppe Palmisano (Cham: Springer, 2017), 229. 13 CRPD, Article 9(1). 14 CRPD, Article 9(2); States Parties shall also take appropriate measures: a) To develop, promulgate and monitor the implementation of minimum standards and guidelines for the accessibility of facilities and services open or provided to the public; b) To ensure that private entities that offer facilities and services which are open or provided to the public take into account all aspects of accessibility for persons with disabilities; c) To provide training for stakeholders on accessibility issues facing persons with disabilities; d) To provide in buildings and other facilities open to the public signage in Braille and in easy-to-read and understand forms; e) To provide forms of live assistance and intermediaries, including guides, readers and professional sign language interpreters, to facilitate accessibility to buildings and other facilities open to the public; f) To promote other appropriate forms of assistance and support to persons with disabilities to ensure their access to information; g) To promote access for persons with disabilities to new information and communications technologies and systems, including the Internet; h) To promote the design, development, production and distribution of accessible information and communications technologies and systems at an early stage, so that these technologies and systems become accessible at minimum cost. 15 General Comment on Accessibility, CRPD/C/GC/2, para. 4. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 983 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. 17. Article 9 emphasises that accessibility requirements for urban and rural areas must be all-encompassing, ensuring that measures address the needs of diverse environments.16 While urban areas may exhibit more advanced infrastructure due to better resources and policy implementation, they can still present challenges such as intricate layouts, insufficiently accessible public transit, and overcrowded spaces that hinder movement.