[Paras 48, 49] – Held: (per B.V. Nagarathna, J.) India’s postcolonial Constitution introduced [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1557 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. a new approach to federalism which has departed from the principle that federal and regional governments should each have independence in their own sphere of authority – Distinctive elements of Indian federalism were shaped at their foundations by the desire to boost industrial development and lay the foundation for a national welfare state in a post-colonial future by preventing the consolidation of ‘‘race to the bottom’’ dynamics arising from unregulated inter-provincial economic competition – Distinctive element of Indian federalism is the combination of a strong Centre and a substantial sphere of shared Centre-State jurisdiction – Desirable balance between Central and the State Governments has to be viewed in the context of the country continuing to confront the need to promote economic growth while upholding and expanding social rights. [Paras 36, 36.3, 36.4] Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 – s.9 – Royalty – Royalty, in nature of tax or not: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) Royalty is not a tax – It is a consideration paid by a mining lessee to the lessor for enjoyment of mineral rights and to compensate for the loss of value of minerals suffered by the owner of the minerals – Liability to pay royalty arises out of the contractual conditions of the mining lease – s.9 statutorily regulates the right of a lessor to receive consideration in the form of royalty from the lessee for removing or carrying away minerals from the leased area – Rates of royalty prescribed u/s.9 does not make it a “compulsory exaction by public authority for public purposes” – s.25 allows recovery of royalty due to the Government under the MMDR Act or “under the terms of the contract” as arrears of land does not make royalty “an impost enforceable by law” – Furthermore, there is difference between royalty and a tax – Proprietor charges royalty as a consideration for parting with the right to win minerals, while a tax is an imposition of a sovereign, royalty is paid in consideration of doing a particular action, that is, extracting minerals from the soil, while tax is generally levied with respect to a taxable event determined by law, and royalty generally flows from the lease deed as compared to tax which is imposed by authority of law – Since royalty is a consideration paid by the lessee to the lessor under a mining lease, it cannot be termed as an impost – Furthermore, 1558 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports both royalty and dead rent do not fulfil the characteristics of tax or impost – Thus, observation in India Cement’s case that royalty is a tax is incorrect. [Paras 327, 123-130] Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 – s.9 – Royalties in respect of mining leases – Purpose of s.9: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.)