The court does not have the expertise to correct the administrative decision. If a review of the administrative decision is permitted it will be substituting its own decision, without the necessary expertise, which itself may be fallible. The Government must have freedom of contract. In other words, fair play in the joints is a necessary concomitant for an administrative body functioning in an administrative sphere or quasi-administrative sphere. However, the decision must not only be tested by the application of Wednesbury principles of reasonableness but also must be free from arbitrariness not affected by bias or actuated by mala fides. It was also pointed out that quashing decisions may impose heavy administrative burden on the administration and lead to increased and unbudgeted expenditure. (See para 113 of the Report, SCC para 94. )” The Court does not have the expertise to correct the administrative decision as held in Laxmikant v. Satyawan [Laxmikant v. Satyawan (1996) 4 SCC 208], the Government must have freedom of contract. 23 The right to refuse the lowest or any other tender is always available to the Government. In the case in hand, the respondent has neither pleaded nor established mala fide exercise of power by the appellant. While so, the decision of the Tender Committee ought not to have been interfered with by the High Court. In our considered view, the High Court erred in sitting in appeal over the decision of the appellant to cancel the tender and float a fresh tender. Equally, the High Court was not right in going into the financial implication of a fresh tender.” 13. This Court in the aforesaid case has held that while exercising power of judicial review, the Court does not sit as an appellate Court over the decision of the government but merely reviews the manner in 934 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which the decision was made [Tata Cellular v. Union of India (1994) 6 SCC 651]. In the considered opinion of this Court, the Division Bench should not have interfered in the matter and could not have gone to the extent of fixing the base price/modifying the offer made by respondent and, therefore, in light of the aforesaid as the High Court has virtually passed an sitting in appeal over the decision of the government in absence of any mala fide exercise of power by the IDA, the passed by the Division Bench of the High Court deserves to be set aside and is, accordingly set aside. This Court in the case of Haryana Urban Development Authority Vs. Orchid Infrastructure Developers Pvt. Ltd. (supra) again dealing with the cancellation of a bid of the highest bidder, in paragraphs 12,13,14,15, 16 and 30 has held as under: “12. Firstly, we examine the question whether there being no concluded contract in the absence of acceptance of bid and issuance of allotment letter, the suit could be said to be maintainable for the declaratory relief and mandatory injunction sought by the plaintiff. The plaintiff has prayed for a declaration that rejection of the bid was illegal.