She contended that the trial Court and the High Court, after thorough appreciation of evidence have recorded concurrent findings of facts holding the accused appellant(A1) and the co- accused(A2) responsible for indulging in custodial violence thereby causing death of Jeeva. 14. She contended that the witnesses, Selvin Prabhakar(PW-1), Dhanlakshmi Vaiyapuri(PW-2) had no reason so as to falsely implicate the accused appellant(A1) for the murder of their brother Jeeva(deceased). Presence of these witnesses at the Amraiwadi Police Station was not disputed by the accused persons. The evidence of these witnesses is reliable and trustworthy. The witness Nyakar Vasudev(PW-3) was admittedly detained in the lockup of the police station with Jeeva(deceased) and he too has given clinching evidence supporting the case of prosecution and hence, this Court should not feel persuaded to interfere with the concurrent finding of facts recorded in the impugned s. 15. She further urged that Jeeva(deceased) was apprehensive that he may be subjected to further cruelty at the hands of the police officials if he made a complaint about the violence meted out to him in police custody. Thus, rather than speaking out before the learned Magistrate, he confided about the violence to his sister, Selvin Prabhakar(PW-1), who sent a prompt telegram(Exhibit-14) setting out the details of the incident to the DGP office, Ahmedabad promptly after the news of death of her brother Jeeva was conveyed to her and thus, there is no delay in lodging of the complaint. 16. She further contended that the influence of the accused persons upon the investigation agency is clearly visible inasmuch as no action was taken on the telegram(Exhibit-14) promptly sent by Selvin Prabhakar(PW-1) who was later compelled to lodge a complaint before the concerned Magistrate, only whereafter, the criminal case could be registered against the accused. 376 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17. She thus urged that the testimony of the witnesses examined by the prosecution was rightly relied upon by the trial Court and the High Court and that the impugned s do not warrant any interference by this Court. 18. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at bar and have minutely reappreciated the evidence available on record. We have also perused the s rendered by the High Court as well as the trial Court. Discussion of material/evidence available on record: - 19. The following facts are undisputed as per the record: - (i) That A1 was posted as Police Inspector, Amraiwadi Police Station and A2 was posted as Superintendent of Police on the date of the incident. (ii) That Jeeva(deceased) and Anna Dorai were arraigned as accused in C.R. No. 555 of 1992, registered at the Amraiwadi Police Station for the offences punishable under Sections 143, 147, 148, 149, 307, 323, 324 and 427 IPC. (iii) That on 10th June, 1992 at 10:45 pm, Jeeva(deceased) accompanied by his two sisters, Selvin Prabhakar(PW-1) and Dhanlakshmi Vaiyapuri(PW-2) and advocate Shri Patanwadia had gone to the Amraiwadi Police Station for surrendering in connection with the above case.