A contract which states that a man’s property shall remain his until his bankruptcy, and in that event shall go to someone else, is not a valid contract. Both, the pari passu principle and the anti-deprivation principle sprout from the common ground that parties cannot contract out of an insolvency legislation. Their distinction lies in their impacts. The pari passu principle is aimed at ensuring that all creditors get their proportional dues by preventing any one creditor from getting more than their deserved share.39 The anti-deprivation principle on the other hand aims at conservation of the insolvent estate for the benefit of the creditors.40 26. Having examined the different concepts of set-off including insolvency set-off, we would now like to examine the contentions raised by the parties with reference to the provisions of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process under the IBC. 27. The IBC is an Act to consolidate and amend the laws relating to reorganisation and insolvency resolution of corporate persons, partnership firms and individuals in a time bound manner for maximisation of value of assets of such persons, to promote entrepreneurship, availability of credit and balance the interest of stakeholders, etc. The IBC codifies the law of insolvency and bankruptcy. The IBC is a complete code in itself, except where it refers and permits application of the provisions of other enactments, as has been consistently held by this Court in Indian Overseas Bank v. RCM Infrastructure Ltd. and Another41, Innoventive Industries Limited v. ICICI Bank and Another42, Embassy Property Developments Private Limited. v. State of Karnataka and Others43, and V. Nagarajan v. SKS Ispat and Power Limited and Others44. 39 Belmont Park Investments v. BNY Corporate Trustee Services Ltd. [2012] 1 AC 383. 40 In the present decision, we are not examining the extent of, and the manner in which the anti-depriva- tion principle is applicable in India. 41 (2022) 8 SCC 516. 42 (2018) 1 SCC 407. 43 (2020) 13 SCC 308. 44 (2022) 2 SCC 244. 160 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 28. Section 23845 of the IBC states that the provisions of the Code would override other laws. The provisions of this Code shall have effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force. 29. Section 243 deals with the repeal of certain enactments and also incorporates the savings clause. Sub-section (1) states that Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 is hereby repealed. Sub-section (2) does not apply in the present case. Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 did not apply to the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process stage. 30. Given the aforesaid legal position, we do not think that the provisions of statutory set-off in terms of VIII Rule 6 of CPC or insolvency set-off as permitted by Regulation 29 of the Liquidation Regulations can be applied to the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process. The aforesaid rule would be, however, subject to two exceptions or situations. The first, if at all it can be called an exception, is where a party is entitled to contractual set-off, on the date which is effective before or on the date the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process is put into motion or commences.