Without adverting much into its pith and substance, it is ubiquitous that the doctrine of delay and laches cannot be applied stricto senso to writ petitions invoking public interest jurisdiction, unless the court is satisfied that the party has not approached it with clean hands. It is now well established that while delay is a material factor, there is no fixed period of limitation for invoking jurisdiction under Article 226 and that each case should be considered on its own facts and circumstances, thus allowing for a more liberal approach when applying this doctrine.7 It is indeed beyond any doubt that the 7 R&M Trust v. Koramangala Residents Vigilance Group, (2005) 3 SCC 91; State of Madhya Pradesh and another v. Bhailal Bhai and others, AIR 1964 SC 1006. 2020 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports doctrine is not a rigid rule but is rather a practice that is founded on the exercise of sound judicial discretion. 18. In a much more rudimentary sense, it must also be borne in mind that the cause of action in these set of circumstances could have arisen and perhaps actually arose only after expiry of a reasonable period, within which the cost of the Project was expected to be recovered. The filing of the Writ Petition immediately after the Concession Agreement and other Supporting Agreements were entered into, would have been highly premature and ill-advised, without giving a reasonable time to the project proponent to recover the actual cost of the project. 19. In this vein, the High Court rightly observed that the plea of delay lacks substance, as the commuters, including Respondent No. 1, were justified in trusting that NOIDA would protect their interests. However, in 2012, after learning that they were being misled and subjected to an illegal toll based on an audit report from NTBCL’s Auditor and Chartered Accountant—indicating that as of 31.05.2012, Rupees 2340 crores were still to be recovered from the public, and the recovery period had extended from 30 years to 100 years—they were prompted to immediately approach the High Court. 20. Furthermore, it must be acknowledged that the levying of user fees or tolls by NTBCL constituted a continuing cause of action, which was challenged by the Association of affected commuters. An established exception to the defence of delay is the presence of a continuous injury stemming from an ongoing wrong.8 The plea of delay and laches cannot be raised in a case of a continuing cause of action. 21. In our considered view, the challenge laid by Respondent No. 1 before the High Court, regarding the levying of toll or user fees, being rooted in public interest and involving en masse potential violations of Fundamental Rights of citizenry, warrants thorough examination. Given that NTBCL’s actions represented a continuing cause of action, we concur with the High Court in rejecting the hyper technical objection of delay and laches. 8 Union of India and another v. Tarsem Singh, (2008) 8 SCC 648. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2021 Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. v. Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association and Others G.1.3.