Ultimately, the petitions filed by the Diploma holders (in Elementary Education) were allowed vide the impugned judgement and the logical consequence of this is that the service of teachers, with B.Ed. qualification, are liable to be terminated. In the present batch of petitions, we have before us these teachers with B.Ed. qualification whose appointments have been quashed. The State of Chhattisgarh is also before us challenging the impugned judgement and dated 02.04.2024 of the High Court. 10. One of the arguments of the learned senior counsel (Mr. Shrivastava) for the petitioners before this Court is that this Court in Devesh Sharma (supra) had opened a small window for B.Ed. candidates who were called for selection as B.Ed. was one of the qualifications in the 2019 Rules as also in the notification of NCTE and till it was set aside such candidates cannot be called as ineligible. All we had said in Devesh Sharma (supra) was that since the law, making B.Ed. as qualification, was not struck down by any Court (as was the position in Rajasthan when recruitment to the post of teachers were taking place in 2019) such candidates ought to have been called at least. This is exactly what was said: “Having made the above determination we, all the same, are also of the considered opinion that the State of Rajasthan was clearly in error in not calling for applications from B.Ed. qualified candidates, for the reasons that till that time when such an advertisement was issued by the Rajasthan Government, B.Ed. candidates were included as eligible candidates as per the statutory notification of NCTE, which was binding on the Rajasthan Government, till it was declared illegal or unconstitutional by the Court.” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 817 Navin Kumar & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. Etc. As we know when recruitment to the post of teachers was being made in Rajasthan, B.Ed. was a qualification for teachers as per the NCTE notification. The above observation made by us was only to affirm the findings of the Rajasthan High Court which had although held that B.Ed. was not a valid “qualification” for primary teachers, yet cautioned that the Government could not have ignored the notification of the NCTE till it was declared illegal by a Competent Court. That was all. In Chhattisgarh, this was not the case. B.Ed. qualified candidates were called by the State in the selection process, yet as they were held to be non-qualified by a of this Court, which is the law now and by logic has to be implemented, they were rightly held to be disqualified. How does our observations in Devesh Sharma (supra) help the petitioners, we simply fail to understand. This argument is totally misconceived. B.Ed. is not a qualification for a teacher in a Primary School. Moreover, this aspect has already been clarified in the dated 08.04.2024, where only such candidates have been saved who were selected and appointed prior to our dated 11.08.2023 in Devesh Sharma (supra). Since the petitioners in the present case were appointed post 11.08.2023 and their appointments were also subjected to the final outcome of the pending writ petition before High Court, they cannot get any benefit.