51. It was further submitted that the acts of the Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee to immediately enter into the Assignment Agreement after redeeming the mortgage of the Secured Asset had been done only to undermine the authority of this Court. The contention of the respondents that they were well within their rights to enter into the above transaction since there was no stay or prohibitory by this Court is patently erroneous and devoid of merit. It was submitted that on the first day of hearing since the impugned of the High Court was not available, no effective hearing took place and as such this Court had no occasion to grant or refuse stay. It was further submitted that it is not the case that the respondents were unaware of the pendency of the Main Appeals before this Court at the time of entering into the Assignment Agreement, rather the only reason why the respondents showed undue haste in entering the aforesaid agreement was because they were well aware of the proceedings pending before this Court. Thus, the conduct and actions of the respondents are highly deplorable and cannot be termed to be bona fide or in good conscience. 52. It was also submitted that after the decision of this Court in the Main Appeals, both the Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee herein committed several acts of contempt in to circumvent the and of this Court more particularly the direction to issue the Sale Certificate and complete the sale in respect of the Secured Asset, being as follows: - (i) The Subsequent Transferee vide its letter dated 05.10.2023 asked the Sub-Registrar Office, Nerul Thane to not entertain any request of the petitioner regarding the transfer of the Secured Asset. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1647 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. (ii) The Borrower on 12.10.2023 addressed one letter to the Chief Executive Officer of the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation in whose industrial area the Secured Asset was situated, inter-alia requesting them to not entertain any request from the Bank or the petitioner regarding the transfer of the leasehold rights of the Secured Asset in favour of the petitioner. (iii) Similarly, the Subsequent Transferee vide its letter dated 17.10.2023 asked the Executive Officer of the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation to not take any action regarding the transfer of the Secured Asset to the petitioner. (iv) In November, 2023, the Borrower filed I.A. No. 3220 of 2023 in S.A. No. 46 of 2022 to amend the securitization application for inter-alia challenging the issuance of sale certificate by the Bank as directed by this Court on the ground that such issuance is contrary to the provisions of the SARFAESI Act, as the property no longer vested with the Bank in view of the No Dues Certificate and the Release Deed that was executed during the pendency of the Main Appeal, and that the Bank deliberately suppressed this fact from this Court. (v) On 05.01.2023, the Subsequent Transferee filed Special Civil Suit No.