We see no reason as to why the above-mentioned distinction and categories should only be restricted to claims for refund pertaining to excise and custom levied and not extend to refund of charges 1124 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports levied by the Railway as-well. Thus, applying the aforesaid dictum, the three-categories can broadly be stated to be as follows: - (i) Category 1 – “Illegal Charge” that is a levy which is outside or beyond the law. It is a charge which though may be notified in law as a lawful charge but at its core is stricto-sensu in contravention of the law, as explained by us in the preceding paragraphs of this judgement. (ii) Category 2 – “Overcharge” that is a levy based on misconstruction or misinterpretation or failure to follow the fundamental provisions / principle. It is a charge that is in excess of beyond what was required by the law i.e., by the notified or applicable charge, as illustrated in the preceding paragraphs of our discussion. (iii) Category 3 – “Nullified Charge” a levy which has been declared or struck-down as unconstitutional or illegal by a court on principles of arbitrariness, unreasonableness or fair-play. This too would be in the nature of an “Illegal Charge” enunciated in Category 1 with the only difference being that, the courts found the law to be untenable in the eyes of law even though it may not be in contravention of the statutory provisions. Such as the charge levied by the arbitrary denial of telescopic benefits which was held to be illegal in West Coast Paper Mills (supra). 91. Another reason, as to why this distinction assumes importance is in view of the intention behind the rigours of Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989. The purpose behind incorporating the stricter and shorter time-period envisaged under Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989 for refund of an overcharge is in view of its nature. 92. An ‘overcharge’ as discussed by us above emanates due to a clerical or arithmetical mistake or misapplication of the law or charge prescribed or notified by the law, qua the peculiar facts of an individual case. Such mistakes are easily discoverable by exercising due-diligence; thus, a 6-month time period is stipulated to ensure that claimants are vigilant and prompt in bringing such errors to the notice of the railway. Due to the fact specific nature of such claims by way of errors at the very grass-root level, timely enquiries by railway to ascertain the mistake becomes a necessity. Thus, the intention of Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989 is to ensure that when the claim is made, a timely enquiry into such factual errors is possible AND [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1125 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. to bring quietus to stale and false claims of refunds made belatedly due to the laches & lack of vigilance on part of the claimant. 93. The true purport of Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989 is by no stretch to render even those claims of refunds as time-barred which despite the best of efforts and diligence could not have been discovered by the claimants on their own accord.