According to him, the courts below have concluded that it was an incomplete chargesheet that was filed by the CBI, which entitled the respondents to the statutory right of getting the benefit of default 1 (2007) 8 SCC 770 2 (2021) 2 SCC 485 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 683 Central Bureau of Investigation v. Kapil Wadhawan & Anr. bail under Section 167(2) of Cr.P.C. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi has relied upon the decision in Suresh Kumar Bhikamchand Jain Vs. State of Maharashtra & Anr.3 to buttress his submission that cognizance is not relevant basis for determining whether the investigation is complete or not for the purpose of default bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. Reliance is also placed on the decision in case of Rakesh Kumar Paul vs. State of Assam4, to submit that if the chargesheet is not filed and the right for default bail has ripened into the status of indefeasibility, it cannot be frustrated by the prosecution on any pretext. Mr. Rohatgi sought to distinguish the Dalmia’s case (supra) relied upon by Ld. ASG Mr. S.V. Raju by submitting that in the said case, the accused was absconding and the chargesheet was already filed, whereas in the instant case, the chargesheet filed has been held to be incomplete. According to him, the concurrent findings recorded by two courts, unless perverse should not be interfered with, even if there was an error of law. He further submitted that once the bail is granted and interim staying the operation of such passed by the High Court is not passed by the Supreme Court, the proceeding partakes the colour of cancellation of bail for which the criteria are absolutely different. 12. Learned Senior Advocate Mr. Amit Desai appearing for the respondent no. 2 adopted the arguments made by the Ld. Senior Advocate Mr. Mukul Rohatgi for the respondent no. 1, and further submitted that the filing of chargesheet was a subterfuge or ruse to defeat the indefeasible right of the respondents conferred under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. ANALYSIS: 13. In the instant appeal, the main question that falls for our consideration is, whether the respondents were entitled to the benefit of the statutory right conferred under the proviso to sub section 2 of Section 167 Cr.P.C, on the ground that the investigation qua some of the accused named in the FIR was pending, though the report under sub-section (2) of Section 173 (Chargesheet) against respondents along with the other accused was filed within the prescribed time limit and though 3 (2013) 3 SCC 77 4 (2017) 15 SCC 67 684 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the cognizance of the offence was taken by the special court before the consideration of the application of the respondents seeking default bail under Section 167 (2) Cr.P.C.? 14. For better appreciation of the submissions made by the learned Counsels for the parties, the relevant parts of Section 167 and Section 173 are reproduced as under: - “167. Procedure when investigation cannot be completed in twenty-four hours.