It all depends on the facts of the case. The terms “undue” or “inordinate” cannot be interpreted by applying the rules of mathematics. The Courts, in such cases, deal with human issues and the effect of the delay on individual convicts. What delay is inordinate must depend on the facts of the case; (vi) A convict can invoke even the jurisdiction of a High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution in the event there is an inordinate and unexplained delay in the execution of the death sentence, 612 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports post-confirmation of the sentence. The same principles will be applied by the High Court, which are summarised above; and, (vii) It is the duty of the Executive to promptly process the mercy petitions invoking Articles 72 or 161 of the Constitution and forward the petitions along with requisite documents to the concerned constitutional functionary without undue delay. OPERATIVE DIRECTIONS 43. Hence, we pass the following : i. The impugned and , by which the death sentence of the convicts has been commuted to a fixed sentence of thirty-five years of imprisonment, is upheld, and Criminal Appeals are dismissed; ii. As regards the mercy petitions, we issue the following directions to all the State Governments and Union Territories: A. A dedicated cell shall be constituted by the Home Department or the Prison Department of the State Governments/Union Territories for dealing with mercy petitions. The dedicated cell shall be responsible for the prompt processing of the mercy petitions within the time frame laid down by the respective governments. An officer- in-charge of the dedicated cell shall be nominated by designation who shall receive and issue communications on behalf of the dedicated cell; B. An official of the Law and Judiciary or Justice Department of the State Governments/Union Territories should be attached to the dedicated cell so constituted; C. All the prisons shall be informed about the designation of the officer-in-charge of the dedicated cell and his address and email ID; D. As soon as the Superintendent of Prison/officer-in-charge receives the mercy petitions, he shall immediately forward the copies thereof to the dedicated cell and call for the following details/information from the officer-in-charge [2024] 12 S.C.R. 613 State of Maharashtra & Ors. v. Pradeep Yashwant Kokade & Anr. of the concerned Police Station and/or the concerned investigation agency; a. The criminal antecedents of the convict; b. Information about family members of the convict; c. Economic condition of the convict and his/her family; d. The date of arrest of the convict and the period of incarceration as an undertrial; and, e. The date of filing charge sheet and a copy of the committal , if any. On receipt of the request made by the jail authorities, the officer-in-charge of the concerned police station shall be under an obligation to furnish the said information to the jail authorities immediately; E. On receipt of the said information, without any delay, the jail authorities shall forward the following documents to the officer-in-charge of the dedicated cell and the Secretary of the Home Department of the State Government: a.