Aggrieved by this, a representation dated 19.10.2015 was submitted to the Government by the direct appointees to step up their pay in accordance with Rule 21 of the 2002 Pay Rules. It also gave rise to filing of petitions before the Single Judge of the High Court for appropriate writ, direction and to remove the anomaly in their pay resulting from the office dated 10.08.2015 and grant stepping up their pay on the basis of Rule 21. It is also to be noted here that the State Government, vide Resolution dated 06.03.2017, clarified that the Career Advancement Scheme is not related to promotion and deleted the terms “promotion” occurring in resolutions dated 18.04.2016 and 03.08.2016. 14. The Single Judge of the High Court, vide dated 19.04.2017, held that Rule 21 is applicable in the present case based on the finding that the grant of Senior Scale and Selection Grade under the Career Advancement Scheme can be said to be promotion and therefore, when at the time of grant of Senior Scale and Selection Grade under the Career Advancement Scheme, there is anomaly in the pay scale between the Senior and Junior. It, accordingly, granted the benefit of stepping up, holding that the seniors (original [2024] 8 S.C.R. 477 Maheshkumar Chandulal Patel & Anr. v. The State of Gujarat & Ors. Petitioners) are entitled to pay at par with their junior who were selected and appointed subsequent to them. 15. The Single Judge also specifically observed that the original petitioners have not challenged the Government Resolutions dated 03.08.2011 and 22.12.2014 and the office dated 10.08.2015, or the action of the Respondents in granting the Senior Scale and Selection Grade to the said junior lectures by counting their past seniority rendered as ad hoc. Therefore, the Court chose to refrain itself from expressing any opinion on the validity of the said Government Resolutions. The Single Judge also noted that the subsequent appointees appear to have been treated as a separate class by the State for the purpose of considering their past ad hoc services as permissible under the UGC Regulations and such classification is not discriminatory, thus the ground of equal pay for equal work taken by the Petitioners therein would not stand. However, by granting the benefit of Rule 21, the State was directed to step up the pay of the original Petitioners. 16. Feeling aggrieved by the of the Single Judge, original Respondents-State and others preferred Letters Patent Appeals before the Division Bench of the High Court. 17. It was held by the Division Bench of the High Court that in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, Rule 21 of the 2002 Pay Rules shall not be applicable at all since it applies only where the anomaly so caused must be the direct result of the application of Rule 21. The Court proceeded on the footing that grant of Senior Scale and Selection Grade under the Career Advancement Scheme can be said to be promotion. It was observed that if the case on behalf of the original petitioners is accepted and their pay is fixed at par with all those 85 Assistant Professors who as such rendered their services as ad hoc lecturers, in that case, all the original petitioners, who admittedly never rendered their services as ad hoc lecturers like all those 85 lecturers and who for the first time joined their services in 2001, will be granted the benefit of the earlier years during which they never rendered their services as ad hoc or otherwise and/or when they were not even born in the cadre.