Supreme Court Reports residence, monthly income, domiciled at Maharashtra, whether members belongs to Backward Class or how) etc. 11. Only applications are being considered when persons from the public get the information that government land is available for allotment and submit the same for such land and thereafter action is being taken. In view of that for want of information need persons should not be left out, Government is giving directions that apart from the area where only one or two plot of lands are separately available for allotment, for other area Collector should give press note in the local newspaper and provide information to the public that such plot of lands are available and applications should be invited from the public for the disposal of land within the period which will be specified in such press note. So that persons who are interested can establish societies and can submit the application for allotment of land within such specified period. After scrutinizing applications which will be received as per above, proposals should be submitted for the approval of the Government Authority. 12. As per above provisions, if there are more than two plots of land in any layout and when applications from any one or more of the Co-Operative Housing Societies for the available plot of land will be received, even though there is provision to invite applications from the public after giving press note in the Newspaper, as no touchstones or guidelines have been provided in it as to how selection of those societies to whom land is to be allotted out of the applications received in this manner and hence now Government is giving directions that when allotment of plot of land will be made after giving advertisement in the Newspaper, same should be made as per guidelines detailed hereunder:- … (4) If eligible Applicants of that respective groups are more than plot of lands available for that group of the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 739 Proposed Vaibhav Cooperative Housing Society Limited v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Co-operative Housing Societies, it should be decided to which societies plots should be allotted after making public draw. … (8). As provided at Item No. 8 of Sr. No. 2 and 13. Number Five above, when allotment of plots will be made as per discretionary powers of the Government, at that time it will be necessary to state reasons for the allotment of those plot of lands to the specific societies in writing. These are the rules and regulations laying down a detail procedure for allotment of land to any Proposed Co-Operative Housing Society. As per these regulations, the Chief Promotor of the Proposed Society is required to submit specific details, like Survey Number, Area, local plan etc., of the land which is sought to be allotted. Clause 11 provides the mechanism by which the public can get to know that government land is available for allotment and can apply for the same. Also, if land is allotted under the discretionary powers of the government, then it is necessary to give reasons in writing as to why such allotment is made in favour of a particular society.