These observations took care of the assertions of the Appellant with regard to the statutory dues and the claims as have been made and put forth relatable to the areas of lease. 16. Beside this, as regards the other claims pertaining to the transfer fees, etc. were not to be interfered with by courts or tribunals as the same stood related to the commercial wisdom of the Committee of Creditors for they being the best persons to determine their interests, and any such interference is non-justiciable except as provided by Section 30(2) of IBC 2016. We do not find violation of the statute or the procedure as also the norms fixed as per the decisions referred to above of this Court, the Resolution Plan as approved by the Committee of Creditors, and the same having been accepted deserves and has rightly been left untouched. Fundamentally, the financial decisions as have been taken by Committee of Creditors, especially with regard to viability or otherwise, while evaluating the plan would thus prevail. 17. As far as the submission of the Learned Senior Counsel that exemptions from NSEZ payments, including any type of fees or penalty for renewal of sub-lease and/or for transfer charges due with regard to the change of directorship or shareholding in favour of the Resolution Applicant has to be dealt with as per Clause 10.9 of the Resolution Plan cannot be accepted in the light of Section 238 of IBC 2016, which provides for the provisions of IBC 2016 to have an overriding effect over the other laws. If that be so, the obvious effect is that the same would prevail, leading to the provisions as contained in the SEZ Act 2005 giving way to IBC 2016. 18. It has come on record and stands admitted that the Resolution Plan had already been implemented and the dues as found payable under the Resolution Plan have been disbursed to the concerned parties. As regards the Appellant is concerned, the amount was disbursed vide Demand Draft dated 22.10.2020 which has been received and [2024] 11 S.C.R. 497 Noida Special Economic Zone Authority v. Manish Agarwal & Ors. accepted by the Appellant. Leading to the dismissal of the appeal vide impugned dated 14.02.2022. 19. In the light of above and having perused the record while bearing in mind the extensive observations made by 3-Judge Bench of this Court in Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Limited v. Satish Kumar Gupta and Others,5 and its reiteration by numerous subsequent decisions of this Court such as the Ebix Singapore Private Limited v. Committee of Creditors of Educomp Solutions Limited and Another6 and in the latest decision in DBS Bank Limited Singapore v. Ruchi Soya Industries Limited and Another,7 we find ourselves not in a position to accept the claim of the Appellant as sought to be made and put forth in these appeals. 20. The s dated 05.10.2020 and 27.11.2020, as have been passed by the NCLT and approved by the NCLAT vide its impugned dated 14.02.2022, do not call for any interference in the present Appeals.