When the discrepancies are very material shaking the very credibility of the witness leading to a conclusion in the mind of the court that is neither possible to separate it nor to rely upon, it is for the said court to either accept or reject. 39. It becomes difficult to accept the case presented against the Accused No. 04 by the prosecution and it is not acceptable to state that the same has been proved beyond a reasonable doubt. The inconsistencies in the testimonies and lack of observation of due process of law by the investigating agency has severely impacted the case of the prosecution. 40. The subsequent and alternate contention put forth by the learned Counsel for the Respondent No. 02 pertains to the non-requirement of the compliance of Section 41 of the NDPS Act 1985. To appreciate the said contention, jurisprudential aspect ought to be dealt with. Section 41 of the NDPS Act 1985 deals with the power to issue warrant and 466 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports authorization to both a Magistrate and an Officer of Gazetted rank as applicable and the same is reproduced below as follows: “41. Power to issue warrant and authorisation.— (1) A Metropolitan Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class or any Magistrate of the second class specially empowered by the State Government in this behalf, may issue a warrant for the arrest of any person whom he has reason to believe to have committed any offence punishable under this Act, or for the search, whether by day or by night, of any building, conveyance or place in which he has reason to believe any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance or controlled substance in respect of which an offence punishable under this Act has been committed or any document or other article which may furnish evidence of the commission of such offence or any illegally acquired property or any document or other article which may furnish evidence of holding any illegally acquired property which is liable for seizure or freezing or forfeiture under Chapter VA of this Act is kept or concealed: (2) Any such officer of gazetted rank of the departments of central excise, narcotics, customs, revenue intelligence or any other department of the Central Government including the para-military forces or the armed forces as is empowered in this behalf by general or special by the Central Government, or any such officer of the revenue, drugs control, excise, police or any other department of a State Government as is empowered in this behalf by general or special of the State Government if he has reason to believe from personal knowledge or information given by any person and taken in writing that any person has committed an offence punishable under this Act or that any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance or controlled substance in respect of which any offence under this Act has been committed or any document or other article which may furnish evidence [2024] 4 S.C.R. 467 Smt.