934 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 59. Let it not be assumed that this court does not perceive the instant one to be a serious and dastardly crime. We, to say the least, are convinced that the offence committed calls for societal abhorrence and disapproval. But, the totality of circumstances instill in us the satisfaction that this is not a case where the range of further options available to the court after Swamy Shraddananda (supra) are unquestionably foreclosed. Placing fetter on the powers of the Executive under Section 432 and 433 Cr.P.C. for a prescribed period (and with due caution administered that the powers under Article 72 and Article 161 should not be lightly invoked to get over the prescription of such period fixed by this Court) a sentence of imprisonment for life which shall ensure that the offender does not get exposed to society for a period of 30 years can be imposed. We are not prescribing the ‘entire rest of the life’ as the period, as fixed by their Lordships in Swamy Shraddananda (supra), considering the totality of circumstances and because of the optimistic faith in the infinite capacity of the human soul to repent and reform.” Holding so, the High Court modified the sentence of death to that of imprisonment for life with the further direction that the accused shall not be released from prison for a period of 30 (thirty) years including the period already undergone with set off under Section 428 Cr.P.C. alone. 23. The State is not in appeal, having accepted the verdict of the High Court. It is only the appellant who is in appeal. It is his submission that the imposition of 30 (thirty) years sentence without remission is excessive and the counsel urges that a suitable lesser sentence be imposed under the Swamy Shraddananda principle. This is the alternative submission advanced. 24. Swamy Shraddananda (supra), since affirmed subsequently in Union of India v. V. Sriharan alias Murugan and Others, (2016) 7 SCC 1, resolved a judge’s dilemma. Often it happens that a case that falls short of the rarest of the rare category may also be one where a mere sentence of 14 years (the normal benchmark for life imprisonment) may be grossly disproportionate and inadequate. The Court may find that while death penalty may not be warranted [2024] 3 S.C.R. 935 Navas @ Mulanavas v. State of Kerala keeping in mind the overall circumstances, a proportionate penalty would be to fix the period between 14 years and for the imprisonment till rest of the life without remission. Addressing this issue felicitously in Swamy Shraddananda (supra) Justice Aftab Alam speaking for the court, held as follows: “92. The matter may be looked at from a slightly different angle. The issue of sentencing has two aspects. A sentence may be excessive and unduly harsh or it may be highly disproportionately inadequate. When an appellant comes to this Court carrying a death sentence awarded by the trial court and confirmed by the High Court, this Court may find, as in the present appeal, that the case just falls short of the rarest of the rare category and may feel somewhat reluctant in endorsing the death sentence.