366. Along similar lines, the migration legitimized by Section 6A also does not constitute internal disturbance. As was discussed before, Section 6A was a crucial step in bringing quietus to the political upheaval in Assam and marked the culmination of various agitations surrounding illegal immigration and the rights of indigenous communities. Given this background, it is difficult to accede to the proposition that Section 6A caused ‘internal disturbance’. 367. Hence, the claim of the Petitioners regarding Section 6A being contrary to Article 355 cannot be accepted. However, that being said, upholding the constitutionality of Section 6A should not be construed as an impediment in implementing existing citizenship and immigration legislations, or giving effect to other judicial decisions controlling the field. xi. Citizenship Act vis-à-vis the IEAA 368. The Petitioners have finally contended that the Immigrants (Expulsion from Assam) Act, 1950 (IEAA), being a special statute qua the immigrants in Assam, alone can apply to the exclusion of the Foreigners Act, 1946. Accordingly, the Petitioners assailed the phrase ‘detected to be a foreigner’ in Section 6A, in so far as it applies to the Foreigners Act, 1946 and not the IEAA. In addition to this, the Petitioners contended that the IEAA, is a Parliamentary Statute, and [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1141 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 its main purpose being that of expulsion, should apply exclusively to the immigrants in Assam. 369. The Respondents have not made any particular submissions in this regard. However, for the sake of the comprehensiveness of analysis, we shall address this issue as well. 370. Having taken into account these contentions, the issues that arise for our consideration are twofold–(i) whether the IEAA should apply to the immigrants in Assam, to the exclusion of the Foreigners Act, 1946; and (ii) whether the IEAA is in conflict with the intent and aim of Section 6A. 371. We must note here that the Petitioners have argued that the IEAA should override the provisions of other enactments like the Foreigners Act, 1946 or Section 6A, as they presume some conflict between these legislations. However, we find that this fundamental assumption made by the Petitioners, as to the existence of a conflict, is misplaced. Indeed, it is not only possible but also our endeavor to read all the enactments controlling the field harmoniously, supplementing and complementing each other. 372. The intent behind the IEAA can be understood from its Statement of Objects and Reasons stipulating that: "During the last few months a serious situation had arisen from the immigration of a very large number of East Bengal residents into Assam. Such large migration is disturbing the economy of the province, besides giving rise to a serious law and problem. The Bill seeks to confer necessary powers on the Central Government to deal with the situation.” 373. This intention is manifested in Section 2 of IEAA, which grants Central Government the power to direct the removal of immigrants who are detrimental to the interests of India. 374.