The process of reasoning by which the court came to the ultimate conclusion and decreed the suit should be reflected clearly in the . 43. *** 44. *** 45. Learned counsel for Respondent 1 contended that the provisions of 20 Rule 4(2) would apply only to contested cases as it is only in those cases that ‘the points for determination’ as mentioned in this rule will have to be indicated, and not in a case in which the written statement has not been filed by the defendants and the facts set out in the plaint are deemed to have been admitted. We do not agree. Whether it is a case which is contested by the defendants by filing a written statement, or a case which proceeds ex parte and is ultimately decided as an ex parte case, or is a case in which the written statement is not filed and the case is decided under 8 Rule 10, the court has to write a which must be in conformity with the provisions of the Code or at least set out the reasoning by which the controversy is resolved. 46. *** Even if the definition were not contained in Section 2(9) or the contents thereof were not indicated in 20 Rule 4(2) CPC, the would still mean the process of reasoning by which a Judge decides a case in favour of one party and against the other. In judicial proceedings, there cannot be arbitrary s. A Judge cannot merely say ‘suit decreed’ or ‘suit dismissed’. The whole process of reasoning has to be set out for deciding the case one way or the other. This infirmity in the present is glaring and for that reason also the cannot be sustained.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 546 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports We concur with the observation that a , as envisaged in section 2(9), CPC, should contain the process of reasoning by which the court arrived at its conclusion to resolve the controversy and consequently to decree the suit. 44. It is indubitable that a “”, if pronounced by a court under Rule 10 of VIII, CPC, must satisfy the requirements of Rule 4(2) of XX, CPC, and thereby conform to its definition provided in section 2(9) thereof. 45. Further, even a cursory reading of Rule 10 of VIII, CPC impresses upon us the fundamental mandate that a “decree” shall follow a “” in a case where the court invokes power upon failure of a defendant to file its written statement. It is, therefore, only a “” conforming to the provisions of the CPC that could lead to a “decree” being drawn up. As is manifest on the face of the record of the present case, apart from the ipse dixit of the Trial Court that the case is fit for being proceeded against under Rule 10 of VIII and that the suit qua Samiullah ought to be decreed with the injunctive , no ingredients that a “” should contain as per the CPC appear in the dated 5th August, 1991.