A careful reading of the aforesaid clauses would indicate that they deal with company’s (M/s. Hindustan Motors’) liability in respect of any defect in the motor vehicle. They limit the company’s liability in respect of any defect in the motor vehicle to the company’s [2024] 9 S.C.R. 31 Vaibhav Jain v. Hindustan Motors Pvt. Ltd. obligations under the warranty clause. The use of the words “and the company will have no other liability and all liabilities other than one under warranty as aforesaid shall be to the account of the Dealer”, in absence of specific exclusion of tortious liability arising from use of such vehicle, cannot absolve the owner of the motor vehicle of its liability under the Motor Vehicles Act and shift it on to the dealer when the vehicle at the time of accident was under the control and command of the owner (i.e., M/s Hindustan Motors) through its own employees as found above. We, therefore, reject the submission of the learned counsel for M/s. Hindustan Motors that it cannot be saddled with liability for payment of compensation in view of clauses 3 (b) and 4 of the Dealership Agreement. 28. Issue no. (ii) is decided in the aforesaid terms. Issue No. (iii) 29. The issue as to whether M/s Hindustan Motors, without filing a separate appeal, or cross-objection, could take recourse to the provisions of 41 Rule 33 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 190816 to challenge that portion of the award which made it liable, jointly and severally, for the compensation awarded is rendered academic in view of our findings on issues (i) and (ii). However, we propose to address the said issue. 30. In Banarasi & Ors. V. Ram Phal17 this Court dealt with the scope of 41 Rule 2218 CPC (post 1976 amendment) and the power 16 41 Rule 33. CPC. – Power of Court of Appeal -- The appellate court shall have power to pass any decree and make any which ought to have been passed or made and to pass or make such further or other decree or as the case may require, and this power may be exercised by the Court notwithstanding that the appeal is as to part only of the decree and may be exercised in favor of all or any of the respondents or parties, although such respondents or parties may not have filed any appeal or objection and may, where there have been decrees in cross-suits or where two or more decrease are passed in one suit, be exercised in respect of all or any of the decrees, although any appeal may not have been filed against such decrees: Provided that the Appellate Court shall not make any under section 35A, in pursuance of any objection on which the Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred has omitted or refused to make such . Illustration A claims a sum of money as due to him from X or Y, and in a suit against both obtains a decree against X. X, appeals and A & Y are respondents.