20100 of 2023 and Others, whereby the High Court has dismissed the said Writ Petitions by holding that the Banks/ Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) are not obliged to adopt the restructuring process as contemplated in the Notification dated 29th May, 2015 issued by the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, on its own without there being any application by the Petitioners/ MSMEs. The High Court without expressing any opinion on the merits or the factual aspects of the writ petitions granted leave to the Appellants -Writ Petitioners to agitate the other issues by adopting alternative remedies as may be available to them under the law. 3. The learned Counsels for the parties in the instant Appeals have also restricted their submissions only to the said issue decided by the High Court, without addressing other issues on the facts and merits involved in the writ petitions. 144 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4. The Appellants who were the Writ Petitioners before the High Court had basically challenged the actions of the Respondents Banks/ NBFCs taken by them against the appellants under the provisions contained in The Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as the “SARFAESI Act”). The bone of contention raised by the learned Counsel Mr. Mathews Nedumpara appearing for the Appellants in all the Appeals is that the respondents-Banks could not have classified the loan accounts of the appellants who were the MSMEs, as Non-Performing Assets (NPA), without following the procedure laid down in the Instructions for Framework for Revival and Rehabilitation of MSMEs issued vide the Notification dated 29th May, 2015 by the Ministry of MSME, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 9 of the MSMED Act. According to him, it was incumbent on the part of the Respondents Banks/ NBFCs to identify incipient stress in the account by creating three sub categories as mentioned in the said Notification and to explore various options to resolve the stress in the account as contemplated in the said Notification. He further submitted that the said Notification and the subsequent Instructions/Directions issued by the Central Government and the Reserve Bank of India are for the purpose of facilitating the promotion and development and enhancing the competitiveness of MSMEs and therefore it was mandatory on the part of the respondents to follow the same. Non-observance of the mandatory Instructions contained in the said Notification has rendered all the subsequent actions taken by the respondents under the SARFAESI Act, illegal and void ab initio. 5. However, the learned Counsels appearing for the Respondents Banks/ NBFCs contended that the High Court has rightly not considered the process or procedure laid down in the Notification dated 29.05.2015 as mandatory, in as much as the provisions contained in the SARFAESI Act override the provisions of the other Acts including the MSME Act as per Section 35 of the said Act. In the instant cases, the concerned appellants had not applied to the Respondents Banks to avail the benefit of the said Notification at the relevant time and the Respondents Banks have already initiated and in certain cases concluded the proceedings undertaken under the SARFAESI Act after following the due process of law.