Section 5(1)(e) read with the First Schedule enabled a migrant who was a citizen of Pakistan to acquire citizenship. Thus, migrants from Pakistan could acquire citizenship in terms of Section 5(1)(a) and Section 5(1)(e). 46. In exercise of the power conferred by Section 18 of the Citizenship Act, the Central Government notified the Citizenship Rules 1956.59 The 1956 Rules prescribed a form in which an application for registration as a citizen of India under Section 5(1)(a) would have to be made. The form requested the submission of, inter alia, passport and visa details, if any.60 The form had a separate part (Part II) for migrants from Pakistan. It requested, inter alia, the following details: (a) profession or occupation while residing in Pakistan; (b) whether the applicant applied for long term visa for permanent resettlement earlier; (c) whether the applicant was residing in the territory now included in India or Pakistan at the time of partition; and (e) places of residence in India prior to migration. The 1956 Rules (in particular the details required in the Part II of Form I) make it clear that 58 Citizenship Act 1955; Explanation to Section 5(1) 59 “1956 Rules” 60 Requests the name of the father, mother, address of ordinary residence, profession, description of immovable property(s) and details of family members who are staying in India. 1268 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports migrants from East and West Pakistan could apply for citizenship under Article 5(1)(a). Even before the 1956 Rules were framed, the Deputy Secretary (Home Affairs) issued ‘urgent’ instructions to the various state governments directing them to make ‘immediate arrangements for registration of ‘displaced persons’ under Section 5(1) (a) of the Citizenship Act.61 In 1958, another notification was issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs that it was not necessary to insist on acceptance of surrender of Pakistani passports before registration is made.62 In a reply issued in 1958 to a query, the Ministry of Home Affairs also clarified that authorities can register minorities without Pakistani passports or travel documents.63 Thus, Section 5(1)(a) along with the 1956 Rules and the various executive notifications facilitated the registration of migrants (including undocumented migrants) from East and West Pakistan as citizens. The 1956 Rules did not prescribe Rules for registration under Section 5(1)(e) of the Citizenship Act. Irrespective of the manner in which Section 5(1)(a) and Section 5(1)(e) of the Citizenship Act were implemented, the provisions enabled the registration of both documented and undocumented migrants to India from East and West Pakistan. 47. In fact, the Citizenship Act was viewed by the members of the Parliament as an enactment that would put an end to the limbo on granting citizenship to migrants from East and West Pakistan. Sentiments that refugees should not even be required to register also prevailed in Parliament. Thakurdas Bhargava noted that “registration is only for those who are not real citizens of India nor are rooted in the land of India not having a domicile in this country, not wanting to 61 See the Executive instructions issued in the letter from the Deputy Secretary (Home) dated 14 June 1956.