The finding of the learned APTEL, in our view, therefore, is totally erroneous. 80. In the case of SKS Power, the BEC, consisting of following 6 members, has considered the levelized tariff quoted by L-4 and L-5 bidders: (i) Shri R.K. Jain, Chief Engineer (NPP & RA), RVPN, Jaipur; (ii) Shri Manish Saxena, Chief Controller of Accounts, RVPN, Jaipur; (iii) Shri M.M. Ranwa, Chief Engineer, RUVNL, Jaipur; (iv) Shri K.L. Meena, Addl. Chief Engineer (Fuel), RVUN, Jaipur; (v) Shri S.K. Mathur, Chief Engineer (HQ), JVVNL, Jaipur; and 950 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (vi) Shri Tarun Agarwal, CA, Partner M/s Shyamlal Agrawal & Co., Jaipur 81. It can be seen that the said Committee consisted of 4 technical members of the rank of Chief Engineer/Additional Chief Engineer. It consisted of the Chief Controller of Account, RVPN, Jaipur. It also consisted of a Chartered Accountant, who is an expert in financial matters. After due deliberations, the BEC consisting of experts found that the prices quoted by L-4 and L-5 bidders were exorbitantly high and it would result in additional financial burden of more than Rs.1715 crore on the consumers of the State as compared to the tariff of L-1 bidder. 82. The State Commission after considering the detailed analysis of the BEC had come to the considered conclusion that the prices offered by SKS Power (L-5 bidder) were not market aligned, and therefore, not in the consumers’ interest. We, therefore, find that the learned APTEL has grossly erred in reversing the well-reasoned passed by the State Commission, which was, in turn, based on the decision of the BEC in accordance with clause 5.15 of the Bidding Guidelines. 83. We further find that it cannot be read from the s of this Court that the State Commission was bound to accept the bids as quoted by the bidders till the bucket was filled. Firstly, no such direction can be issued by this Court de hors the provisions of Section 63 and 86(1)(b) of the Electricity Act and the Bidding Guidelines. In any event, vide dated 19th November 2018, this Court had specifically directed the State Commission to decide the tariff under Section 63 of the Electricity Act having regard to the law laid down both statutorily and by this Court. As such, the State Commission was bound to take into consideration the Bidding Guidelines and specifically clause 5.15 thereof. 84. With regard to the contention that the power under clause 5.15 of the Bidding Guidelines can be exercised only when the bidding process is found to be not in compliance with the Bidding Guidelines and is not transparent in respect of all the bidders and not in respect of some of the bidders is concerned, in our view, the same is without substance. 85. We may in this respect refer to Section 13(2) of the General Clauses Act, which reads thus: [2024] 1 S.C.R. 951 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited & Ors.