This Court held that the ’common purpose’ is a dynamic expression as it keeps changing due to the change in requirement of the society and the passing times and therefore, once the land has been reserved for common purposes, it cannot be reverted to the proprietors for redistribution. 20. The limited enquiry that would be permissible for us in these proceedings is as to whether the said finding is a material error, manifest on the face of the , undermines its soundness or results in the miscarriage of justice or not. 21. At the cost of repetition, we reiterate that it will not be permissible for us to hear the matter as if it was an appeal arising from the JUR. V. CONSIDERATION OF THE CONSTITUTION BENCH S OF THIS COURT IN RANJIT SINGH, AJIT SINGH AND BHAGAT RAM 22. For considering the controversy, a reference to three Constitution Bench s of this Court would be necessary. 23. The first one is in the case of Ranjit Singh. In the said case, the Constitution Bench of this Court was concerned with the consolidation proceedings in which portions of land from those commonly owned by the appellants therein as proprietors, had been reserved for the village Panchayat and handed over to it for diverse purposes; whereas, other portions had been reserved either for non-proprietors or for the common purposes of the villages. In the said case, in the village Virk Kalan, 270 kanals and 13 marlas had been given to the village Panchayat for management and realization of income, even though the ownership was still shown in village papers as Shamilat Deh in the names of the proprietors; 10 kanals and 3 marlas had been reserved for abadi to be distributed among persons entitled 910 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports thereto, and 3 kanals and 7 marlas had been reserved for manure pits. Similarly, in village Sewana, certain lands were set apart for the village Panchayat for extension of the abadi and to enable grants of certain land to be made to each family of non-proprietors and certain lands had been reserved for a primary school and some more for a phirni. Similarly, in village Mehnd, land had been reserved for the village Panchayat, a school, tanning ground, hospital, cremation ground and for non-proprietors. The proprietors were not paid compensation for the lands and as such, taking away and allotment of the lands was the subject matter of challenge in those appeals in the said case. 24. The appeals before this Court were heard and closed for on 27th April 1964. The had to be postponed till after the vacation. However, before the Court could reassemble after the vacation on 20th July 1964, the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act, 1964 received the assent of the President i.e. on 20th June, 1964. Vide the said Amendment, a new sub-clause (a) in clause (2) of Article 31-A was substituted retrospectively and added a proviso to clause (1). The appeals were set down to be mentioned on July 20/23, 1964, and counsel were asked if, in view of the amendment, they wished to say anything.