Thus, the primary concern of the Board would be the revival of the sick company and to save the sick company from winding up. That is why with a view to see that there 390 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is no impediment in framing the rehabilitation scheme and to get out the sick company from sickness. Section 22 provides for suspension of legal proceedings, contracts etc. On a bare reading of Section 22 and Section 22A of SICA, it appears that these two provisions primarily ensure that the scheme prepared by BIFR does not get frustrated because of certain other legal proceedings and to prevent untimely and unwarranted disposal of the assets of the sick industrial company. These sections clearly state certain restrictions which will impact upon the implementation of the scheme as well as on the assets of the company. xxx xxx xxx 53. Keeping in mind the statement of objects and reasons for enactment of SICA, 1985 and the powers exercised by the BIFR and the primary concern to revive the sick industry for which the rehabilitation scheme is to be framed under Section 18, the question posed is required to be considered. xxx xxx xxx 56. The operating agency is defined under Section 3(i) and it means any public financial institution, State-level institution, scheduled bank or any other person as may be specified by general or special as its agency by the Board. No other persons including the unsecured creditors comes into picture like preparing the scheme under Section 18. Section 18 of the SICA does not provide that at the time of preparing of the scheme under Section 18 or when it is sanctioned by the Board, the unsecured creditors are required to be heard. The only provision for the consent required is Section 19 and the agency/ person, who is required to give the financial assistance, its consent is required. Once the rehabilitation scheme/ scheme under Section 18 prepared by the operating agency is sanctioned by the BIFR, which may include the scaling down the value of dues of the unsecured creditors, the same shall bind all, otherwise the rehabilitation scheme shall not be workable at all and the object and purpose of enactment of the SICA, 1985 will be frustrated. If some [2024] 5 S.C.R. 391 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited persons/unsecured creditors and/or even the labourers are permitted to get out of the purview of the scheme and thereafter permitting such or some of the unsecured creditors to wait till the scheme for rehabilitation of the sick company has worked itself out, in that case, the scheme shall not be workable at all. To make the company viable, the concerned persons including the unsecured creditors have to sacrifice to some extent otherwise the revival efforts shall fail. xxx xxx xxx 59. If the submission on behalf of the unsecured creditors, which has been accepted by the High Court in the case of Continental Carbon India Ltd. (supra) that an unsecured creditor can opt out of the scheme sanctioned by the BIFR under the SICA, 1985 and is allowed not to accept the scaled down value of its dues and may wait till the scheme for rehabilitation of the sick company has worked itself out, with an option to recover the debt post such rehabilitation is accepted/allowed, in that case, the minority creditors may frustrate the rehabilitation scheme, which may frustrate the object and purpose of enactment of SICA, 1985. xxx xxx xxx 61.