Kalliyanikutty (supra) rightly states that the said provision was a benefit being conferred on the tenant, we deem it necessary to refer to the other findings of this Court in KGU Trust (supra) which are of relevance for the purposes of answering the questions before us. In arriving at the conclusion [2024] 6 S.C.R. 257 K.P. Khemka & Anr. v. Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited & Ors. that the ‘entire amount of rent due’ would include even time-barred claims, the Court in KGU Trust (supra) specifically noted the decision in Bombay Dyeing (supra) and the principle that the Limitation Act only bars the remedy and does not extinguish the debt. The Court also noted Halsbury’s Laws of England where it is stated that the Limitation Act would only take away the remedy while leaving the right untouched, and that ‘if a creditor whose debt is statute-barred has any means of enforcing his claim other than by action or set-off, the Limitation Act does not prevent him from recovering by those means’. [Paragraph 4, 5 of KGU Trust (supra)] 28. Deep Chand (supra) was a case where there was a challenge to the constitutionality of Section 3 of the U.P Public Moneys (Recovery of Dues) Act, 1965. The argument was that Section 3 provided two remedies to the Government – one being a suit and another being a remedy under the Act – and that the latter remedy was more onerous and without any guidelines in law. [Paragraph 2 of Deep Chand (supra)] In upholding the Constitutionality of the U.P Act, the Court noted that the object of the U.P Act was to enable speedy recovery of money and that therefore, the classification was valid. [Para 6 of Deep Chand (supra)] 29. While it is true that the U.P Act, similar to the Haryana Revenue Recovery Act [in the present case] or the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act, was enacted with the object to have speedy recovery of dues, this does not take away from the fact that the right was vested in the Financial Corporations to recover the loans through the said Acts, notwithstanding any other right, including the right to file a suit. 30. As far as the finding in V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra) regarding Section 70(3) of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act, which provides for a suit by the debtor for refund after payment under protest, is concerned, what is to be noted is that the defence for the State Financial Corporations that the State Financial Corporations Act conferred an additional right to recover amounts due would still be applicable. Therefore, the existence of the right to the debtor under Section 70(3) of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act cannot be said to be determinative of the issue. 31. It would also be apposite to point out that the applicability of V.R. Kalliyanikutty (supra) to Section 56(2) of the Electricity Act, 2003 recently fell for consideration before a three-judge Bench of this Court 258 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in K.C.