A.A.G., S Ganesh, Arijit Prasad, Sr. Advs., Hrishikesh Baruah, Kumar Kshitij, Ms. Apoorva Jain, Uday Gupta, Ms. Shivani M. Lal, Ms. Sanam Singh, Hiren Dasan, M.K.Tripathi, Harish Dasan, Rajiv Ranjan, Ms. Yogamaya M.G., Rajeev Kumar Gupta, R. C. Kaushik, Vijaynand Tripathi, Vivasvan Gautam, Raj Bahadur Yadav, Mohan Pandey, Anil Shrivastav, Ananga Bhattacharyya, Manish Goswami, Rameshwar Prasad Goyal, Sumeet Lall, Jagjit Singh Chhabra, Mukesh Kumar Maroria, Mohd. Akhil, Ms. Ruchi Kohli, Ms. Nisha Bagchi, Shuvodeep Roy, Aastik Dhingra, Ms. Nimisha Menon, Ankit Roy, Sarthak Sharma, Raj Bahadur Yadav, Mrs. Nisha Bagchi, Shashank Bajpai, Mrs. Ruchi Kohli, Prashant Singh II, Sabarish Subramanium, B. Krishna Prasad, Ms. Ruchi Kohli, M/s. Corporate Law Group, Ms. Sangeeta Bharti, Ms. Sangeeta Bharati, Ashish Kumar, Ms. Prerna Mehta, Saurav Agrawal, Ravindra Raizada, Ms. Anmol Dhindsa, Kamlendra Mishra, Advs. for the appearing parties. / of the Supreme Court Abhay S. Oka, J. FACTUAL ASPECTS 1. This group of appeals concerns the liability to pay tax under the Assam General Sales Tax Act, 1993 (for short, ‘the Sales Tax Act’) and the Assam Value Added Tax Act, 2003 (for short, ‘the VAT Act’), 492 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports respectively. In some cases, in this group of appeals, the assessees have, under a contract, agreed to provide different categories of motor vehicles, such as trucks, trailers, tankers, buses, scrapping winch chassis, and cranes, to the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (for short, ‘ONGC’). There are other cases where Indian Oil Corporation Limited (for short, ‘IOCL’) has entered into agreements with transporters to provide tank trucks to deliver its petroleum products. 2. These cases have been clubbed together as similar questions of law and fact arise. Broadly, the question is whether, by hiring these motor vehicles/cranes, there is a transfer of the right to use any goods. If there is a transfer of the right to use the goods, it will amount to a sale in terms of Clause 29A(d) of Article 366 of the Constitution of India. In short, if the transactions do not fall in the definition of ‘Sale’ in Clause 29A(d), the same may not attract tax under the Sales Tax Act or the VAT Act. As a result, there will be other questions about whether the transactions will amount to service, thereby attracting liability to pay service tax. 3. We are referring to the facts in Civil Appeal No. 3548 of 2017 and Civil Appeal No. 383 of 2013 for convenience. The dated 25th November 2009 subject matter of challenge in Civil Appeal no.3548 of 2017 is the main . Most of the other impugned s directly or indirectly rely upon the said s. There are different impugned s and s passed on 24th July 2012, 25th November 2009, 9th December 2009, 29th June 2010 and 25th August 2010. Civil Appeal no.3548 of 2017 arises from the impugned dated 25th November 2009 passed by a Division Bench of the Gauhati High Court in a writ appeal. In this case, the agreement is of 13th April 2006, by which the appellant agreed to provide services of truck-mounted hydraulic cranes with crew, etc., to ONGC for carrying out its various operations.