159 Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation Private Limited v. Samir Narain Bhojwani (vii) to provide that the parties to dispute may at any stage agree in writing that their dispute be resolved through fast track procedure and the award in such cases shall be made within a period of six months; (viii) to provide for neutrality of arbitrators, when a person is approached in connection with possible appointment as an arbitrator; (ix) to provide that application to challenge the award is to be disposed of by the Court within one year. 7. The amendments proposed in the Bill will ensure that arbitration process becomes more user friendly, cost effective and lead to expeditious disposal of cases.” (emphasis added) The object of the Arbitration Act is to provide an arbitral procedure that is fair, efficient, and capable of meeting the needs of specific arbitration. The object is to ensure that the arbitral proceedings and proceedings filed for challenging the award are concluded expeditiously. The proceedings have to be cost-effective. The supervisory role of the Courts is very restricted. Moreover, we cannot ignore that arbitration is one of the modes of Alternative Disputes Redressal Mechanism provided in Section 89 of the CPC. If the Courts dealing with appeals under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act start routinely passing the s of remand, the arbitral procedure will cease to be efficient. It will cease to be cost-effective. Such s will delay the conclusion of the proceedings, thereby defeating the very object of the Arbitration Act. Therefore, an of remand by Section 37 Court can be made only in exceptional cases where remand is unavoidable. As observed earlier, the scope of interference in a petition under Section 34 is very narrow. The jurisdiction under Section 37 of the Arbitration Act is narrower. Looking to the objects of the Arbitration Act and the limited scope available to the Courts to interfere with the award of the Arbitral Tribunal, this Court, while dealing with the decisions under Sections 34 and 37 of the Arbitration Act, in its jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, has to be circumspect. By their own volition, the parties choose to go before the Arbitral Tribunal instead of availing remedy before the traditional civil courts. Therefore, the Courts must be very conservative 160 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports when dealing with arbitral awards and confine themselves to the grounds strictly available under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. 20. In the facts of the case, the remand was completely unwarranted. The reason is that the learned Single Judge has elaborately dealt with the merits of the challenge in the Section 34 petition. This Court should benefit from reasoned rendered by the Court under Section 37. In this case, we do not have the benefit of a decision of the Appellate Court dealing with all the issues dealt with by the learned Single Judge while deciding the petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. Therefore, it will not be appropriate for this Court to look at the arbitral award and the findings recorded by the Section 34 Court and exercise the jurisdiction of the Section 37 Court.