Where unearned increase is to be charged: (a)*** (d) In case where a private limited company/public limited company separately floating a new company although Directors may be the same and the name [2024] 4 S.C.R. 439 M/s. Jaiprakash Industries Ltd. (Presently known as M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Ltd.) v. Delhi Development Authority of old company has not changed and it still exists as it was, 50% unearned increase will be chargeable in such cases.” This clause plainly applies to the present case. The demand of unearned increase from the respondents is founded on that basis. The High Court misinterpreted the said clause and erroneously opined that it is not applicable to a case of demerger of a public limited company. 17. The principal clause is Clause 6(a) of the lease deed. The clause referred to in the instructions is equally significant. Indeed, the latter merely provides for the mechanism to recover the unearned increase from the original lessee. The fact that the same group of persons or Directors/promoters/ shareholders would be and are associated with the transferee company does not cease to be a case of transfer or exempted from payment of UEI, as envisaged in Clause 6(a) of the lease deed. Rather, Clause 2(d) of the policy, noted above, makes it expressly clear that unearned increase be charged irrespective of the fact that the Directors in both companies are common and the old (parent) company has not changed its name. 18. The fact that it was a case of transfer is reinforced from the of demerger passed by the Company Judge and once it is a case of transfer, coupled with the fact that the respondents are not covered within the categories specified in Clauses 1(a) to 1(d) of the policy of the appellant, reproduced in para 5 above, they would be liable to pay unearned increase (“UEI”) in the manner specified in Clause 6(a) of the lease deed. The obligation to pay UEI does not flow only from the instructions issued by the competent authority of the appellant but primarily from the stipulation in the perpetual lease deed in the form of Clause 6(a). Viewed thus, the Division Bench of the High Court committed a manifest error in allowing the appeal and setting aside the of the learned Single Judge, who had rightly dismissed the writ petition and upheld the demand notice and the show-cause notice calling upon the respondents to pay the unearned increase amount in 440 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports terms of Clause 6(a) of the perpetual lease deed. That demand was final and binding on the respondents, so long as the stipulation in the form of Clause 6(a) of the perpetual lease was in force.” (emphasis added) This Court was dealing with an of the Company Judge, which provided that the property of a company shall stand transferred to the respondent before this Court, and therefore, it was a case of transfer to which clause 6(a) of the lease deed will be attracted.