the difference between the premium paid and the market value) of the plot at the time of sale, transfer, assignment, or parting with the possession, the amount to be recovered being fifty percent of the unearned increased and the decision of the Lessor in respect of the market value shall be final and binding. Provided further that the Lessor shall have the pre-emptive right to purchase the property after deducting fifty per cent of the unearned increase as aforesaid.” (emphasis added) The same clause has been incorporated in all four perpetual leases with which we are concerned. Therefore, the perpetual leases put an embargo on the lessee selling, transferring, assigning or otherwise [2024] 4 S.C.R. 433 M/s. Jaiprakash Industries Ltd. (Presently known as M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Ltd.) v. Delhi Development Authority parting with the possession of the whole or any part of the commercial plots except with the previous consent of the lessor in writing. The second proviso makes it clear that the respondent-DDA, which has stepped into the shoes of the lessor, will be entitled to recover a portion of the unearned increase in the value. 7. Now, the question is whether amalgamation will amount to transferring the said plots. We have carefully perused the dated 30th July 1986 of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad sanctioning the scheme of amalgamation. In the said scheme, M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Private Ltd (the erstwhile company) was shown as the ‘transferor company’ and M/s. Jaypee Rewa Cement Ltd was shown as the ‘transferee company’. Clauses (1) and (2) of the operative part of the dated 30th July 1986 read thus: “.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1. That all the properties, rights and powers of the Transferor Company specified in the first, second and third parts of the Schedule II hereto and all other properties, rights and powers of the Transferor Company be transferred without further act or deed to the transferee company and accordingly the same shall pursuant to section 394(2) of the Companies Act, 1956 be transferred to and vest in the Transferee Company for all the estate and interest of the Transferor Company therein but subject, nevertheless to all charges now affecting the same; and 2. That all the liabilities and duties of the Transferor Company be transferred without further act or deed to the Transferee company and accordingly the same shall pursuant to section 394(2) of the Companies Act, 1956 be transferred to and become the liabilities and duties of the transferee company, and .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..” (emphasis added) 8. The said plots are a part of the Schedule of the properties referred to in clause (1). Thus, there is a specific clause in the of amalgamation which holds that the said plots stand transferred from 434 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the original permanent lessee to the transferee M/s.