Digital Supreme Court Reports nutrition. The Central Government after consultation with the State Governments, has also framed the Rules called Cash Transfer of Food Subsidy Rules 2015, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub section 2 of Section 39 read with clause (h) of sub section 2 of Section 12 of the NFSA. Under the said Rules, the State Governments have been enabled to implement the scheme with the approval of the Central Government to provide food subsidy in cash directly into the bank accounts of entitled households to purchase the entitled quantity of food grains from the open market. Significantly, Chapter VI under the Head “Women Empowerment” has been incorporated which provides that the eldest woman who is not less than 18 years of age in every eligible household, shall be head of the household for the purpose of issue of ration cards. The Grievance Redressal Mechanism at the District and the State level has also been provided for expeditious and effective redressal of grievances of the aggrieved persons in the matters relating to distribution of entitled food grains or meals under Chapter II and to enforce entitlements under the Act. 7. Thus, there being a systematic legal framework provided under the NFSA for the implementation of the schemes and programmes like Targeted Public Distribution System, Mid-day Meal Scheme, Integrated Child Development Services and Maternity Cash Entitlement along with a Monitoring Mechanism and a Grievance Redressal Mechanism, and the States/UTs having also implemented various other schemes and programmes under the said Act, we do not propose to direct the States/UTs to implement the concept of Community Kitchens as prayed for by the petitioners in the instant petition. 8. It is well settled that the scope of judicial review in examining the policy matters is very limited. The Courts do not and cannot examine the correctness, suitability or appropriateness of a policy, nor are the courts advisors to the executive on the matters of policy which the executive is entitled to formulate. The Courts cannot direct the States to implement a particular policy or scheme on the ground that a better, fairer or wiser alternative is available. Legality of the policy, and not the wisdom or soundness of the policy, would be the subject of judicial review.1 1 Directorate of Film Festivals and Others vs. Gaurav Ashwin Jain and Others, (2007) 4 SCC 737 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 819 Anun Dhawan & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. 9. As elaborated earlier, when the NFSA with a ‘right based approach’ for providing food and nutritional security, is in force and when other welfare schemes under the said Act have also been framed and implemented by the Union of India and the States, to ensure access to adequate quantity of quality food at affordable prices to people to live a life with dignity, we do not propose to give any further direction in that regard. We have not examined whether the concept of Community Kitchens is a better or wiser alternative available to the States to achieve the object of NFSA, rather we would prefer to leave it open to the States/UTs to explore such alternative welfare schemes as may be permissible under the NFSA.