The van met with an accident before the 1994 amendments to the MV Act, when there was no separate class for “transport vehicle.” The Court ruled that since the accident occurred before the amendment, the driver’s LMV license was valid for the transport vehicle, and the insurance company was liable to pay compensation. However, the Court held that post-amendment, a separate endorsement for driving transport vehicles is required. We are disinclined to accept such a view as we have already discussed in our earlier that both before and after the 1994 amendment, the enhanced requirements for ‘Transport Vehicles’ applied primarily for medium and heavy vehicles, particularly following the 1994 amendment. We have also discussed the unworkability of the broad class of ‘Transport Vehicles’ and the inconsistency this creates with the other provisions of the MV Act and MV Rules, if such an interpretation is adopted. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 619 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. 93. In New India Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Roshanben Rahemansha Fakir40 (for short “Roshanben Rahemansha Fakir), the case involved an autorickshaw, classified as a three-wheeled transport vehicle, used for goods delivery. In this case, insurance company resisted the accident claim and argued that the driver did not have a valid driving licence for a ‘transport vehicle’. The Supreme Court however reversed the decision of the Gujarat High Court and the MACT and noted that under Section 14(2)(a) of the MV Act, the renewal period for Transport Vehicle licences is three years, compared to twenty years for other vehicle categories. Based on this reasoning, the Court held that the driver was not authorised to drive the autorickshaw as he lacked the appropriate endorsement on his LMV License. 93.1. The above faulty conclusion was reached primarily because the Court failed to take into account Section 2(21), which defines a Light Motor Vehicle (LMV). Since an autorickshaw falls within the weight limit of an LMV, the driver’s LMV licence should have been deemed sufficient. The presumption on account of the validity of license for 20 years could be relevant only for such vehicles which are covered within Medium or Heavy categories. 94. In Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Angad Kol41(for short “Angad Kol”), the legal heirs of the deceased victim filed claim before the MACT, alleging that the deceased was fatally injured by a mini door auto (a goods carriage vehicle) on 31.10.2004 while she was standing at a location known as ‘Hardi Turning’. The Insurance Company resisted the claim by contending that the driver did not possess a valid and effective licence to operate the vehicle. The Tribunal allowed the claim and directed the payment of Rs. 1,83,000/- holding that the driver’s Light Motor Vehicle (LMV) licence was sufficient. This view was upheld by the High Court. 94.1. Setting aside the above decisions favouring the claim, a two-judge bench of this Court held that the holder of a LMV license must also obtain a separate endorsement for a transport vehicle. It noted that the definition of LMV under Section 2(21) of MV Act would bring within its umbrage a Transport Vehicle but a distinction exists between the two as per Section 3 which 40 [2008] 8 SCR 328 : (2008) 8 SCC 253 41 [2009] 2 SCR 695 : (2009) 11 SCC 356 620 [2024] 11 S.C.R.