A reply to a counterclaim is generally necessary; but under some code provisions no reply or replication is required in any case. (para 185 b. (1)) The discretion which the court possesses, under some codes or practice acts, to direct the plaintiff, on the defendant’s application, to reply to new matter alleged as a defence by way of avoidance will be exercised in favour of granting the application where the new matter, if true, will constitute a defence to the action and granting the will prevent surprise and be of substantial advantage to the defendant without prejudice to the plaintiff. (para 185 b. (ii)) A replication, however, is unknown in the practice of a few states and in some states is not permitted. So too, under a statute providing that there shall be no reply except in enumerated situations, a reply is not permissible in a case not within one of the exceptions. Indeed, generally, 62 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in jurisdictions wherein pleading is governed by statutory provisions, plaintiff has no right to file a reply when a reply is not required by statute or of court and a reply filed in a case where no reply is required is to be treated as a nullity, unless, and to the extent that, it constitutes an admission by plaintiff, as discussed infra para 204. Under the common law system of pleading, plaintiff may, at his election, file a replication to a special plea setting up an affirmative defence. On the other hand, it is proper to reject a replication to pleas which merely traverse allegations of the declaration and set up no new matter. Where the plea concludes to the contrary, plaintiff cannot reply with any new matter but must either accept it by a similiter or demur. So a good special traverse can be answered only by joining issue thereon and not by filing a replication. (para 191). 13. Decided cases in India use the term rejoinder loosely for a reply or replication filed by the plaintiff in answer to the defendant’s plea. Strictly speaking a reply filed by the plaintiff (when permissible) is a replication. A pleading filed by the defendant subsequent to replication is a rejoinder. 14. A replication is not to be permitted to be filed ordinarily, much less in routine. A replication is permissible only in three situations: (1) when required by law; (2) when a counter-claim is raised by the defendant; (3) when the court directs or permits a replication being filed. The court may direct filing of a replication when the court having scrutinised the plaint and the written statement feels the necessity of asking the plaintiff to join specific pleadings to a case specifically and newly raised by the defendant in the written statement. The plaintiff may also feel the necessity of joining additional pleading to put forth his positive case in reply to the defendant’s case but he shall have to seek the leave of the court by presenting the proposed replication along with an application seeking [2024] 6 S.C.R.