After deciding the question of suppression of facts, the High Court shall proceed to dispose of the cases on merits, in terms of our dictum in these batch of cases. 71. In this regard, the Hon’ble Chief Justice of the High Court of Delhi is requested to constitute a dedicated bench to decide these writ 49 SLP(C) Diary No. 17623/2021. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1261 Delhi Development Authority v. Tejpal & Ors. petitions in the manner indicated hereafter. The nominated bench will accord an opportunity to the landowners/subsequent purchasers and the appellants herein to submit additional documents on affidavits whereupon such bench shall embark on an exercise to decide who between the landowner(s) and the subsequent purchaser(s) is the rightful claimant to receive compensation. The nominated bench will have the authority to obtain independent fact-finding enquiry reports, if deemed necessary. The inquiry could include determination as to whether after the notification under Section 4(1) of the 1894 Act, any transfer could have been effected and if so, whether such transfer is permitted by law. Once compensation is determined, the relevant authority in the land acquisition department shall deposit the same with the Reference Court. The Reference Court shall then invest the deposited amount in a short-term interest-bearing fixed deposit account with a nationalized bank, ensuring its periodical renewal until the relevant writ petition is disposed of by the nominated bench. Release of the invested amount together with the accrued interest to the rightful claimant will be contingent upon the decision of the High Court. 72. Lastly, we find that there are some cases which are included in ‘List-E.3’ where the appellants not only failed to take possession of the acquired land but also did not pay any compensation. Consequently, the appellants cannot seek protection under Manoharlal (supra). At the same time, we are of the considered view that it would not subserve any public interest at large, given the unique situation at hand, if the government were to be required to fulfill all the conditions for a fresh acquisition under the 2013 Act. As analyzed before under the Head: Public interest and justice of this , substantial harm would ensue towards the public at large if the acquisition proceedings are not concluded promptly. 73. To prevent such an outcome and after considering the unique facts and circumstances of this batch of cases, we deem it fit to exercise our powers under Article 142 of the Constitution in the interests of doing complete justice. We accordingly issue the following directions for all the cases mentioned in ‘List-E.3’: (a) The time limit for initiation of fresh acquisition proceedings in terms of the provisions contained in section 24(2) of the 2013 Act is extended by a year starting from 01st August, 2024 1262 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports whereupon compensation to the affected landowners may be paid in accordance with law, failing which consequences, also as per law, shall follow; (b) The parties shall maintain status quo regarding possession, change of land use, and creation of third-party rights till fresh acquisition proceedings, as directed above, are completed; (c) Since the respondent land-owners are not primarily dependent upon the subject lands as their source of sustenance and most of these lands were/are under use for other than agricultural purposes, we deem it appropriate to invoke our powers under Article 142 of the Constitution and dispense with the compliance of Chapters II and III of the 2013 Act, whereunder it is essential to prepare a Social Impact Assessment Study Report and/or to develop alternative multi-crop irrigated agricultural land.