14 on the Right to the Highest Attainable Standard of Health, UN Doc. E/C.12/2000/4, para. 12, 2000; European [2024] 11 S.C.R. 973 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. Economic and Social Committee. (2014). Opinion on accessibility as a human right for persons with disabilities; Michael Oliver, ‘If I had a Hammer’, in Implementing the Social Model of Disability: Theory and Research, ed. Colin Barnes and Geof Mercer (Leeds: The Disability Press 2004), 18–31; Anna Lawson, ‘Reasonable Accommodation in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Non-Discrimination in Employment: Rising to the Challenges?’, in Disability Law and Policy: An Analysis of the UN Convention, ed. Charles O’Mahony and Gerard Quinn (Dublin: Clarus Press, 2017), 366; Anna Lawson, ‘Reasonable Accommodation and Accessibility Obligations: Towards a More Unified European Approach?’, European Anti-Discrimination Law Review 11 (2011): 11–21; Roma Bhagat and Associates-Accessibility of Courts in India; Rajesh Deoli - The Court System Accessibility and Echoes from the Mountains Districts of Uttarakhand; Mission Accessibility - Addressing the need for Accessibility for Persons with Disabilities along with Access to Justice Checklist; Murali Karnam- Access to Prisons; ASTHA -Present but Forgotten: CDS Report on Access to Education of Children with Disabilities in Government Schools in India; Enable India-Accessibility of Employment and Allied Areas of Persons with Disabilities; Dr.Suman Kalani, SVKM's Pravin Gandhi College of Law-A study of Lego/ Framework and its Implementation About Accessibility of Public Buildings in Mumbai; Abhishek Annica -Accessibility and sexual rights; Doctors With Disabilities: Agents of Change (DwDAoC)- Focussed group Discussion Access to health:Stories from Health Professionals with Disabilities; Vidya Sagar -1)Accessibility Audit Survey for sports facilities in India 2) Accessibility of sports facilities in Chennai; Right of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017; Rights of Persons with Disabilities (Amendment) Rules, 2023; Rights of Persons with Disabilities (Amendment) Rules, 2024; Disability Rights Alliance -Accessibility in Elections-2024. List of Websites https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/GA/TXT/?uri= CELEX:52013IE3000 List of Acts Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016; Right of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017; Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995. 974 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports List of Keywords Disability; Persons with disabilities (PWDs); Access to public spaces for persons with disabilities;Accessibility; Right to Accessibility; Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR); International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; Inadequate accessibility measures; Centre for Disability Studies, NALSAR University of Law; Human rights; Disable people; Reasonable Accommodation; United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; International Principles and Guidelines on Access to Justice for Persons with Disabilities; Visually challenged persons; World Health Organization; World Bank; European Economic and Social Committee; Accessibility Jurisprudence; International Jurisprudence; Indian Jurisprudence; European Court of Human Rights; Inclusion of accessibility within the fundamental rights framework; Inclusion and equality for PWDs; Universal or inclusive design; Accessibility guidelines; Visual impairments; Hearing and speech impairments; Locomotor disabilities; Neuro developmental diss and learning disabilities; Acid attack survivors; Right to Health; Guidelines recommendatory; Mandatory rules; Non-negotiable rules. Case Arising From CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition (Civil) No.