It has further been held that where a contract between the parties provides that the execution or performance of that contract shall be in terms of another contract (which contains the terms and conditions relating to performance and a provision for settlement of disputes by arbitration), then, the terms of the referred contract 820 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in regard to execution/performance alone will apply, and not the arbitration agreement in the referred contract, unless there is special reference to the arbitration clause also. 11. This Court further held that where the contract provides that the standard form of terms and conditions of an independent trade or professional institution will bind them or apply to the contract, such standard form of terms and conditions including any provision for arbitration in such standard terms and conditions, shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference. It has been held that sometimes the contract may also say that the parties are familiar with those terms and conditions or that the parties have read and understood the said terms and conditions. It has also been held that where the contract between the parties stipulates that the conditions of contract of one of the parties to the contract shall form a part of their contract, the arbitration clause forming part of such general conditions of contract will apply to the contract between the parties. 12. A perusal of sub-section (5) of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act itself would reveal that it provides for a conscious acceptance of the arbitration clause from another document, by the parties, as a part of their contract, before such arbitration clause could be read as a part of the contract between the parties. 13. It is thus clear that a reference to the document in the contract should be such that shows the intention to incorporate the arbitration clause contained in the document into the contract. 14. The law laid down in the case of M.R. Engineers and Contractors Private Limited (supra) has been followed by this Court in the cases of Duro Felguera, S.A. vs Gangavaram Port Limited2 and Elite Engineering and Construction (Hyderabad) Private Limited represented by its Managing Director vs Techtrans Construction India Private Limited represented by its Managing Director3. 15. No doubt that this Court in the case of Inox Wind Limited vs Thermocables Limited4 has distinguished the law laid down in the 2 [2017] 10 SCR 285 : (2017) 9 SCC 729 3 [2018] 4 SCR 585 : (2018) 4 SCC 281 4 [2018] 1 SCR 86 : (2018) 2 SCC 519 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 821 NBCC (India) Limited v. Zillion Infraprojects Pvt. Ltd. case of M.R. Engineers and Contractors Private Limited (supra). In the said case (i.e. Inox Wind Limited), this Court has held that though general reference to an earlier contract is not sufficient for incorporation of an arbitration clause in the later contract, a general reference to a standard form would be enough for incorporation of the arbitration clause.