The Income Tax Act attributes much importance to the certificate of audit by the Chartered Accountant and therefore, it is in public interest also to introduce certain restrictions on the volume of work lest it would affect professional standards apart from affecting the professional status. We are in complete agreement with the aforesaid observations. In our view, the comparison made between Chartered Accountants and Advocates by the petitioners is also inappropriate. 35. It is also noted that under Section 224 of the Companies Act, 1956 which deals with appointment and remuneration of auditors, there is a bar with regard to appointment or reappointment of any person as an auditor of a company, if such person or firm of auditors is, at the date of such appointment or reappointment, holding appointment as auditor of specified number of companies or more than the specified number of companies. Explanation (1) to Section 224 defines specified number to mean (a) in the case of a person or firm holding appointment as auditor of a number of companies each of which has paid-up share capital of less than rupees twenty-five lakh, twenty such companies; and (b) in any other case, twenty companies, out of which not more than ten shall be companies each of which has paid-up 856 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports share capital of rupees twenty-five lakh or more. Explanation-II states that in computing the specified number, the number of companies in respect of which or any part of which any person or firm has been appointed as an auditor, whether singly or in combination with any other person or firm, shall be taken into account. 36. The restriction placed under Section 224 of the Companies Act, 1956 with regard to the number of companies which could be audited by an auditor or firm of auditors is also an instance of regulation of the profession of Chartered Accountants intended by the Parliament so as to ensure that standard and quality in the audit of accounts of companies as defined under Section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956 are maintained. This is to protect the rights and interest of the shareholders as well as the investors in the companies. Any omission or inadvertence in the auditing of such company accounts would inevitably have an adverse impact not only on the balance- sheets of the companies but also on the potential investments and growth of the companies. There has not been any challenge to the said regulation which is in the form of a restriction. Any breach of the restriction placed on the Chartered Accountants under Section 224 may lead to misconduct under the provision of 1949 Act. 37. It is for the foregoing reasons that we find that questions (i), (ii) and (iii) ought to be held in favour of the respondent-Institute. Re: Point No.4: Whether exceeding such specified number of tax audits can be deemed to be ‘professional misconduct’? 38. During the course of submissions, an alternative plea raised by learned senior counsel and learned counsel for the petitioners was that the respondent-Institute initiated disciplinary proceedings only against a few Chartered Accountants, including petitioners herein, while a majority of the Chartered Accountants who had breached the Guideline are not facing any disciplinary proceeding and have not been proceeded against.