461 Nabha Power Limited & Anr. v. Punjab State Power Coroporation Limited & Anr. (c) a hydel power plant of a capacity of 350MW or more, located in the States of Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura; or (d) a hydel power plant of a capacity of 500MW or more, located in States other than those specified in clause (c) above”: (ii) after S.No. 400 and the entries relating thereto, the following S.No. and entries shall be inserted, namely :- 1 2 3 4 5 6 400A. 9801 Goods required for the 2.5% Nil 86 expansion of any existing Mega Power Project so certified by an officer not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Power. Explanation: for the purposes of this exemption, Mega Power project means a project as defined in S. No. 400 above. B. in the Annexure, in Condition No. 86, for sub-clause (ii) of clause (a), the following shall be substituted namely: (ii) the power purchasing states shall undertake to carry out distribution reforms as laid down by Ministry of Power.” (Emphasis supplied) 12. It will be noticed that entry 400 from the notification of 2002 was substituted and in the substituted clause there is no reference to the thermal plant being an inter-State thermal plant. Mega Power Policy of 14.12.2009 13. Close on the heels, on 14.12.2009, the Government of India and the Ministry of Power issued an office memorandum under the subject “revised Mega Power Policy”, which reads as under:- 462 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “No. A-118/2003-IPC Government of India Ministry of Power Shram Shakti Bhavan, New Delhi Dated 14th December, 2009 OFFICE MEMORANDUM Subject : Revised mega power project policy. Policy guidelines for setting up of mega power projects were last revised and issued vide this Ministry’s letter of even number dated 2nd August, 2006. The Government of India has modified the Mega Power Policy to smoothen the Procedures further. The modified Mega Power Policy is as follows: (i) The power projects with the following threshold capacity shall be eligible for the benefit of mega power policy: (a) A thermal power plant of capacity 1000 MW or more; or (b) A thermal power plant of capacity of 700MW or more, located in the States of J & K, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura; or (c) A hydel power plant of capacity of 500 MW or more; or (d) A hydel power plant of a capacity of 350 MW or more, located in the States of J&K, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura; (e) Government has decided to extend mega policy benefits to brownfield (expansion) projects also. In case of the brownfield (expansion) phase of the existing mega project, size of the expansion units would not be not less than that provided in the earlier phase of the project granted mega power project certificate. (ii) Mandatory condition of Inter-State sale of power for getting mega power status has been removed.