133. The Resolution Plan, under Clause 6.4.2 deals with the “Treatment of Employees/Workmen dues, including dues of the Authorized Representatives of Employees/Workmen”. Clause 6.4.2(a) provides for a fixed sum of Rs. 52 Crore to be paid to the workmen and employees towards settlement of all their claims. Clause 6.4.2(b) states that this payment shall be made out of the funds infused by the SRA in the Corporate Debtor, in priority to the payment to the financial creditors and as per the Implementation Schedule set out in Clause 7.7 i.e., within 175 days from the Effective Date. Clause 6.4.2(c) provides that if the Liquidation Value due to the workmen and employees is not “nil”, then the SRA would pay such a Liquidation Value. If this Liquidation Value is over and above the amount proposed to be paid under the Resolution Plan, then such additional amounts shall be first paid out of the positive bank balance of the Corporate Debtor as on the Effective Date and the remaining amounts shall be paid out of the amounts reserved for other creditors on a pro rata basis, subject to a maximum of Rs. 475 Crore. 134. The dated 21.10.2022 of the NCLAT dealt with the entitlements of the workmen and employees to several payments and made the following observations: 2142 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports “71. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we arrive at following conclusions: (i) The workmen and employees are entitled for payment of full amount of provident fund and gratuity till the date of commencement of the insolvency which amount is to be paid by the Successful Resolution Applicant consequent to approval of the Resolution Plan in addition to the 24 months workmen dues as the workmen is entitled to under Section 53(1)(b) of the Code. It is made clear that in addition to part amount of provident fund and gratuity as proposed in Resolution Plan to workmen, Successful Resolution Applicant is obliged to make payment of balance unpaid amount of provident fund and gratuity to workmen and employees. 72. Our answer to Question II and III is as follows: (i) The workmen and employees are entitled to receive the amount of provident fund and gratuity in full since they are not part of the liquidation estate under Section 36(4)(b)(iii). (ii) The workmen are entitled to receive their dues from the Corporate Debtor for period of 24 months as per provision of Section 53(1)(b) at least to minimum liquidation value envisaged under Section 32(2)(b) read with Section 53(1). 80. As observed above, in admitted claim of workmen provident fund, gratuity and leave encashment was included, and payment proposed in plan partly satisfy above dues also. The workmen are entitled to full payment of provident fund and gratuity, hence, the balance of above dues are to be paid by the Successful Resolution Applicant, to satisfy statutory obligations. Non-payment of full provident fund and gratuity shall lead to violation of Section 30(2)(e), hence, to save the plan the above payments have to be made.