These plaint averments were countered in an extremely dull even unimaginative manner in the written statements of the defendants. Nevertheless, the defendants opposed the plaint averments, contending that though the gift was for services rendered, there was no condition for the gift to revert to the donor upon the death of the donees. Even otherwise, they contended that the plaintiffs have no cause of action as the terms of the gift are being complied with and the defendants have been rendering “all kind of services”, to the plaintiffs! It was also asserted that records relating to possession and ownership of the suit land have been mutated in their favour since 1953 and that the suit is hopelessly barred by limitation. 3. The Trial Court, after hearing the parties, concluded that what was crucial was that the subject matter of the gift was only a life interest in suit land and since the services have been stopped, the land was liable to be reverted in favour of the plaintiffs. Consequently, the suit was held to be within time and as the plaintiffs’ title was proved, the suit was decreed. The First Appellate Court agreed with these findings and dismissed the defendant’s appeal! The High Court though allowed the defendant’s second appeal and dismissed the suit, largely on the ground of limitation, though it was, inter alia, also observed that nowhere in the mutation dated 13.12.1953 is it mentioned that the donees had to serve the heirs of the donor as well and it could be presumed that proper services were rendered to the donor during his lifetime. Further, the plaintiffs failed to disclose what these “services” were and when exactly they were stopped. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 697 Smt. Naresh Kumari & Ors. v. Smt. Chameli & Ors. Apart from making a bald statement in the plaint that the defendants have stopped rendering services, there is no worthwhile evidence placed by the plaintiffs before the Trial Court. On the contrary, evidence has been placed by the defendants in form of DW-1 who has stated that after the death of the donor-Randhir Singh, his children had left the village and nobody from the family of the donor remained in the village and therefore there was no one who could be served. This evidence, however, has not been considered either by the Trial Court or by the First Appellate Court and no reason has been assigned as to why this was done. 4. At the centre of this dispute lies the oral gift, which came to be recorded in the mutation dated 13.12.1953. The same, as translated to English, is reproduced below: In a general meeting Rai Bahadur Randhir Singh donor along with identifier Neki Ram Lambardar who appeared and made a statement that he has gifted the land measuring 38 Bigha 8 Biswas in lieu of services till life to Sanwalia etc. and delivered the possession to them. if donees refused to render the services in that case the land shall revert to the donor or to his heirs.