The whole purpose of communicating the “ground” to the detenu is to enable him to make a purposeful and effective representation. If the “grounds” are only verbally explained to the detenu and nothing in writing is left with him, in a language which he understands, then that purpose is not served, and the constitutional mandate in Article 22(5) is infringed. If any authority is needed on this point, which is so obvious from Article 22(5), reference may be made to the decisions of this Court in Harikisan v. State of Maharashtra [1962 Supp 2 SCR 918 : AIR 1962 SC 911 : (1962) 1 Cri LJ 797] and Hadibandhu Das v. District Magistrate [(1969) 1 SCR 227 : AIR 1969 SC 43 : 1969 Cri LJ 274].” (emphasis supplied) ● State of Bombay v. Atma Ram Shridhar Vaidya, AIR 1951 SC 157 “10….The question has to be approached from another point of view also. As mentioned above, the object of furnishing grounds for the of detention is to enable the detenu to make a representation i.e. to give him an opportunity to put forth his objections against the of detention. Moreover, “the earliest opportunity” has to be given to him to do that. While the grounds of detention are thus the main factors on which the subjective decision of the Government is based, other materials on which the conclusions in the grounds are founded could and should equally be conveyed to the detained person to enable him to make out his objections against the . To put it [2024] 1 S.C.R. 275 Sarfaraz Alam V. Union of India & Ors. in other words, the detaining authority has made its decision and passed its . The detained person is then given an opportunity to urge his objections which in cases of preventive detention comes always at a later stage. The grounds may have been considered sufficient by the Government to pass its . But to enable the detained person to make his representation against the , further details may be furnished to him. In our opinion, this appears to be the true measure of the procedural rights of the detained person under Art. 22(5). ××× ××× ××× 12…The conferment of the right to make a representation necessarily carries with it the obligation on the part of the detaining authority to furnish the grounds i.e., materials on which the detention was made. In our opinion, it is therefore clear that while there is a connection between the obligation on the part of the detaining authority to furnish grounds and the right given to the detained person to have an earliest opportunity to make the representation, the test to be applied in respect of the contents of the grounds for the two purposes is quite different. As already pointed out, for the first, the test is whether it is sufficient to satisfy the authority. For the second, the test is, whether it is sufficient to enable the detained person to make the representation at the earliest opportunity.