25. A comprehensive reference to the Sections 118, 139 and 140 of the NI Act 1881 gives birth to a deemed fiction which was also articulated by this Court in K.N. Beena v. Muniyappan and Another 9 as follows: “Under section 118, unless the contrary was proved, it is to be presumed that the negotiable instrument (including a cheque) had been made or drawn for consideration. Under section 139 the court has to presume, unless the contrary was proved, that the holder of the cheque received the cheque for discharge, in whole or in part, of a debt or liability. Thus, in complaints under section 138, the court has to presume that the cheque had been issued for a debtor’s liability. This presumption is rebuttable. However, the burden of proving that a cheque had not been issued for a debt or liability is on the accused. The Supreme Court in the case of Hiten P. Dalal v. Bratindranath Banerjee has also taken an identical view.” 9 [2001] Supp. 4 SCR 374 : (2001) 8 SCC 458. 136 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 26. Furthermore, on the aspect of adducing evidence for rebuttal of the aforesaid statutory presumption, it is pertinent to cumulatively read the decisions of this Court in Rangappa (supra) and Rajesh Jain (supra) which would go on to clarify that accused can undoubtedly place reliance on the materials adduced by the complainant, which would include not only the complainant’s version in the original complaint, but also the case in the legal or demand notice, complainant’s case at the trial, as also the plea of the accused in the reply notice, his Section 313 CrPC 1973 statement or at the trial as to the circumstances under which the promissory note or cheque was executed. The accused ought not to adduce any further or new evidence from his end in said circumstances to rebut the concerned statutory presumption. 27. Applying the aforementioned legal position to the present factual matrix, it is apparent that there existed a contradiction in the complaint moved by the Appellant as against his cross-examination relatable to the time of presentation of the cheque by the Respondent as per the statements of the Appellant. This is to the effect that while the Appellant claimed the cheque to have been issued at the time of advancing of the loan as a security, however, as per his statement during the cross-examination it was revealed that the same was presented when an alleged demand for repayment of alleged loan amount was raised before the Respondent, after a period of six months of advancement. Furthermore, there was no financial capacity or acknowledgement in his Income Tax Returns by the Appellant to the effect of having advanced a loan to the Respondent. Even further the Appellant has not been able to showcase as to when the said loan was advanced in favour of the Respondent nor has he been able to explain as to how a cheque issued by the Respondent allegedly in favour of Mr Mallikarjun landed in the hands of the instant holder, that is, the Appellant.