it must be necessary to decide this conflict in to give the plaintiff the relief he claims; and (3.) the question between the defendants must have been finally decided.” 22. In State of Gujarat and others v. M.P. Shah Charitable Trust and others,15 a Bench comprising two Hon’ble Judges ruled that the principle of res judicata applies only when there has been a directly and substantially disputed issue between the parties, which the court has heard and conclusively resolved. The relevant extract of the decision is extracted hereunder: “17. […] For attracting the rule of res judicata between co-defendants — according to the terms in Section 11 of the Civil Procedure Code which provision of course is not, in terms, applicable to proceedings in a writ petition — it is necessary that there should have been some issue directly and substantially in controversy between them which has been heard and finally decided by the court. Same would be the position, where a plea of res judicata is sought to be raised between co-respondents in a writ petition, on the general principles of res judicata. Since the said basic requirement is not satisfied, the said cannot be treated as res judicata between the trust and the Government. (underlining ours, for emphasis) 14 AIR 1931 PC 114 15 [1994] 3 SCR 163 : (1994) 3 SCC 552 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1183 Government of NCT of Delhi & Anr. v. M/s BSK Realtors LLP & Anr. 23. In the lead matter before us or for that matter the other appeals, the co-respondents before the High Court, namely, GNCTD and DDA did not have conflicting interests. Inter se them, neither was there any disputed issue, nor could have the High Court possibly adjudicated on any such issue. Before this Court too, in the first round, there was no issue on which GNCTD and DDA were at loggerheads. In the light of this, in accordance with the aforementioned legal principle, the applicability of res judicata is negated. 24. A brief review of the ruling in Mathura Prasad Bajoo Jaiswal and others v. Dossibai N.B. Jeejeebhoy16 will also guide us to the resolution of the second issue on the applicability of res judicata. In the said decision, the first-instance court and the High Court rejected an application seeking fixation of standard rent, holding that the provisions of the Rent Act did not extend to open land, relying upon an earlier decision. However, this Court later overturned the said decision, affirming the applicability of the Rent Act to open land as well. When A filed a fresh application, B opposed it, claiming it was barred by res judicata. Dismissing this argument and affirming the application’s viability, a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court observed thus: “5. But the doctrine of res judicata belongs to the domain of procedure: it cannot be exalted to the status of a legislative direction between the parties so as to determine the question relating to the interpretation of enactment affecting the jurisdiction of a Court finally between them, even though no question of fact or mixed question of law and fact and relating to the right in dispute between the parties has been determined thereby.