The matter was taken in appeal before this Court and was ultimately referred to a Bench of Seven Judges. All Seven Judges allowed the appeal and upheld the constitutional validity of the Karnataka Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Act, 1976, thereby setting aside the of the High Court. All the same, the majority of the Judges i.e. Four out of the Seven Judges upheld the validity of the law by their reading through a harmonious construction of the Act, and did not go into the aspect of Article 39 (b) or (c), as well as Article 31-C of the Constitution of India. This was dealt only in the minority of Justice Krishna Iyer (minority comprising Three Judges). At this juncture, we may also note that the very purpose of the Act, the Constitutional validity of which was challenged before the Supreme Court, was to implement the policy of the State as mandated under 52 From the Statement of Objects and Reasons of Act 21 of 1976 — A large number of contract carriages were being operated in the State to the detriment of public interest and were functioning stealthily as stage carriages. This had to be prevented. Article 39(b) and (c) enjoins upon the State to see that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good and that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth to the common detriment. In view of the aforesaid it was considered necessary to acquire the contract carriages run by private operators. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 295 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Article 39(b) & (c) of the Constitution of India. It was also the main argument on behalf of the State Government/the appellant to justify the acquisition under the Directive Principles of State Policies stated above. Nevertheless, it is true that the majority of Four Judges, although upheld the validity of the law and thereby had set aside the of the Karnataka High Court, did so on the basis of harmonious reading of the law. This is what they said: “37... Since we have upheld the constitutional validity of the Act on merits by repelling the attack on it by a reasonable and harmonious construction of the Act, we do not consider it necessary to express any opinion with reference to Article 31-C read with clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution. Our learned Brother Krishna Iyer, J. has prepared a separate specially dealing with this point. We must not be understood to agree with all that he has said in his in this regard”.53 The minority Three Judges concurred with the view of the majority Four Judges, but gave a separate opinion along with reasons as to why a separate opinion is necessary, which has already been referred above. The minority of Three Judges upheld the validity of the Karnataka Act, primarily, on the touchstone of Articles 31-C and 39(b) & (c) of the Constitution of India.