(c) her husband had advised her not to visit the deceased in the night. It had been specifically suggested to her that she was falsely deposing and that the appellant was being falsely implicated on account of him having strained relations with PW-4, the husband of PW3. 20. In the cross examination of PW-3 on behalf of Rani Kaur, it was elicited that PW-3 had personally witnessed the appellant and Rani Kaur putting poison in the mouth of the deceased. This, according to PW-3, was seen by her through the chinks of the door. 21. PW-4 has stated that he met the appellant and Rani Kaur on his way home, while he was returning from work around 7.00 PM on 18.05.99. He stated that both of them went to the appellant’s house. He informed his wife that it would not be appropriate to visit their house at this time since there was a possibility of a quarrel arising between Amrik Kaur and her husband, the appellant, since he had brought Rani Kaur home. Instead, he asked her to go and visit her sister on the next morning. In the morning, around 5.30 am, his wife left to visit her sister at the appellant’s house after serving tea to him and his children. On having received a message from his wife, he set about to reach the appellant’s house and found Amrik Kaur lying dead and his wife, weeping and wailing. 22. Similarly, in the cross examination of PW-4, it has been brought on record that PW-4 had omitted to state the following aspects in his statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. before the police – (a) that PW-4 had seen the appellant and Rani Kaur entering the house of the appellant in a jeep; (b) PW-4 had told PW-3 not to visit the appellant’s house since they were intoxicated [2024] 1 S.C.R. 261 DARSHAN SINGH v. STATE OF PUNJAB and there was a strong possibility of some dispute arising. (c) PW-4’s statement that PW-3 had left for the appellant’s house at 5.00 am in the morning on 19.05.99 after serving him tea. It has been specifically suggested to this witness that he had strained relations with the appellant, and owing to this fact, he has falsely implicated the appellant. It was further suggested that on account of the quarrel that occurred in the night on 18.05.99, the deceased had committed suicide by taking poison. 23. PW 5 is an independent witness having no relationship with any of the persons involved, either as an accused or as witnesses, in this incident. He stated that on the morning of 19.05.99, at about 6.00 am, he had gone to answer the call of nature. At that time, he states that he saw the appellant and Rani Kaur were going in a jeep to Hiro Kalan and that jeep was covered with black cloth. He then returned to the bus stop and found a lot of persons having gathered and there, he heard the news that the appellant had murdered his wife.