Section 22 of the UGC Act pertains to the right to confer degrees and reads as follows: “22. Right to confer degrees – (1) The right of conferring or granting degrees shall be exercised only by a University established or incorporated by or under a Central Act, a Provincial Act or a State Act or an institution deemed to be a University under section 3 or an institution specially empowered by an Act of Parliament to confer or grant degrees. (2) Save as provided in sub-section (1), no person or authority shall confer, or grant, or hold himself or itself out as entitled to confer or grant, any degree. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 421 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. (3) For the purposes of this section, “degree’ means any such degree as may, with the previous approval of the Central Government, be specified in this behalf by the Commission by notification in the official Gazette.” 96. Sub-section (1) expressly restricts the right to confer or grant degrees to (i) universities established or incorporated by a Central or State statute; or (ii) an institution deemed to be a university under Section 3;119 or (iii) an institution specially empowered by an Act of Parliament to confer degrees. Sub-section (2) provides the same in the negative and stipulates that no person or authority, except those stipulated in sub-section (1) is entitled to confer or grant a degree or present himself as entitled to confer or grant a degree. Sub-section (3) provides that, for the application of Section 22, “degree” includes those degrees which are specified in this regard by the UGC by a notification issued in the Official Gazette, after previous approval of the Central Government. 97. During the course of the hearing, in response to queries posed by this Court, the Standing Counsel for the UGC clarified on instructions that the notification referred to in sub-section (3) of Section 22 has been issued. The latest notification in this regard, which currently holds the field, was issued by the UGC in March 2014.120 The notification lists the nomenclature of all the degrees which fall within the ambit of Section 22 of the UGC Act. Under the title of ‘Specification of Degrees with Urdu/Persian/Arabic nomenclature’, the following degrees are specified: Specification of Degrees with Urdu/Persian/Arabic nomenclature Sl. Specified Degrees Level Minimum Entry No. duration (Years) Qualification 126. Fazil BACHELOR’S 3 years 10+2 (Alim/ Afzal- Ul- Ulema Preliminary) 119 Section 3 reads: “Application of Act to institutions for higher studies other than Universities – The Central Government may, on the advice of the Commission, declare by notification in the Official Gazette, that any institution for higher education, other than a University, shall be deemed to be a University for the purposes of this Act, and on such a declaration being made, all the provisions of this Act shall apply to such institution as if it were a University within the meaning of clause (f) of section 2” 120 NO. F. 5-1/2013 (CPP-II).