However, they were unsuccessful, and the Tehsildar directed for mutation of the names of the legal heirs by dated 23.02.1999. f) The appellants, vide notice dated 28.04.1994 called upon the legal heirs of Sushila Devi to execute the sale deed. However, the same was not honoured. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2383 Shyam Kumar Inani v. Vinod Agrawal & Ors. g) The appellants instituted six separate Civil Suits, each seeking a decree for specific performance of an Agreement to Sell dated 30.08.1990, against the legal heirs of Sushila Devi, compelling them to execute the sale deed in accordance with the said agreement. In these suits, the following reliefs were similarly claimed: (i) A decree directing the defendants to specifically perform their obligations under the Agreement to Sell dated 30.08.1990 by registering a sale deed for the agricultural land under the respective khasra numbers in favour of the appellants. Alternatively, a direction was sought for the court itself to execute a legal sale deed for the disputed property in favour of the appellants. (ii) An award of costs of the suit in favour of the appellants and against the defendants, along with any other reliefs deemed appropriate by the court. (iii) A permanent injunction restraining defendants no. 1 to 5 from alienating, altering or placing any encumbrances on the said property, and from transferring the suit property to any third party or governmental authority. (iv) A declaration that the subsequent transfer of the suit property, effected on 18.01.2001, was void and not binding on the appellants. h) Further, it was brought on record, by way of amendment to the plaint that the defendant numbers 1 to 5 on the basis of the mutation passed on 23.02.1999 was likely to alienate the suit schedule property in favour of third party and, later on, by a further amendment, it was brought on record that defendant nos. 2 to 5 by four separate sale deeds actually alienated the suit schedule property in favour of newly added dependent nos. 7 to 10 on 18.01.2001. State of Madhya Pradesh was also made a party to the suit as defendant no. 6. Trial Court passed an interim injunction on 04.12.2000 putting a restraint on the alienation of the property in suit. i) Despite there being an injunction restraining the defendants from alienating the suit schedule property, the appellants were 2384 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports always ready and willing to perform their part of the contract which only required registration of the sale deed as the entire sale consideration had already been paid. A prayer for specific performance of the contract was made based on such plaint averments. 5. A brief written statement was filed by the respondent State of Madhya Pradesh-defendant number 6 (respondent no.8) to the effect that the suit schedule property fell in urban area (Nagariya Kshetra) under the Nagar Bhumi Seema Adhiniyam and as per the requirements of the said Act, it was only after the enforcement of the new Master Plan, that the actual area of land which the owner would be entitled to possess, would be determined.