It was held that if the goods that are received qualify as “inputs” or “capital goods”, the fact that they are later fixed/fastened to the earth for use would not make them non-excisable commodity when received. 10.9.22 The Delhi High Court also held that in the present case the tower and PFB shelters are not immovable property for in the event of requirement of relocation, these towers and PFB shelters can be removed and shifted to another location. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1559 M/s Bharti Airtel Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Central Excise, Pune 10.9.23 In the light of the aforesaid findings, the Delhi High Court held that the Assessees are entitled to seek CENVAT credit on the towers and pre-fabricated buildings (PFBs) and such other accessories. 10.10 What emerges from the above discussion is that the Bombay High Court and Delhi High Court differed fundamentally on the issue as to whether towers, parts thereof and pre- fabricated buildings, with which we are primarily concerned in the present proceedings, are “capital goods” within the meaning of CENVAT Credit Rules, 2004 so as to enable the Assessees to claim CENVAT credit on the duty paid on the purchase of these. 10.10.1 The other area of disagreement is that even if these items themselves may not qualify as “capital goods”, but if they are found to be accessories or components of “capital goods”, they would be covered by the deeming provision of “capital goods” under Rule 2(a)(A)(iii). 10.10.2 Further, another aspect where the two High Courts differed is whether these goods can be considered as “inputs” for the “output” of services rendered by the service providers for if these are treated as “inputs”, the mobile service providers can claim CENVAT credit for the output services i.e. telecom services provided by them. 10.10.3 While the Bombay High Court held that towers and the parts thereof and prefabricated buildings are not “capital goods” since these are immovable property and also cannot be said to be “inputs”, thus, the Assessee is not entitled to claim CENVAT credit, whereas, the Delhi High Court took the contrary view that towers, parts thereof and pre-fabricated buildings are not immovable property and these can be considered as “capital goods” as defined under the CENVAT Rules. Since these are “capital goods”, these are liable to excise duty, of which the service provider can take CENVAT credit. The Delhi High Court also held that these goods can be said to be “inputs” for providing output service and hence eligible for CENVAT credit. 1560 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Analysis by this Court : 11. From the above discussion, what is evident is that the entire controversy revolves around the core issue as to whether the mobile service providers (MSPs) are entitled to claim CENVAT credit on excise duties paid on mobile tower, its parts thereof and prefabricated buildings (PFBs) in terms of the Rule 3 of the CENVAT Rules and whether the credit so claimed can be used to pay service tax for the output services rendered by the MSPs.