19.3. While Section 7 deals with revision of village map, Section 8 speaks about revision of the field book etc upon such revision of village map. Section 8A provides for preparation of statement of principles to be followed in carrying out the consolidation operations. Section 9 on the other hand provides for issue of extracts from records and statements and publications of records mentioned in Sections 8 and 8A and the issue of notices for inviting objections under sub-section (1) thereof. Sub-section (2) empowers the noticee to file objections within the prescribed period disputing the correctness or nature of the entries in the records or in the extracts furnished therefrom or in the statement of principles or the need for partition. Section 9A deals with disposal of cases relating to claims to land and partition of joint holdings. Section 9B provides for disposal of objections on the basis of the statement of principles. 19.4. Any party to a proceeding under Section 9 and who is aggrieved by an of the Assistant Consolidation Officer or the Consolidation Officer, as the case may be, may prefer an appeal before the Settlement Officer, Consolidation, within the period prescribed under Section 11. The appellate authority after providing due opportunity of hearing to the parties shall pass appropriate in appeal which shall be final. Sub-Section (2) of Section 11 makes a declaration that the Settlement Officer, Consolidation, hearing an appeal under sub-Section (1) shall be deemed to be a court of competent jurisdiction. 19.5. While the appellate is final, the Director of Consolidation has been conferred the power of revision and reference under [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1873 Nisar Ahmad & Ors. v. Sami Ullah (Dead) Through Lrs. & Anr. Section 48. He can exercise the powers under Section 48 either on a reference or suo moto. The said power is to be exercised by the Director of Consolidation to satisfy himself as to the regularity of the proceedings or as to the correctness, legality or propriety of any (other than an interlocutory ) passed by the subordinate authorities. 20. This is broadly the scheme of the Act. 21. Before we analyse the impugned and of the High Court, it will be useful to have the pedigree of the parties in the form of a chart which is as under: Satai Allah Bux Mohammad Abdul Ghafoor Shakoor Mohd. Ismail Zahoor Sami Ullah Badlu 22. As can be seen from the chart above, the dispute is between the legal heirs of Shakoor i.e. the appellants and the legal heirs of Ghafoor i.e. the respondents. High Court has duly considered the claim of the appellants as well as of the respondents and has taken the view that in so far claim of the appellants to plot Nos. 35, 57, 111 and 112 of Khata No. 99 and plot No. 115 of Khata No. 100 are concerned, Zahoor Ahmed himself had relinquished those lands in favour of the respondents. Relinquishment deed is a registered one and was never questioned by Zahoor Ahmed during his lifetime.