174. In Sanjay Verma (supra) this Court cautioned that the doctrine of lis pendens is a principle of public policy without which it will be impossible to bring an action or suit to a successful termination if alienations are permitted to prevail thereby undermining the sanctity of judicial proceedings and rights of parties so involved therein. Thus, we are of the considered view that even in the absence of a registered notice of pendency in terms of the amended Section 52 of TPA the said provision will not be rendered ipso-facto inapplicable, at best it would preclude the party seeking benefit of this doctrine to claim it as a matter of right, but by no stretch would it mean that the third-party conversely would be able to as matter of absolute right claim inapplicability of this doctrine. It would be the discretion of the courts to see keeping in mind the peculiar facts of the case to ascertain whether such doctrine ought to be applied or not. Where the courts are satisfied that the third-party had genuinely purchased the subject-matter property after an exercise of a reasonable degree of care and caution and that it was otherwise unaware of the pendency of proceedings, the courts would be circumspect to displace the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1719 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. rights of such bona-fide third-party by a mechanical application of the doctrine of lis pendens. Even otherwise, in view of the peculiar facts of this case, more particularly the fact that the petitioner could not have registered the same being only an auction purchaser and that it was the duty of the Bank to register the notice of pendency which we are inclined to believe was not reasonably possible in view of the haste that was shown by the Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee in redeeming the mortgage and thereafter immediately transferring the Secured Asset, we are of the opinion that the non- registration of notice of pendency is not fatal to the application of the doctrine of lis pendens in the present case. 175. During the course of hearing of the present case, we had inquired from the Subsequent Transferee whether it was aware of the pendency of the Main Appeals before this Court at the time of execution of the Assignment Agreement dated 28.08.2023 and at what point of time did the Subsequent Transferee and the Borrower entered into negotiations for the redemption of mortgage and the transfer of the Secured Asset. Mr. Sibal, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Subsequent Transferee, replied to the aforesaid saying that the parties started contemplating the possibility of entering such transaction in June, 2023 and that the Borrower had informed the Subsequent Transferee about the pendency of the proceedings before this Court. Thus, it is not as if the Subsequent Transferee was not aware of what was happening however, when things went wrong, they now cry foul of not being impleaded as parties and heard by this Court in the Main Appeals.