Thus, it ought to be left to the discretion of the Court while entertaining such petition to decide the question of delay. 11. Mr. Hansaria also referred to the thirty days’ limitation period for filing a review petition in terms of XLVII, Rule 2 of the 2013 Rules. Our opinion on this point is that the curative jurisdiction being a special jurisdiction derived from inherent power or jurisdiction of this Court, the limitation prescribed for filing of review petition cannot be extended to apply in the cases of curative petition. We hold so because curative jurisdiction of this Court does not flow from its power to review, but this jurisdiction is derived from Articles 129 and 142 of the Constitution of India. Moreover, Rule 3 of XLVIII of the 2013 Rules specifically stipulates that curative petition has to be filed within reasonable time from the date of or passed in a review petition. No timeframe has been formulated in the 2013 Rules either for filing a curative petition. 12. Mr. Hansaria’s further argument has been that the in the case of Rupa Ashok Hurra (supra) requires to be reconsidered. But the aforesaid decision having been delivered by a high authority, of five Hon’ble Judges of this Court, we cannot test its legality or comment on the question as to whether it requires to be reconsidered or not. For this reason, we are unable to accept his submission on this point. He cited a decision of this Court in the case of P.N. Eswara Iyer and Others -vs- Registrar, Supreme Court of India [(1980) 4 SCC 680] in which distinction has been drawn between an original or first hearing of a matter and a relook thereto at the stage of review. In this , it was held that 770 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the parameters for hearing these two proceedings are different. This was delivered in connection with amendment of the Supreme Court Rules, 1966 dispensing with oral hearing of review petitions. But this authority does not aid the respondent, having been delivered in a different context under different set of Rules. In any case, oral hearing has not altogether been dispensed with in curative jurisdiction also and it has been left at the discretion of the Bench to decide as to whether the curative petitions ought to be dismissed by circulation without oral arguments or there shall be oral submission after notice to the opposite party. This procedure is contained in Rule 4 of XLVIII of the 2013 Rules which has been reproduced earlier in this . 13. While in the case Rupa Ashok Hurra (supra), it was specified by the five Judge Bench that a curative petition must contain an averment that review petition was dismissed by circulation, the consequence of dismissal on oral hearing in open Court has not been specified in that . Rules have been framed lifting the directions of this Court in the case of Rupa Ashok Hurra (supra) to statutory level.