Section 357 of CrPC is intended to reassure the victim that he/she is not forgotten in the criminal justice system. It is a constructive approach to crimes based on the premise that mere punishment of the offender may not give solace to the victim or its family. 25. As such, when deciding the compensation which is to be paid to a victim, the only factor that the court may take into consideration is [2024] 6 S.C.R. 707 Rajendra Bhagwanji Umraniya v. State of Gujarat the convict’s capacity to pay the compensation and not the sentence that has been imposed. In criminal proceedings the courts should not conflate sentence with compensation to victims. Sentences such as imprisonment and / or fine are imposed independently of any victim compensation and thus, the two stand on a completely different footing, either of them cannot vary the other. Where an accused is directed to pay compensation to victims, the same is not meant as punishment or atonement of the convict but rather as a step towards reparation to the victims who have suffered from the offence committed by the convict. 26. If payment of compensation becomes a consideration for reducing sentence, then the same will have a catastrophic effect on the criminal justice administration. It will result in criminals with a purse full of money to buy their way out of justice, defeating the very purpose of criminal proceedings. 27. Having held so as above, the last question that falls for our consideration is how do we modify the of the High Court. According to Mr Raval that part of the High Court’s be set aside and the respondents be directed to undergo sentence of four years’ rigorous imprisonment. 28. We could have easily done as submitted by Mr Raval, but in the facts and circumstances of the case, more particularly, keeping in mind that a period of twelve years has elapsed and when the respondents (original convicts) have already deposited the amount of Rs 5 lakh, we are not inclined to direct the respondents to undergo further sentence of four years. However, having said so, we direct each of the respondents to deposit a further sum of Rs 5 lakh, i.e. in all Rs 10 lakh, in addition to what they have already deposited before the trial court. This deposit shall be made within a period of eight weeks from today. The trial court shall disburse the entire amount of Rs 15 lakh to the appellant herein (original complainant) after proper identification. 29. With the aforesaid, the appeals are disposed of. 30. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Appeals disposed of.