634 of 2004, Mumbai (respondent Nos.3 to 13 herein), were released prematurely. 8. Learned senior counsel Ms. Indira Jaising appearing for the petitioner in Writ Petition(Crl.) No.326 of 2022, at the outset submitted that the petitioner is a Member of Parliament and is a public personality and consequently possesses the locus to file this petition as a bona fide person and citizen of India. That the petitioner seeks to discharge her fundamental duty under Article 51A(e) of the Constitution of India, 798 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports seeking to promote harmony and the spirit of brotherhood amongst the people of India, as well as to denounce the derogation of the dignity of women. That the petitioner seeks to uphold the rule of law and thus is not a mere busybody. 8.1. The following submissions were made to contest the s of remission: (i) that when the actions of the State cause some harm to the general public, an action by a concerned citizen would be maintainable and reliance was placed on B.P Singhal vs. Union of India, (2010) 6 SCC 331 (“B.P Singhal”) in this regard. (ii) that the impugned decisions of remission is characterized by arbitrariness and mala fides and bear no consideration of relevant factors That the power of the executive must be exercised in line with constitutional ideals and must be for the benefit of the public. In this regard, reliance is placed on Maru Ram and S.P. Gupta vs. Union of India, (1981) Supp SCC 87 (“S.P. Gupta”). (iii) that there exists no statutory right of appeal against an of remission. The only avenue available to assail an of remission is either under Article 32 or Article 226. Reliance was placed on Epuru Sudhakar and Ram Chander. Further, the jurisdiction of this Court is not ousted by the existence of alternative legal remedies. Reliance was placed on a Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Kavalappara Kottarathil Kochuni vs. States of Madras and Kerala, (1960) 3 SCR 887 (“Kochuni”). (iv) that the present proceedings pertain to administrative law and not criminal law and as a result, the principle of being a stranger to the criminal proceeding does not apply to the case at hand. Nevertheless, this Court has entertained petitions filed by ‘strangers’ in criminal matters in the past, as in the case of K. Anbazhagan vs. Superintendent of Police, (2004) 3 SCC 767 (“K. Anbazhagan”). (v) that such exercises of executive power may be challenged on the basis of the grounds laid down in Epuru Sudhakar and Maru Ram. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 799 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others (vi) that an important question of law arises in the present proceedings, namely, whether it is appropriate to grant remission after a period of fourteen years to convicts of heinous crimes. That a further question arises, as to whether, the victims of such crimes must be heard and due consideration given to their vulnerability prior to the grant of remission. That there needs to be a consideration of how compliant such executive actions and the associated policies are with constitutional morality.