Further, the Trial Court was directed to consider the application of the Complainant under Section(s) 319 read with 216 of the CrPC and implead the Appellant(s) as accused person(s) during the examination of witnesses (if necessary) (the “Re-Investigation ”). 3.4. Pursuant to the Re-Investigation , an application dated 19.03.2019 under Section(s) 319 read with 216 of the CrPC came to be preferred by the Complainant before the Trial Court whereunder it was stated that (i) despite naming the Appellants, the FIR only came to be lodged against Respondent No. 3 i.e., allegedly the names of the Appellants were omitted by the investigating authorities; (ii) the statement(s) recorded by investigating authority under Section 161 of the CrPC were mechanically recorded and purposely did not disclose to names of the Appellants; (iii) that the prosecution witnesses (“PWs”) Nos. 1-5 have named the Appellants’ during their examination- in-chief before the Trial Court; and have also ascribed a specific role to the Appellants’ (the “Underlying Application”). 3.5. Vide an dated 06.05.2019, the Trial Court partly allowed the aforesaid application i.e., impleaded Appellant No. 1 as an accused person in the proceedings emanating from the FIR observing inter alia that Appellant No. 1 i.e., a policeman ought to have prevented an offence from taking place and accordingly, his omission would necessarily amount to abetment, however, [2024] 2 S.C.R. 689 N. Manogar & Anr. v. The Inspector of Police & Ors. the Trial Court rejected the prayer qua the impleadment of Appellant No. 2 as an accused on the ground that no reason(s) have been attributed as to how the Complainant; and other PWs’ have been able to identify the unknown ‘boy’ as Appellant No. 2. 3.6. Aggrieved by the aforesaid , revision petition(s) were filed by Appellant No. 1 and Respondent No.2 before the High Court. Vide an dated 10.06.2019, the revision petition(s) came to be allowed by the High Court on the ground that the Appellants’ were not issued notice in the Underlying Application and accordingly, the Underlying Application could not be decided without affording the Appellants’ an opportunity of hearing as mandated by this Court in Jogendra Yadav vs. State of Bihar, (2015) 9 SCC 244. Thus, the High Court remanded the Underlying Application back to be considered afresh by the Trial Court in line with our decision in Hardeep Singh v State of Punjab & Ors., (2014) 3 SCC 92 (the “Remand ”). 3.7. Pursuant to the Remand , the Trial Court vide an dated 24.10.2019 dismissed the Underlying Application observing inter alia that there is no evidence qua the involvement of the Appellants to justify impleading the Appellants as accused person(s) in light of the fact that no specific allegation(s) had been levelled by the Complainant in either the underlying complaint; or before PW-6 i.e., the doctor treating the victim(s) immediately after the alleged offence (the “Underlying ”). 3.8. Aggrieved by the Underlying , the Complainant filed a criminal revision petition before the High Court. Vide the Impugned , the High Court held inter alia that the allegation(s) in the underlying complaint; and statement(s) recorded under Section 161 CrPC disclose that the Appellants were present with Respondent No.