When the police reached the spot immediately after the occurrence, the dead body was found lying inside the house near the stairs. It is, thus, natural that the residents in the adjoining houses did not see the occurrence. The shot was fired at close range, and, the people in the neighbourhood obviously did not come to know about the incident. No adverse inference can be drawn against the prosecution on this count. The time of occurrence, i.e., 1.30 p.m., also indicates that most of the people in the neighbourhood were inside their houses and could not be expected outside in the streets keeping in view the hot and humid weather of July as it prevails in the State of Punjab. We are, therefore, of the considered opinion that the reasons assigned by the High Court while granting acquittal to Gurpreet Singh are totally perverse and as a result of misreading of the evidence on record. In this view of the matter, sustaining the acquittal of Gurpreet Singh, would amount to a travesty of justice and it, thus, warrants interference by this Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction, which we invoke sparingly. Consequently, the of acquittal passed by the High Court qua Gurpreet Singh cannot be sustained and is set aside. 1052 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Acquittal qua the Co-Accused 34. Adverting to the prosecution case against Kashmira Singh and Jagdeep Singh (Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 herein) in the appeal arising out of CRA-D-1606-DB-2015 (O&M) and Harpreet Singh, who was the appellant before the High Court in CRR-2942-2015(O&M), we are satisfied that the reasons assigned by the High Court in support of their acquittal are possible and plausible. We say so in light of the fact that (i) Gursewak Singh (P.W.2 – Complainant) did not mention their names when he called the Police Control Room at 1.40 p.m. immediately after the occurrence. (ii) Gursewak Singh (P.W.2 – Complainant) merely stated that there were some unknown persons accompanying Gurpreet Singh (iii) In fact, P.W.2 and 3 both did not know the above-named three persons – who were nominated as co-accused of Gurpreet Singh. (iv) Gursewak Singh (P.W.2) is claimed to have recollected their names after about five hours of the occurrence. It is difficult to accept how he re-collected their names, more so when the prosecution did not lead any further evidence as to how he knew them prior to the occurrence. (v) The possibility of pointing out their names by someone else thus cannot be ruled out. 35. The Investigating Officer has also failed to disclose as to how he found these respondents to be connected with the crime during the course of investigation. There is no convincing explanation to implicate them as co-accused. There is also not an iota of evidence to suggest that the Respondents (Kashmira Singh, Jagdeep Singh and Harpreet Singh) had any meeting with Gurpreet Singh and/or they had conspired with him for the execution of the crime. There is no specific motive attributed to them.