Vide Howe v. Smith (1884) 27 Ch.D. 89. 84. The practice of giving earnest is current in the present day commercial contracts. An advance is made and accepted by way of deposit or guarantee for the due performance of the contract. The distinction between a deposit and a part payment is thus described by Benjamin, in his book “Treatise on the Law of Sale of Personal Property”, 1950, 8th Edition at page 946: - “A deposit is not recoverable by the buyer, for a deposit is a guarantee that the buyer shall perform his contract and is forfeited on his failure to do so. As regards the recovery of part payments, the question must depend upon the terms of the particular contract. If the contract distinguishes between the deposit and instalments of price and the buyer is in default, the deposit is forfeited and that is all. And in ordinary circumstances, unless the contract otherwise provides, the seller, on rescission following the buyer’s default, becomes liable to repay the part of the part of the price paid.” 85. In Halsbury’s Laws of England, third edition, volume XXXIV, page 118 the distinction between the two is thus pointed out: - 74 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “Part of the price may be payable as a deposit. A part payment is to be distinguished from a deposit or earnest. A deposit is paid primarily as security that the buyer will duly accept and pay for the goods, but, subject thereto, forms part of the price. Accordingly, if the buyer is unable or unwilling to accept and pay for the goods, the seller may repudiate the contract and retain the deposit. If the seller is unable or unwilling to deliver the goods, or to pass a good title thereto, or the contract is voidable by the buyer for any reason, the buyer may repudiate the contract and recover the deposit. The buyer may also recover it where, without the default of either party, the contract is rescinded by either party pursuant to an express power in the contract in that behalf.” 86. In G. C. Cheshire and C.H.S. Fifoot on the Law of Contracts (fifth edition) at pages 496- 497, the position is thus summed up: - “Where, therefore, it has been agreed that a sum of money shall be paid by the one to the other immediately or at certain stated intervals, the question whether in the event of rescission repayment will be compelled depends upon the proper construction of the contract. The object that the parties had in view in providing for the payment must first be ascertained. Where the intention was that the money should form a part payment of the full amount due, then, as we have seen, if the contract is rescinded for the payer’s default the payee is required at law to restore the money, subject to a cross-claim for damages. If, on the other hand, the intention was that the money should be deposited as earnest or as a guarantee for the due performance of the payer’s obligation, the rule at common law is that if the contract is rescinded by reason of his default the deposit is forfeited to the payer and cannot be recovered.