Therefore, the two cannot be equated.” In our opinion, if we allow the continuance of criminal appeals pending before Additional Sessions Judge against the appellant’s conviction then it would defeat all the efforts of this Court in the last year where this Court had monitored this matter and ensured that the complainant gets her money back. 13. As far as FIR case under Sections 406, 420, 120B of IPC against the appellant is concerned, in any case we do not find any merit in the allegations that the appellant from the very beginning had the intention of cheating the complainant. It is a fact that the appellant failed to procure and supply the ‘machine’ even after taking the advance money from the complainant but there is nothing on record to show that the appellant had any ill intention of cheating or defrauding the complainant from the very inception. The transaction between the parties was purely civil in nature which does not attract criminal law in any way. 14. Even though complainant is unwilling to compound the case but, considering the totality of facts and circumstances of the present case which we have referred above, we are of the considered view that these proceedings must come to an end. We, therefore, allow this appeal and set aside the impugned of High Court dated 29.11.2022. We also quash all the criminal proceedings qua appellant arising out of FIR No.35 of 2014 at P.S Mahesh Nagar, Ambala pending before Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ambala. Since, criminal appeals filed by present appellant against his conviction under Section 138 of the NI Act are also pending, we deem it appropriate that the said proceedings should also be quashed. Hence, in to do complete justice, we exercise our powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, and hereby quash all the pending criminal appeals on the file 3 [2012] 3 SCR 114 : Para 43. 214 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of Additional Sessions Judge, Ambala Cantt., against the appellant in the present matter, and set aside the conviction and sentence awarded to the appellant by the trial court. 15. We also direct the trial court to hand over the Demand Drafts totalling the amount of Rs.30 lacs to the complainant which were deposited in the trial court in pursuance of this Court’s s, if not handed- over till now. Pending application(s), if any, stand(s) disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Appeal allowed.