5. Reiterating the averments made in the counter affidavit, the learned counsel for the respondent(s) submitted that based on the application made by the appellant on 05.11.2015 seeking community certificate, the Village Administrative Officer, Kombakkampet, conducted a detailed enquiry and submitted his report dated 24.11.2015, which was endorsed by the Revenue Inspector, Mudaliarpet Firka. It is inter alia stated in the said report that the appellant’s father is a converted Christian; and the appellant was baptised on 06.01.1991 at the Parish of Lourdes Shrine, Villianur, Puducherry as per the entry made in the Register of Baptism dated 20.11.2015. Whereas, the appellant submitted several documents including the Scheduled Caste community certificates issued by the Tahsildar, Taluk Office, Puducherry under the S.C. , 1964, in favour of her as well as her father and brother. Since there was a contradiction between the records submitted by the petitioner and the report of the Village Administrative Officer, the Tahsildar, Puducherry Taluk Office, directed the Village Administrative Officer to call for opinion about the religion of the appellant, from the villagers. Accordingly, a notice was affixed in the notice board and in the conspicuous places in the village. In response, an objection was received from one Anand, through letter dated 06.01.2016 stating that the appellant’s father is a converted Christian and the appellant embraced Christianity and the marriage of her parents was registered at the Lourdes Shrine, Villianur, Puducherry; and the said statement was also acknowledged by four persons of the same village viz., Alencon Karthick, Ravishankar, Prakash and Arumugam of Kombakkampet. In view of the same, the Tahsildar passed the dated 29.03.2016 stating that the appellant does not profess Hinduism and hence, the Scheduled Caste community certificate could not be issued to her, as per law. 5.1. Elaborating further, the learned counsel for the respondent(s) submitted that as per the of the High Court dated 10.03.2017 in WP.No.43516 of 2016, the Tahsildar, Puducherry Taluk Office, after calling for the explanation from the appellant, passed the dated 19.06.2017 rejecting her application seeking issuance of Scheduled Caste community certificate and referred the matter to the District Committee for cancellation [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1513 C. Selvarani v. The Special Secretary-Cum-District Collector and Others of the community certificate already issued to the appellant; and the appellate authorities also confirmed the said of rejection. Considering all these factors, the High Court rightly upheld the decision of the respondent authorities and dismissed the writ petition filed by the appellant, by the impugned herein, which need not be interfered with by this Court. 6. We have heard the learned counsel appearing for the respective parties and given our thoughtful consideration. 7. On the basis of the pleadings and the submissions made by the parties, the issue that arises for our consideration is, whether the appellant is entitled to the Scheduled Caste community certificate, indicating that she belongs to Valluvan caste, which is recognized as one of the Scheduled Castes in the S.C. , 1964. 8. At the outset, it would be apposite to briefly consider the legal position connected to this case.