It was provided that if no communication regarding approval of the auction is received within the prescribed period, it shall be deemed that the approval of the lots had been accorded by the competent authority. In the absence of any Manual published after the year 1987-88, the said Manual with printed year 1987-88, being the latest Edition, shall prevail over the earlier Edition of the Manual with printed year as 1980-81. 11. Further, it was argued that the Respondents are bound by the terms and conditions as per Agreement dated 27.03.1998 executed by it with the Appellants immediately after the conclusion of the auction proceedings. In this regard, it was also highlighted that Condition No. 2-D of the said agreement clearly provides that if any purchaser fails to deposit the installments as agreed upon, the Forest Officer is entitled to cancel the auction and forfeit the amount of security deposited, amongst other things. 12. Learned Addl. Advocate General appearing for the Appellants has also drawn the Court’s attention to sub-clause (vii) of Clause 10 of 1987-88 Conditions of Sale wherein it is provided that if the buyer does not receive any information regarding acceptance of the contract within 35 days from the date of auction, then he should contact the Deputy Conservator of Forests/Conservator of Forests and get information in this regard. The Forest Department will not bear any responsibility for not receiving timely information. 2432 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. We have heard learned Counsel for the parties and perused the relevant documents on record. 14. We are unable to bring ourselves to agree with the observations made by the High Court. The High Court specifically noted that the cutting over the dates of both the manuals of Conditions of Sale do not bear any signature and yet, went ahead with considering the over-writing as valid and weighed the applicability of respective Manuals based on such over-writing. In the absence of signatures according any sanction to such over-writing, we believe that the High Court has seriously erred by making a finding that the Manual for Year 1980-81 will supersede the Manual for Year 1987-88 and will be applicable for an auction held in the year 1998. 15. Since these are the only two Conditions of Sale Manuals produced before us as well as the High Court, we find force with the Appellants’ argument that in the absence of any Manual published after the year 1987-88, the said Manual with printed year 1987-88, being the latest Edition, shall prevail over the earlier Edition of the Manual and be applicable to the instant auction. 16. The Manual of 1987-88 seems to have brought in amendments in the form of sub-clauses (vii) and (viii) of Clause 10, as mentioned above, which impose the responsibility on the contractor to enquire about the acceptance of the contract if no information is received within 35 days and also grants a deemed approval in cases where the approval is not received within the stipulated period.