Digital Supreme Court Reports the heart and lungs. The deliberate targeting of these areas indicates a clear intent to cause harm that could lead to death. According to the testimony of the injured eyewitness, the appellant stabbed the deceased with considerable force, further corroborating the prosecution’s argument that the injuries were inflicted intentionally or at least with the knowledge of their natural consequence. While other co-accused were reportedly armed with sticks, the appellant–accused no. 1 was in possession of a sharp knife, which was used to inflict severe injuries. The decision to carry and use such a weapon during the scuffle reflects a readiness to escalate violence beyond a mere physical altercation. Even if the appellant did not have a prior intention to murder the deceased, the circumstances demonstrate that such injuries were caused which were sufficient in the ordinary course to cause death. The deliberate act of stabbing vital parts of the body, coupled with the force used, indicates that the appellant must have been aware of the likely fatal consequences of his actions. Under the provisions of Section 300 IPC, an intention to cause such injuries that are sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death qualifies as murder, and even if ingredients other than intention to cause murder are proved, mere knowledge of the result of fatal actions is enough to ascribe culpability to the accused person. 25.9 The lower courts have also dismissed the appellant’s argument that the act was not premeditated. While the attack may not have been planned in advance, intent can emerge in the heat of the moment, particularly during a violent confrontation. The appellant’s decision to use a lethal weapon and the precise targeting of the victim’s vital organs are sufficient to establish the requisite intent for murder or at least knowledge of the possible consequences of one’s actions and to hold the appellant liable for death of the deceased as per clause 3 of Section 300, IPC. 25.10 This Court held in Virsa Singh (Supra), that the prosecution must prove that there was an intention to inflict that particular injury, that is to say that the injury was not accidental or unintentional or that some other kind of injury was intended, [2024] 12 S.C.R. 409 Kunhimuhammed@Kunheethu v. The State of Kerala and that particular injury was sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. 25.11 The third clause of section 300 speaks of an intention to cause bodily injury which is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. This Court in the above-mentioned held that to bring the case under this part of the section the prosecution must establish objectively: 1. That a bodily injury is present; 2. That the nature of injury must be proved; 3. It must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury; 4. That the injury inflicted is sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of the nature. 25.12 The Court further held that: “13.