As regards the means adopted, it should also be in accordance with law and the principles enshrined in Article 39(b). The Court also observed that there may be various methods of distribution of material resources of the community including natural resources and it depends upon the wisdom of the executive as to how it would deal in such matters. In the said , this Court concluded as under: ● Maximization of revenue cannot be the sole permissible consideration, for disposal of all natural resources, across all sectors and in all circumstances, therefore disposal of all natural resources through auctions is clearly not a constitutional mandate. ● Reading auction as a constitutional mandate would be impermissible because such an approach may distort another constitutional principle embodied in article 39(b). ● Out of the two concepts namely, “public trust doctrine” and “trusteeship” referred in 2G case public trust may be accepted as public trust mandates a high degree of judicial scrutiny. 242 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ● A judicial scrutiny of methods of disposal of natural resources should depend on the facts and circumstances of each case, in consonance with the principles of equality and common good. Failing which, the court, in exercise of power of judicial review. ● While distributing natural resources the state is bound to act in consonance with the principles of equality and public trust and ensure that no action is taken which may be detrimental to public interest. ● The state action including distribution of natural resources has to be fair, reasonable, non-discriminatory, transparent, non-capricious, unbiased, without favouritism or nepotism, in pursuit of promotion of healthy competition and equitable treatment. It should conform to the norms, which are rational, informed with reasons and guided by public interest, etc. and this is the mandate of article 14 of the Constitution of India. While any policy or law which envisages that the goals in Article 39(b) or (c) cannot be called in question in a Court of law on the touchstone of Articles 14 and 19, nevertheless the implementation of the said policy in a discriminatory or arbitrary manner could attract Article 14 or the equality clause. Discrimination and arbitrariness being antithetical to the essence of Article 14, the action of distribution which is essentially an administrative action could be challenged before a Constitutional Law on the basis of the relevant principles applicable in exercise of judicial review of such administrative action.” 13.11 While any policy or law may envisage that the goals in Article 39(b) or (c) cannot be called in question in a Court of law on the touchstone of Articles 14 and 19, nevertheless the implementation of the said policy in a discriminatory or arbitrary manner could attract Article 14 or the equality clause. Thus, while the wisdom or correctness of a policy or legislation in furtherance of the goals and objects of Article 39 (b) and (c) cannot be questioned vide Article 31C of the Constitution, it does not bar the questioning of the implementation of the [2024] 11 S.C.R.