(3A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), no court shall take cognizance of any offence, alleged to have been committed by any member of the Forces charged with the maintenance of public in a State while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty during the period while a Proclamation issued under clause (1) of article 356 of the Constitution was in force therein, except with the previous sanction of the Central Government. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 797 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. (3B) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Code or any other law, it is hereby declared that any sanction accorded by the State Government or any cognizance taken by a court upon such sanction, during the period commencing on the 20th day of August, 1991 and ending with the date immediately preceding the date on which the Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1991 (43 of 1991), receives the assent of the President, with respect to an offence alleged to have been committed during the period while a Proclamation issued under clause (1) of article 356 of the Constitution was in force in the State, shall be invalid and it shall be competent for the Central Government in such matter to accord sanction and for the court to take cognizance thereon. (4) The Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, may determine the person by whom, the manner in which, and the offence or offences for which, the prosecution of such Judge, Magistrate or public servant is to be conducted, and may specify the Court before which the trial is to be held.” 40. The 41st Report of the Law Commission of India contextualizes the object behind the enactment of Section 197 CrPC by pointing out that it enables the more important categories of public servants, performing onerous and responsible functions, to act fearlessly by protecting them from false, vexatious or mala fide prosecutions. Under the erstwhile Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, the ambit of the Section was considered a bit too wide since it read – “is accused as such Judge or public servant of any offence”. However, to offer more precision, the Amending Act of 1923 inserted the phrase – “is accused of any offence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official duty”. The same has been retained in the statute books till today despite the provision undergoing several amendments over the period of time. 41. As rightly acknowledged by the Law Commission, the meaning of the word “acting or purporting to act” in Section 197 CrPC has been well settled by a legion of decisions of the Federal Court, the Privy Council and the Supreme Court and any difficulty that may be felt lies only in the actual application of the principles laid down in 798 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports these decisions to the facts and circumstances of a particular case.