There is a good reason why we are saying so or rather touching upon this issue. It appears that in none of the FIRs the name of the detenu has been disclosed as one of the accused persons. This is but obvious because the victim from whose neck the chain is alleged to have been snatched would not know the detenu and the other associates of the detenu. In each of the FIRs, it has been stated by the victim that she would be in a position to identify the accused persons if shown to her. We wonder whether any identification parade was carried out by the police in this direction? There is nothing to indicate in this regard from the materials on record. It, prima facie, appears that the detenu might have been picked up by the police on suspicion and then all that has been relied upon to point a finger towards the detenu is his confessional statement before the police. We are conscious of the fact that ordinarily the court should not get into or look into the sufficiency of the materials on record on the basis of which the requisite subjective satisfaction is arrived at by the Detaining Authority. However, the facts of the present case are such that we had to go into such issues. 34. The aforesaid gives rise to a neat question of law whether the confessional statement made by a detenu to the police officer is admissible in cases of detention under the Act 1986 or under any other enactment of any State relating to preventive detention. We do not propose to enter into any debate on this question as we have not put the counsel appearing for the parties to notice on this issue. We leave this question open to be looked into by this Court in any other appropriate matter in future. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1213 Nenavath Bujji Etc. v. The State of Telangana and Ors. i. Extraneous Considerations that weighed with the Detaining Authority thereby vitiating the of Preventive Detention. 35. We take notice of the fact that in the case on hand, the Detaining Authority has laid much stress on the fact that in the year 2023 in quick succession four FIRs came to be registered against the appellant for the offence of theft, robbery etc. However, the Detaining Authority took into consideration only two FIRs registered for the offences said to have committed within his territorial jurisdiction. The Detaining Authority in its of detention has clearly stated that he has taken into consideration only the two FIRs registered for the alleged offence committed within his territorial jurisdiction. The Detaining Authority in clear terms has stated that he could not have made the other two FIRs referred to in the of detention as the basis for arriving at the subjective satisfaction that the activities of the appellant detenu are prejudicial to the maintenance of the public . However, after saying so, the Detaining Authority has in so many words stated that the other two FIRs have been considered to look into the criminal history of the appellant detenu.