Though, in certain exceptional circumstances, the High Court may entertain such defence to quash the criminal proceedings where it appears from the facts itself that the allegations themselves are completely false and bogus and by no stretch of imagination said to be established. But in doing so, the High Court must be slow and circumspect & must exercise some restraint. The statutory presumption may be ignored only where no foundational facts have been established from the material on record. 189. Once the foundational facts are prima facie established from the materials on record, it would be improper for the High Court in a quashing petition to conduct an intricate evidentiary inquiry into the facts and ascertain whether the requisite mental elements are present or not. All these aspects should be left to be decided by the trial 270 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports court which is the appropriate forum for the evaluation of the same, especially where the statutory presumption has been attracted prima facie from the material on record. 190. When the High Court quashes any criminal proceedings without considering the legal effect of the statutory presumption, it effectively scuttles the process of trial and thereby denies the parties the opportunity to adduce appropriate evidence and the right to a fair trial. This would not only defeat the very case of the prosecution but would also thwart the very object of a particular legislation and thereby undermine the public confidence in the criminal justice system. 191. We are conscious of the fact that in Noor Aga (supra) this Court had held that the statutory presumption under Section 35 of the NDPS Act would only operate in the trial of the accused. However, a close reading of the said decision would reveal that this Court in Noor Aga (supra) only went so far as to say that before a statutory presumption could be invoked, the foundational facts must have been established by the prosecution. We may at the cost of repetition again reproduce the relevant observations of Noor Aga (supra) in this regard: - “58. Sections 35 and 54 of the Act, no doubt, raise presumptions with regard to the culpable mental state on the part of the accused as also place the burden of proof in this behalf on the accused; but a bare perusal of the said provision would clearly show that presumption would operate in the trial of the accused only in the event the circumstances contained therein are fully satisfied. An initial burden exists upon the prosecution and only when it stands satisfied, would the legal burden shift. Even then, the standard of proof required for the accused to prove his innocence is not as high as that of the prosecution. Whereas the standard of proof required to prove the guilt of the accused on the prosecution is “beyond all reasonable doubt” but it is “preponderance of probability” on the accused. If the prosecution fails to prove the foundational facts so as to attract the rigours of Section 35 of the Act, the actus reus which is possession of contraband by the accused cannot be said to have been established.