Jaypee Rewa Cement Ltd, which is now known as M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. Clause II(4)(a) covers all the categories of transfers as it provides that the lessee shall not sell, transfer, assign or otherwise part with the possession of the whole or any part of the commercial plots without the written consent of the lessor. The said clause does not exclude involuntary transfers. In the facts of the case, it cannot be said that there is an involuntary transfer, as the transfer is made based on a petition filed by the lessee and the transferee for seeking amalgamation. In a sense, this is an act done by them of their own volition. 9. A similar issue arose for consideration before this Court in the case of Nalwa Sons Investment Ltd2. The Court was dealing with a case where the Company Court passed an of arrangement and demerger. As a result, the plot given on lease to a company was transferred to another company. In paragraph 5 of the decision, this Court had set out the policy instructions regarding charging an unearned increase. Paragraph 5 reads thus: 5. The instructions followed by the competent authority in regard to charging of UEI have been articulated in document Annexure P-1, which reads thus: XXX XXX XXX Sub. : Substitution/addition/deletion of names in lease/ sub-lease of industrial/commercial plots unearned increase In supersession of previous instructions on the subject, the Lt. Governor, Delhi is pleased to that henceforth in the matters of addition/deletion and substitution of names in respect of industrial/commercial lease/sub-lease to be executed or already executed, the following procedure shall be followed: 1. No unearned increase to be charged: (a) The auction-purchaser/allottee shall be permitted free of charge, to add, delete or substitute the names of family members which may, where necessary, take the form of partnership firm or private limited company. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 435 M/s. Jaiprakash Industries Ltd. (Presently known as M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Ltd.) v. Delhi Development Authority (b) In case of conversion of partnership firm into private limited company comprising original partners as Directors/Subscribers/Shareholders. (c) In case of addition, deletion or substitution of partners in a firm or Directors and conversion of sole proprietorship firm or partnership concern into private limited company when change in constitution is limited, for approval by the DDA, within one year from the date of purchase of plot in auction. This will to apply in case of plot obtained by the party by way of allotment. (d) Change from private limited company to public limited company where a private limited company becomes a public limited company under Section 43-A of the Companies Act, 1956. 2. Where unearned increase is to be charged: (a) Addition of outsiders not falling within the family members shall be allowed through a conveyance deed on payment of 50% unearned increase on his proportionate shares. The unearned increase shall be calculated at the market rate prevalent on the date of receipt of the application in the office of the DDA.