It is well established that exercising of power under Articles 72/161 by the President or the Governor is a constitutional obligation and not a mere prerogative. Considering the high status of office, the Constitution Framers did not stipulate any outer time-limit for disposing of the mercy petitions under the said Articles, which means it should be decided within reasonable time. However, when the delay caused in disposing of the mercy petitions is seen to be unreasonable, unexplained and exorbitant, it is the duty of this Court to step in and consider this aspect. Right to seek for mercy under Articles 72/161 of the Constitution is a constitutional right and not at the discretion or whims of the executive. Every constitutional duty must be fulfilled with due care and diligence, otherwise judicial interference is the command of the Constitution for upholding its values.” (emphasis added) This Court also issued several other directions regarding the procedure to be followed in placing mercy petitions before the Hon’ble Governor or the Hon’ble President of India. 22. The decision of this Court in the case of B.A.Umesh7 does not make a departure from the law laid down in the case of Shatrughan Chauhan & Anr.4 On the contrary, paragraphs 44, 47 and 48 of the decision 596 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports have been quoted therein with approval. We have carefully perused several other decisions of this Court which have been rendered in the facts of the case before this Court. The propositions laid down in these decisions can be summarized as under: (i) Undue, unexplained and inordinate delay in execution of the sentence of death will entitle the convict to approach this Court under Article 32. But this Court will only examine the nature of the delay caused and circumstances that ensued after the judicial process finally confirmed the sentence and will have no jurisdiction to reopen the conclusions reached by the court while finally maintaining the sentence of death. This Court, however, may consider the question of inordinate delay in the light of all circumstances of the case to decide whether the execution of sentence should be carried out or should be altered into imprisonment for life. No fixed period of delay could be held to make the sentence of death inexecutable. (ii) Keeping a convict sentenced to death in suspense while considering his mercy petitions by the Governor or the President for an inordinately long time is certainly agony for him/her. It creates adverse physical conditions and psychological stress on the convict under sentence of death. Therefore, this Court, while considering the delay in the disposal of clemency petitions by the highest constitutional authorities, while exercising its jurisdiction under Article 32 read with Article 21 of the Constitution, cannot excuse the agonising delay caused to the convict only based on the gravity of the crime; and (iii) It is well established that Article 21 of the Constitution does not end with the pronouncement of the sentence but extends to the execution stage of that sentence.