21. Under Section 121 (f), supply of goods to projects financed by multilateral or bilateral agencies, such as, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development under international competitive bidding or under limited tender system would be regarded as ‘deemed exports’ under the Exim Policy of 1992-1997. 22. Section 122 provides that ‘deemed exports’ shall be eligible for the benefits in respect of manufacture and supply of goods qualifying as ‘deemed exports’, including under the Duty Drawback Scheme. 102 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 23. In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 75 of the Customs Act, Section 37 of the Central Excise Act and Section 93A read with Section 94 of the Finance Act, 1994, the Central Government has made a set of rules called the Customs, Central Excise Duties and Service Tax Drawback Rules, 1995. Rule 2(a) defines ‘drawback’ in relation to any goods manufactured in India and exported, to mean the rebate of duty or tax as the case may be, chargeable on any imported materials or excisable materials used or taxable services used as input services in the manufacture of such goods. ‘Excisable material’ has been defined under Rule 2(b) to mean any material produced or manufactured in India subject to a duty of excise under the Central Excise Act. Likewise, the expression ‘imported material’ has been defined under Rule 2(d) to mean any material imported into India and on which duty is chargeable under the Customs Act. 23.1. Rule 3 provides for allowance of drawback. Sub-rule (1) says that subject to the provisions of the Customs Act, Central Excise Act, the Finance Act, 1994 and the rules made under the aforesaid three enactments, a drawback may be allowed on the export of goods at such amount or at such rates as may be determined by the Central Government. 23.2. Rule 14 deals with payment of drawback and interest. Sub- rule (1) says that the drawback under the Customs, Central Excise Duties and Service Tax Drawback Rules, 1995 (briefly ‘the 1995 Rules’ hereinafter) and interest, if any, shall be paid by the proper officer of customs to the exporter or to the agent specially authorized by the exporter to receive the said amount of drawback and interest. Sub-rule (2) clarifies that the officer of customs may combine one or more claims for the purpose of payment of drawback and interest, if any, as well as adjustment of any amount of drawback and interest already paid and may issue a consolidated for payment. As per sub-rule (3), the date of payment of drawback and interest, if any, shall be deemed to be, in the case of payment by cheque, the date of issue of such cheque; or by credit in the exporter’s account maintained with the Custom House, the date of such credit. 24. At this stage, we may mention that in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 27A of the Customs Act, the Central Board of Excise and Customs had issued notification bearing No.32/1995 (NT)-Customs [2024] 2 S.C.R.