By placing reliance upon his testimony partly, we would only come to the conclusion that his evidence goes against the prosecution version on two counts, namely, the presence of any other witness and the condition of the deceased. 35. The prosecution has not chosen to examine the driver of the vehicle i.e the tempo in which the deceased was taken to the hospital. Even PW-5 has stated that the blood was oozing out from the body of the 810 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports deceased. This is another contradiction in the statement of PW-2 and PW-3 in this regard. PW-8 in his evidence has stated that the deceased was brought by another brother of the deceased. Even this witness has not been examined for the reason known to the prosecution. 36. PW-9 is an important witness being a police officer hailing from a different jurisdiction. It is very curious to know that he was the author of the inquest report after the investigation was taken up by PW-11. Despite this being very strange, no plausible explanation was forthcoming from him. Though PW-11 was trying to say that at times due to the instructions from the higher officers, it is done so, when an offence is committed an Investigating Officer is duty bound to take up the investigation and complete it. After taking up the investigation he thereafter cannot delegate it, except for justifiable reasons. This lends credence to the case projected by the defence that the interpolations and missing pages in the case diary clearly indicate that the FIR was ante-dated. Perhaps that is the reason why the FIR reached the jurisdictional magistrate belatedly and also the examination of the witnesses including PW-2 under section 161 of CrPC was done days after the occurrence. 37. PW-6 and PW-7 are not natural witnesses. It is totally unbelievable for PW-6 to reach the place of occurrence out of inquisitiveness. There is no need for him to be in that very place. The arrest of the accused at the instance of PW-7 is yet another instance of the prosecution trying to make out a case. It is incomprehensible that the appellant would be present at the place of the occurrence when he is attempting to flee. Similar logic goes to the recovery of the knife. If PW-11 is stated to have made an inspection and drawn the sketch, he would have very well found the knife at a nearby place. It is nobody’s case that it was hidden, on the contrary, it was found in an open place. 38. From the aforesaid discussion, we have no doubt that the date, time and place of occurrence could have been different. The trial court strangely placed the onus on the appellant even with respect to the corrections made in the case diary along with the missing pages. On perusal of the case diary, we find that at several places such corrections have been made, while some pages were even missing. A clear attempt is made to correct the dates.