Local Communities and NGOs: 9.11 Local communities should work with NGOs and law enforcement agencies to create awareness campaigns that address the risks of drug abuse with a special focus on schools and youth centres. Either through awareness campaigns, community outreach or peer education, communities can play a critical role in creating knowledgeable safe space that curb the use of drugs. NALSA: 9.12 The National Legal Services Authority and State Legal Authorities must devise awareness programs and implement them [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1793 Ankush Vipan Kapoor v. National Investigation Agency particularly in vulnerable regions of the States and territories more exposed to drug menace. NCPCR and NCB: 9.13 There is a need for more synergies along the lines of Joint Action Plan on “Prevention of Drugs and Substance Abuse among Children and Illicit Trafficking” developed by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (“NCPCR”) in collaboration with Narcotics Control Bureau (“NCB”). To the Youth of India: 9.14 For youngsters just beginning to explore the world, the consumption of drugs in popular culture has propelled the cultural push towards a dangerous lifestyle, one that incorrigibly applauds drugs use as ‘cool’ and a fashionable display of camaraderie. We implore the youth to take charge of their decisional autonomy and firmly resist peer pressure and desist from emulation of certain personalities who may be indulging in drugs. 9.15 It is sad that vulnerable children turn to drugs as an escapism from emotional distress and academic pressures or due to peer pressure. The unfortunate reality is that victims of substance abuse are not limited to the unfortunate ones who have fallen prey to it but also include their family and peers. Our approach towards the victims of drug abuse must not be to demonize the victims but to rehabilitate them. 9.16 Deep-rooted in our constitutional philosophy and social fabric is the vision to facilitate every citizen to be a constructive citizen, the best they can be. This vision hopes that the State’s obligation is met with a commitment to contribute as constructive citizens to the nation’s development. Part and parcel of this constructive citizenship is the positive aspect of uplifting oneself and those around towards a more participative polity and dynamic economy. Inextricably linked to this commitment is also the negative aspect of constructive citizenship, that is, to actively refrain from contributing against the interest of the community and the nation. It is a need of the times that the 1794 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports end consumers of the illicit drug trade exercise community- friendly decision making and refuse to sustain the bottom-line of drug traffickers. 9.17 The arc and web of drug trade cannot be permitted to corrode the shine of the youth of India! Result of the Case: S pecial leave petition and writ petition dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey