It is true that this Court in its decision rendered in the Main Appeals had not issued any specific direction either to the Borrower or the Subsequent Transferee as regards the handing over of physical possession and the original title deed to the Secured Asset, or the proceedings pending before the DRT in S.A. No. 46 of 2022. However, the same would not mean that the decision of this Court in the Main Appeal was bereft of any direction as to the outcome of its findings. This Court in the operative portion of the Main Appeals stated in unequivocal terms that the confirmation of the sale by Bank under Rule 9(2) of the SARFAESI Rules had vested the petitioner herein with a right to obtain the certificate of sale of the Secured Asset. It further held categorically that the Borrower herein could not have redeemed the mortgage upon publication of the 9th auction notice. Furthermore, this Court explicitly directed the Bank to not only issue the Sale Certificate to the petitioner herein in accordance with Rule 9(6) of the SARFAESI Rules but also directed the refund of the amount [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1731 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. of Rs. 129 crore paid by the Borrower. Moreover, the impugned of the High Court had been set-aside by this Court in toto. As already discussed in paragraph 154, the natural corollary to the aforesaid was that the and dated 21.09.2023 of this Court in Civil Appeals Nos. 5542-5543 of 2023 had held as under: - (i) The auction proceedings and the sale conducted thereto in favour of the petitioner herein pursuant to the 9th auction notice dated 12.06.2023 had been categorically affirmed and upheld. (ii) After having directed the issuance of the Sale Certificate in terms of Rule 9(6) of the SARFAESI Rules, nothing remained thereafter, as issuance of sale certificate is absolute and as such the proceedings before the DRT had been rendered infructuous. (iii) Having directed not only the issuance of the Sale Certificate to the Secured Asset but also the refund of the amount paid by the Borrower, towards redemption of mortgage, necessarily entailed that the Borrower was duty bound to return the possession and title deeds of the secured asset to the Bank for the purpose of handing the same over to the petitioner. (iv) Having set aside the impugned passed by the High Court in toto rendered any and all acts done pursuant thereto as null and void, and the Borrower and the Subsequent Transferee herein were required to get the Release Deed and the Assignment Agreement dated 28.08.2023 cancelled. (v) Having expressly directed the issuance of the Sale Certificate it necessarily excluded all other inconsistent and contrary rights and reliefs including the right to pursue the DRT proceedings in view of the maxim Expressio Unius Est Exclusio Alterius. 205. Where a decision is rendered and the impugned is set-aside, it behoves any logic that an express direction to act must be given in respect of every aspect of the decision.