8. It was further submitted that since the appellants and their son did not succumb to the pressure applied through the complaint and did 1538 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports not favourably respond to the notice of Divorce, another FIR was registered on 25th February 2019 against the son of the appellants for offences punishable under Sections 307, 336 and 427 of the IPC alleging that the son of the appellants had tried to kill her on the road in broad daylight. 9. It was further submitted that these pressure tactics compelled the son of the appellants to cooperate with the complainant and the Divorce for mutual consent was granted on 20th May 2019 by the Family Court at Latur. It was further submitted by Shri Deshpande, that after a bare reading of the allegations levelled in the FIR, they seem to be absurd and are inherently improbable. There is no circumstance where a conclusion can be reached that there is sufficient material to proceed against the appellants. 10. Lastly, it was submitted that the contents of the chargesheet clearly reveal that the appellants herein had no role to play in the miscarriage suffered by the complainant. The Doctor’s statement reproduced in the chargesheet clearly states that the complainant had visited the hospital due to severe abdominal pain and bleeding. The doctor clearly stated that it was possible that the foetus became inanimate due to the abortion pills in the woman’s diet and that seems to be the reason for the excessive bleeding. No opinion was given as to when the pills were ingested and in what form were they ingested, and hence, no role of the appellants herein could be established. 11. Per contra, Shri Samrat Krishnarao Shinde, learned counsel for Respondent No.1-State of Maharashtra submitted that the allegations levelled in the FIR prima facie disclose the commission of offences under Section 498-A, 312, 313 and 34 of the IPC. The complainant was consistently harassed after the birth of the second daughter as the appellants and their son wanted a male child and therefore mental and physical cruelty was inflicted upon the complainant. 12. It was further submitted by Shri Shinde that the appellants herein instigated their son against the complainant and played a major role in the harassment and the cruelty inflicted against the complainant. The appellants herein also played a role in the miscarriage suffered by the complainant. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1539 Digambar and Another v. The State of Maharashtra and Another 13. Shri Shinde further submitted that the reliability and the truthfulness of the allegations cannot be examined at this stage. He submits that the High Court has rightly held that, it cannot be presumed that the complainant must have made false allegations to obtain divorce from the appellants’ son. All of these points must be examined by the competent Trial Court when the trial is being conducted. He therefore submits, that no grounds for interference with the impugned passed by the High Court are made out.