8. We have heard the learned counsel for all the parties and have also perused the material produced on record. The learned counsel for the appellant has contended that the entire trial is held up owing to the pendency of the criminal revision petitions and the Trial Court record being retained with the High Court. They have further brought to the notice of this Court that the matter was being listed before the High Court only after applications for listing were filed on behalf of the present appellant and despite the same it was repeatedly adjourned on the request of the Respondents. It is also the appellant’s contention that the victim’s revision petition was tagged with the revision petitions of the accused persons and thus the same is being used by the accused persons to delay the trial despite their applications lacking any substance. Furthermore, they have contended that the State mechanically granted permission to the Public Prosecutor to withdraw the prosecution against the accused persons. The grant of permission for the withdrawal of prosecution with respect to accused Chhote Singh was also granted by the Trial Court owing to his political standing and for no other cogent reasons. Similarly, other accused persons are also influential people and have succeeded in delaying the trial period for an indefinite period and are continuing to do the same. 9. Learned counsel for Respondent No.1, State of Uttar Pradesh, while admitting that the accused persons have been using several dilatory 820 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports tactics to delay the conclusion of the hearing in the criminal revision petitions, also submitted that the mother of the appellant in one of her applications seeking dismissal of the accused persons’ application under Section 321, CrPC had admitted that after examination of all the witnesses and conclusion of the arguments in Sessions Trial No. 17/1995 the matter was fixed for 26.07.2004 but due to stay of the High Court the could not be pronounced. The State further submitted that it does not have any role in the adjournments which were sought by the accused persons and that they could not stop the accused persons from exercising one of their rights to seek parity with accused Chhote Singh. 10. On the contrary, the learned counsel for Respondent No.2, Chhote Singh, has contended that it is actually the present appellant who has been seeking adjournments and thereby delaying the proceedings in the criminal revision petitions before the High Court. Since the appellant has not approached this Court with clean hands, it is merely on the ground of suppression of fact that the present appeal deserves to be dismissed. 11. It is apparent that this case presents concerning circumstances wherein politically influential individuals, accused of a double murder in broad daylight, have evaded trial for almost three decades. We also acknowledge that it is evident from the Trial Court’s dated 19.05.2012 that political power has been leveraged to secure the withdrawal of prosecution of accused Chhote Singh.