“Intoxicating that the members of the liquors” is only a segment of Constituent Assembly were the “Fermentation Industries”, aware of use of the variants namely, potable alcohol. of alcohol as a raw material There was no intention on in the production of multiple the part of the members of products; the Constituent Assembly to read within the expression “intoxicating liquors” non-potable or “industrial alcohol”. Further, in to have a consistency between what was envisaged under Entry 84 – List I and Entry 51 – List II in the context of alcoholic liquors for human consumption, the taxing Entry in List II which is within the legislative competence of the States follows the regulatory Entry in Entry 8 – List II. Therefore, the use of the expression “industrial alcohol” or non-potable alcohol in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) 2180 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was only to crystallise all variants of alcohol which were non-potable and to distinguish the same from potable alcohol meant only for human consumption as a beverage. g. Entry 8 of List II is based The entire controversy cannot on public interest. It be viewed from the point of view seeks to enhance the of alcohol being used as a raw scope of the entry beyond material and final product such potable alcohol. This is as hand sanitizer containing inferable from the use of alcohol. The potential misuse the phrase ‘intoxicating’ of alcohol cannot be the basis and other accompanying for interpreting an Entry such words in the Entry. Alcohol as Entry 8 – List II. Ultimately, is inherently a noxious the “Fermentation Industries” substance that is prone have to be borne in mind to misuse affecting public which takes within its canvas health at large. Entry 8 only non-potable / “industrial covers alcohol that could alcohol”. The aspect of public be used noxiously to the health having a corelation to detriment of public health. Entry 8 – List II dealing with This includes alcohol “intoxicating liquor” and the such as rectified spirit, misuse of alcohol cannot be ENA and denatured spirit a guide while interpreting the which are used as raw content of the said Entry and materials in the production therefore, its scope and ambit of potable alcohol and being amplified beyond what other products. However, it really envisages as a field it does not include the of legislation for the States to final product (such as legislate upon. a hand sanitiser) that contains alcohol since such an interpretation will substantially diminish the scope of multiple other legislative entries; [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2181 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons h. The in Synthetics The in Synthetics (7J) (supra) is overruled in and Chemicals (7J) need not terms of this ; be overruled in relation to Section 18G of the IDRA and it continues to be good law in the context of what is comprised in the expression “industrial alcohol” and “intoxicating liquors” except what has been clarified above in Entry 8 – List II.