Supreme Court Reports doubt as to who established the educational institution and how it was established, question of piercing of the minority veil does not arise in the absence of any concept of minority when the institution came to be established. One has to understand, in this regard, the purpose for which the minority community is sought to be extended protection post-Constitution era. The dominant purpose is to protect the minority from the domination of the majority. Until independence of India was achieved, irrespective of whether a ‘native’ so called was a Hindu or a Sikh or a Muslim or a Christian or a Jain or a Buddhist or a Zoroastrian, each individual irrespective of his faith was the subject of colonial rule with little freedom. The concept of minority being totally absent in those days, extending the protective umbrella of Article 30 to AMU by proposing to hold that establishment by a minority is the only indicia for a minority educational institution without any indicia as to administration of such institution would be inherently contradictory to the terms of such article and susceptible to invalidity. Formulating indicia now without there being a holistic consideration of all relevant factors ought not to be embarked upon by the Court as a task particularly when earlier benches, including benches larger than this one, have jettisoned the issue. 137. Though schools, colleges and universities are all known to be educational institutions, their purposes and direction are different. Depending upon the areas of focus and emphasis, they vary in importance too. Education remains largely incomplete without a basic bachelor’s degree, which a student obtains by qualifying in the relevant examination conducted by the university to which the college, where he studied, is affiliated. One other major distinguishing feature is the way each institution is created. In the days with which we are concerned, a school or college could be privately created but not a university. To ‘found’ an institution such as a school or a college or a university cannot be equated with its ‘establishment’. Conscious of such limitation, the argument of construing Article 30(1) in a manner such that the verb ‘to establish’ does not call for being read in a narrow and formalistic sense and in its expansive reading ought to take within its fold ‘to found’ would only beg the question that AMU was not established but, at best, found by the Muslim community. 138. The parties having agreed that the words ‘establish’ and ‘administer’ must be read conjunctively, there can be little doubt that administration has to necessarily follow establishment. It is axiomatic that to enjoy [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1915 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. the protection that Article 30(1) guarantees, the right of the minority community to administer an educational institution can be claimed only if the educational institution is established by it. Also, Article 30(1) cannot extend to a situation where the minority community which establishes an educational institution shows no or little intention to administer it.