7. Punctual wound on the right side of leg below the right knee measuring 6 x 5 x 3 cm underlying leg bone fracture. 8. Fracture of 3rd, 4th, 5th ribs on the anterior side on right side of chest wall. All the above injuries are ante mortem in nature.” 16. He further states that, in his opinion cause of death is shock and haemorrhage to the brain due to injury and multiple fracture injuries. 334 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17. Nothing could be elicited in his cross-examination and P.W.12 Dr Balachandra Joshi stood firm on the aspect of the homicidal death of Mahadevappa. 18. As stated above, even the appellants are not seriously disputing the homicidal death of Mahadevappa. Insofar as their presence and active role played by them is concerned, P.W.21 Sangeeta provides all the necessary details in her testimony about the morning incident i.e., prequel and about the actual incident which took place in the evening. Though she was subjected to a detailed cross-examination, her version remains to be unshaken and appears to be a truthful version of the incident. 19. Similarly, P.W.19 Smt. Mallamma, who is the daughter of the deceased Mahadevappa (elder sister of Sangeeta), P.W.22 Sharanappa (s/o Mahadevappa and brother of Sangeeta), P.W.23 Hanumanth (brother of Sangeeta, Mallamma and Sharanappa), also supported the case of prosecution on the aspect of the presence and active role played by the appellants causing the homicidal death of Mahadevappa. 20. P.W.29 – Dr. Basawaswamy, supported the case of the prosecution on the aspect of Sharanappa and Sangeeta receiving the injuries. 21. Dr. Basawaswamy in his testimony states that on 18.02.2009 he examined Sharanappa s/o Mahadevappa who was injured. He came to the hospital with a history of assault and on his examination Dr. Basawswamy noticed the following injuries: 1. “2 x 1 cm incised wound over the dorsal aspect of right little finger bleeding present, margins are clean cut. 2. Swelling present over the dorsa aspect of the right hand. 3. Abrasion over the dorsal aspect of right forearm size 3 x 3 cm. Taken X ray of right hand, crack fracture of 5th metacarpal bone. Wound No.2 is pre4vious in nature, other wounds are simple in nature might have been cause by sharp and blunt object. Age of the injury about less than 4 hours.” [2024] 4 S.C.R. 335 Subhash @ Subanna & Ors. v. State of Karnataka Ministry of Home Affairs 22. Similarly, on the very same day, he examined another injured by name Sangeeta D/o Mahadevapa and noticed the following injuries: 1. “Tenderness present over the left elbow. 2. Contusion over the posterior aspect of lower 1/3rd of left arm measuring 3 x 2 cm. 3. Tenderness present over the left palm. 4. Tenderness present over the posterior aspect of left shoulder. 23. Thus, version of Dr. Basawaswamy supports the case of the prosecution on the aspects i.e., the presence of the prosecution witnesses Sharanappa and Sangeeta on the spot and their attempt to interfere to save their father Mahadevappa from the attack of the accused/appellants, and receiving injuries in that process.