v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. was measured with reference to land revenue which also meant, royalty, lease amount etc., as mentioned in the Explanation. The Division Bench of the High Court also relied on the decision of this Court in HRS Murthy and held that it was not possible to accept the contention of the appellant therein that Section 115 of the said Act read with the Explanation contravened in any manner Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957. 15.3 In the said case, this Court at the outset observed that under the Second Schedule of the MMDR Act, 1957 rates have been provided with regard to the payments of royalty to the Government under the lease deed. Thus, there was an obligation on the lessee to pay rent and other charges mentioned under the clauses of the lease deed and all other Central and State Government dues “except demands for land revenue”. The question which was framed by the seven-judge Bench of this Court was whether cess on royalty was a demand of land revenue or additional royalty. 15.4 As already noted, the aforesaid Explanation added to Section 115 of the said Act by virtue of the Amended Act was to include “royalty, lease amount and other sums payable to the government” in the definition of “land revenue” and also to validate the levy and collection of the cess and surcharge by giving the Explanation a retrospective effect. As a result, the said amendment was intended to bring royalty payable on a mining lease as per Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957 within the Explanation which was the definition of “land revenue” applicable to Section 115 as well as Section 116 of the said Act. 15.5 This Court noted that the appellant, India Cement Limited, was paying royalty which was prescribed under the lease deed as fixed under MMDR Act, 1957 and as per the Rules made thereunder, the same being a Parliamentary Act by which the control of mines and minerals has been taken over by the Union. That the MMDR Act, 1957 is an Act for the regulation of mines and development of the minerals under the control of the Union of India. It was noted that Section 2 of the Act declares that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union of India should take under its control the regulation of mines and the development of the minerals to the extent provided in 1786 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Act. Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957 deals with payment of royalty in respect of mining leases. This Court observed that the MMDR Act, 1957 was passed by virtue of the power of the Parliament under Entry 54 - List I. Since the control of mines and the development of minerals were taken over by Parliament, the question whether the impugned levy or the impost by the State Legislature, under the provision of the State Legislation referred to above, could be justified or sustained either under Entries 49, 50 or 45 - List II was considered.