It cannot be said that the exercise of those powers are free from the zone of judicial review and that there would be no limits to the exercise of such powers, but in normal circumstances, judicial review principles cannot be used to enforce contractual obligations. When that contractual power is being used for public purpose, it is certainly amenable to judicial review. The power must be used for lawful purposes and not unreasonably.” (Emphasis supplied) 51. The decision of this Court in ABL International Ltd. v. Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. reported in (2004) 3 SCC 553 is significant and was the turning point in the scope of judicial review in contractual matters. In this landmark ruling, this Court decisively laid down and approved that a relief against a State or its instrumentalities in matters related to contractual obligations can be sought under the writ jurisdiction. The relevant observations read as under: - “23. It is clear from the above observations of this Court, once the State or an instrumentality of the State is a party of the contract, it has an obligation in law to act fairly, justly and reasonably which is the requirement of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Therefore, if by the impugned repudiation of the claim of the appellants the first respondent as an instrumentality of the State has acted in contravention of the abovesaid requirement of Article 14, then we have no hesitation in holding that a writ court can issue suitable directions to set right the arbitrary actions of the first respondent. xxx xxx xxx 570 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 27. From the above discussion of ours, the following legal principles emerge as to the maintainability of a writ petition: (a) In an appropriate case, a writ petition as against a State or an instrumentality of a State arising out of a contractual obligation is maintainable. (b) Merely because some disputed questions of fact arise for consideration, same cannot be a ground to refuse to entertain a writ petition in all cases as a matter of rule. (c) A writ petition involving a consequential relief of monetary claim is also maintainable.” (Emphasis supplied) 52. At the same time, this Court in ABL (supra) cautioned that the power to issue writs under Article 226 being discretionary and plenary, the same should only be exercised to set right the arbitrary actions of the State or its instrumentality in matters related to contractual obligations. The relevant observations read as under: - “28. However, while entertaining an objection as to the maintainability of a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the court should bear in mind the fact that the power to issue prerogative writs under Article 226 of the Constitution is plenary in nature and is not limited by any other provisions of the Constitution. The High Court having regard to the facts of the case, has a discretion to entertain or not to entertain a writ petition.