The subsequently issued Office dated 24th December, 2003 gave effect to such an intention and declared that from out of the reduced posts of Joint Secretary, one would be manned by an Officer of suitable rank from the Bihar Administrative Service, one from the Ministerial Officer of the Board Secretariat Cadre and the third from the Engineering Cadre. 29. In the instant case, records reveal that there was no vacancy to the post of Under Secretary in the appellant-Board on the said post being reduced from six to three. This step was taken by the Board due to administrative exigencies. We do not find any infirmity in the said decision. Even otherwise, assuming that there was a vacancy to the subject posts, it would not have automatically created a valuable right in favour of the respondent for claiming retrospective promotion to the next higher post. It is only when an actual vacancy arose that the respondent was granted the benefit of accelerated promotion and that too on going through the prescribed process. CONCLUSION 30. Given the above legal position, in our view, the Division Bench of the High Court ought to have refrained from interfering with the findings returned by the learned Single Judge who has rightly held that merely because the respondent had completed the Kal Awadhi for promotion from the post of Under Secretary to Joint Secretary, would not necessarily entitle him for appointment from the date the post fell vacant. This is not a case where the respondent has been deprived of promotion to the next higher post, nor is it a case where the action of the Board was guided by any malafides or colourable exercise of power. As noted above, the action of the Board was purely guided by administrative exigencies. The Resolution of the Board dated 26th December, 1991 for fixing the Kal Awadhi was only directory in nature and cannot be treated as statutory for the respondent to have claimed an entitlement to promotion reckoned from 29th July, 1997, instead of 5th March, 2003. Such a view is in consonance with the settled legal position and cannot be faulted. 780 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 31. Accordingly, the present appeal succeeds. For the reasons stated aforesaid, the impugned dated 20th October 2011 is set aside and the dated 3rd October, 2007 passed by the learned Single Judge is restored. Parties are left to bear their own expenses. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi jain