29 For short- ‘the Board’. 154 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS 15. The Liquidation Regulations have been framed in exercise of powers conferred on the Board by Sections 5, 33, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 43, 45, 49, 50, 51, 52, 54, 196 and 208 read with Section 240 of the IBC. Notwithstanding the omission in the Liquidation Regulations to refer to Section 36(4) of the IBC, set-off on account of mutual dealings is permitted in terms of Regulation 29 of the Liquidation Regulations. The sums due mutually can be set off to arrive at the net amount payable to the corporate debtor or the other party. The exclusion will result in reduction of the liquidation estate and therefore has consequences as noticed above. In the present case, we are not concerned with what is to be included and is a part, or not a part of the liquidation estate. 16. The expression ‘mutual dealings’ is the condition to be satisfied for insolvency set-off under Regulation 29. We will examine what is meant by the expression ‘mutual dealings’, and how insolvency set-off is different from contractual, statutory and equitable set-off. 17. Insolvency set-off under the United Kingdom insolvency law was examined in Re. : Bank of Credit and Commerce International SA (No. 8) 30, to imply that the set-off must relate to dealings prior to bankruptcy. It states in explicit terms that the requirement of mutuality is central to bankruptcy set-off and must be rigorously enforced. It is held that it is not the function of an insolvency set-off to confer a benefit to a debtor who has not been a part of mutual dealings, or to give preference to a creditor who has secondary or no liability. The insolvency set-off regime in the United Kingdom is wider than statutory/legal set-off or equitable set-off. However, there is a requirement that the debt should have been provable in the insolvency process. 17.1 An earlier decision in Stein v. Blake31 had held that the bankruptcy set-off applies to all claims from mutual credits or dealings prior to bankruptcy, including claims, which at the time of bankruptcy were due but not payable, unascertained or contingent. This is supplemented by the United Kingdom insolvency set-off regime permitting the estimation of liabilities and calculation of trends. The parties are not required at any 30 [1996] Ch. 245. (Appeal Committee of the House of Lords) 31 [1996] A.C. 243. (House of Lords) [2024] 1 S.C.R. 155 BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED AND ANOTHER v. VIJAYKUMAR V. IYER AND OTHERS particular time to meet and calculate the extent of each other’s liabilities. Further, the account is a deemed account by which the claim and counterclaim are automatically reduced to a net balance. The original choses in action, that is, the claim and the counterclaim, are in effect replaced by a claim to a net balance. We must also note that the provisions of Section 323 of the Insolvency Act, 1986, as applicable in the United Kingdom uses the expressions “mutual credits, mutual debts, or other mutual dealings between the bankrupt and any creditor of the bankrupt, proving or claiming to prove for a bankruptcy debt.” Further, Rule 2.85 of the Insolvency Rules, 1986, applicable to the administration, which is similar to the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process, states that at the time of distribution, only the balance (if any) of the account held by the creditor is provable in the administration.