Except for when there are legal impediments, such property shall be auctioned without any delay, and the Petitioners or the authorised representatives of their Companies will execute the necessary documents, including sale deeds, in such cases also. Secretarial cum Administrative requirements 10. With respect to the administrative or secretarial assistance that is necessitated in the course of dealing with these directions, the following may be adhered to: (i) SEBI will assist HPSC in the opening of its office, for the purpose of overall coordination and receiving correspondence from the stakeholders. HPSC will also arrange other infrastructure and 742 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports may engage secretarial assistance as may be necessary for its smooth functioning. If the SEBI has any adequate office space and infrastructure at a place where the HPSC decides to set up its Principal Office, SEBI may provide the same without prejudice to its right to recover user charges, which will be determined by the HPSC; (ii) Needless to say, the office space shall be sufficient for carrying out meetings, sitting of secretarial services, maintenance of records, etc. ; (iii) The HPSC shall open a dedicated website for the auction / e-auction/advertisement / refund process etc. ; (iv) The claims / objections / representations etc., as may be received by HPSC shall also be disposed of at its end; (v) The HPSC shall fix a time line for every action and endeavour to conclude the sale process as early as possible and within the time frame so determined; and (vi) We will at this stage request the HPSC to make an endeavour to conclude the entire process within one year. Remuneration 11. Finally, keeping in mind the distinct responsibilities and obligations to be shouldered by the HPSC, it is imperative to also address the remuneration of the learned Chairperson along with all the members. In this regard, learned Senior counsel for the parties have referred to two s passed by this Court as ‘guidelines’. The first is dated 4th May, 2022 passed in Writ Petition (C) No.995 of 2019 (National Spot Exchange Ltd. v. Union of India & Ors.) wherein, a ‘Supreme Court Committee’ headed by a former Chief Justice of the High Court was constituted for the purpose of sale of the attached properties and disbursement of sale proceeds amongst the investors. This Court, instead of fixing the honorarium, observed that “the learned Judge will fix his own fee”. The second dated 29th March, 2023 was passed in I.A. No.56308 of 2023 in Writ Petition (C) No.191 of 2022 (Pinak Pani Mohanty v. Union of India & Ors.) wherein also a High-Powered Committee headed by a former Judge of this Court was constituted to supervise and monitor the disbursement of an amount of Rs. 5000 crores to the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 743 Balasaheb Keshawrao Bhapkar & Ors. v. Securities and Exchange Board of India & Ors. depositors of the Sahara Group of Co-operative Societies. In that case, an honorarium of Rs. 15 lakhs per month was ed to be paid to the learned former Judge of this Court, besides Rs.