The absence of the expression “State Government” and the use in its place of the expression “State” in Article 131, is said to furnish intrinsic evidence that for a suit to fall under that article, the dispute must arise between the Government of India and a State, not between the Government of India and the Government of a State. The intrinsic evidence, it is argued, assumes greater credibility in the context that the article does employ the expression “Government of India” when what was meant was the government, as contra distinguished from the State. The presence of the particular expressions in Article 131 does not, in my opinion, support the inference suggested on behalf of the Union of India. The use of the phrase “Government of India” in Article 131(a) and (b) does not mean that one party to the dispute has to be the Government of the day at the Centre. “Government of India” means “Union of India” because if there be merit in the logic that Article 131 does not comprehend disputes in which the Government of a State as contrasted with the State itself is interested, it must follow that correspondingly, the “Government of India” too cannot mean the Government for the time being in power at the Centre. The true construction of Article 131(a), true in substance and true pragmatically, is that a dispute must arise between the Union of India and a State. 109. This may sound paradoxical because if the preliminary objection is unsustainable, it would be easier to say that the expression “Government of India” means “Government in office” and the expression “State” means the State as a polity and not “the Government in Office”. But convenient interpretations are apt to blur the significance of issues involved for interpretations. Therefore, the effort has to be to accept what the words truly mean and to work out the constitutional scheme as it may reasonably be assumed to have been conceived. 110. The dispute between the Union of India and a State cannot but be a dispute which arises out of the differences between the Government in office at the Centre and the Government in office in the State. “In [2024] 7 S.C.R. 697 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India office” means “in power” but the use of the latter expression may prudently be avoided with the realisation of what goes with power. But there is a further prerequisite which narrows down the ambit of the class of disputes which fall within Article 131. That requirement is that the dispute must involve a question, whether of law or fact, on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends. It is this qualification which affords the true guide for determining whether a particular dispute is comprehended within Article 131. Mere wrangles between governments have no place in the scheme of that article. They have to be resolved elsewhere and by means less solemn and sacrosanct than a court proceeding. The purpose of Article 131 is to afford a forum for the resolution of disputes which depend for their decision on the existence or extent of a legal right.