(b) Supervisory staff of the rank of Junior Station Incharge and above on the traffic side; (c) Technical staff of the rank of Junior Foreman and above on the engineer side; The above three categories of Roadways staff will continue to be treated as regular government servants and will be [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1379 U.P. Roadways Retired Officials and Officers Association v. State of U.P. & Anr. entitled to the benefits admissible to any other government servant of the same category. 3. The Roadways and Central Workshop employees to whom the revised service rules are being made applicable shall be entitled to the provident fund benefits according to the provisions of the Employees Provident Fund Act. For this necessary s have already been issued separately in G.O. No. 1488-D/XXX 2198/59 dated July, 29, 1960. Immediate step may please be taken for the implementation of the s issued in the above G.O. The employees governed by the new terms and conditions of service will continue to get facilities for medical treatment so far enjoyed by them. All future entrants shall also be entitled to facilities for medical treatment admissible to Government servants. The canteen and rest house facilities as may be prescribed by government shall also be made available to them in course of time. 4. These shall come into force w.e.f. October 1, 1960 and shall apply to all future entrants in the service of the Roadways organization and also the existing temporary employees who accept to continue to work on the revised terms and conditions of service. The status of Roadways employees already made permanent remains unaffected. All the existing temporary employees except those mentioned in para 2 above may be asked to indicate in writing if the new service conditions mentioned above are acceptable to them. Those who accept the new terms and conditions of service will be required to fill in a separate acceptance for which will be kept with their service records. If, however, any of the employees do not accept the new terms their services are to be terminated in accordance with the terms of their employment. I am to suggest that the implications of the revised s may be explained to all concerned by the General Managers and Asstt. General Mangers and Chief Mechanical Engineer and that necessary action may please be intimated forthwith in to implement the above s.” (Emphasis supplied) 1380 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. Thereafter another GO was issued on 28.10.1960 providing for pension to the permanent employees of the Roadways. This GO was issued under Note 3 of Article 350 of the Regulations. We shall first reproduce Article 350 of the Regulations and thereafter GO dated 28.10.1960: “350. All establishments whether temporary or permanent, shall be deemed to be pensionable establishments; Provided that it is open to the State Government to rule that the service in any establishment does not qualify for pension. 1. Service in Dak Bungalow and District Garden Establishments does not qualify. 2.