On the contrary, the guidelines/instructions for recruitments under the enrollment/recruitment in Paragraph 7 clearly mentions about open category recruitment. It reads thus: 248 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “7. Open Category: In case of Additional vacancies for recruitment available with Regimental Centre open category of personnel based on merit may be taken provided they meet the ___________.” 16. A simple reading of the above Paragraph 7 clearly belies the stand taken by the defence that the above enrollment/recruitment was only meant for the relatives of the servicemen/ex-servicemen and was not open for the general category. 17. The appellants have brought on record zerox copies of their applications submitted for the purposes of enrollment/recruitment. In Part-II of the application(s) under the heading ‘Documentation’ they have not claimed status of a relative of servicemen/ex-servicemen, NCC, Sports persons rather they have clearly stated to be of general category. The application(s) nowhere mentions that they have produced any relationship certificate(s). The application(s) thus clearly establishes that the appellants appear to have applied as a general category candidate(s) against the surplus seats/vacancies remaining unfilled after considering the priority/reserved quota for relatives of servicemen/ex-servicemen, etc. In such a situation, when they have not claimed any enrollment/recruitment on the basis of relationship with servicemen/ex-servicemen, obviously there was no occasion for them to submit any relationship certificate. 18. In response to the show cause notice which stated that the appellants have obtained enrollment/recruitment on false relationship certificates which on verification have been confirmed to be fake, the appellants have denied producing any such certificates as they never applied under any priority category as a relative of servicemen/ ex-servicemen but in the general category. The discharge certificate simply states that the appellants are dismissed from service under the s of Commandant for the reason of obtaining enrollment/ recruitment by fraudulent means referring to submission of fake relationship certificates. The of the Commandant states that at the time of enrollment/recruitment in December, 2009 under the Unit Headquarters Quota at the Maratha Light Infantry Regimental Centre, the relationship certificates of the appellants upon verification from records have been found to be manipulated and false. Therefore, the appellants had obtained enrollment/recruitment by fraudulent means and their services are liable to be terminated. Accordingly, the appellants were dismissed. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 249 No.2809759H Ex-Recruit Babanna Machched v. Union of India and Ors. 19. In the above discharge certificate or the of the Commandant, there is no whisper that any inquiry was conducted to ascertain or find out as to whether the appellants had actually produced relationship certificates for the purposes of enrollment/recruitment in the Army. No finding has been recorded by the respondents that the appellants had as of fact, produced such certificates or that their explanation claiming that no such certificates were furnished by them is completely false. In effect, the authorities have not dealt with the above explanations/claims of the appellants. 20. A reading of the of the Tribunal also shows that the above aspect or the contention of the appellants was not dealt with by the Tribunal.