[2024] 2 S.C.R. 1054 : 2024 INSC 177 M. Vijayakumar v. State of Tamil Nadu (Criminal Appeal No. 1078 of 2024) 21 February 2024 [C.T. Ravikumar* and Rajesh Bindal, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Prosecution, if succeeded in establishing that there was mens rea on the part of the appellant to commit the offence rather to push the victim to commit suicide and to attract the offence u/s. 306, IPC. Headnotes Penal Code, 1860 – s. 306 – Abetment of suicide – Conviction u/s. 306, when sustainable – Prosecution case that the appellant and others abducted and wrongful confined the victim for repayment of the balance amount and the inability to withstand the torment, he committed suicide – Conviction of the appellant u/ss. 306, 342 and 365 by the trial court, however, the High Court acquitted him for the offence u/ss. 342 and 365 but upheld conviction for the offence u/s. 306 – Sustainability: Held: One has to consider the mens rea of the accused/convict to bring about suicide of the victim – It requires an active act or direct act which led the victim to commit suicide seeing no option; and the act must have been of such a degree intending to push the deceased into such a position that he/she committed suicide – Gravamen of the offence punishable u/s. 306, is abetting suicide – Abetment imposes a mental process of instigating a person or initially aiding a person in doing the offence – Evidence of the prosecution witness did not reveal existence of the element of mens rea on the part of the appellant abetting the deceased to commit suicide – There is nothing in their oral testimonies which would suggest that the appellant had instigated the deceased to commit suicide – Though the prosecution got a case that one person had witnessed the appellant taking the victim and wrongfully confining him in the said shop, the said person was not examined by the prosecution – At any rate, the fact is that the appellant was * Author [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1055 M. Vijayakumar v. State of Tamil Nadu already acquitted for the offence u/s. 342 and 365 IPC – s. 106 of the Evidence Act cannot be used to shift the burden of proving the offence from the prosecution to the accused – High Court erred in applying s. 106 – Thus, there is absolute absence of any basis for its application against the appellant in view of the evidence on record – Prosecution miserably failed to establish that the appellant had abetted the victim to commit suicide – Conviction of the appellant u/s. 306, IPC cannot be sustained – Appellants conviction u/s. 306 quashed and set aside and he is acquitted. [Paras 14, 17-22] Criminal law – Mens rea – Meaning of: Held: Mens rea means a guilty mind – As a general rule, every crime requires a mental element, the nature of which, will depend upon definition of the particular crime in question – Although it is impossible to ascribe any particular meaning to the term ‘mens rea’ as the circumstance to determine the existence of mens rea depends upon the ingredients constituting the particular offence and the expression used in the definition of the particular offence to constitute such offence.