In Malpe Vishwanath Acharya v. State of Maharashtra reported in (1998) 2 SCC 1, a three-Judge Bench of this Court considered the validity of determination of standard rent by freezing or pegging down the rent as on 01.09.1940 or as on the date of first letting, under Sections 5(10)(b), 7, 9(2)(b) and 12(3) respectively of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947. It was held that the said process of determination under the said Act, which was reasonable when the law was made, became arbitrary and unreasonable with the passage of time in view of constant escalation of prices due to inflation and corresponding rise in money value. The relevant extracts are as follows: - “29. Insofar as social legislation, like the Rent Control Act is concerned, the law must strike a balance between 1198 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports rival interests and it should try to be just to all. The law ought not to be unjust to one and give a disproportionate benefit or protection to another section of the society. When there is shortage of accommodation it is desirable, nay, necessary that some protection should be given to the tenants in to ensure that they are not exploited. At the same time such a law has to be revised periodically so as to ensure that a disproportionately larger benefit than the one which was intended is not given to the tenants” (Emphasis supplied) 136. In State of M.P. v. Bhopal Sugar Industries Ltd., reported in 1964 SCC OnLine SC 121, a five-Judge Bench of this Court was hearing a challenge to the Bhopal State Agricultural Income Tax Act, 1953 on the ground that it was applicable only within the territory of the former State of Bhopal and not in the rest of the territories of Madhya Pradesh. This Court while remanding the case to the High Court, observed that a provision introduced to achieve a temporary objective, could not be allowed to assume permanency. The relevant observations read as under: - “6. The reorganized State of Madhya Pradesh was formed by combining territories of four different regions. Shortly after reorganisation, the Governor of the State issued the Madhya Pradesh Adaptation of Laws (State and Concurrent Subjects) , 1956, so as to make certain laws applicable uniformly to the entire State and later the legislature by the Madhya Pradesh Extension of Laws Act, 1958, made other alterations in the laws applicable to the State. But Bhopal remained unamended and unaltered : nor was its operation extended to other areas or regions in the State. Continuance of the laws of the old region after the reorganisation by Section 119 of the States Reorganisation Act was by itself not discriminatory even though it resulted in differential treatment of persons, objects and transactions in the new State, because it was intended to serve a dual purpose — facilitating the early formation of homogeneous units in the larger interest of the Union, and maintaining even while merging its political identity in the new unit, the distinctive character of each region, till uniformity of laws was secured in those [2024] 10 S.C.R.