Therefore, the High Court is required to inform on its compliance alone. (iii) In terms of directions contained in para 100.8 and 100.9, though the High Court has endeavoured to identify prisoners who are unable to comply with the bail conditions and is stated to have informed them about their rights under Section 440 of CrPC, however, subsequently no bail applications were received under Section 440 of CrPC in most districts. Therefore, the High Court is required to inform on its compliance alone. (iv) In terms of directions contained in para 100.11, there is partial non-compliance in some districts as regular bail applications are not decided within two weeks. Therefore, the needful be done in this regard and compliance be ensured. The relevant information should also be furnished. (v) To furnish information on whether the directions of Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC or not. 35. State of Uttar Pradesh -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1113 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) In terms of the above referred , we direct the State to ensure that the prosecutors are stating the correct position of law as per the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). (b) To circulate the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). (c) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 35.1 High Court of Allahabad -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of the compliance of the directions issued in Para 100.2, the affidavit submitted highlights discrepancy, wherein information highlights compliance of Sections 41 and 41-A of CrPC, however, bail is being granted due to non-compliance of the same in certain districts such as Barabanki, Farrukhabad, Kansiram Nagar, Lakhimpur Kheri, and Moradabad. Since the two conditions cannot co-exist, the High Court is directed to ensure uniform compliance and furnish information on the same. (ii) In terms of the directions issued in Para 100.5, the High Court is directed to ensure compliance to the effect that bail applications should not be insisted upon in applications under Sections 88, 170, 204 and 209 of CrPC as they are being insisted upon in certain districts such Agra, Chitrakoot and Sambhal, and to furnish information on the same.