8. The appellant - Khunjamayum Bimoti Devi and others moved the High Court challenging the selection process. Besides other petitions, the challenge was also made, inter-alia, through the W.P (C) No.815 of 2011 and W.P(C) No.127 of 2012. These writ petitions were taken up for consideration and the learned Judge of the High Court through the common dated 6.10.2015, concluded as follows:- [2024] 10 S.C.R. 23 Khunjamayum Bimoti Devi v. The State of Manipur & Ors. “[9] In the present case, the selection process can be divided into two parts - one, the part relating to the written examination being conducted by the Board and the second, the rest of the selection process till the end. The first part is the responsibility of the Board and its role was limited to the conduct of written examination only and the moment the result thereof was declared, its role came to an end and it had nothing to do with the rest of the selection process. There is no material on record to show that the Board was instructed by the State Government not to destroy the answer scripts till the completion of the selection process. As has been stated in its affidavit which is not controverted by the petitioners, the Board in its normal course disposes of answer scripts after three months from the date of declaration of result thereof. In the absence of any instruction from the State Government, the Board was not supposed to and could not be expected to keep the answer scripts un-destroyed or preserved for indefinite period when it was not sure as to when the selection process would be completed by the DPC. In the present case, one year after which the Board destroyed the answer scripts, is reasonable time for keeping the answer scripts un-destroyed or preserved. It is understandable if the Board was entrusted to complete the entire selection process but it was not so in the present case. Therefore, keeping in mind the peculiar facts and circumstances, there is no reason as to why this court ought to interfere with the written examination being conducted by the Board, when there was no grievance from any of the unsuccessful candidates against the Board except only the fact that the answer scripts were destroyed before the completion of the selection process which was not in its control and the reasons as to why the answer scripts were to be destroyed, have been narrated above. As regards the interview also, there appears to be no allegation/complain from any of the unsuccessful candidates raising objection against the DPC. The petitioners have not stated in their petition anything about the irregularities, manipulation, arbitrariness committed by the DPC in the viva-voce test. When the 24 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports select list came to be published in the newspaper, the public suspected the genuineness of it and therefore, it attracted the attention of the Cabinet which directed to constitute a Committee to look into it. At that point of time also, there is no material on record to show that any one demanded that the viva-voce be repeated in the interest of public.