[2024] 11 S.C.R. 739 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures S.No. TOPIC/ ISSUE COUNSEL’S/ SUMMARY OF SUGGESTIONS PARTY NAME 3. PROPOSED Mr. C.U. Singh, The authority shall in the meanwhile also ACTION Sr. Adv. and consider the nature and extent of unauthorized SHOULD BE Ms. Fauzia construction, if the unauthorized construction PROPORTIONAL Shakil, Adv. can be regularized or compounded on TO THE payment of fee/penalty under applicable law. VIOLATION If yes, then the owner shall be intimated of such avenue and provided some reasonable time, not being less than 4 weeks, to avail the option. In case the breaches are technical and inconsequential in character, and the house/ commercial establishment can be saved by removing the offending part, the owner may be permitted to remove the encroachment and save the building. The administrative action should be proportional to the alleged breach and demolition should be the last option. 4. / Mr. C.U. Singh, Authority’s Satisfaction and Demolition NOTICE OF Sr. Adv. and : After considering the owner’s reply, DEMOLITION Ms. Fauzia written explanation, and physical hearing, Shakil, Adv. if the authority is satisfied that there are violations beyond condonable limits or cannot be regularized, an for demolition may be made. Relevant Details in the Demolition : ● The demolition must state reasons for the proposed action and mention the proposed demolition date. A minimum of 8 weeks must be given from the service of the , allowing the owner time to approach the courts, remove belongings, and arrange alternate accommodation. ● The head of the authority’s department must record satisfaction, certify compliance with guidelines, and ensure the action is taken in good faith. Service of Demolition : The service of the demolition should follow the same procedure as the show cause notice. Ms. Nitya If, after the abovementioned inquiry, the / Ramakrishnan, appropriate authority decides that the NOTICE OF Sr. Adv. demolition of the offending part or the whole DEMOLITION of the building/ development/ structure it will issue an affording the owner/occupier to demolish the offending portions within 30 (thirty) days failing which it will issue a notice of demolition in the manner explained hereunder. 740 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports S.No. TOPIC/ ISSUE COUNSEL’S/ SUMMARY OF SUGGESTIONS PARTY NAME Personal Service of Demolition Notice: The demolition notice must be served personally on the owner/occupier by a Nodal officer, appointed in each state for serving and implementing such s, ensuring adherence to timelines. Period for Appeal and Legal Recourse: The notice must state a period for appeal and legal recourse, which shall not be less than 60 days. Additional Publication Requirements: The demolition notice must also be pasted on the property and published in three newspapers (Hindi, English, and a third language). The newspaper notice needs to include only the owner’s/occupier’s name, property address, and a link to a website where the full notice with a timestamp is uploaded. Scope of Demolition: No demolition shall extend beyond the portion deemed illegal. Any excess demolition will require compensation as per Part C of these guidelines.