The same are extracted as under: “8. Production:- Production in which genetically engineered organisms or cells or micro-organism are generated or used shall not be commenced except with the consent of Genetic Engineering Approval Committee with respect of discharge of genetically engineered organisms or cells into the environment. This shall also apply to production taking place in connection with development, testing and experiments where such production, etc., is not subject to rule 7. x x x [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2067 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 11. Permission and Approval for Food Stuffs:- Food stuffs, ingredients in food stuffs and additives including processing and containing or consisting of genetically engineered organisms or cells, shall not be produced, sold, imported or used except with the approval of the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee.” 25.5 The guidelines and grant of approval are as per Rules 12 and 13, which read as under: “12. Guidelines:- (1) Any person who applies for approval under rules 8-11 shall, as determined by the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee submit information and make examinations or cause examinations to be made to elucidate the case, including examinations according to specific directions and at specific laboratories. He shall also make available an on-site emergency plan to GEAC before obtaining the approval. If the authority makes examination itself, it may the applicant to defray the expenses incurred by it in so doing. (2) Any person to whom an approval has been granted under rules 8-11 above shall notify the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee of any change in or addition to the information already submitted. 13. Grant of Approval:- (1) In connection with the granting of approval under rules 8 to 11 above, terms and conditions shall be stipulated, including terms and conditions as to the control to be exercised by the applicant, supervision, restriction on use, the layout of the enterprise and as to the submission of information to the State Biotechnology Coordination Committee or to the District Level Committee. (2) All approvals of the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee shall be for a specific period not exceeding four year at the first instance renewable for 2 years at a time. The Genetic Engineering Approval Committee shall have powers to revoke such approval in the following situations:- 2068 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (a) If there is any new information as to the harmful effects of the genetically engineered organisms or cells. (b) If the genetically engineered organisms or cells cause such damage to the environment, nature or health as could not be envisaged when the approval was given, or (c) Non compliance of any condition stipulated by Genetic Engineering Approval Committee.” Regulatory Framework: 26. MoEF&CC is the nodal ministry for regulation of GMOs including GE plants. 1989 Rules under the EP Act, 1986 provide the statutory scheme for regulation of GE technologies. The 1989 Rules are implemented by the MoEF&CC, the DBT, Ministry of Science & Technology and State Governments. 26.1 The following authorities/committees are created under the 1989 Rules: (i) Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee (RDAC): The RDAC is involved in reviewing the developments in biotechnology, both at national as well as international levels, and recommending safety regulations as per the indigenous requirements of our country in recombinant research, use and applications from time to time.