It can be seen that scores of slum schemes have remained incomplete for years together and are languishing on such issues, either in litigation before Courts and/or before the authorities. These schemes need not face such ordeal, including of an unending litigation. To change the developer is no answer as even this process involves dispute resolution and ultimately lengthy litigation from one forum to another.” 33.1. Further, referring to the statutory scheme, as per which development is possible only when the slum dwellers feel the need and seek development, the High Court pointed out yet another problem about the statutory framework in the following terms; “…It cannot be countenanced that the slums be redeveloped only when the slum dwellers feel the need of a redevelopment and the Government Authorities cannot initiate redevelopment and cannot initiate a suo motu action in that behalf. It is hence, for the Government and the Slum Authority to give its anxious consideration to these [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1471 Yash Developers v. Harihar Krupa Co-Operative Housing Society Limited & Ors. issues and in its wisdom to device a substantial, nay a full proof mechanism, by undertaking a study and identify these grey areas, so that the helping hand as extended by the legislature in providing this beneficial law as far back in 1971 that is almost 50 years back is held strongly and firmly by all concerned. It is never too late.” 34. The exasperation of the High Court about working of the Act is understandable. The present appeal is a classic example of why the High Court’s concern is genuine. It has been noticed that the statutory scheme is problematic with respect to: i) Identification and declaration of land as a slum. This problem involves an examination of the role of authorities in giving such recognition, insidious intervention of builders in the said process cast doubts on the independence and integrity in the decision-making process; ii) Identification of slum dwellers: This involves a complicated process of proof of such a status, the attendant problem of groupism, giving rise to competing claims inevitably leading to litigation; iii) Selection of a developer: The Act leaves this decision to the cooperative society of slum dwellers and the majority decision is manipulated by competing and rival developers; iv) Apportionment of the slum land between redevelopment area and sale area: This is yet another area where court has witnessed developers seeking to increase the proportion of the sale area, leading to contestation; v) Obligation to provide transit accommodation for the slum dwellers pending redevelopment: Invariably, we see instances where the developer does not provide transit accommodation within time or provides an inadequate alternative in the form of a quantified amount towards rent, On the other hand, there are instances where some slum dwellers refuse to vacate the premises on the ground that the transit accommodation is either inconvenient or the amount offered is insufficient; vi) There are also issues of lack of independence and objectivity in the functioning of statutory authorities: This is a matter of serious concern.