The next morning i.e. 20th May, 1990, while he was carrying out his daily chores, he saw Sukhpal’s cycle parked in the courtyard and presumed that he and Usha were inside the house. He did not see any movement in the house for the entire day and even at about 5.30 p.m., he saw the cycle of Sukhpal parked at the same place but neither Sukhpal nor Usha were to be seen. So, he called out from outside, but nobody responded, on which he went into the room and found Usha lying dead on a cot. Sukhpal was not present there. He informed the neighbours who, in turn, called the police. He bore a suspicion that Sukhpal (appellant herein) might have killed Usha sometime during the night and had fled away. This statement was taken as a complaint and based thereupon, FIR No. 213 of 1990 (Exhibit PW-13/F) came to be registered at P.S. Bhajanpura for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC. 7. The dead body of Usha was subjected to autopsy and the post mortem report (Exhibit PW-15/A) was received with a pertinent opinion that cause of death was “Asphyxia resulting from manual strangulation”. A confession letter/note (Exhibit PW-12/E) was found below the cot where the dead body was lying and it was seized vide memorandum (Exhibit PW-13/B) and spot inspection memo (Exhibit PW-12/B) was prepared. 8. The Investigating Officer (PW-13) collected two letters (Exhibit PW- 12/C and PW-12/D) purportedly written by the accused appellant from the employer namely Sanjiv Jain (PW-8). Specimen Pad (Exhibit PW-13/O) of the employer was also collected and seized vide memorandum (Exhibit P-13/N). 9. The prosecution alleges that the accused appellant fled away from the crime scene. Efforts were made to trace him out without any 320 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports success and thus proceedings under Section 82 and Section 83 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter being referred to as ‘CrPC’) were initiated against him. The accused appellant was declared to be a proclaimed offender and a charge sheet came to be filed against him under Section 299 CrPC by showing him to be an absconder. As per the prosecution case, the complainant Ashok Kumar Pathak, Head Constables Mohan Lal and Surender Kumar and Inspector Bal Kishan were examined on oath in proceedings under Section 299 CrPC and the file was consigned to the record room. 10. The accused appellant could be apprehended on 9th August, 2000 i.e. nearly after ten years of the incident. He gave a disclosure statement pointing out the place of incident. His specimen handwritings (Exhibits PW-5/D, 5/E and 5/F) were obtained while he was in police custody. Thereafter, the confession note (Exhibit PW-12/E), the specimen handwritings (Exhibits PW-5/D, PW-5/E and PW-5/F) along with admitted handwritings (Exhibits PW-12/C and PW-12/D) (collected from the employer of accused appellant) were sent to FSL for comparison. The handwriting expert (PW-24) issued a report (Exhibit PW-12/F) opining that the confession letter/note (recovered from the crime scene) was in the handwriting of the accused appellant.