13. The argument advanced on behalf of the respondent mixes up the two rights given under Art. 22(5) and converts it into one indivisible right. We are unable to read Art. 22(5) in that way. As pointed out above, the two rights are connected by the word “and”. Furthermore, the use of the words “as soon as may be” with the obligation to furnish the grounds of the of detention, and the fixing of another time limit, viz., the earliest opportunity, for making the representation, makes the two rights distinct. The second right, as it is a right of objection, has to depend first on the service of the 276 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports grounds on which the conclusion i.e. satisfaction of the Government about the necessity of making the , is based. To that extent and that extent alone, the two are connected. But when grounds which have a rational connection with the ends mentioned in S. 3 of the Act are supplied, the first condition is satisfied. If the grounds are not sufficient to enable the detenu to make a representation, the detenu can rely on his second right and if he likes may ask for particulars which will enable him to make the representation. On an infringement of either of these two rights the detained person has a right to approach the Court and complain that there has been an infringement of his fundamental right and even if the infringement of the second part of the right under Art. 22(5) is established he is bound to be released by the Court. To treat the two rights mentioned in Art. 22(5) as one is neither proper according to the language used, nor according to the purpose for which the rights are given. ××× ××× ××× 16. This detailed examination shows that preventive detention is not by itself considered an infringement of any of the fundamental rights mentioned in Part III of the Constitution. This is, of course, subject to the limitations prescribed in clause (5) of Art. 22. That clause, as noticed above, requires two things to be done for the person against whom the is made. By reason of the fact that cl. (5) forms part of Part III of the Constitution, its provisions have the same force and sanctity as any other provision relating to fundamental rights. As the clause prescribes two requirements, the time factor in each case is necessarily left fluid. While there is the duty on the part of the detaining authority to furnish grounds and the duty to give the detained person the earliest opportunity to make a representation which obligations, as shown above, are correlated, there exists no express provision contemplating a second communication from the detaining authority to the person detained. This is because in several cases a [2024] 1 S.C.R. 277 Sarfaraz Alam V. Union of India & Ors. second communication may not be necessary at all. The only thing which emerges from the discussion is that while the authorities must discharge the duty in furnishing grounds for the of detention “as soon as may be” and also provide “the earliest opportunity to the detained person to make the representation”, the number of communications from the detaining authority to the detenu may be one or more and they may be made at intervals, provided the two parts of the aforesaid duty are discharged in accordance with the wording of cl.