160 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Even a private industry may be for a national need and may serve common good. Even a medical clinic, legal aid bureau, engineering consultant’s office, private ambulance garage, pharmacist’s shop or even a funeral home may be a public utility. Professions for the people, trade at the service of the community and industry in the strategic sector of the nation’s development may well be in private hands in the transitional stage of our pluralist economy undergoing a fabian transformation. Why should lands allotted to such private industries or professionals be condemned? The touchstone is public purpose, community good and like criteria. If the power is used for favouring a private industrialist or for nepotistic reasons the oblique act will meet with its judicial waterloo. To presume as probable graft, nepotism, patronage, political clout, friendly pressure or corrupt purpose is impermissible. […].” 187. The next decision that is relevant to the interpretation of Article 39(b) is Sanjeev Coke – a decision of a Constitution Bench of five judges of this Court. As noted earlier in this judgement, the observations of this Court in this case have been specifically doubted in the reference s before us. This Court was adjudicating on the constitutionality of the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972, which provided for the acquisition of coking coal mines, along with their coking oven plants. In addition to these coking oven plants, twelve coking oven plants which were owned by independent persons, such as the petitioners, were also nationalised under the legislation. The petitioners contended that the legislation violated Article 14 as other coking oven plants were not being nationalised, although they were similarly placed. The Union of India defended the legislation on its merits and also argued that the legislation was protected by Article 31-C as it gives effect to the principles in Article 39(b). According to the legislature, the Act providing for the nationalisation of the coking coal mines and coke oven plants was “with a view to reorganising and reconstructing such mines and plants for the purpose of protecting, conserving and promoting scientific development of the resources of coking coal needed to meet the growing requirements of the iron and steel industry and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto”. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 161 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 188. The counsel for petitioners in the case argued that a law which violates the “broader egalitarian principle” embodied in Article 14 cannot be considered to be giving effect to the principles laid down in Article 39(b). To further this argument, the counsel relied on the observations made by Justice Bhagwati in his dissenting opinion in Minerva Mills, wherein the learned judge upheld the constitutionality of an amendment to Article 39(b) by the forty-second Amendment. Justice Bhagwati, in essence, had observed that when a law gives effect to a Directive Principle, such a law would always conform to the principle of “real and substantive” equality, even if it may conflict with the formalistic doctrinaire view of equality.