The complainant stated that on reaching home, he divulged about the incident to his family members and soon thereafter, he and his cousins (as per his version in examination-in-chief) and his sons Shivanagouda and Banagouda(as per cross-examination) went to the Police Station Tikota and informed the police about the incident. 47. Apparently, thus, the close relatives of the deceased had gone to the police station in the late hours of 19th September itself. If this version was true then, in natural course, these persons were bound to divulge about the incident to the police and their statement/s which would presumably be about an incident of the homicidal death would have mandatorily been entered in the Daily Dairy of the police station if not treated to be the FIR. However, the Daily Diary or the Roznamcha entry of the police station corresponding to the so called visit by the relatives of the deceased to the police station was not brought on record which creates a grave doubt on the genuineness of the FIR(Exhibit P-10). The complainant(PW-1) admitted in cross examination that the Poujadar came to his house and he narrated the incident to the officer who scribed the same and thereafter, the complainant appended his signatures on the writing made by the Poujadar. However, ASI Tikota Police Station(PW-18) testified on oath that complainant(PW-1) came to the police station and submitted a written report which was taken as the complaint of the incident. He did not state anything about any complaint being recorded at the house of the complainant prior to lodging of the report. Thus, there is a grave contradiction on this important aspect as to whether the report was submitted by the complainant(PW-1) in the form of a written complaint or whether the oral statement of complainant(PW-1) was recorded by the police officials at his home leading to the registration of FIR(Exhibit P-10). The non-production of the Daily Dairy maintained at [2024] 5 S.C.R. 195 Babu Sahebagouda Rudragoudar and Others v. State of Karnataka the police station assumes great significance in the backdrop of these facts. Apparently thus, the FIR(Exhibit P-10) is a post investigation document and does not inspire confidence. 48. Shivanagouda and Banagouda, the educated sons of the complainant(PW-1), who were the first persons to approach the police station(as stated by PW-1 in cross-examination) were not examined by the prosecution. The complainant(PW-1) also stated that his relatives personally went to the police station and brought the police to the village. The factum of the police having arrived at the village at about 10.00 pm or 11.00 pm was also stated by PW-2 and PW-4. 49. A very important fact which is evident from the evidence of Basagonda(PW-6) who claimed to be an eye witness of the incident is that he did not state about the presence of the complainant(PW-1) at the place of incident while the victim was being assaulted. PW-6 stated that he returned to his house at about 5.00 pm or 6.00 pm and then he informed the family members, i.e., Paragouda, Shankargouda and Chanagouda(PW-1).