It records that the High Court had directed the police to give police protection to the parties for completing the process of handing over possession. A compound wall was to be constructed in terms of the consent terms. The occasion for filing the application arose as, according to the 7th respondent in the Arbitration Petition, local persons obstructed the work of the construction of the compound wall. The learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court disposed of the interim application by his dated 12th February 2021. The relevant portion of the said reads thus: “2…………………………………………………................... In the application it is stated that in to safeguard the suit property, the parties tried to build a wall on the suit property and which is in their possession. On commencement of the work of building the wall, the parties have faced several difficulties and which are enumerated in paragraphs 5(a) to 5(d) of the application. It is stated that local persons have time and again obstructed building of the wall and despite several requests made to the Talasari Police Station, nothing has been done. It is stated that a wall is being built on the suit property in to secure the same and though assistance of the police was sought on several occasions, the local villagers time and again interfered with the building of the said wall and the police have rendered no assistance in that regard. ……………………………………………………................... 3.………………………………………………….................... 4. In these circumstances, it is directed that the police/ Tahasildar/ Collector/ Gram Panchayat office and all 160 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports other concerned Government Authorities shall offer all assistance to the applicant and the other interested respondents (respondent Nos.2 to 8) to construct a wall to safeguard the suit property. It is further directed that the local Police Station shall ensure that these directions are strictly complied with and no person is allowed to interfere with the construction of the wall on the suit property.” (emphasis added) 4. It must be noted here that the persons who had admittedly obstructed the construction of the wall were not parties to the proceedings of either the Arbitration Petition or the interim application. 5. It appears that an application was filed to the Deputy Superintendent of Land Records at Talasari by the 1st respondent and five others for measuring the lands subject matter of the Arbitration Petition situated at village-Varvada, taluka-Talasari, district-Palghar. The Deputy Superintendent of Land Records, in his letter dated 21st November 2021, informed the 1st respondent that several persons named in the letter had objected to carrying out a survey. The letter records that as objections in writing have been submitted, conducting the hearing and holding an enquiry was necessary. We may note that in the letter, the names of some of the appellants are mentioned in the list of persons who objected to the survey. 6. A very curious step was taken by the 1st and 2nd respondents thereafter. They filed a Writ Petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, being Writ Petition No.