In the process, the High Court fixed a heavy onus on the Defendants ignoring the fact that on the earlier occasion the Plaintiff had miserably failed to prove his title. Incidentally, it was held that Section 5 of the A.P. Forest Act which speaks about the bar of a suit can only be applied during the pendency of proceedings under the A.P. Forest Act and not thereafter. Despite no challenge either to the proceedings under the A.P. Forest Act and that too in the absence of proper and necessary parties, an adverse inference was drawn by taking note of the statement made by DW-1 who was only a Forest Officer and, therefore, not having any direct connection with the action taken. Various admissions made by the plaintiff in his deposition were conveniently ignored. The High Court went on to criticize the conflicting stand taken by two wings of the State while ignoring the fact that Defendant No. 1 had absolutely no say. SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANTS 52. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, Learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing for the appellants, submitted that the Forest Conservation Act, 1980 defines a forest which is inclusive of all types of forests. The extensive inclusion would take in its sweep even the private forests. Revenue records do not confer title. The High Court clearly exceeded its jurisdiction in review by entertaining a re-hearing and virtually acted as an appellate court. The Respondents did not satisfy the court on the title, which finding has not been touched. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENTS 53. Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondents, vehemently contended that the proceedings before the Forest Settlement Officer have become final. Even the trial court has held that the plaintiff had title. Once title is proved, possession has to follow. As there is an error apparent on the face of record, the power of review has been exercised correctly. The finding that Section 5 of the A.P. Forest Act, has got no application is correct, as there is no [2024] 5 S.C.R. 141 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. attempt to interdict the proceedings. As there is no apparent perversity, this Court need not interfere with the impugned . DISCUSSION 54. We have already recorded the facts in detail. It is a classic case where the officials of the State who are expected to protect and preserve the forests in discharge of their public duties clearly abdicated their role. We are at a loss to understand as to how the High Court could interfere by placing reliance upon evidence produced after the decree, at the instance of a party which succeeded along with the contesting defendant, particularly in the light of the finding that the land is forest land which has become part of reserved forest. 55. There is a distinct lack of jurisdiction on two counts – one is with respect to an attempt made to circumvent the decree and, the second is in acting without jurisdiction.