4,00,000.00 (Rupees Four Lakh only) by way of earnest money. However, as stated above, the High Court took the view that the defendants have been able to establish that except the suit land they do not have any other property and if they had to part with the suit property that would cause lot of hardship to them. (j) The High Court while allowing the First Appeal filed by the defendants observed as under: “17. Apart from the aforesaid facts, we find that the submission of learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiff that the defendants have not pleaded the fact of hardship in their written statement is not correct. The defendants have specifically stated in their written statement that except the suit land they have no other piece of land and they require the suit land for their own residential purpose and they cannot expect to dispose of their only piece of land and building standing thereon which would render them homeless, shelterless and roofless. This pleading is also supported by their evidence. Even from the evidence of the witnesses of the plaintiff, it is established that the defendant no. 1 used to reside in the house of her father at Beltali. The plaintiff deposing as PW-1 specifically stated that he along with his staff met with the defendant No.1 personally in the house of her father at Beltali, Agartala on 21.08.2016 and told her as to whether she could obtain the said Survivor Certificate and the Guardianship Certificate. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1193 Parswanath Saha v. Bandhana Modak (Das) and Anr. 18. From such evidence of the plaintiff, there cannot be any doubt that the defendants had no shelter other than the father of the defendant no.1 and according to us, this admitted fact is enough to prove the hardship of the defendants that the defendant no.1, who along with her minor son would be rendered homeless and shelterless, if the suit for specific performance of the agreement of sale (Exbt.1) is decreed in favour of the plaintiff.” 19. Applying the well settled principle that it is not always necessary to grant specific performance simply for the reason that it is legal to do so, we are of the opinion, that the case in hand is a fit case to exercise our discretion rejecting the plaintiffs claim to ask the defendants to execute the deed of sale in terms of Exbt.1 as decreed by learned court below. 20. As a sequel, we hold that the plaintiff is not entitled to get a decree for specific performance of the agreement of sale (Exbt.-1) and the defendants are not under any obligation to execute the sale deed in favour of the plaintiff in the light of the agreement of sale (Exbt.-1). However, the plaintiff is definitely entitled to get refund of the earnest money, which he paid to late Prabha Ranjan Das, the predecessor of the defendants along with interest at the rate of 8% per annum. The defendants shall refund the said earnest money of Rs.4,00,000 (Rupees four lakhs) along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum to the plaintiff from the date of the institution of the suit within a period of 3(three) months from today.” 4.