He further submitted that it is open to a party to plead and appear in person in the court, however when he executes a vakalatnama, he chooses to engage an Advocate as his agent, and the acts and statements of the advocate, in the course of his duties in the matter, are like the acts and statements of the principal i.e., the client himself. Such relationship cannot be equated to that of a “service provider” and a “consumer” as contemplated in the CP Act. However, the Amicus Curiae Mr. Giri fairly submitted that in the second category of Advocates i.e., the Advocates who are engaged by the clients outside the precincts of the court and outside the litigation process i.e., who are not engaged on the strength of a vakalatnama but engaged to provide legal services outside the court process, would come within the purview of a service provider, and any deficiency or shortcoming in the professional services rendered by such Advocates, completely outside the confines of the litigation process, would be covered under the CP Act. 1 [1995] Supp. 5 SCR 110 : (1995) 6 SCC 651 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 499 Bar of Indian Lawyers Through its President Jasbir Singh Malik v. D. K. Gandhi PS National Institute of Communicable Diseases and Anr. ANALYSIS 7. Though the question posed before us is, whether a complaint alleging “deficiency in service” against Advocates practising Legal Profession, would be maintainable under the Consumer Protection Act, having regard to the entire spectrum and scheme of the said Act, following further questions stem from the said question, which deserve consideration. (i) Whether the Legislature ever intended to include the Professions or services rendered by the Professionals within the purview of the CP Act 1986 as re-enacted in 2019? (ii) Whether the Legal Profession is sui generis? (iii) Whether a Service hired or availed of an Advocate could be said to be the service under “a contract of personal service” so as to exclude it from the definition of “Service” contained in Section 2 (42) of the CP Act 2019? 8. For adverting to the first question, whether the Legislature ever intended to include the Professions or the services rendered by the Professionals within the purview of the CP Act 1986 as re-enacted in 2019, it would be germane to ascertain the legislative intention and to look back to the history, object and purpose of enacting the CP Act 1986. A three-Judge Bench in case of State of Karnataka vs. Vishwabharathi House Building Coop. Society and Others2, while dealing with the issue raised about the constitutional validity of the CP Act 1986, had elaborately considered the history, objects and purpose of enacting the said Act. “5. Before adverting to the question as regard the competence of Parliament to enact the said Act, we may notice the history of legislation leading to enactment of the said Act. 6. The Secretary General, United Nations submitted draft guidelines for consumer protection to the Economic and Social Council (UNESCO) in 1983.