Part one i.e. Part (C) which is on Article 31-C and part two i.e. (D), which is on Article 39(b). I completely agree with part (C) of the i.e. on Article 31-C. 2. In Part (C), the question which had come up for discussion was whether Article 31-C still protects Article 39(b) and (c) and if it does, then to what extent? The learned senior counsel Shri Zal Andhyarujina, learned counsel Shri Sameer Parekh, learned counsel Mr. H Devarajan for the appellants and learned senior counsel Ms. Uttara Babbar for one of the intervenors, argued at length and submitted that after the decision in Minerva Mills v. Union of India (1980) 3 SCC 625, Article 31-C does not survive, and logically therefore the laws which are made in furtherance of the constitutional provisions contained in Article 39(b) and (c) will not have the protection of Article 31-C. On the other hand, the learned Attorney General for the respondents i.e., Union of India and Shri Rakesh Dwivedi, Sr. Advocate for the State of West Bengal would argue that even prior to Minerva Mills, the majority in the thirteen Judge Bench decision in Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala (1973) 4 SCC 225 had upheld the validity of the unamended Article 31-C and to that extent Article 31-C still exists and gives protection to laws made in furtherance of policies in Article 39 (b) and (c). We have also heard Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General of India and Senior Advocate Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan on behalf of the respondents. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 263 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. As I have already expressed my complete agreement on the opinion given by the learned Chief Justice on this point, nothing further needs to be said. The unamended Article 31-C to the extent held valid in Kesavananda Bharati survives. 3. But I am afraid, I cannot accept the finding of the learned Chief Justice on the second part of his i.e., on the meaning of the phrase “material resources of the community” given in Article 39 (b). My reasons for the disagreement are as follows: The present appeals before us have travelled through three references, which have been discussed by the learned Chief Justice in detail, and finally the reference has been made by a Bench of Seven Judges that the interpretation of Article 39 (b) requires a reconsideration. The reference is as follows: “5. Having given due consideration, we are of the opinion that this interpretation of Article 39(b) requires to be reconsidered by a Bench of nine learned judges: we have some difficulty in sharing the broad view that material resources of the community under Article 39(b) covers what is privately owned. 6. Given that there is some similarity in the issues here involved and in I.R. Coelho v. State of T.N. [(1999) 7 SCC 580. Ed. : The nine-judge bench decision therein is reported as I.R. Coelho v. State of T.N. (2007) 2 SCC 1] which already stands referred to a larger Bench, preferably of nine learned Judges, we are of the view that these matters should be heard by a Bench of nine learned Judges immediately following the hearing in I.R.