b. This proceeding originates from the suit bearing O.S. No.67 of 2011, filed by deceased Respondent seeking relief of declaration and injunction. The Trial Court, after appreciation of evidence, found the plaintiff/respondent to be the owner. However, the Trial Court found that the plaintiff is not in possession and since she had not prayed for possession, the suit was not maintainable and hence dismissed the suit. c. The finding regarding declaration of ownership over the suit property was upheld by the first appellate court and in the impugned judgement by the High Court, as well. Hence, the finding that the plaintiff is the owner of the suit property is a concurrent finding of fact. 1896 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports d. Since the trial court had found the defendant to be in possession, the plaintiff/respondent amended the plaint during the pendency of her appeal and added the relief of recovery of possession. The Appellate Court granted the relief of possession to the plaintiff/respondent while allowing her appeal. The decree of possession is confirmed by the High Court by dismissing the Petitioners’ second appeal. e. On 29-11-2019, this Hon’ble Court, while issuing notice on this SLP, confined the notice “to consider the question as to whether the suit for possession (as per amended plaint before the First Appellate Court) was within the period of limitation.” f. The plaintiff traced her title with the averment that Chinmayappa and Mallappa of Kalsammanavara family were brothers; though they were joint owners of the suit properties, the lands stood in the name of Chinmayappa; Chinnappa had a son called Goneppa who died issueless. Plaintiff is granddaughter of the younger brother Mallappa and hence she is the only surviving legal heir. g. The plaintiff further averred that the defendants did not belong to the Kalsammanavara family but belonged to another family called Jumani family. In Jummani family, there was one Goneppa, whose wife was Mallamma; taking advantage of similarity of the names, the defendants got their names mutated in the Record of Rights. h. The specific averment in the plaint is that the plaintiff learned about the illegal mutation in the year 2009 and thereafter she initiated Revenue proceedings to question the mutation, during which defendants denied her title and hence she filed the suit. The cause of action pleaded is in 2010, when the defendants denied the title of the plaintiff for the first time. i. In the written statement, the defendants pleaded that Chinmayappa had a son named Goneppa who had married Mallavva D/o Jumani Basappa, and that the said Wife of Goneppa is the sister of Defendant No.1’s Husband. It is further pleaded that Goneppa and Mallavva [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1897 Mallavva and Anr. v. Kalsammanavara Kalamma (Since Dead) by Legal Heirs & Ors. died issueless leaving behind Defendant No.1’s husband as the Class II heir and thus defendants have succeeded to the property. It is further pleaded that Goneppa’s wife Mallavva had consented to change the Khatha in the name of Defendant No.2 under Mutation No.11/81-82 and Defendant No.1 came into lawful possession and enjoyment of the property after the mutation was effected.