Our Constitution, in its wisdom, establishes a comprehensive judicial architecture, encompassing the Supreme Court, the High Courts, and subordinate courts as public law and ordinary civil/criminal remedies to safeguard this inalienable right. Furthermore, specialised tribunals and commissions are constituted to adjudicate specific disputes, leveraging expertise and facilitating expeditious resolution, thereby guaranteeing swift and effective justice to all. It is imperative that these judicial remedies are effective. In fact, effectiveness of judicial remedies is a constitutional mission, and it is always a work in progress for the Supreme Court to ensure that the remedies are impartial, readily accessible, financially viable, swiftly administered, and comprehensively tailored. 2296 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 4. Beyond the realm of public law and ordinary civil/criminal remedies, as indicated herein above, parties to a dispute may elect to resolve their differences through mutually agreed procedures, crystallised in the form of contractual agreements. It is permissible in law to have such alternative dispute resolution mechanisms through contract. Section 28 of the Contract Act protects these alternative dispute resolution agreements through arbitration between contesting parties, fostering an environment conducive to expeditious and amicable dispute resolution. C. Arbitration as Substitute Dispute Resolution 5. The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 provides a simple, efficient, cost-effective, confidential, and a fair dispute resolution remedy by empowering the parties to choose their arbitrators and also the procedure for conduct of the arbitral proceedings. Recognising party autonomy, Section 53 of the Act restrains judicial authorities from intervening with the arbitral remedy except as provided in the Act. The mandate of Section 5 is reflected in a number of judicial decisions of this Court, enabling easy access to arbitration by merely examining the existence of an arbitration agreement between the parties, and at the same time refraining from interfering with the arbitral award on grounds other than manifest arbitrariness or against public policy.4 6. Two inviolable values of Arbitration, party autonomy and an independent and impartial Arbitral Tribunal: Two important values are inviolable for arbitration to be a viable, effective, and at the same time, credible alternative dispute resolution remedy; they co-exist in the duality of freedom and duty. They are the freedom to contract, constitute, and channel arbitration proceedings, i.e., party autonomy on the one hand, and the duty towards constituting an independent and impartial arbitral tribunal on the other. These values are independent, yet interdependent for a credible and effective dispute resolution.5 3 Section 5 of the Act reads: “5. Extent of judicial intervention: Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, in matters governed by this Part, no judicial authority shall intervene except where so provided in this Part.” 4 Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corporation (2021) 2 SCC 1; M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Aptech Ltd. (2024) 5 SCC 313; SBI General Insurance Co Ltd v. Krish Spinning, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1754 on minimal judicial intervention. 5 These are also recognised as fundamental principles of arbitration law. See Centrotrade Minerals & Metals Inc v. Hindustan Copper Ltd. (2006) 11 SCC 245; Union of India v. Uttar Pradesh Bridge Corporation Limited (2015) 2 SCC 52.