Also, there is a metamorphosis of this provision vide Minerva Mills decided by this Court by interpreting the same as per the intention of the framers of the Constitution. 10.4 Moreover, as between fundamental rights and Directive Principles of State Policy, it is a settled position of law that the fundamental rights are enforceable whereas the Directive Principles are to be considered while interpreting Part-III of the Constitution and they are not per se enforceable. The Directive Principles are primarily aimed at securing social and economic freedoms by appropriate State action. They are the social conscience of the Constitution; they are the goals and aims sought for achieving a welfare State in India. However, while considering a challenge to a violation of fundamental rights the Directive Principles could be considered and it is only when, to achieve the goals or the aims sought to be promoted through the Directive Principles,if there is a violation of the fundamental rights inasmuch as there is a violation of Articles 14, 15 or 16, that the means of achieving the goals could be struck down. Thus, fundamental rights ought to be interpreted in light of the Directive Principles and the latter should, whenever and wherever possible, be read into the former. It is also said that fundamental rights and Directive Principles are supplementary and complementary to each other and the provisions in Part- III should be interpreted having regard in such a way to the Preamble and the Directive Principles of the State Policy in Part-IV. It is said that fundamental rights and Directive Principles of the State Policy are the two-wheels of the chariot and are an aid to make social and economic democracy a truism vide Jilubhai vs. State of Gujarat, AIR 1995 SC 142 (“Jilubhai”). What is of significance is that the court must give a proper and meaningful interpretation to the Directive Principles so as to harmonize them with the objectives enshrined in the Preamble of 218 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Constitution, namely, Justice – political, social and economic with individual rights in the context of Part-III and Part-IV of the Constitution respectively, vide Mafatlal. 10.5 While in the initial years of the enforcement of the Constitution, fundamental rights were given primacy, however, there has been a clear shift in the judicial thinking in considering Directive Principles being fundamental to the governance of the Country by courts when laws are challenged on the keystone of there being an apparent violation of the fundamental rights. Article 38: 10.6 The thrust of Article 38 is to promote the welfare of the people by the State by securing and protecting as effectively as it may, a social in which social, economic and political justice shall inform all the institutions of national life. This Article positions the Indian state as being beyond than what is meant for the maintenance of law and . The Indian State being a welfare State must pursue social, economic and political justice which must inform all institutions of the national life.