He [2024] 6 S.C.R. 451 Union of India & Ors. v. Santosh Kumar Tiwari also stated that M. Devnath went to his tent saying that he would commit suicide, though he was rescued. The statement of M. Devnath (the victim) was also recorded. He supported the charge. After considering the statement of the witnesses, including the victim, and perusing the documents, including the medical report, the charges were found proved. In consequence, after considering the defence of the respondent and the tenure of his service, the Commandant imposed punishment of compulsory retirement on the respondent and preserved his right for pension and gratuity. 35. The learned counsel for the respondent made a feeble attempt to challenge the finding returned in the enquiry by claiming that the enquiry officer and the disciplinary authority did not meticulously consider the respondent’s defence and the weaknesses in the evidence led against him. To test the above submission, and to find out whether there is any perversity in the enquiry report, we went through the materials on record and found that there is no such perversity in the enquiry report, which is, in fact, founded on the evidence on record as noticed in the preceding paragraph. Further, no palpable error in the conduct of the enquiry was brought to our notice. The punishment awarded is also not shockingly disproportionate to the proven misconduct. Rather, considering his past service, already a sympathetic view has been taken in the matter and no further latitude need be shown to the respondent who was part of a disciplined force and has been found guilty of assaulting his colleague. Consequently, we find no good reason to interfere with the punishment awarded to the respondent. 36. For the foregoing reasons, the appeal is allowed. The impugned of the High Court is set aside. The writ petition filed by the respondent (original petitioner) shall stand dismissed. The punishment of compulsory retirement awarded to the respondent is affirmed. There is no as to costs. Result of the case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey