Mohammad Sohail having been severely injured was shifted to a hospital, where he was declared dead. 4. Incorporating the above allegations, the first informant Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11), first cousin of Mohammed Sohail (deceased) lodged a complaint (Exhibit P-79) being CR No. 141 of 2011 on 4th May, 2011 which came to be registered as FIR at Anand Town Police Station for the offences punishable under Sections 302 and 323 IPC read with Section 120B IPC. The investigation of the case was assigned to Dhananjaysinh Surendrasinh Waghela, Police Inspector (PW-18) (hereinafter being referred to as ‘Investigating Officer’). 5. Inquest panchnama (Exhibit P-25) was prepared and the dead body of Mohammad Sohail was sent for postmortem. Dr. Swapnil (PW-1) conducted autopsy taking note of 29 injuries all over the body of the deceased-Mohammad Sohail. He issued the post-mortem report (Exhibit P-12) opining that the cause of death of Mohammad Sohail was due to shock attributed to multiple injuries all over the body. The first informant-Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11) was medically examined by the Medical Officer, Dr. Arvindbhai (PW-2) who after examining him, issued a medical certificate (Exhibit P-17). 6. The Investigating Officer (PW-18) carried out the usual investigation and prepared a site plan (Exhibit P-27) of the place of occurrence. The accused appellants were arrested after about five days from the date of incident. Clothes worn by the accused appellants were collected by drawing panchnama (Exhibit P-40). The Investigating Officer (PW-18) reconstructed the crime scene at the instance of all accused-appellants and drew demonstration panchnama (Exhibit P-50). The effected recovery of one big knife at the instance of accused Mohmedfaruk @ Palak; the blood-stained clothes of the deceased and the recovered weapons were forwarded to the Forensic Science Laboratory (in short ‘FSL’) for chemical analysis. The Investigating Officer (PW-18) also collected call detail records from service provider i.e. Vodafone. After conclusion of the investigation, a charge was filed against the accused appellants for the offences punishable under Sections 302, 323 and 120B IPC. 7. The offence under Section 302 IPC being exclusively triable by the Court of Sessions, the case was committed and made over for trial to the Court of Additional Sessions Judge, Anand, where it came 352 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to be registered as Sessions Case No. 84 of 2011. Charges were framed against the accused appellants for the offences punishable under Sections 302, 323 and 120B IPC. The accused-appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. The prosecution examined 18 witnesses and exhibited 131 documents in to bring home the charges. On being questioned under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter being referred to as ‘CrPC’) and upon being confronted with the allegations as appearing in the prosecution case, the accused appellants denied the same and took a categorical stance that they had been falsely implicated in the case. However, no evidence was led in defence. 8. After hearing the arguments put forth by the prosecution and the defence counsel and upon appreciating the evidence available on record, the trial Court, vide judgement and dated 13th October, 2014 convicted and sentenced the accused appellants as mentioned above.