It was therefore submitted that this Court may direct for an independent agency to investigate into the matter. 7. On the other hand, learned counsel appearing for State of Chhattisgarh submitted that detailed inquiry was carried out and statements of more than 50 witnesses were recorded; that every complaint filed by the appellant was enquired into at the highest level but when no evidence could be found against respondent no. 7, the complaints were closed. It is also his submission that the appellants are unnecessarily doubting the credibility of the investigating agency of the State of Chhattisgarh and it also amounts to putting a blame not only on the respondent no. 7 but also on the entire police machinery of the State of Chhattisgarh. 8. Learned counsel also referred to the details as to how the complaints have been dealt with. It was thus submitted that the appeal be dismissed and the appellants be left at liberty to approach the Magistrate under section 156(3) Cr.P.C. 9. Learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent no. 7 also had similar submissions as were made on behalf of the State of Chhattisgarh. In addition, it was submitted that respondent no. 7 being a judicial officer having a good reputation is being unnecessarily targeted by the appellants for ulterior motives. A very thorough and fair inquiry was carried out in which no complicity of the respondent no. 7 could be found. 10. It was further submitted that in all the enquiries made, no incriminating material could be collected against the respondent no. 7 and as such the complaints were rightly closed. By filing the writ petition and the present appeal the only attempt of the appellants is to somehow or the other not only tarnish the image of the respondent no. 7 but also cause unnecessary harassment and jeopardize his service. Further, a direction to appoint CBI to investigate is also not warranted in the present case and the appeal deserves to be dismissed. 11. Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing for the CBI submitted that whatever the Court passes the same would be complied with. He also suggested that the Court may consider appointing a high-level Special Investigation Team or in the alternative may direct the CBI to investigate the matter as this will provide [2024] 9 S.C.R. 93 Mandakini Diwan and Anr. v. The High Court of Chhattisgarh & Ors. credibility and instill confidence not only in the aggrieved party but also in the society at large. 12. Considering the fact that the respondent no. 7 is a senior judicial officer any doubt or apprehension in the minds of the appellants who have lost their family member may be dispelled by the investigation being carried out by CBI. This may result into doing complete justice and enforcing the fundamental right of getting a fair investigation. 13. In the case of Awungshi Chirmayo vs. Government of NCT of Delhi 2 this Court directed CBI to hold enquiry in the criminal matter related to murder of two cousins due to certain puzzling facts including inconclusive post mortem report.