His testimony appears to be evasive and full of improvements, needing to explain the material interpolations on the medical record. He admits not having recorded any information received from the Seahorse Hospital on the night of 3rd of March, 2022 at 11.00 hours. He admits not to have added a version in the sentence - Exhs. P-1 and P-24, which, as we notice, record the name of the assailant. He admits the jurisdictional police station to carry out the investigation, was not his (Tirupathur Town Police Station) but only Kulithalai. He admits that neither he nor any one of the police officers from any of the police stations visited the spot till the morning after the date of the incident, despite the travel distance being less than half an hour. No explanation is forthcoming as to why one of the most essential aspects of the criminal investigation was ignored or delayed. We notice the witness to have admitted having informed the details of the incident both to the Deputy Superintendent of Police and K. Rajasekar (PW-22). Was it that the initial investigation was being managed so as to shield the real assailants, which could have been the complainant party themselves? Or was it that the police were trying to frame the accused? Particularly when, as the record reveals, as is so admitted by PW-22 of A-2 being a practicing advocate who has been, (i) pursuing the matters against the officials of the police station; (ii) has been lodging complaints against the police officials for inaction; and (iii) had nothing to do with the ownership, management or control of the wine shop. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 765 Periyasamy v. The State Represented by the Inspector of Police 46.2. There is yet another disturbing feature emanating from his statement. Why is it that the police used a private vehicle for carrying out the investigation, as was admitted by this witness in any case, whose owner and driver in any event not examined during trial or investigation? The prosecution doesn’t contend that at the relevant time, no government vehicle was available at the police station or that the said private vehicle was hired by them. It is also significant that PW-21 admits that PW-1 had not named A-2 in his statement, and, PW-22 when speaking about A-2, only states, “On 5.3.2002 at 12.00 noon, I arrested the accused Manoharan at Pettavaithalai Bus Stand after enquired sent him to the Court Custody on the same day.” 46.3. In respect of PW-21, we find him to have not denied but feigned ignorance of the fact that Sundaravadivel had held Paramasivam S/o Kaalimoopan against whom a false case stood fastened by Inspector Sundaravadivel, under the Tamil Nadu Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Bootleggers, Drug Offenders, Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders, Forest Offenders, Sand Offenders, Slum-Grabbers and Video Pirates Act, 198219 . He only states that “being an Advocate the 2nd accused came to the area police stations.” This in no way discloses what led either PW-22 or him to suspect and thence, act on the complicity of A-2 in the crime.