Ltd. & Anr. raised by the applicant are time barred and should leave that question for determination by the arbitrator. Such an approach gives true meaning to the legislative intention underlying Section 11(6-A) of the Act, and also to the view taken in In Re : Interplay (supra). 134. The observations made by us in Arif Azim (supra) are accordingly clarified. We need not mention that the effect of the aforesaid clarification is only to streamline the position of law, so as to bring it in conformity with the evolving principles of modern-day arbitration, and further to avoid the possibility of any conflict between the two decisions that may arise in future. These clarifications shall not be construed as affecting the verdict given by us in the facts of Arif Azim (supra), which shall be given full effect to notwithstanding the observations made herein.” (Emphasis supplied) 39. Therefore, while determining the issue of limitation in the exercise of powers under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996, the referral court must only conduct a limited enquiry for the purpose of examining whether the Section 11(6) application has been filed within the limitation period of three years or not. At this stage, it would not be proper for the referral court to indulge in an intricate evidentiary enquiry into the question of whether the claims raised by the petitioner are time barred. Such a determination must be left to the decision of the arbitrator. After all, in a scenario where the referral court is able to discern the frivolity in the litigation on the basis of bare minimum pleadings, it would be incorrect to assume or doubt that the arbitral tribunal would not be able to arrive at the same inference, especially when they are equipped with the power to undertake an extensive examination of the pleadings and evidence adduced before them. 40. As observed by us in Krish Spinning (supra), the power of the referral court under Section 11 must essentially be seen in light of the fact that the parties do not have the right of appeal against any passed by the referral court under Section 11, be it for either appointing or refusing to appoint an arbitrator. Therefore, if the referral court delves into the domain of the arbitral tribunal at the Section 11 stage and rejects the application of the claimant, we run a serious risk of leaving the claimant remediless for the adjudication of their claims. Moreover, 130 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Courts are vested with the power of subsequent review in which the award passed by the arbitrator may be subjected to challenge by any party to the arbitration. Therefore, the Courts may take a second look at the adjudication done by the arbitral tribunal at a later stage, if considered necessary and appropriate in the circumstances. 41. In view of the above discussion, we must restrict ourselves to examining whether the Section 11 petitions made before us are within limitation. The petitioner herein issued a notice invoking arbitration on 23.01.2017 and the same was delivered to both the respondents on 24.01.2017.