The Statement of Objects and Reasons dated 13.07.2004 therein noted that the First Schedule to the Act of 1985 was based on a six-digit classification code while the Department of Revenue had developed an eight-digit classification code based on the HSN for the purposes of classification of excisable goods in India. It was also noted that the Directorate General of Foreign 1 [2022] 17 SCR 151 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 863 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 905 Commissioner of Central Excise, Salem v. M/s Madhan Agro Industries (India) Private Ltd. Trade and the Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence of Statistics had already adopted the eight-digit classification code for the purpose of import trade control policy and for collection of statistics respectively. Reference was made to demands from several quarters to adopt the eight-digit classification code for Central Excise also in to accommodate the demand from the trade and industry for adoption of a common commodity classification based on the internationally adopted HSN to be used for all trade- related transactions to facilitate international and domestic trade. The amendment Bill, therefore, proposed to expand the six-digit classification in the First Schedule into an eight-digit classification, so as to remove difficulties arising from divergence in classification by different departments and would also facilitate international trade. It was clarified that the proposed amendments did not make any change in the existing rates of Central Excise duties and, hence, they did not involve revenue implication. 14. Notably, in Collector of Central Excise, Shillong vs. Wood Craft Products Ltd.,2 a 3-Judge Bench of this Court held as under: ‘12. It is significant, as expressly stated, in the Statement of Objects and Reasons, that the Central excise tariffs are based on the HSN and the internationally accepted nomenclature was taken into account to “reduce disputes on account of tariff classification”. Accordingly, for resolving any dispute relating to tariff classification, a safe guide is the internationally accepted nomenclature emerging from the HSN. This being the expressly acknowledged basis of the structure of Central excise tariff in the Act and the tariff classification made therein, in case of any doubt the HSN is a safe guide for ascertaining the true meaning of any expression used in the Act. The ISI Glossary of Terms has a different purpose and, therefore, the specific purpose of tariff classification for which the internationally accepted nomenclature in HSN has been adopted, for enacting the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985, must be preferred, in case of any difference between the meaning of the expression 2 (1995) 3 SCC 454 906 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports given in the HSN and the meaning of that term given in the Glossary of Terms of the ISI. --------- 18. We are of the view that the Tribunal as well as the High Court fell into the error of overlooking the fact that the structure of the Central excise tariff is based on the internationally accepted nomenclature found in the HSN and, therefore, any dispute relating to tariff classification must, as far as possible, be resolved with reference to the nomenclature indicated by the HSN unless there be an express different intention indicated by the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 itself.