[2024] 7 S.C.R. 2379 Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement by the Constitution Bench of this Court in Ramesh Chandra Mehta v. State of West Bengal,21 and in Union of India v. Padam Narain Aggarwal and others.22 On the safeguards against the abuse of the power of arrest in case of the Customs Act, Padam Narain Aggarwal (supra) observes that the power to arrest by a customs os anfficer is statutory in character. Such power can be exercised only in cases where the customs officer has the “reason to believe” that the person sought to be arrested is guilty of the offence punishable under the prescribed sections. Padam Narain Aggarwal (supra) observes: “36. From the above discussion, it is amply clear that power to arrest a person by a Customs Officer is statutory in character and cannot be interfered with. Such power of arrest can be exercised only in those cases where the Customs Officer has “reason to believe” that a person has been guilty of an offence punishable under Sections 132, 133, 135, 135-A or 136 of the Act. Thus, the power must be exercised on objective facts of commission of an offence enumerated and the Customs Officer has reason to believe that a person sought to be arrested has been guilty of commission of such offence. The power to arrest thus is circumscribed by objective considerations and cannot be exercised on whims, caprice or fancy of the officer. 37. The section also obliges the Customs Officer to inform the person arrested of the grounds of arrest as soon as may be. The law requires such person to be produced before a Magistrate without unnecessary delay. 38. The law thus, on the one hand, allows a Customs Officer to exercise power to arrest a person who has committed certain offences, and on the other hand, takes due care to ensure individual freedom and liberty by laying down norms and providing safeguards so that the power of arrest is not abused or misused by the authorities. It is keeping in view these considerations that we have to decide correctness or otherwise of the directions issued by a Single Judge of the High Court. “Blanket” of 21 [1969] 2 SCR 461 22 [2008] 14 SCR 179 : (2008) 13 SCC 305 2380 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports bail may amount to or result in an invitation to commit an offence or a passport to carry on criminal activities or to afford a shield against any and all types of illegal operations, which, in our , can never be allowed in a society governed by the rule of law.” 18. Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) affirms the aforesaid ratio, and states that the safeguards provided as preconditions in Section 19(1) of the PML Act have to be fulfilled by the designated officer before affecting arrest. The safeguards are of a higher standard. They ensure that the designated officer does not act arbitrarily, and is made accountable for their about the ‘necessity to arrest’ the person23 alleged to be involved in the offence of money laundering, at the stage before the complaint is filed.