In Defence of Environment & Animals, (2020) 10 SCC 589 (“Hospitality Association of Mudumalai”) where it was held that: “39. … The precautionary principle makes it mandatory for the State Government to anticipate, prevent and attack the causes of environmental degradation. In this light, we have no hesitation in holding that in to protect the elephant population in the Sigur Plateau region, it was necessary and appropriate for the State Government to limit commercial activity in the areas falling within the elephant corridor.” 48.3 Furthermore as noted above, this Court gave an expansive scope to the application of the precautionary principle beyond adjudicatory s to any decision, administrative or commercial ought to be made by the Government or private parties in anticipation of serious environmental harm. In Pragnesh Shah vs. Dr. Arun Kumar Sharma, (2022) 11 SCC 493 (“Pragnesh Shah”), it was explained that the precautionary principle requires the State to act in advance to prevent environmental harm from taking place, rather than by adopting measures once the harm has taken place. In deciding when to adopt such action, the State cannot hide behind the veil of scientific uncertainty in calculating the exact scientific harm by observing as under: [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2135 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. “36. The precautionary principle envisages that the State cannot refuse to act to preserve the environment simply because all the scientific data may not be available. If there is some data to suggest that environmental degradation is possible, the State must step into action to prevent it from taking place. Indeed, it was this thought that compelled this Court in T.N. Godavarman [T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India Writ Petition No. 202 of 1995] to direct the State to identify ESZs across India, so that steps can be taken to identify areas where there is a greater possibility of environmental degradation and a plan is put in place to prevent such degradation before it actually makes the harm irreversible.” 48.4 Relying upon H.P. Bus-Stand, this Court held that actualising the framework of environmental rule of law requires that the courts cannot be stupefied into inaction due to scientific uncertainty but must take decisions to protect the environment based on whatever information is available. 48.5 Recently this Court in M.K. Ranjitsinh while considering protection of the Great Indian Bustard and the Lesser Florican both kinds of birds which are on the verge of extinction, observed as under: “35. India faces a number of pressing near-term challenges that directly impact the right to a healthy environment, particularly for vulnerable and indigenous communities including forest dwellers. The lack of reliable electricity supply for many citizens not only hinders economic development but also disproportionately affects communities, including women and low-income households, further perpetuating inequalities. Therefore, the right to a healthy environment encapsulates the principle that every individual has the entitlement to live in an environment that is clean, safe, and conducive to their well-being. By recognizing the right to a healthy environment and the right to be free from the adverse effects of climate change, states are compelled to 2136 [2024] 7 S.C.R.