The stand that these words are conjunctive is common to all the Respondents. He referred to the Constituent Assembly Debates and to amendments carried out in the NCMEI Act by which the words “establish or administer” were substituted with “establish and administer” in line with the constitutional scheme and Azeez Basha [supra]. 59. It is further argued that an overly-expansive reading of Article 30 would result in educational institutions using the ‘cloak’ of minority to escape government regulations and therefore, there must be a real positive index which connects the minority community to the institution. Extensive reference is made to A.P. Christians Medical Educational Society v. Government of Andhra Pradesh, (1986) 2 SCC 667 and St. Stephens College [supra] to show what might be indicia of minority character of an institute. 60. The Solicitor General supported the interpretation of “establish” put forth in Azeez Basha [supra], to assert that it was in line with the constitutional intent of Article 30. Since the provision is intended to give a right to specifically to minorities, it was argued that was necessary to show that the institution must have been “actually, tangibly and manifestly brought into being” by a minority. 1938 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 61. It was asserted that “establishment” is a question of fact and as Azeez Basha [supra] decided this question of fact conclusively, it is not open for the Legislature to reverse a factual finding by bringing a legislation stating otherwise in the form of the 1981 amendment. The Solicitor General, in response to the submissions made on the stand of the Union of India, stated that the Union of India has been consistent in its stand. It was stated that as per the Union of India, the AMU was not a minority institution even during the hearing of the case of Azeez Basha [supra]. It was further stated that a party can always withdraw the appeal at its discretion and the Union of India can always choose the assist the Court on a question of law. 62. Mr. K.M. Nataraj, learned Additional Solicitor General of India, has submitted a short note wherein it was argued that the Muslim minority surrendered their right to establish the college and opted for the governmental establishment in to have recognition for its degrees. It was urged that the circumstances in which such surrender was made cannot be gone into by the Court in exercise of its power of judicial review while placing reliance on the in the case of Dir. of Endowments Gov. of Hyderabad v. Syed Akram Ali, AIR 1956 SC 60. He distinguishes the observations regarding impossibility of surrender of such rights made in the case of Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College Society v. State of Gujarat, (1974) 1 SCC 717 by stating that the said observations applied only in a post-constitutional context. He referred Black’s Law Dictionary 6th Edition to argue that in Azeez Basha [supra], the court correctly understood the meaning of ‘establish’. He further relies on State of Kerala v. Very Rev.