D. Principles underpinning the Arbitration Act 17. Our courts have jurisdiction to try all suits of a civil nature except where cognizance is expressly or impliedly barred.20 Section 28 of the Contract Act bars any agreement that prohibits parties from enforcing 19 “NBFCs” 20 Section 9, Code of Civil Procedure 1908. [It reads: “9. Courts to try all civil suits unless barred – The Courts shall (subject to the provisions herein contained) have jurisdiction to try all suits of a civil nature excepting suits of which their cognizance is either expressly or impliedly barred.”] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2205 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company their rights under contract by usual legal proceedings in ordinary tribunals. However, the provision makes an exception to a contract by which two or more persons agree to refer the disputes that may arise between them in respect of any subject or class of subjects to arbitration.21 Thus, parties can contract out of the traditional justice dispensing mechanism to refer their disputes to arbitration. 18. The Arbitration Act consolidates and amends the law relating to domestic arbitration, international commercial arbitration and enforcement of foreign arbitral awards. It brings the domestic arbitration law in consonance with the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration 1985.22 One of the main objectives of the Arbitration Act is to make provision for an arbitral procedure that is fair, efficient and capable of meeting the needs of the specific arbitration. 19. Article 2A of the Model Law enunciates the following principles to interpret the provisions of national arbitration laws: (i) regard for the arbitration law’s international origin; (ii) the need to promote uniformity in its application; and (iii) observance of good faith. It further provides that issues not expressly settled under the arbitration law are to be settled in conformity with the “general principles” on which the law is based.23 21 Section 28, Indian Contract Act 1872. [It reads: “28. Agreements in restraint of legal proceedings, void – Every agreement, - (a) by which any party thereto is restricted absolutely from enforcing his rights under or in respect of any contract, by the usual legal proceedings in the ordinary tribunals, or which limits the time within which he may thus enforce his rights; or (b) which extinguishes the rights of any party thereto, or discharges any party thereto, from any liability, under or in respect of any contract on the expiry of a specified period so as to restrict any party from enforcing his rights; is void to that extent. Exception 1 – Saving of contract to refer to arbitration dispute that may arise – This section shall not render illegal a contract, by which two or more person agree that any dispute which may arise between them in respect of any subject or class of subjects to arbitration, and that only the amount awarded is such arbitration shall be recoverable in respect of the dispute so referred. Exception 2 – Saving of contract to refer questions that have already arisen – Nor shall this section render illegal any contract in writing, by which two or more person agree to refer to arbitration any question between them which has already arisen, or affect any provision of any law in force for the time being as to references to arbitration.