The NCDRC observed that on the one hand, the opposite party had duly stated the details of the other policies in their affidavit, but on the other, the complainant, even in her affidavit filed by way of evidence, did not claim that the policies mentioned in the written version of the opposite party had not been taken by the deceased. Reliance was further placed by the NCDRC on the of this Court in Reliance Life Insurance Co Ltd vs. Rekhaben Nareshbhai Rathod, (2019) 6 SCC 175, (“Rekhaben”) wherein the repudiation of the claim 732 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports due to suppression of the fact of other existing insurance policies was upheld by the Supreme Court. The NCDRC held that the Supreme Court’s would prevail over the s of the NCDRC relied upon by the State Consumer forum and thus, the revision petition was allowed and the consumer complaint was dismissed. 4. Hence, the complainant has preferred the present Special Leave Petition against the impugned of the NCDRC. 5. We have heard learned counsel for the Appellant, Sri Venkateswara Rao Anumolu and learned counsel for the Respondent, Sri Praveen Mahajan for the insurer. The controversy in the present case pertains to the factum of repudiation of the insurance claim of the Complainant on the ground of the material suppression of information regarding the previous policies allegedly held by the insured-deceased, while taking the life insurance policy from the Opposite Party. 6. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the insurance company has not proved that appellant’s father had any other insurance policy while taking the insurance policy from the opposite party. Thus, there has been no material suppression of fact in the application form with respect to holding any previous policy by the insured-deceased or his family members. 7. It was further submitted by the appellant that the NCDRC was incorrect in upholding the repudiation of claim in the absence of an iota of documentary evidence on record to support the contention that the insured-deceased had suppressed any fact under Clause 6 of the Proposal Form about the previous policies issued by other insurers. The respondent has merely alleged the fact of multiple insurance policies of the insured-deceased through their affidavit of evidence but had not discharged their burden of proof by leading any documentary evidence to support their allegation. 8. Per Contra, learned counsel for the respondent has supported the of the NCDRC and has further contended that the insured-deceased had taken fifteen other insurance policies worth Rs.71,27,702/- prior to the issuance of the subject policies by them. These policies were not disclosed in the proposal forms and had the respondent been aware about these other insurance policies with other insurance companies and the existing risk cover at the time [2024] 4 S.C.R. 733 Mahakali Sujatha v. The Branch Manager, Future Generali India Life Insurance Company Limited & another of assessment of risk under the subject policies, they would have certainly not issued the subject policies to the insured-deceased.