Having regard to such decision, the appellants applied afresh under Section 482, Cr. PC. It is this petition which has now been dismissed by the High Court by the impugned . The sole ground assigned by the High Court is that since the earlier petition had been withdrawn without liberty obtained to apply afresh, the subsequent petition is not maintainable. 11. We have heard learned counsel appearing for the appellants, the respondent no.2-complainant as well as the respondent no.1- State of Punjab. 12. The short question emerging for our decision is whether the High Court was justified in dismissing the subsequent petition under section 482, Cr. PC for the reason that it assigned. 13. Having considered the materials on record as well as the rival claims, we are of the considered view that the High Court was unjustified in dismissing the subsequent petition on the ground that the appellants had withdrawn the earlier petition without obtaining leave to file afresh and, therefore, the petition under consideration was not maintainable. 14. The procedural laws governing criminal proceedings and civil proceedings in our country are quite dissimilar, though the rule of audi alteram partem and a procedure that is both fair and reasonable to both/all parties for rendering justice are at the heart of both the Cr. PC and the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.10 The principle of res judicata, traceable in Section 11 of the CPC, does neither apply to criminal proceedings nor is there any provision in the Cr. PC akin to XXIII Rule 1(3), CPC. While Section 114 of the CPC read 10 CPC 1280 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports with XLVII thereof empowers the civil courts to exercise the power of review, Section 362, Cr. PC bars a review. A close reading of Sections 482, Cr. PC and 115, CPC would also reflect that the purposes sought to be achieved by exercising the high courts’ inherent powers, which the respective procedural laws save, are also at variance. Prudence and propriety in the decision-making process, thus, make it imperative for the high courts to not confuse the procedural laws governing criminal and civil proceedings. 15. The legal position as to whether a second petition under Section 482, Cr. PC would be maintainable or not is no longer res integra. We may notice a few decisions of this Court on the point. 16. In S.M.S. Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Neeta Bhalla,11 a decision arising out of the N.I. Act, the relevant high court had given the party the liberty to avail any remedy in law, if available, at the time of withdrawing her petition under section 482, Cr. PC. This Court, observed that the high court would have the inherent power to decide any successive petition under section 482 and that it is not denuded of that power by the principle of res judicata. 17. That the principle of res judicata has no application in a criminal proceeding was reiterated by this Court in Devendra v. State of U.P.12 18.