In reply to the query, it was stated by Dr. Desai that the injuries were fresh and he had opined in the said letter that the injuries were within few hours before the death. Again there was query from the Crime Branch and they had made a query to the tune as to what was the meaning of “few hours” and he had given time that it may have occurred within four to five hours prior to the post-mortem. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 391 Vinod Jaswantray Vyas (Dead) Through Lrs v. The State of Gujarat It is true that if lathi blow is given on the back side of a person, then it will cause wheel marks. All the bruises were red in colour. From the colour of bruises time can be ascertained by the medical man who has seen the injuries. Taking into consideration the bruises and the fracture there will be loss of blood of about 30 to 35 per cent of the total blood. With this loss of blood gradually blood pressure will come down. It is true that fracture of sternum and three ribs would cause severe pain and would also affect the respiratory system as well. In the present case there was fracture of lung also. I am of the view that having four fractures as in this particular case and after having rupture of liver and lung, a person cannot climb stair-case without support. A man would be depressed and his expression and movements will be painful.” 36. Dr. Ravindra(PW-10) was examined by the prosecution as an expert witness to give opinion on certain queries raised by the Investigating Officer. Dr. Ravindra(PW-10) responded to these queries vide a letter which was marked as Exhibit-53 during his sworn testimony. However, what precisely were the contents of the letter were not deposed by the expert in his evidence. Thus, mere marking of exhibit upon the letter without the expert deposing about the opinion given therein would not dispense with the proof of contents of the document as per the mandate of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. 37. This Court in the case of Sait Tarajee Khimchand and Others v. Yelamarti Satyam alias Satteyya and Others6 held as follows: - “15. The plaintiffs wanted to rely on Exs. A-12 and A-13, the day book and the ledger respectively. The plaintiffs did not prove these books. There is no reference to these books in the s. The mere marking of an exhibit does not dispense with the proof of documents. It is common place to say that the negative cannot be proved. The proof of the plaintiffs’ books of account became important because the plaintiffs’ accounts were impeached and falsified by the 6 (1972) 4 SCC 562 392 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports defendants’ case of larger payments than those admitted by the plaintiffs. The irresistible inference arises that the plaintiffs’ books would not have supported the plaintiffs.” (emphasis supplied) 38. In the case of Narbada Devi Gupta v. Birendra Kumar Jaiswal and Another7, it was held as follows: “16.