15. Additionally, a bare perusal of the clauses contained in the various agreements entered into between the parties does not indicate that such deductions could be made for the purposes of washing charges. There does not appear to be any specification laid down as to the method required to be adopted for washing of coal. 16. No material has been placed on record by the appellant to suggest that there was ever any problem with respect to the quality of coal being supplied by KEMTA to the appellant. Rather, the impugned suggests that coal supplied by KEMTA was utilized by the appellant in its thermal power plants in to generate electricity. 17. Taking into consideration the above facts and circumstances, we are of the opinion that no material has been brought to the notice of this Court that would compel us to interfere with the impugned common passed by the High Court in exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution. 18. Accordingly, the Civil Appeals filed by the appellant are dismissed.” 9.5. We are therefore of the opinion that this Court having already dismissed the appeal filed by KPCL against the of the Karnataka High Court, having held in clear terms that the CAG Report could not form the basis for launching proceedings against the appellants and further, having upheld the findings returned by the Karnataka High Court that the CAG Report 1218 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports appears to have been the starting point for the entire disputes between the parties who till then, were smoothly discharging their obligations under various agreements, there is no reason to take a different view only on the ground that the respondent–CBI was not a party in the aforesaid proceedings. The chronology of the events speak for themselves and need no further elaboration. 10. IMPORT OF THE DATED 24TH MARCH, 2016 OF THE KARNATAKA HIGH COURT 10.1. Coming next to the submission made by learned counsel for the respondent that the judgement dated 24th March, 2016 passed by the Karnataka High Court in a writ petition filed by KECML against KPCL is of no consequence, as the said was confined to examining the demands made by KPCL on KECML for reimbursement towards the value of the coal rejects, the same is found to be erroneous. It is well-settled that in a case of exoneration on merits in relation to adjudication proceedings in a civil matter where the allegations are found to be unsustainable and the party is held as innocent, criminal prosecution on the same set of facts and circumstances cannot be permitted to continue. In Radheshyam Kejriwal (supra), a three judges Bench of this Court reconciled the conflict between the view taken in Standard Chartered Bank(1) v. Directorate of Enforcement79 and Collector of Customs v. L.R. Melwani 80 on the one hand where it was held that adjudication proceedings and criminal proceedings are two independent proceedings and both can go on simultaneously and findings in the adjudication proceedings is not binding on the criminal proceedings and the s in Uttam Chand v. ITO,81 G.L.