Nothing has surfaced, which may reflect on the mindset of the applicant that he ever intended the consequence that the deceased would commit suicide and with that view in mind, he stopped payment of salary. Had it been the actual position then obviously the suicide note must have whispered about that particular aspect or it would have at least alluded to that situation, but on careful perusal of the suicide note it explicit that the deceased himself was bent upon committing suicide in case the salary was not drawn in his favour. But under circumstances, there is nothing to suggest that the applicant was conscious of that position and knowing the same situation he insisted that he would not pay the salary in question. The trial court, however, ignoring all these legal aspects took cognizance of the offence by rejecting the final report submitted by the Investigating Officer and issued process against the applicant by way of summoning. Resultantly, this application is allowed. Criminal proceedings of impugned dated 05.04.2012 passed by Chief Judicial Magistrate, Shahjahanpur in Criminal Case No.1478 of 2012, Vikas Vs. Ram Babu, Case Crime No.C-2 of 2005, under Section 306 IPC, 1236 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Police Station- Alhaganj, District Shahjahanpur by which the applicant has been summoned to face the trial is hereby quashed.” 21. Certain relevant and indisputable aspects revealed from the material on record are also to be noted, with reference to the relevant decisions, as under: (i) There is no explicit or implicit reference about any occurrence on 12.10.2004 involving the deceased and the respondent No.2, as alleged in the complaint and as stated by the complainant in the inquiry, is made in the so-called suicide note dated 23.10.2004; (ii) There is no proximity between the alleged occurrence of utterance of the so-called instigative words on 12.10.2004 and the commission of suicide by Brijesh Chander inasmuch as it was committed only on 23.10.2004. The so-called suicide note did not refer to any such occurrence. If any such incident had, in troth, occurred and if that was the reason which pushed him to commit suicide it would have been mentioned, explicitly or implicitly in the so-called suicide note, as rightly observed and held by the High Court. What makes it dubious and unfit for being formative foundation for prosecution for an offence under Section 306, IPC, will be dealt with a little later. 22. It is to be noted that apart from the above mentioned alleged incident, there is no allegation of continued course of conduct (against the respondent No.2) creating circumstances compelling the victim to or leaving the victim with no other option but to, commit suicide. In this contextual situation from the decision of this Court in Chitresh Kumar Chopra v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi)14, paragraphs 16 and 17 therein dealing with the expression ‘instigation’ are worthy for reference and they read thus:- “16…instigation is to goad, urge forward, provoke, incite or encourage to do “an act”.