This Court held the proviso to be unconstitutional on the ground that it offended Article 31(2), which at the time, stood as follows: “(2) No property, movable or immovable, including any interest in, or in any company owning, any commercial or industrial undertaking, shall be taken in possession of or acquired for public purposes under any law authorizing the taking of such possession or such acquisition, unless the law provides for compensation for the property taken possession of or acquired and either fixes the amount of the compensation, or specifies the principles on which, and the manner in which, the compensation is to be determined and given.” Justice Shastri, writing for the Constitution Bench, observed that the legislature has the discretion of laying down principles on which compensation has to be determined but “such principles must ensure that what is determined as payable must be compensation, that is, a just equivalent of what the owner has been deprived of.” 67 Further, it was observed that principles to determine the compensation are justiciable and whether they took into consideration all factors which make up the true value of the property has to be examined. Apart from this issue of ‘just equivalent’ doctrine, the Government also realised that the detailed description of the property in the original Article 31(2) would pose a problem for laws not only essentially related to acquisition but also for the legislations which incidentally touched on property rights. 67 (1953) 2 SCC 648, para 6. 310 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 38. To overcome these difficulties, the Parliament introduced the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act 1955, which, inter alia, amended Article 31(2) and excluded ‘regulatory laws’ from the purview of ‘acquisition’. For this, the elaborate description in the original Article 31(2) in the form of the words ‘moveable or immoveable, including any interest in, or in any company owning any commercial or industrial undertaking’ was removed and the question of adequacy of compensation was made a non-justiciable issue. The amended Article 31(2) was as follows: “(2) No property shall be compulsorily acquired or requisitioned save for a public purpose and save by authority of a law which provides for compensation for the property so acquired or requisitioned and either fixes the amount of the compensation, or specifies the principles on which, and the manner in which, the compensation is to be determined and given; and no such law shall be questioned in any court on the ground that the compensation provided by that law is not adequate.” The Fourth Amendment, so far as it relates to Article 31(2), was aimed at restricting judicial interference on the question of adequacy of compensation. On 11th April 1955, while discussing the Bill (that led to the Constitutional (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955), the then Prime Minister had said in Lok Sabha that: “Remember this, that the sole major change is to make clear one thing which I submitted on the last occasion, was clear to us at the time this Constitution was framed.