However, he was filing applications day-after-day making reckless allegations against the Judges. While issuing a show-cause notice on 08.08.2006 (Suo Motu Contempt Case No. 17 of 2006), the High Court noted as follows: “We have looked into the statement made in the application, which is registered as CM No. 9695/2006. Having gone through the same, we direct for issuance of a notice to the petitioner to show cause why appropriate action under the provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act or otherwise shall not be initiated against him. Notice shall be issued to the petitioner by the registry of this Court without process fee and shall be served by the Process Serving Agency of this Court, returnable on 3rd October, 2006.” 7. Both the suo motu contempt proceedings were tagged and listed for 22.08.2006. However, neither on that date nor on subsequent dates did the appellant appear. 1156 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 8. Multiple ways were adopted to secure the presence of the appellant, without any avail. The appellant was not to be found on the addresses mentioned and hence, service of notice under the Act could not be completed. As a last resort, the High Court issued bailable warrants against the appellant. Upon failure to secure the appellant’s presence even then, non-bailable warrants were issued. The said warrants could also not be executed since the appellant was not available on any of the addresses mentioned. 9. After numerous attempts, the High Court directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police, New Delhi, to be present in Court. Upon his appearance in Court, the Deputy Commissioner of Police, New Delhi was directed to ensure the presence of the appellant in Court. Soon thereafter, on 18.09.2006, he was produced in Court. On the same day, while the Appeallant was released upon furnishing a personal bond, he was arrested by the Police of Uttarakhand in furtherance of another non-bailable warrant issued by a Family Court in a case filed by the appellant’s wife for execution of a decree. The High Court noted that even during this time, the appellant failed to appear before the Court, instead, he was filing applications challenging the jurisdiction of the Court in issuing such warrants. 10. This is a long-drawn case in which the appellant has been committing successive acts of contempt. There are about seven instances which the High Court has taken into account, where the conduct of the appellant came under scrutiny in different proceedings. In all those cases, the egregious act of contempt of the appellant was recorded. These instances in short are as follows: (i) In a case concerning his dismissal from service, the matter got carried up to this Court. While dismissing a review petition filed by him, this Court noted the allegations and insinuations made by the appellant against the conduct of the judges of this Court. While referring the matter to the Bar Council, this Court observed as under “We have carefully perused the review petition as well as the documents annexed therewith, but we find no merit in the review petition and the same is accordingly dismissed.