The deemed notices were effectively incomplete because the other requirement of supplying the relevant material or information to the assesses was not fulfilled. The second requirement could only have been fulfilled by the Revenue by an actual supply of the relevant material or information that formed the basis of the deemed notice. 102. While creating the legal fiction in Ashish Agarwal (supra), this Court was cognizant of the fact that the assessing officers were effectively inhibited from performing their responsibility under Section 148A until the requirement of supply of relevant material and information to the assesses was fulfilled. This Court lifted the inhibition by directing the 160 [1997] 3 SCR 931 : (1992) 3 SCC 1 1702 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports assessing officers to supplythe assesses with the relevant material and information relied upon by the Revenue within thirty days from the date of the . Thus, during the period between the issuance of the deemed notices and the date of in Ashish Agarwal (supra), the assessing officers were deemed to have been prohibited from proceeding with the reassessment proceedings. 103. In VLS Finance Limited v. Commissioner of Income Tax,161 a two-Judge Bench of this Court was called upon to interpret Explanation 1 to Section 158BE of the Income Tax Act. Section 158BE provides the time limit for completion of block assessments. Explanation 1 to the provision excludes“period during which the assessment proceedings is stayed by an or injunction of any court” from the period of limitation. This Court held that the exclusion of the period of limitation has to be computed “rationally and practically” in the following terms: “18. As a general rule, therefore, when there is no stay of the assessment proceedings passed by the court, Explanation 1 to Section 158-BE of the Act may not be attracted. However, this general statement of legal principle has to be read subject to an exception in to interpret it rationally and practically. In those cases where stay of some other nature is granted than the stay of the assessment proceedings but the effect of such stay is to prevent the assessing officer from effectively passing assessment , even that kind of stay may be treated as stay of the assessment proceedings because of the reason that such stay becomes an obstacle for the assessing officer to pass an assessment thereby preventing the assessing officer to proceed with the assessment proceedings and carry out appropriate assessment.” (emphasis supplied) 104. Section 11-A of the Land Acquisition Act 1894 mandated the Collector to make an award under Section 11 within two years from the date of publication of the declaration. The explanation to the provision 161 [2016] 3 SCR 390 : (2016) 12 SCC 32 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1703 Union of India & Ors. v. Rajeev Bansal allowed exclusion of “the period during which any action or proceeding to be taken in pursuance of the said declaration is stayed by an of a court.”This Court has consistently interpreted the phrase “stay of action or proceedings” to mean any type of passed by a court, which, in one way or another, prohibits or prevents the authorities from passing an award.162 Therefore, any of a court that prevents or prohibits an authority from passing an can be treated as a stay .