1435 Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India v. Delhi International Airport Ltd. & Ors. 43. The above discussion elucidates that the exercise of power by Authorities and Tribunals was described as “quasi-judicial’ to ensure that the principles of natural justice were complied with. However, with the evolution of the doctrine of fariness and reasonableness, all administrative actions (even if there is nothing ‘judicial (or adjudicatory)’ about them) are required to comply with the principles of natural justice. The evolution of the fairness doctrine has transcended many boundaries. Thus, the reason for which the expression ‘quasi- judicial’ came into vogue is no longer relevant. Neither are the tests to identify them because the functions of an authority no more need to have any semblance to ‘judicial functions’ for it to act judicially (that is, comply with the principles of natural justice). 44. The observations in s of this Court that a quasi-judicial authority must not be impleaded as a party in an appeal against its must be interpreted in view of the doctrinal expansion of the principle of fairness. The substitution of the standard of whether the Authority undertakes a quasi-judicial function with the test of adjudication is thus, not an aberration. It is a standard which is true to the purpose of the principle and which accounts for the subsequent constitutional developments. iv. The test for determining an ‘adjudicatory function’: Exploring Sitaram Sugar 45. Before we proceed to determine if tariff-determination by AERA is an adjudicatory function, we must answer a more preliminary question: what are the tests to identify if a function is an adjudicatory one? 46. In Sitaram Sugar (supra), the constitutional validity of notifications issued under Section 3(3C) of the Essential Commodities Act 1995 was before a Constitution Bench of this Court. Section 3(3C) provides that where producers are required to sell sugar, they must be paid an amount calculated with reference to the price of sugar determined by the Central Government. The provision also lays down the factors which must be considered by the Central Government while determining the price of sugar.84 The provision further provides that 84 (a) the minimum price, if any, fixed for sugarcane by the Central Government under this section; (b) the manufacturing cost of sugar; (c) the duty or tax, if any, paid or payable thereon; (d) the securing of a reasonable return on the capital employed in the business of manufacturing sugar, 1436 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports different prices may be determined from time to time for (a) different areas or; (b) for different factories; or (c) for different kinds of sugar. This Court distinguished between legislation and adjudication. The Constitution Bench held that the former affects the rights of individuals in an abstract manner while adjudication operates “upon individuals in their individual capacity.” 85 Relying on the following observations of this Court in Union of India v. Cynamide India Ltd.,86 the Bench held that price fixation is usually a legislative measure and that it may occasionally take an adjudicatory character when it relates to an individual: “A price fixation measure does not concern itself with the interests of an individual manufacturer or producer.