If indeed an LPG distributor were intended to be appointed in village Haripal, the ‘Type of Market/Distributorship’ would undoubtedly have been shown as ‘Rural’ and included in Part 1 (supra) and not Part 2 (supra) of the Advertisement. Unless the relevant Part and the columns thereunder of the Advertisement are interpreted in the manner as above, the same would lead to utter absurdity. 23. The problem can be viewed from another perspective. While completing our task, it is not for us to adjudge the nature of the Advertisement or the intention of those who were responsible for 15 Gramin Vitrak: In this document, the word ‘Rural Area’ will have the definition of ‘Rural’ as per census 2011. LPG distributorship located in ‘Rural Area’ will be called as Gramin Vitrak and will service the LPG Customers of the specified rural area. Generally it will cover all villages falling within 15 KMs from the boundary limits of the LPG distributorship location and or the area specified by the respective OMCs. 836 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports drawing it up, but whether the appellant’s candidature fell within the scope of the ‘Location’ as indicated in the Advertisement. 24. Law is well settled that when an advertisement is made inviting applications from the general public for appointment to a post or for admission to any course or appointment of the present nature, the advertisement constitutes a representation to the public and the authority issuing it is bound by such representation. It cannot act contrary to it. What bears heavy upon us is that, any person of reasonable prudence could assume that since there was no specific column for “Gram Panchayat” in Part 2 (supra) of the Advertisement, which was present in Part 1, and the ‘Type of Market/Distributorship’ was not ‘Rural’, complemented by the lack of any detail – apart from Haripal in the “Location” without any detailed particulars of the place, would imply that the location of the concerned showroom was required to be in Haripal block and any showroom on land located in Haripal block would fall within the requirements of the Advertisement. 25. We have also kept in mind that the specific words ‘mouza’ and ‘village’ do not find any mention in the Advertisement and reference to the definitions of the same in the Panchayat Act by the Division Bench as well as by Mr. Sinha in course of his submissions is misconceived. An of cancellation of the candidature of an applicant, which is the subject matter of challenge in a court of law, has to be defended with reference to the Advertisement and the pleadings and not with reference to what was in contemplation of the authority issuing the Advertisement. It is the norm that a court cannot be swayed by the version of a party, which is not its pleaded case, and that it should confine its decision to the points of assail/defence raised in the pleadings. Any such argument ought to have been traceable in the pleadings, and could not simply have been put before this Court as an afterthought.