Similarly, Gurcharan Singh Grewal (supra) was also not a case involving ad hoc services. It was a matter wherein the Appellant was merely seeking to step up his pay as was done for another appellant situated similarly. Lastly, in Ashok Ram Parhad (supra), the grant of monetary benefit was not under contention. Rather, that matter was with regards to the inter se seniority which is not a point of dispute in the instant case. Hence, none of the case laws relied on by the Appellants help their case. 35. It is also befitting here to briefly refer to the relevant s by this Court rendered earlier on the subject-matter, which have been relied by the Respondents: 36. The case of R. Swaminathan (supra) is a matter with very similar factual matrix wherein certain employees claiming seniority were claiming step up if their juniors are getting more pay on account of their ad hoc services being counted. Certain junior employees had officiated on a promotional post on an ad hoc basis due to administrative exigencies., due to which their pay on their regular promotion was fixed higher than their senior. The Court held as under: “10. According to the aggrieved employees, this has resulted in an anomaly, Government bearing No. F.2(78)-E.III(A)/66 dated 4-2-1966 has been issued for removal of anomaly by stepping up of pay of a senior on promotion drawing less pay than his junior. It provides as follows: “10. Removal of anomaly by stepping up of pay of senior on promotion drawing less pay than his junior.—(a) As 484 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a result of application of FR 22-C.—In to remove the anomaly of a government servant promoted or appointed to a higher post on or after 1-4-1961 drawing a lower rate of pay in that post than another government servant junior to him in the lower grade and promoted or appointed subsequently to another identical post, it has been decided that in such cases the pay of the senior officer in the higher post should be stepped up to a figure equal to the pay as fixed for the junior officer in that higher post. The stepping up should be done with effect from the date of promotion or appointment of the junior officer and will be subject to the following conditions, namely: (a) Both the junior and senior officers should belong to the same cadre and the posts in which they have been promoted or appointed should be identical and in the same cadre; (b) the scale of pay of the lower and higher posts in which they are entitled to draw pay should be identical; (c) the anomaly should be directly as a result of the application of FR 22-C. For example, if even in the lower post the junior officer draws from time to time a higher rate of pay than the senior by virtue of grant of advance increments, the above provisions will not be invoked to step up the pay of the senior officer.