29. Clause 26 of the First Schedule to the 1935 Act is the interpretation clause. It defines “the Scheduled Castes” as under: ““the scheduled castes” means such castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes, being castes, races, tribes, parts or groups which appear to His Majesty in Council to correspond to the classes of persons formerly known as “the depressed classes”, as His Majesty in Council may specify;” 30. It is thus clear that the 1935 Act defines ‘the Scheduled Castes” to mean such castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes, being castes, races, tribes, parts or groups which 1452 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports appear to His Majesty in Council to correspond to the classes of persons formerly known as “the depressed classes”, as His Majesty in Council may specify. 31. It could thus be seen that the definition of “the Scheduled Castes” can be traced to “the depressed classes”, which were used in a generic sense earlier and again traced to the most backward people suffering untouchability. 32. Then comes the Government of India (Scheduled Castes) , 1936 (hereinafter referred to as “the 1936 ”), notified on 30th April 1936. It will be relevant to refer to the said , which is as under: “THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA (SCHEDULED CASTES) , 1936 ______________ AT THE COURT AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE The 30th day of April, 1936 Present, THE KING’S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY IN COUNCIL Whereas by certain provisions in the First, Fifth and Sixth Schedules to the Government of India Act, 1935, His Majesty in Council is empowered to specify the castes, races or tribe or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes which are to be treated as the scheduled castes for the purposes of those Schedules: AND WHEREAS a draft of this was laid before Parliament in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1) of section three hundred and nine of the said Act and an Address has been presented by both Houses of Parliament praying that an may be made in the terms of this : NOW, THEREFORE, His Majesty, in the exercise of the said powers and of all other powers enabling Him in that behalf, is pleased by and with the advice of His Privy Council to , and it is hereby ed, as follows :- [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1453 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 1. This may be cited as “The Government of India (Scheduled Castes) , 1936.” 2. Subject to the provisions of this , for the purposes of the First, Fifth and Sixth Schedules to the Government of India Act, 1935, the castes, races or tribes, or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes specified in Parts I to IX of the Schedule to this shall, in the Provinces to which those Parts respectively relate, be deemed to be scheduled castes so far as regards members thereof resident in the localities specified in relation to them respectively in those Parts of that Schedule.