997 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. private, intimate needs like access to sex and relationships.51 Emotional needs, such as privacy and self-pleasure, are often overlooked, leaving disabled individuals, especially those living with families, without private spaces to express these needs. g. Right to Health – In the realm of health, significant barriers persist for PWDs in accessing healthcare, primarily due to the medical establishment’s pathologizing view of disabled bodies and minds. A panel discussion highlighted the positive impact of having doctors with disabilities in the healthcare system.52 However, disabled individuals still face significant obstacles in becoming healthcare professionals and obtaining necessary accommodations. Studies have revealed that many healthcare services lack proper accessibility, and healthcare professionals are often untrained in accommodating the needs of disabled individuals. A Survey by National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People found that healthcare infrastructure is frequently not designed with accessibility in mind, which hinders the ability of disabled people to receive timely and appropriate care. h. Participation in Sports – In sports, accessibility remains a major issue. Only 21.4% of surveyed sports facilities had fully accessible restrooms, with just 3.6% providing sensory rooms for athletes with sensory processing diss.53 89.3% of these venues lacked assistive listening systems. Additionally, communication accessibility was limited, with only 7.1% of locations offering captioning or sign language interpretation. When it comes to digital access, only 25% of sports websites were fully accessible, and merely 7.1% of apps met accessibility standards. i. Political Participation – while temporary accessibility measures like ramps are erected during elections, these are removed afterwards, leading to inconsistent access.54 The report stresses 51 Abhishek Annica -Accessibility and sexual rights. 52 Doctors With Disabilities: Agents of Change (DwDAoC)- Focussed group Discussion Access to health:Stories from Health Professionals with Disabilities. 53 Vidya Sagar -1)Accessibility Audit Survey for sports facilities in India 2) Accessibility of sports facilities in Chennai. 54 Disability Rights Alliance -Accessibility in Eiections-2024 998 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the importance of permanent solutions, such as permanent ramps and facilities, to ensure reliable and ongoing accessibility for PWDs, enabling them to fully exercise their right to vote. E. Inconsistencies in the Existing Legal Framework 49. In addition to reporting on inadequate accessibility measures in various spheres, as summarised above, NALSAR-CDS has reported that there is an inconsistency in the legal framework, which lies at the root of the slow progress. The report states that while the RPWD Act creates a mechanism for mandatory compliance with a set of non-negotiable accessibility rules, the Right of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 201755 create a mechanism which only prescribes self-regulatory guidelines. Therefore, the report states, that Rule 15 of the RPWD Rules, which contains the accessibility standards, is ultra vires the RPWD Act. Further, it is contended that the situation on the ground reveals that the absence of non-negotiable rules and excessive reliance on guidelines, compromises the effective realisation of accessibility rights. 50. With regard to this contention, Mr Colin Gonsalves, Senior Counsel for the petitioner submitted that Rule 15 of the RPWD Rules uses the term “shall” and thus, all the standards prescribed under the RPWD Rules are in fact mandatory.