Companies which contravened the disclosure requirement were subject to fine. It is crucial to note here that contributions to political parties by companies were regulated long before the IT Act was amended in 1978 to exempt the income of political parties through voluntary contributions for tax purposes (ostensibly to curb black money). It is clear as day light that the purpose of mandating the disclosure of contributions made by companies was not merely to curb black money in electoral financing but crucially to make the financial transactions between companies and political parties transparent. Contributions for “political purposes” was widely defined in the 1985 amendment (which was later incorporated in Section 182 of the Companies Act 2013) to include expenditure (either directly or 174 The Companies Act 2013; Section 2(40) 175 The Companies At 2013; Section 137 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 537 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. indirectly) for advertisement on behalf of political parties and payment to a person “who is carrying activity which can be regarded as likely to affect public support to a political party”. This indicates that the legislative intent of the provision mandating disclosure was to bring transparency to political contributions by companies. Companies have always been subject to a higher disclosure requirement because of their huge financial presence and the higher possibility of quid pro quo transactions between companies and political parties. The disclosure requirements in Section 182(3) were included to ensure that corporate interests do not have an undue influence in electoral democracy, and if they do, the electorate must be made aware of it. 172. Section 182(3) as amended by the Finance Act 2017 mandates the disclosure of total contributions made by political parties. This requirement would ensure that the money which is contributed to political parties is accounted for. However, the deletion of the mandate of disclosing the particulars of contributions violates the right to information of the voter since they would not possess information about the political party to which the contribution was made which, as we have held above, is necessary to identify corruption and quid pro quo transactions in governance. Such information is also necessary for exercising an informed vote. 173. Section 182(3) of the Companies Act and Section 29C of the RPA as amended by the Finance Act must be read together. Section 29C exempts political parties from disclosing information of contributions received through Electoral Bonds. However, Section 182(3) not only applies to contributions made through electoral bonds but through all modes of transfer. In terms of the provisions of the RPA, if a company made contributions to political parties through cheque or ECS, the political party had to disclose the details in its report. Thus, the information about contributions by the company would be in the public domain. The only purpose of amending Section 182(3) was to bring the provision in tune with the amendment under the RPA exempting disclosure requirements for contributions through electoral bonds. The amendment to Section 182(3) of the Companies Act becomes otiose in terms of our holding in the preceding section that the Electoral Bond Scheme and relevant amendments to the RPA and the IT Act mandating non-disclosure of particulars on political contributions through electoral bonds is unconstitutional.