The State urged that the Act of 2000 was a form of affirmative action and it did not exclude or include anyone from the Presidential List under Article 341. Such a sub-classification of the Scheduled Castes was claimed to be permissible under Article 16(4) for the same reason that this Court had held in Indra Sawhney (supra) that the backward classes could be divided into the ‘more backward’ and ‘backward’, depending on inter-se backwardness. 14. A Constitution Bench of this Court, speaking through Justice Santosh Hegde (for himself, Justice SN Variava and Justice BP Singh), Justice HK Sema and Justice SB Sinha unanimously held that the Andhra Pradesh Act was unconstitutional. 15. Justice Hegde examined whether the Andhra Pradesh Act tinkered with the Presidential List notified under Article 341 and held that the States have no power to deal with the Scheduled Castes except the maintenance of efficiency of administration. Justice Hegde observed that certain members of the Constituent Assembly sought to give power to the States to interfere with the list but the amendments to that effect were unsuccessful. Analysing the opinion of Justice Hegde, the following formulations emerge:12 a. The Scheduled Castes form a class by themselves13 as elucidated in the opinions of Justice Krishna Iyer and Justice Fazl Ali in State of Kerala v. NM Thomas;14 12 Chinnaiah (supra) [Justice Hegde, 13-19]. 13 Chinnaiah (supra) [Justice Hegde, 20-26]. 14 Chinnaiah (supra) [Justice Hegde, 82, 135 and 169]. 1350 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports b. The purpose of the Act was to divide the castes in the Presidential List and then to distribute the 15% reservations for the Scheduled Castes in the state among four groups. The Act did not provide reservations for the first time but redistributed them by sub-classifying the Scheduled Castes. Reservations are not a constitutional mandate and once the state has fulfilled the obligation to reserve certain seats under Articles 15(4) and 16(4), it cannot apportion reservations among sub-classes. Notwithstanding the purpose of such sub-classification, the State cannot claim legislative competence under Entry 41, List II and Entry 25, List III of the Seventh Schedule in to divide the Scheduled Castes’ List. The pith and substance of the law in question was not traceable to these entries;15 c. The Scheduled Castes constitute a class, and a classification already exists. The issue was whether a further classification is permissible within this class with the objective of providing reservations.16 The rationale of Indra Sawhney (supra), to the extent that it permitted sub-classification of the Other Backward Classes,17 did not apply to the Scheduled Castes.18 Sub-classification was akin to giving preference to a ‘miniscule proportion’ of the Scheduled Castes, over other groups and would be impermissible in view of Article 14;19 and d. The Constitution creates a legal fiction in terms of which the Scheduled Castes constitute a “class as a whole”. The States cannot sub-divide them. Such a sub-classification would tinker with the Presidential list and violate Article 14. If the benefits of reservation are not being distributed equitably, they can be supplemented by additional measures such as training, which would not be contrary to Articles 14 and 15.20 A further sub- classification amongst the Scheduled Castes would not be reasonable and a uniform yardstick must be adopted to give benefits to the Scheduled Castes.21 15 Chinnaiah (supra) [Justice Hegde, 30-31] 16 Chinnaiah (supra) [Justice Hegde, 38] 17 “OBCs” 18 Chinnaiah (supra) [Justice Hegde, 38] 19 Chinnaiah (supra) [Justice Hegde, 39,40] 20 Chinnaiah (supra) [Justice Hegde, 43] 21 ibid.