“To deny the protection of Section 3 (2) (v) on the premise that the crime was not committed against an SC & ST person solely on the ground of their caste identity is to deny how social inequalities function in a cumulative fashion. It is to render the experiences of the most marginalized invisible. It is to grant impunity to perpetrators who on account of their privileged social status feel entitled to commit atrocities against socially and economically vulnerable communities.” 138. In Dr. Balram Singh v. Union of India,226 while dealing with the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act, 2013, the Court directed the Union government to take “appropriate measures” and “issue directions, to all statutory bodies, including corporations, railways, cantonments, as well as agencies under its control, to ensure that manual sewer cleaning is completely eradicated in a phased manner”. The Court also instructed that guidelines and directions should be issued to prevent the need for individuals to enter sewers, even when sewer cleaning work is outsourced or carried out by contractors or agencies. The Court held that “where minimum protective gear and cleaning devices are not provided to hazardous workers, the employment of hazardous workers amounts to forced labour”, prohibited under the Constitution. Hence, the Court held that “the provisions for protective gear and cleaning devices are not mere statutory rights or rules, but are entitlements” guaranteed under the Constitution. 139. On a number of occasions, this Court has expressed concern about the non-implementation of the PoA Act and the legislation prohibiting manual scavenging. The Court has also expressed concern about the false implication of people from nomadic/denotified tribes in criminal cases. In NALSA, the Court noted that the colonial-era Criminal Tribes Act “deemed the entire community of Hijras as innately ‘criminal’”. In Ankush Maruti Shinde v. State of Maharashtra,227 the High Court confirmed the conviction and death penalty of six accused for the offence of rape and murder. Their appeal was previously dismissed by this Court. However, in a review petition, the Court 226 [2023] 14 SCR 1083 : 2023 INSC 950 227 [2019] 4 SCR 709 : 2019 INSC 305 582 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports restored the appeal and acquitted all the accused, finding that they were falsely implicated. Taking account of the fact that the accused belonged to nomadic tribes, the Court noted that “there was no fair investigation and fair trial” and the “serious lapse on the part of the investigating agency”. As five of the accused spent 16 years in jail on false implication and all “were facing the hanging sword of death penalty”, the Court granted them monetary compensation for violating their rights under Article 21. 140. In a recent decision in Amanatullah Khan v. The Commissioner of Police, Delhi,228 the petitioner sought “quashing of opening/ approval of the History Sheet declaring him as bad character and consequential entries in the Surveillance Register being exercised” by the respondents. The Court reiterated that “History Sheet is only an internal police document and it shall not be brought in public domain”.