In our opinion, for the present, it is not desirable to disturb the custody of Master Satyajeet and, therefore, the of the High Court giving his exclusive custody to the father with visitation rights to the mother deserves to be maintained.” [Emphasis supplied] xx xx xx 41. However, the High Court of Rajasthan held that in the light of Section 19 which bars the Court from appointing a guardian when the father of the minor is alive and not unfit, the Court could not appoint any maternal relative as a guardian, even though the personal law of the minor might give preferential custody in her favour. As is evident, the aforementioned decision concerned appointment of a guardian. No doubt, unless the father is proven to be unfit, the application for guardianship filed by another person cannot be entertained. However, we have already seen that the question of custody was distinct from that of guardianship. As far as matters of custody are concerned, the Court is not bound by the bar envisaged under Section 19 of the Act.” [Emphasis supplied] 12. This Court in Mausami Moitra Ganguli v. Jayant Ganguli12, opined that the stability and security of the child is an essential ingredient for full development of child’s talent and personality. Relevant paragraph thereof is extracted below: “23. Having bestowed our anxious consideration to the material on record and the observations made by the 12 [2008] 8 SCR 260 : (2008) 7 SCC 673 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 19 Shazia Aman Khan and Another v. The State of Orissa and Others courts below, we are of the view that in the present case there is no ground to upset the and of the High Court. There is nothing on record to suggest that the welfare of the child is in any way in peril in the hands of the father. In our opinion, the stability and security of the child is also an essential ingredient for a full development of child’s talent and personality. As noted above, the appellant is a teacher, now employed in a school at Panipat, where she had shifted from Chandigarh some time back. Earlier she was teaching in some school at Calcutta. Admittedly, she is living all alone. Except for a very short duration when he was with the appellant, Master Satyajeet has been living and studying in Allahabad in a good school and stated to have his small group of friends there. At Panipat, it would be an entirely new environment for him as compared to Allahabad. [Emphasis supplied] 13. In Nil Ratan Kundu and another v. Abhijit Kundu13, this Court laid down the principles governing custody of minor children and held that welfare of the children is to be seen and not the rights of the parties by observing as under: “Principles governing custody of minor children 53. In our , the law relating to custody of a child is fairly well-settled and it is this. In deciding a difficult and complex question as to custody of minor, a Court of law should keep in mind relevant statutes and the rights flowing therefrom.