It was held that the effect of approval of the resolution plan is that the right to recover the loan amount from the corporate guarantor stands extinguished. Chapter VI, under the heading ‘financial, value and projections’ in the approved resolution plan, records as follows: “The projections have been made on the basis that ACIL shall continue to operate all the businesses. Provided that the investments of ACIL in the subsidiaries may be discontinued/liquidated sold depending a business exigency. Therefore, the business plan financial projections do not include income that the subsidiaries.” (emphasis added) Clause 13.3 of the approved resolution plan reads thus: “13.3 All corporate guarantees, indemnities, letters of comfort, undertakings provided by ACIL., in respect of any third party liability (including of subsidiaries) shall stand revoked and extinguished on the effective date pursuant to approval of the resolution plan by the of the NCLT, without the requirement of any further act or deed by the Resolution Applicant and/or ACIL.” The effect of the said clause is that the liabilities of ACIL in respect of the third parties including the subsidiaries shall stand revoked and extinguished with effect from the effective date. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2173 BRS Ventures Investments Ltd. v. SREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd. & Anr. 23. Thus, by virtue of the CIRP process of ACIL (corporate guarantor), the 2nd respondent-corporate debtor does not get a discharge, and its liability to repay the loan amount to the extent to which it is not recovered from the corporate guarantor is not extinguished. SUBROGATION UNDER SECTION 140 OF THE CONTRACT ACT 24. Now, we come to the argument based on subrogation as provided under Section 140 of the Contract Act. Reliance was placed by both parties on conflicting decisions of different High Courts. Therefore, this issue will have to be resolved. Section 140 is relevant which reads thus: “140. Rights of surety on payment or performance.— Where a guaranteed debt has become due, or default of the principal debtor to perform a guaranteed duty has taken place, the surety upon payment or performance of all that he is liable for is invested with all the rights which the creditor had against the principal debtor.” The words used in Section 140 are “upon payment or performance of all that he is liable for”. When the principal debtor commits a default and when the liability under the deed of guarantee of the surety is not limited to a particular amount, its liability is in respect of the entire amount repayable by the principal debtor to the creditor. The words ‘all that he is liable’ used under Section 140 cannot be ignored. The principal borrower must continuously indemnify the surety. Section 140 of the Contract Act may be founded on the said obligation. The 1st respondent-financial creditor relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Economic Transport Corporation, Delhi,4 which holds that the doctrine of subrogation is a creature of equity. Therefore, the Section will have to be interpreted having regard to the equitable principles.