Nor can there by a comparison with the Advocate’s profession. 5.9 To contravene the contention raised by petitioners that neither does the 1949 Act contemplate distribution of available work amongst Chartered Accountants, nor is there any obligation to provide work for young Chartered Accountants, it was contended that under the 1949 Act, the respondent-Institute has a responsibility to regulate the profession and hence, the Guidelines have been made to ensure quality work and equitable distribution of work amongst Chartered Accountants which objects are indisputably in furtherance of that statutory duty. It was also submitted that the Division Bench of Madras High Court did not consider the of the learned Single Judge of the Kerala High Court in B.K. Kamath vs. The Institute of Chartered Accountants, (2003) 2 KLJ 21, (“B.K. Kamath”). However, the of learned Single Judge of the Madras High Court was considered and dealt with by the Kerala High Court. 5.10 Learned senior counsel, Sri Datar placed reliance on a of this court in Pathumma vs. State of Kerala, (1978) 2 SCC 1, (“Pathumma”), in support of his contention that a just balance between the fundamental rights and the larger and broader interest of society must be struck by this Court while trying to protect fundamental rights. Furthermore, it was argued that this Court should defer to the Legislature in appreciating the needs of the people and interfere only when the statute is clearly violative of the right conferred on the citizens under Part III of the Constitution. In addition to the foregoing, reliance was also placed on M/s Laxmi Khandsari vs. State of U.P., (1981) 2 SCC 600, (“M/s Laxmi Khandsari”), to submit that if the restrictions imposed appear to be consistent with the Directive Principles of State Policy in Part IV of the Constitution they would have to be upheld as the same would be in public interest and reasonable. Further, according to learned senior counsel, in judging the reasonableness, this Court should bear 818 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in mind that the present restriction is imposed in furtherance of Part IV of the Constitution. 5.11 Further reliance was also placed on Minerva Talkies, Bangalore vs. State of Karnataka, AIR 1988 SC 526 (“Minerva Talkies”), in support of the contention that Chartered Accountants have no unrestricted fundamental right to carry on the profession unregulated by the provisions of the the 1949 Act, including the regulations made and the Guidelines issued thereunder in the interest of general public and the society at large. In Minerva Talkies, this Court had upheld the restriction to limit the number of cinema shows to four in a day. This Court had further held that no law can be held to be unreasonable merely because it results in reduction in the income of the citizen. 5.12 Learned senior counsel, Sri Datar, also argued that the power to regulate a particular business or profession implies the power to prescribe and enforce all such just and reasonable rules and regulations, as may be deemed necessary for conduct of business or profession in a proper and ly manner vide Deepak Theatre, Dhuri vs. State of Punjab, 1992 Suppl.