Digital Supreme Court Reports ● Duration of the limitation under Section 43D(5) [para 26]: The special provision, Section 43-D of the 1967 Act, applies right from the stage of registration of FIR for the offences under Chapters IV and VI of the 1967 Act until the conclusion of the trial thereof. ● Material on record must be analysed as a ‘whole’; no piecemeal analysis [para 27]: The totality of the material gathered by the investigating agency and presented along with the report and including the case diary, is required to be reckoned and not by analysing individual pieces of evidence or circumstance. ● Contents of documents to be presumed as true [para 27]: The Court must look at the contents of the document and take such document into account as it is. ● Admissibility of documents relied upon by Prosecution cannot be questioned [para 27]: The materials/evidence collected by the investigation agency in support of the accusation against the accused in the first information report must prevail until contradicted and overcome or disproved by other evidence…….In any case, the question of discarding the document at this stage, on the ground of being inadmissible in evidence, is not permissible. 24. It will also be apposite at this juncture to refer to the directions issued in Devender Gupta v. National Investigating Agency3 wherein a Division Bench of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh strove to strike a balance between the mandate under Section 43D on one hand and the rights of the accused on the other. It was held as follows: “The following instances or circumstances, in our view, would provide adequate guidance for the Court to form an opinion, as to whether the accusation in such cases is “prima facie true”: 1) Whether the accused is/are associated with any organization, which is prohibited through an passed under the provisions of the act; 3 2014 (2) ALD Cri. 251 [2024] 2 S.C.R. 147 Gurwinder Singh v. State of Punjab & Another 2) Whether the accused was convicted of the offenses involving such crimes, or terrorist activities, or though acquitted on technical grounds; was held to be associated with terrorist activities; 3) Whether any explosive material, of the category used in the commission of the crime, which gave rise to the prosecution; was recovered from, or at the instance of the accused; 4) Whether any eye witness or a mechanical device, such as CC camera, had indicated the involvement, or presence of the accused, at or around the scene of occurrence; and 5) Whether the accused was/were arrested, soon after the occurrence, on the basis of the information, or clues available with the enforcement or investigating agencies.” 25. In the case of Kekhriesatuo Tep and Ors. v. National Investigation Agency4 the Two-Judge Bench (Justice B.R. Gavai & Justice Sanjay Karol) while dealing with the bail application for the offence of supporting and raising funds for terrorist organization under section 39 and 40 of the UAP Act relied upon NIA v. Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali5 and observed that: “while dealing with the bail petition filed by the accused against whom offences under chapter IV and VI of UAPA have been made, the court has to consider as to whether there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against the accused is prima facie true.