But this he must do, without unduly trespassing upon the functions of the Public Prosecutor and the defence Counsel, without any hint of partisanship and without appearing to frighten or bully witnesses. He must take the prosecution and the defence with him. The court, the prosecution and the defence must work as a team whose goal is justice, a team whose captain is the judge. The Judge, ‘like the conductor of a choir, must, by force of personality, induce his team to work in harmony; subdue the raucous, encourage the timid, conspire with the young, flatter and (sic the) old’.” (emphasis supplied) ON FACTS 31. We have given our consideration to the circumstances, motive, role of the accused and the volition of the prosecution to bring home the guilt of the appellant primarily in the form of: (a) Dying Declaration, (b) [2024] 2 S.C.R. 809 Shailesh Kumar v. State of U.P. (Now State of Uttarakhand) Eye witnesses, (c) Recovery and (d) Alleged arrest of the appellant nearer to the scene of the offence. 32. The presence of PW-1 before PW-5 is extremely doubtful. His presence was not spoken to at all by PW-5. The evidence of PW-1 is quite unnatural as he has neither spoken about the motive in his statement recorded under Section 161 of CrPC, nor about the so- called dying declaration which was not even witnessed by PW-5. PW-5 has clearly stated that the deceased was in a very serious condition, blood was oozing out and, therefore, he could not give adequate treatment. The deceased was immediately referred to the second hospital. There was no necessity for PW-1 to dictate the complaint to one Mr. Inder Singh who curiously has not been examined by the prosecution. In any case, there was no need for PW-11 to wait for PW-1 to come to him for registration of FIR, which he was mandated to do so, as soon as he received the report from the hospital. The testimony of PW-1 is also contradictory to PW-3 and PW-8. 33. On the similar line, we do not wish to rely upon the evidence of PW-2 and PW-3. PW-2 admittedly was not examined by PW-11 for over 2 weeks, for which no explanation is forthcoming. This witness also states that he was not a friend of the deceased and, therefore, his presence at the place of occurrence creates a serious doubt as to how he happened to accompany the deceased to the picnic spot. PW-3, though accompanied the deceased, was not present thereafter, as deposed by PW-5 and did not admit the deceased to the second hospital as deposed by PW-8. On the contrary, the evidence of PW-3 is that it is PW-1 and himself who admitted the deceased. Furthermore, even his presence thereafter was not noticed by PW-5. 34. Though we rely upon the evidence of PW-5 to a certain extent, the emergency medical register was not completely filled up by him. Nobody knows the reason as to why he partially filled up the register and the remaining part was filled by Dr. B.V. Sharma, who was not examined by the prosecution.