17. To buttress the above contention, learned counsel for the appellant- defendant, drew the Court’s attention to the following excerpts from the cross-examination of the respondent-plaintiff (PW1): - “Amarjit Singh S/o Massa Singh is my real brother. He is running a commission agent shop at Amarkot, and the name of the commission agent shop is Cheema Trading Company, at Amarkot. I know Lakha Singh from my childhood. He belongs to my village. I do not know whether Lakha Singh deft sold his agriculture produce through the commission agent shop of my brother Amarjit Singh. I am posted as Head constable in Punjab Police and now posted at Ludhiana at Division no. 11nd. The agreement was scribed at Patti by a typist, but I do not know his name. Possession was not delivered on the basis of agreement to sell. It was mentioned in the agreement that the possession will be delivered on the agreement but the defendant refused to deliver the possession of the land agreed to sold the land to me. I file the income tax return because I am employee of Punjab Govt. I have not shown the amount of [2024] 10 S.C.R. 89 Lakha Singh v. Balwinder Singh & Anr. Rs.16,00,000/- in my income tax return. It is correct if any Govt. employee want to purchase any land it is necessary to get the permission from their department. I have not taken any permission from my department before purchasing the agreement to sell with the defendant not I show any amount of Rs. Sixteen lakh to my department. It is correct that agriculture income also not shown in my income tax return. I have never shown my agricultural income in my income tax return. This amount was not withdrawn by me from any bank & this amount was lying be me in my house. It is correct that at present the marked rate in vill. Cheema Khurd Rs. 9/10 lakhs per Killa. It is also wrong. to suggest that defendant never purchase the stamp paper through Angrej Singh for execution of the agreement to sell dated 07-5-2007. It is also wrong to suggest that agreement is prepared and dated with the collusiveness of the attesting witnesses. It is also wrong to suggest defendant never receipt any amount of Rs.16 lakhs from me as earnest money. It is also wrong to suggest deft use to sell his agriculture produce at that shop of my brother Amarjit Singh. It is also wrong to suggest my brother might have got the thumb impression by fraud.” 18. He highlighted and stressed upon the following facts elicited from the deposition (supra) of the respondent-plaintiff: - a. The respondent-plaintiff was employed as a Head Constable in the Punjab Police at the time of the incident. b. The respondent-plaintiff’s brother was running a commission agent shop at Mandi Amarkot. c. Contrary to the recital in the disputed agreement that the possession of suit land was given to the respondent-plaintiff, it was admitted by the respondent-plaintiff in his evidence that the possession of suit land was not handed over to him on the basis of the disputed agreement.