[Para 60] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s. 34 –Arbitral Award – Scope of interference – Perversity as a ground for setting aside an arbitral award: Held: Interference with an arbitral award is only on limited grounds as set out in s. 34 – Possible view by the arbitrator on facts is to be respected as the arbitrator is the ultimate master of the quantity [2024] 9 S.C.R. 501 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. and quality of evidence to be relied upon – Arbitral decision must not be perverse or so irrational that no reasonable person would have arrived at the same – If an award is perverse, it would be against the public policy of India – It is only when an arbitral award could be categorized as perverse, that on an error of fact an arbitral award may be set aside – Mere erroneous application of the law or wrong appreciation of evidence by itself is not a ground to set aside an award as is clear from the provisions of sub-section (2-A) of s. 34. [Paras 63, 68] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s. 31 – Forms and contents of arbitral award – Scope of interference – Ground of insufficient, or improper/erroneous or lack of reasons: Held: Arbitral award on the ground of improper or inadequate reasons, or lack of reasons, can be placed in three categories, (1) where no reasons are recorded, or the reasons recorded are unintelligible; (2) where reasons are improper, that is, they reveal a flaw in the decision-making process; and (3) where reasons appear inadequate – Awards falling in category (1) are vulnerable as they would be in conflict with the provisions of s. 31(3), thus, liable to be set aside u/s. 34, unless the parties have agreed that no reasons are to be given, or the award is an arbitral award on agreed terms u/s. 30 – Awards falling in category (2) are amenable to a challenge on ground of impropriety or perversity, strictly in accordance with the grounds set out in s. 34 – In a challenge to award falling in category (3), before taking a decision the Court must take into consideration the nature of the issues arising between the parties in the arbitral proceedings and the degree of reasoning required to address them – If reasons are intelligible and adequate on a fair-reading of the award and, in appropriate cases, implicit in the documents referred to therein, the award is not to be set aside for inadequacy of reasons – However, if gaps are such that they render the reasoning in support of the award unintelligible, or lacking, the Court exercising power u/s. 34 may set aside the award. [Paras 71.3, 71.6] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Arbitral award – Scope of interference with the interpretation/construction of a contract accorded in the award : Held: Arbitral tribunal must decide in accordance with the terms of the contract – In a case where an arbitral tribunal passes an award against the terms of the contract, the award would be patently 502 [2024] 9 S.C.R.