Thirdly, natural equity requires that cross-demands should compensate each other by deducting the lesser sum from the greater. 5. At least five different meanings can be ascribed to the term ‘set-off’, namely, (a) statutory or legal set-off; (b) common law set-off; (c) equitable set-off; (d) contractual set-off; and (e) insolvency set-off.13 It is observed that the streams of common law and equity on the right of set-off have flown together and have so combined as to be in the modern era indistinguishable from one another.14 It is necessary to briefly explain the contours of contractual set-off, statutory/legal set-off, equitable set-off and insolvency set-off. 6. Contractual set-off is a matter of agreement, rather than a separate application of set-off. The parties are free to mutually agree on the outcomes they desire. Being consensual, when expressly stated, the normal rules of set-off regarding mutuality of credits or debts, liquid debts, and connected debts – aspects relevant and noticed below while dealing with statutory/legal set-offs or even insolvency set-off – may not apply. The contract, however, should be within bounds of legality and public policy.15 Further, the normal requirements of the law of contracts, viz. intention to create legal relationship, acceptance, consideration etc. should be established for a valid contractual set-off.16 7. Ascertaining the applicability of contractual set-off requires an assessment of the understanding whether the right is conferred by 13 Jurong Aromatics Corporation Pte Ltd. and Others v. BP Singapore Pte Ltd. and Another, (2018) SGHC 215. (High Court of Republic of Singapore) 14 Federal Commerce and Navigation Co. v. Molena Alpha Inc., (1978) Q.B. 927. (Lord Denning) 15 Palmer, supra note 12, at 263. 16 Palmer, supra note 12, at 263. 150 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS the agreement, as the court gives effect to the intention of the parties as to how they should deal.17 The right to set-off may be explicit in the words of the agreement, or can be gathered by existence of oral or implied agreement to set-off, reflecting an understanding to the said effect. There are earlier s in common law countries that suggest that courts may rely on the equitable foundations of set- off to relax the evidentiary burden required to prove an agreement to set-off.18 It is suggested that courts accept slighter evidence of agreement to set-off than is usually required in to establish disputed facts,19 but this is too broad a statement. Rather, the courts should consider that netting of cross dues is both legitimate and equitable, and in that context make an assessment of the relevant facts to decide whether or not the set-off rights are conferred. 8. Statutory or legal set-off is created by a statute. For example, VIII Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 190820 states that where a suit for recovery of money is filed, the defendant can claim set-off against the plaintiff’s demand for any ascertained sum of money legally recoverable by the defendant from the plaintiff, but not exceeding the pecuniary limits of the jurisdiction of the court.