V. Applicant shall develop and deposit the DNA fingerprints of the approved Transgenic Mustard varieties within 30 days from the receipt of approval letter to the ICAR-NBPGR. VI. Usage of any formulation of herbicide is recommended only under controlled and specified conditions exclusively for hybrid seed production after obtaining label claim and approval from Central Insecticide Board & Registration Committee (CIB&RC). VII. Usage of any formulation of herbicide is not permitted for cultivation in the farmer’s field under any situation and such use would require the necessary permission as per the procedures and protocols of safety assessment of insecticides/ herbicides by CIB&RC. 2016 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Any such use in the farmer’s field without due approval from CIB&RC would attract appropriate legal action under Central Insecticides Act 1968 and Rules 1971, EP Act 1986 and the Rules made there under. VIII. Commercial use of DMH-11 hybrid shall be subject to Seed Act 1966 and related rules and regulations, its amendments and Gazette notifications from time to time as applicable. IX. The applicant shall prepare and submit the annual/ seasonal reports on acreage, yield and states/ regions where the transgenic mustard is sown during the approval period to the GEAC. X. It is mandatory that all seed packets of GE mustard Hybrid DMH-11 and subsequent hybrids derived from the technology should be appropriately labelled indicating the contents including the name of the transgenes, physical and genetic purity of the seeds etc. Each packet should also contain detailed description for use including sowing pattern, pest management, suitability of agro-climatic conditions etc. in English, Hindi and vernacular language. XI. All efforts should be made by applicant and licensees to undertake an awareness and education programme interlaid through development and distribution of educational material on GE Mustard Hybrid DMH-11 for farmers, dealers and others. XII. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) would be the authorized agency to accord necessary permissions for development of any other Brassica juncea hybrids resulting from events approved and their descendants, provided the intended use is similar. However, all hybrids released using this technology shall also be regulated under Seed Act 1966 and related rules and regulations, its amendments and Gazette notification from time to time as applicable. ICAR shall also ensure the following conditions prior to release of any new hybrids: [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2017 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. • Confirmation of events through molecular characterization to be submitted from accredited lab, in original, as notified for the purpose. • Data on level of transgenes (Barnase, Barstar and Bar) expression in the events/ hybrids at seedling stage from accredited lab, in original, as notified for the purpose. • Morphological characters using Distinctiveness, Uniformity and Stability (DUS) descriptors as per Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers Rights Act, (PPVFRA) guidelines for the hybrids. • Source of germplasm/ pedigree and biotech traits must be provided with self-declaration by the applicant. • Affidavit on the ownership of hybrid/ variety/ events. • Performance trial report including agronomic parameters, yield with coefficient of variation (CV) and critical difference (CD), pest & disease reaction etc.