Hence, the analysis of the relevant Entries in the three Lists must be in the backdrop of the aforesaid discussion. Analysis of relevant Entries in the three Lists: 13. While analysing Entry 52 – List I which deals with industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in public interest, it would be useful to refer to Entries 7 and 54 – List I. What is common in all these three Entries is that there is a declaration made by the Parliament. Entries 7, 52 and 54 – List I read as under: “7. Industries declared by Parliament by law to be necessary for the purpose of defence or for the prosecution of war. xxx 2126 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 52. Industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest. xxx 54. Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation and development under the control of the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.” 13.1 What is common between Entry 52 – List I and Entry 54 – List I is the fact that control of industries or regulation and development of mines and mineral development respectively is to the degree or extent under the control of the Union which is expressed by a declaration made by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest. Thus, under Entry 52 – List I, the intent to control an industry: (i) by the Union; (ii) by a declaration by Parliament by law; and (iii) which law is expedient in the public interest are the key phrases to be taken note of. Thus, if there is a declaration by Parliament by law (such as IDRA) to control any of the industries by the Union, such as “Fermentation Industries” which is expedient in the public interest then, to the extent of such control, the industries would be covered under Entry 52 – List I. This is also evident on a reading of Entry 24 – List II which also deals with the field of legislation being “industries” subject to the provision of Entries 7 and 52 – List I. As already noted above, Entry 7 – List I pertains to industries declared by Parliament by law to be necessary for the purpose of defence or for the prosecution of war. Entry 52 – List I deals with “industries”, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest. 13.2 In Ishwari Khetan, the facts were that the Governor of Uttar Pradesh promulgated an Ordinance on 03.07.1972, styled as U.P. Sugar Undertaking (Acquisition) Ordinance, 1971, with a view to transferring and vesting sugar undertakings set out in the Schedule to the Ordinance in the U.P. State Sugar Corporation Limited, a Government Company within the meaning of Section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956.