Noticing the earlier granting bail in favour of the appellant, another learned Judge (Gupta, J.) in his observed that the appellant did not deserve to be enlarged on bail, and that it was “a fit case where the State should apply for cancellation of bail of all the accused persons”. In view of this observation, the State filed a petition for cancellation of the bail passed by Varma, J. In this application, neither any additional fact was stated nor any allegation was made against the appellant which could be relevant for cancellation of the earlier bail . The prayer for cancellation was founded only on the observations in the of Gupta, J., 41 1992 Supp (3) SCC 62 988 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which was verbatim quoted in the application. The same was listed before Gupta, J. who by the impugned cancelled the earlier of Varma, J. and while so doing made strong remarks against grant of bail in cases like the one under consideration. This of cancellation was carried in appeal before this Court. The Constitution Bench observed that no bench can comment on the functioning of a co-ordinate bench of the same court, much less sit in as an appellate court over its decision (emphasis supplied). While allowing the appeal, it was further observed that the State not having filed any appeal against the of Varma, J. granting bail to the appellant, the same had become final so far as the high court was concerned and that in the absence of any allegation of misuse of the concession of bail by the appellant, Gupta, J. had no authority to upset the earlier of Varma, J (emphasis supplied). In conclusion, it was also observed as follows: “2. *** That which could not be done directly could also not be done indirectly. Otherwise a party aggrieved by an passed by one bench of the High Court would be tempted to attempt to get the matter reopened before another bench, and there would not be any end to such attempts. Besides, it was not consistent with the judicial discipline which must be maintained by courts both in the interest of administration of justice by assuring the binding nature of an which becomes final, and the faith of the people in the judiciary ***.” 69. We do believe that what was said of a high court in this decision, would squarely apply to this Court. The Supreme Court of India, a revered institution, is one Court which operates through separate Benches owing to administrative exigency and practical expedience. These Benches are essential to efficiently manage the diverse and voluminous cases that come before the Court and to discharge the solemn judicial duty for which the Court exists. It would be an erroneous perception to regard this division as a cause for din within the Court. When faced with a peculiar circumstance as before us presently, one might just be compelled to ask whether one voice of this Court is louder than another?