This means that there is no requirement of the arbitrator specifically mentioning in the award that the pendente lite interest would merge with the principal or that it would bear future interest; rather, in view of the language used in Section 31(7)(b) of the 1996 Act, the pendente lite interest automatically merges with the principal so as to arrive at the ‘sum’ for the purpose of calculation of future interest. Clarification given by the learned Arbitrator is completely in consonance with the law laid down by this Court in M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra). A bare reading of the original award dated 16.12.1997 conveys the same meaning. Therefore, it cannot be said that the learned Arbitrator had made any modification of the award or had passed a completely new award. It was purely and simply a clarification of what was awarded. 33.5. Learned senior counsel for the respondent submits that this Court vide the dated 12.03.2015 held that the interest component shall be calculated in accordance with the law laid down in M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra). In the execution proceeding, respondent had lodged claim strictly in accordance with the law laid down in M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra). This decision has been explained and reiterated by this Court in the case of Delhi Airport Metro Express Private Limited Vs. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation.8 This Court categorically held that in view of M/s. Hyder Consulting (UK) Ltd. (supra), the amount awarded under Section 31(7) (a) would include the principal amount plus the interest amount pendente lite. It was further held that the interest calculated as per Section 31(7)(b) of the 1996 Act would be on the sum arrived at under Section 31(7)(a) of the 1996 Act. Learned senior counsel asserts that it would be wrong to say that learned Arbitrator had no jurisdiction to issue the clarification. A plain reading of Section 33(2) of the 1996 Act would show that the learned Arbitrator had the jurisdiction to issue the clarification. He submits that even learned Single 8 (2022) 9 SCC 286 1600 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Judge while setting aside the clarification acknowledged the fact that the learned Arbitrator had the jurisdiction to issue the clarification but the same had to be issued within 30 days. Once the Division Bench had given liberty to the respondent to seek clarification after 30 days even that issue i.e. seeking of clarification beyond 30 days would be of no consequence. 33.6. Learned senior counsel submits that undue hardship and serious prejudice would be caused to the respondent if the concurrent findings of two courts which are based on (s) of this Court are set aside. Contending that there is no merit in the civil appeal, respondent seeks dismissal of the same. 34. After the arguments were closed and was reserved, we had permitted the parties to file brief summary of submissions actually canvassed before the Court. Pursuant to such permission, both the sides have filed brief summary of submissions.