The petitioner /selected candidate was called upon to provide all the relevant land documents, including consent affidavits from the co-owners of the land which were duly submitted by him before the Application Scrutiny Committee and only after the thorough verification of their authenticity, approval was sanctioned for issuance of the LOI in favor of the petitioner. XIX. The said Special Leave Petition deserves to be allowed also because the averment of respondent No. 5 in para 18 of his writ petition that the whole process was to be completed within a period of 41 days from the date of draw of lots and that respondent No. 5 was very much eligible and has given all the requisite documents as required by the answering respondent /BPCL at the time of making application, was clarified by the answering respondent/ BPCL in its reply dated 03.11.2020. It is submitted that the averment of the respondent No. 5 to the effect that the selection process was to be completed within 41 days is without any basis and is misconceived. It is further stated that the respondent No. 5 was not selected in the draw [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1265 Pawan Kumar v. Union of India & Ors. of lots for the subject location and therefore there was absolutely no occasion for him to submit any documents to the answering respondent/BPCL.” 22. It would have been altogether a different situation had the Corporation shown outright favour to the appellant in the allotment of dealership. That does not seem to be in the present litigation. 23. What weighed with the High Court was some non-disclosure of information relevant for the purpose of allotment of dealership. Once the Corporation, a Public Sector Undertaking was convinced with the entire procedure undertaken by the appellant – herein, then there was no good reason for the High Court to disturb the allotment of dealership which was granted way back in the year 2020 at the instance of the respondent no. 5. 24. The BPCL having authored the tender documents, is the best person to understand and appreciate its requirements and interpret its documents. The constitutional courts must defer to this understanding and appreciation of the tender documents, unless there is mala fide or perversity in the understanding or appreciation or in the application of the terms of the tender conditions. It is possible that the owner or employer of a project may give an interpretation to the tender documents that is not acceptable to the constitutional courts but that by itself is not a reason for interfering with the interpretation given. 25. Exercise of power of judicial review would be called for if the approach is arbitrary or mala fide or procedure adopted is meant to favour one. The decision-making process should clearly show that the said maladies are kept at bay. But where a decision is taken that is manifestly in consonance with the language of the tender document or subserves the purpose for which the tender is floated, the court should follow the principle of restraint.