A. No. 380 381 382 383 384 ___/2017 SUBMISSIONS BY THE PETITIONERS: 6. Learned counsel for the petitioners submitted that the cheque(s) must be proved to have been issued for a legally enforceable debt, but in the present cases, the complainant has not produced any statement of accounts and/or Income Tax Returns showing that the [2025] 4 S.C.R. 2253 State (NCT) of Delhi v. Rajeev Sharma complainant lent money to the accused and the accused did not repay the said money. Hence, the complainant failed to prove that the cheques were issued for a legally enforceable debt. 7. It was contended that the complainant claims that he lent cash of Rs.41,28,000/- (Rupees Forty-One Lakhs Twenty Eight Thousand) to the accused with rate of interest of 2% per month. However, the matter of fact is that the said money was given to the accused in the course of producing a film jointly by the complainant and the accused and since the film failed, the cheques and receipts given by the accused were misused by the complainant. Further, the complainant failed to establish that the amount given by the complainant is a loan and not for any other purpose by placing the statement of accounts and/or Income Tax Returns. Hence, the complaint would not attract Section 138 of the Act as the accused has rebutted the presumption under Sections 118 and 139 of the Act by probable defence. This defence has been established by cross-examining PW1/the General Power of Attorney-holder of the complainant. Accordingly, the accused had shifted the burden on the complainant. Hence, the statutory presumption under Section 139 of the Act would not continue and it was for the complainant to discharge the onus by bringing on record evidence/material to show that the amount(s) given is/are for a legally enforceable debt. Moreover, the complainant failed to assail the defence of the accused. On these grounds, learned counsel for the petitioners urged the Court to issue notice and thereafter, admit and allow the appeals. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 8. From the impugned, it is clear that though the contention of the petitioners was that the said amounts were given for producing a film and were not by way of return of any loan taken, which may have been a probable defence for the petitioners in the case, but rightly, the High Court has taken the view that evidence had to be adduced on this point which has not been done by the petitioners. Pausing here, the Court would only comment that the reasoning of the High Court as well as the First Appellate Court and Trial Court on this issue is sound. Just by taking a counter-stand to raise a probable defence would not shift the onus on the complainant in such 2254 [2025] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a case for the plea of defence has to be buttressed by evidence, either oral or documentary, which in the present cases, has not been done. Moreover, even if it is presumed that the complainant had not proved the source of the money given to the petitioners by way of loan by producing statement of accounts and/or Income Tax Returns, the same ipso facto, would not negate such claim for the reason that the cheques having being issued and signed by the petitioners has not been denied, and no evidence has been led to show that the respondent lacked capacity to provide the amount(s) in question.