Ordinarily, the soundness of the decision taken by the employer ought not to be questioned but the decision-making process can certainly be subject to judicial review. The soundness of the decision may be questioned if it is irrational or mala fide or intended to favour someone or a decision “that no responsible authority acting reasonably and in accordance with relevant law could have reached” as held in Jagdish Mandal [Jagdish Mandal v. State of Orissa, (2007) 14 SCC 517] followed in Michigan Rubber [Michigan Rubber (India) Ltd. v. State of Karnataka, (2012) 8 SCC 216]. 48. Therefore, whether a term of NIT is essential or not is a decision taken by the employer which should be respected. Even if the term is essential, the employer has the inherent authority to deviate from it provided the deviation is made applicable to all bidders and potential bidders as held in Ramana Dayaram Shetty [Ramana Dayaram Shetty v. International Airport Authority of India, (1979) 3 SCC 489] . However, if the term is held by the employer to be ancillary or subsidiary, even that decision should be respected. The lawfulness of that decision can be questioned on very limited grounds, as mentioned in the various decisions discussed above, but the soundness of the decision cannot be questioned, otherwise this Court 444 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports would be taking over the function of the tender issuing authority, which it cannot.” 29. The submissions made by the learned Counsels for the Respondents that the project in question being Infrastructure project and also one of the Mega projects, this Court may not interfere more particularly in view of the fact that agreement has already been entered into between the Respondent BCCL and the Special Purpose Vehicle of the Respondent no.8, cannot be accepted, when we have found that the impugned decision of the Respondent BCCL was grossly arbitrary, illegal, discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. As held earlier, the Government bodies/ instrumentalities are expected to act in absolutely fair, reasonable and transparent manner, particularly in the award of contracts for Mega projects. Any element of arbitrariness or discrimination may lead to hampering of the entire project which would not be in the public interest. 30. In that view of the matter, the impugned decision of the Respondent – BCCL dated 06.05.2024 rejecting the Technical bid of the Appellant and further declaring the Respondent no.8 as successful bidder is set aside. Any action/ process undertaken or agreement entered into pursuant to the said decision also stand set aside. It shall be open for the Respondent – BCCL to initiate fresh tender process for the Project and to process the same in question in accordance with law. 31. The Appeal is allowed accordingly. Result of the Case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain