The provision is enacted to protect the minority autonomy of creditors. It should not be read down to nullify the minimum entitlement. Section 30(2)(b)(ii) forfends the dissenting financial creditor from settling for a lower amount payable under the resolution plan. 27. The passed by the NCLAT dated 18.11.2019 noticing the amendments states that Section 30(4) had not been given retrospective effect but is prospective in nature. While it was open to the CoC to follow the amended Section 30(4), it was not mandatory to follow the same. A financial creditor can dissent if the resolution plan is discriminatory or against a provision of law. However, a dissenting financial creditor cannot take advantage of Section 30(2)(b)(ii). A secured creditor cannot claim preference over another secured creditor at the stage of distribution on the ground of a dissent or assent, otherwise the distribution would be arbitrary and discriminative. The purpose of the amendment was only to ensure that a dissenting financial creditor does not get anything less than the liquidation value, but not for getting the maximum of the secured assets. 28. In India Resurgence ARC Private Limited v. Amit Metaliks Limited & Another.12, a two Judge Bench of this Court has referred to a by a three Judge Bench of this Court in Jaypee Kensington Boulevard Apartments Welfare Association & Others. v. NBCC (India) Limited & Others.13, to observe and hold: “18. In the case of Jaypee Kensington (supra), the proposal in the resolution plan was to the effect that if the dissenting financial creditors would be entitled to some amount in the nature of liquidation value in terms of Sections 30 and 53 of IBC read with Regulation 38 of the CIRP Regulations, they would be provided such liquidation value in the form of proportionate share in the equity of a special purpose 12 2021 SCC Online SC 409. 13 (2022) 1 SCC 401. 126 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS vehicle proposed to be set up and with transfer of certain land parcels belonging to corporate debtor. Such method of meeting with the liability towards dissenting financial creditors in the resolution plan was disapproved by the Adjudicating Authority; and this part of the of the Adjudicating Authority was upheld by this Court with the finding that the proposal in the resolution plan was not in accord with the requirement of ‘payment’ as envisaged by clause (b) of Section 30(2) of the Code. In that context, this Court held that such action of ‘payment’ could only be by handing over the quantum of money or allowing the recovery of such money by enforcement of security interest, as per the entitlement of a dissenting financial creditor. This Court further made it clear that in case a valid security interest is held by a dissenting financial creditor, the entitlement of such dissenting financial creditor to receive the amount could be satisfied by allowing him to enforce the security interest, to the extent of the value receivable by him and in the of priority available to him.