These aspects constrained the Parliament to pass the Validation Act. In the circumstances, the appeals and the writ petitions were dismissed. 26.7 The in Kannadasan clearly established the fact that the Parliament has supremacy over the regulation of mines and development of minerals in view of Entry 54 - List I read with Section 2 and the other provisions of MMDR Act, 1957, as Entry 23 – List II is also subject to Entry 54 – List I. That levying of a uniform impost in the form of royalty and dead rent imposed under Sections 9 and 9A of the MMDR Act, 1957 throughout the length and breadth of the country, insofar as a particular mineral is concerned, without letting any State to impose any other levy over and above royalty is in the interest of mineral development. Thus, Sections 9 and 9A are an embargo and a limitation on the power of the State to impose any tax on exercise of mineral rights. This is because royalty is paid on exercise of mineral rights. It is a statutory exaction under the MMDR Act, 1957 and is compulsory for every holder of a mining lease to pay royalty to the State Government which executes the lease deed in the status of a lessor. Payment of royalty being compulsory by the holder of a mining lease, it makes it a tax as the rate of royalty is fixed by the Central Government as per Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957 and as notified in the Second Schedule to the aforesaid Act. Thus, royalty being a tax could be collected as arrears of land revenue in the event of non-payment. Such being the construction and interpretation of the provisions of MMDR Act, 1957 in light of the Entries in the Lists, royalty as a compulsory exaction has met all the parameters of a tax and hence the provisions regarding collection of royalty under the MMDR Act, 1957 and the Rules made thereunder acted as a limitation under Entry 50 – List II. Hence, the States are denuded of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1819 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. their power to impose a cess or any other levy on royalty or define it as a land revenue which could be imposed by the States under Entry 49 – List II. Such State levies on royalty is against the interest of mineral development in the country and therefore the State levies on the basis of royalty was struck down by this Court and certain High Courts. The validation Act also established the fact that the Parliament by passing such an Act did so in the interest of mineral development in the country and to save the States from losing the revenue collection made though under incompetent levies prior to 04.04.1991. Therefore, the States were not required to refund the illegal levies collected by them and continued to collect the same till 04.04.1991. The sustaining of the Validation Act by this Court is also significant.