That apart, before passing the termination , no opportunity of personal hearing was provided to the appellant to defend his stand effectively. In Mazharul Islam Hashmi v. State of U.P.,10 it was categorically held by this Court that ‘personal hearing should be given, before termination of employee from service’. The relevant paragraph of the same is quoted below for ready reference: “25. It was observed in that case that it is a fundamental rule of law that no decision must be taken which will affect the rights of any person without first giving him an opportunity of putting forward his case. The main requirements of a fair hearing, as pointed out 10 (1979) 4 SCC 537 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 435 Basudev Dutta v. The State of West Bengal & Ors. by this Court earlier, are: (i) A person must know the case that he is to meet; and (ii) he must have an adequate opportunity of meeting that case. These rules of natural justice, however, operate in voids of a statute. Their application can be expressly or implicitly excluded by the legislature. But, such is not the case here. On the contrary, the two circulars issued by the State Government, to which a reference has been made earlier, expressly imported these principles of natural justice and required that in all cases in which the services of an officer or servant were to be determined on the ground of his unsuitability, they must be given an opportunity of personal hearing by the Committee. The whole purpose of the personal interview was that, when it was proposed to declare an official unsuitable for absorption, the Committee had to afford him an opportunity to appear before it and clear up his position. Since it is nobody’s case that such an opportunity was afforded to the appellant, we would hold that the dated August 26, 1967 (of termination of his services passed by the State) suffers from a serious legal infirmity and must be quashed. He will, therefore, have to be treated as having continued in service till the age of superannuation and entitled to all the benefits incidental to such a declaration. 12.4. In S.Govindaraju v. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation11 again, this Court held thus: “7…..There is no dispute that the appellant’s services were terminated on the ground of his being found unsuitable for the appointment and as a result of which his name was deleted from the select list, and he forfeited his chance for appointment. Once a candidate is selected and his name is included in the select list for appointment in accordance with the Regulations, he gets a right to be considered for appointment as and when vacancy arises. On 11 [1986] 2 SCR 509 : (1986) 3 SCC 273 436 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the removal of his name from the select list serious consequences entail as he forfeits his right to employment in future. In such a situation even though the Regulations do not stipulate for affording any opportunity to the employee, the principles of natural justice would be attracted and the employee would be entitled to an opportunity of explanation, though no elaborate enquiry would be necessary.