10.1 Genetically Modified Organisms (hereinafter referred to as ‘GMOs’) have been defined by the World Health Organisation (WHO) as follows: “Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) can be defined as organisms (i.e. plants, animals or microorganisms) in which the genetic material (DNA) has been altered in a way that does not occur naturally by mating and/or natural recombination. The technology is often called “modern biotechnology” or “gene technology”, sometimes also “recombinant DNA technology” or “genetic engineering”. It allows selected individual genes to be transferred from one organism into another, also between nonrelated species.” 10.2 GMOs, for our purposes, have two types- Bt (Bacillus thuringiensis) [a preparation of a bacterium (Bacillus Thuringiensis) often modified by genetic engineering for use as a biopesticide against insects and especially lepidopteran larvae1], and Ht (Herbicide Tolerant). [Herbicide-tolerant crops can be produced by either insertion of a “foreign” gene from another organism into a crop, or by regenerating herbicide- tolerant mutants from existing crop germplasm.2] 1 Merriam Webster dictionary https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/Bt 2 https://extensionpubs.unl.edu/publication/g1484/html/view#target2 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1865 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. 10.3 Genetic Engineering Approval3 Committee (hereinafter referred to as ‘GEAC’) is a committee constituted under The Manufacture, Use, Import, Export And Storage Of Hazardous Micro Organisms Genetically Engineered Organisms Or Cells Rules, 1989 (hereinafter referred to as ‘1989 Rules’) which are in turn framed under the Environment Protection Act, 1986 (hereinafter referred to as EPA, 1986) responsible for approval of proposals relating to release of genetically engineered organisms and products into the environment including experiment Field trials. 10.4 Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation (hereinafter referred to as ‘RCGM’) is a committee under 1989 Rules tasked with monitoring the safety related aspects in respect of on-going research projects and activities involving genetically engineered organisms/hazardous microorganisms. Procedural History 11. This Court has been actively engaged since 2004, with regard to the trial of GMOs, which is the subject matter at hand. Over the intervening years, this Court has issued a slew of s and accordingly, in the subsequent paragraphs, I have traced the brief history of them. 11.1 On 29.03.2004, notice was issued in the matter. Thereafter, on 01.05.2006, this Court directed that the field trials of GMOs shall be conducted only with the express approval of the GEAC. On 22.09.2006, it was directed that the GEAC will withhold approvals until further s of this Court and it was suggested to the Union of India, that they should consider associating independent experts in the GEAC. 11.2 On 13.10.2006, this Court granted permission to plant the newly developed DMH-11 (Mustard) for experimental purpose in specifically identified fields. Thereafter, on 15.12.2006, the attention of this Court was drawn to Clause (23) of the Convention on Biological Diversity, which recommended that there is inadequate basis to assess the potential risks of genetic 3 The name of GEAC, Genetic Engineering Approval Committee, stands substituted by Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee vide Gazette Notification dated 22.7.2010. 1866 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports use technologies due to which the use of products involving this technology or field testing should not be approved till there is appropriate scientific data, in accordance with the precautionary principle.