Digital Supreme Court Reports question would be, whether the High Court was correct in refusing to exercise its inherent power in quashing the proceedings under the Cr.P.C. 6. The sum and substance of the present dispute lie in the father’s right over the gifts, i.e.,‘stridhan’ given by him to his daughter at the time of marriage. The generally accepted rule, which has been judicially recognized, is that the woman exercises an absolute right over the property. We may refer to Pratibha Rani v. Suraj Kumar,3 wherein a Bench of three Judges observed : “6. To the same effect is Maine’s Treatise on Hindu Law at p.728. The characteristics of Saudayika have also been spelt out by Mulla’s Hindu Law at p. 168 (Section 113) which gives a complete list of the stridhan property of a woman both before and during coverture, which may be extracted thus: “113. Manu enumerates six kinds of stridhana : 1. Gifs made before the nuptial fire, explained by Katyayana to mean gifts made at the time of marriage before the fire which is the witness of the nuptial (adhyagni). 2. Gifts made at the bridal procession, that is, says Katyayana, while the bride is being led from the residence of her parents to that of her husband (adhyavanhanika). 3. Gifts made in token of love, that is, says Katyayana, those made through affection by her father-in-law and mother-in-law (pritidatta), and those made at the time of her making obeisance at the feet of elders (pada-vandanika). 4. Gifts made by father. 5. Gifts made by mother. 6. Gifts made by a brother. 7. It is, therefore, manifest that the position of stridhan of a Hindu married woman’s property during coverture is absolutely clear and unambiguous; she is the absolute 3 [1985] 3 SCR 191 : (1985) 2 SCC 370 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 745 Mulakala Malleshwara Rao & Anr. v. State of Telangana & Anr. owner of such property and can deal with it in any manner she likes — she may spend the whole of it or give it away at her own pleasure by gift or will without any reference to her husband. Ordinarily, the husband has no right or interest in it with the sole exception that in times of extreme distress, as in famine, illness or the like, the husband can utilise it but he is morally bound to restore it or its value when he is able to do so. It may be further noted that this right is purely personal to the husband and the property so received by him in marriage cannot be proceeded against even in execution of a decree for debt.” (Emphasis supplied) The position of the wife or woman being the sole authority in respect of ‘stridhan’ stands emphatically stated in Rashmi Kumar v. Mahesh Kumar Bhada 4 in the following terms: “9. A woman’s power of disposal, independent of her husband’s control, is not confined to saudayika but extends to other properties as well. Devala says: ‘A woman’s maintenance (vritti), ornaments, perquisites (sulka), gains (labha), are her stridhana.