No specific details were mentioned, as such, the suit was hit by Section 16(c) of the Specific Relief Act, 19631. c) The appellant was a bona fide purchaser for value without notice. He had exercised due diligence before purchasing the part of the land in suit. As the agreement to sell dated 24.05.1981 was an unregistered document, even the Sub-Registrar’s Office could not have provided any information regarding the said agreement to sell. d) The High Court failed to consider the effect of the provisions contained in Section 53(A) of the Transfer of Property Act, 18822 which extended full protection to the appellant. e) The possession of the land in dispute was never with the plaintiffs and has throughout remained with the appellant and other subsequent purchasers. f) The High Court committed serious error in not relying upon the correspondence between the defendant no.1 and the plaintiffs relating to the request of the defendant no.1 regarding payment of balance consideration and for getting the sale deed executed as registered. g) It would be highly inequitable to grant the specific performance after 43 years in to disturb the settled proprietary possession of not only the appellant but also the other subsequent purchasers. h) The High Court ought to have denied specific performance, however, any other relief could have been considered and moulded in favour of the plaintiffs. i) The plaintiffs did not seek decree for declaration of the sale deeds in favour of the appellant as null and void or for its cancellation. Further no relief for possession was sought as such the suit would be barred. 19. Shri Verma, learned counsel appearing for the appellants relied upon the following s in support of his submissions: 1 In short, “the Act, 1963 ” 2 In short, “the Act, 1882” 1360 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (1) Aniglase Yohannan Vs. Ramlatha and others;3 (2) Umabai and another Vs. Neelkanth Dhondiba Chavan (dead) by Lrs and another;4 (3) Rajeshwari Vs. Puran Indoria;5 (4) Malapali Munaswamy Naidu Vs. P. Sumathi;6 and (5) Azhar Sultana Vs. B. Rajamani and others;7 20. On the other hand, Sri Sanjay Parikh, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the contesting respondents made the following submissions, which are summarized hereunder: a) The appeal is concluded by concurrent findings of fact recorded by both the Courts below. b) There is no perversity in the of the High Court warranting interference under Article 136. c) The appellant No.2/defendant no.7 has no right to challenge the impugned as he failed to file written statement or adduce any evidence before the Trial Court. d) The application filed by defendant no.7/appellant no.2 under 41 Rule 33 of CPC before the High Court had been rejected. He could, thus, make submissions only on the rejection of his application under 41 Rule 33 CPC and not on merits. e) The original vendors, defendant nos.1 to 5, did not challenge the and decree of the Trial Court. f) Defendant no.6 had died during the pendency of the proceedings and was succeeded by six legal representatives, out of whom, only one i.e.