The s in this phase were premised on the principle that the citizens have a duty to hold the government of the day accountable for their actions and inactions, and they can effectively fulfil this duty only if the government is open and not clothed in secrecy. 65. In the second phase of the evolution of the jurisprudence on the right to information, this Court recognised the importance of information to form views on social, cultural and political issues, and participate in and contribute to discussions.®* Courts recognised that the relevance of information is to not only to hold the government accountable but also to discover the truth in a marketplace of ideas which would 80 1981 Supp SCC 87 81 Also see Dinesh Trivedi v. Union of India, [1993 7SCR] 9 3 : (1997) 4 SCC 306 where this Court observed that sunlight is the best disinfectant. 82 Secy., Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Govt. of India v. Cricket Assn. of Bengal, [19915 ]SC R 1036 : (1995) 2 SCC 161; Indian Express Newspapers v. Union of India, [1928 S5CR ]28 7 : AIR 1986 SC 515 ; Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras, [1915 S0CR ]59 4 : AIR 1950 SC 124 488 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ultimately secure the goal of self-develooment.®? This Court also recognised that freedom of speech and expression includes the right to acquire information which would enable people to debate on social, moral and political issues. These debates would not only foster the spirit of representative democracy but would also curb the prevalence of misinformation and monopolies on information. Thus, in the second phase, the Court went beyond viewing the purpose of freedom of speech and expression through the lens of holding the government accountable, by recognising the inherent value in effective participation of the citizenry in democracy. This Court recognised that effective participation in democratic governance is not just a means to an end but is an end in itself. This interpretation of Article 19(1)(a) is in line with the now established position that fundamental freedoms and the Constitution as a whole seek to secure conditions for self-development at both an individual and group level.® A crucial aspect of the expansion of the right to information in the second phase is that right to information is not restricted to information about state affairs, that is, public information. It includes information which would be necessary to further participatory democracy in other forms and is not restricted to information about the functioning of public officials. The right to information has an instrumental exegesis, which recognizes the value of the right in facilitating the realization of democratic goals. But beyond that, the right to information has an intrinsic constitutional value; one that recognizes that it is not just a means to an end but an end in itself. b. — Right to information of a voter: exploring the s in ADR and PUCL 66. In Union of India v. Association for Democratic Reforms® (“ADR”), this Court traced the right of voters to have information about the antecedents, including the criminal past, of candidates contesting elections, to Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.