In short, the decision in D. Srinivas case (supra) would obligate us to consider whether the circumstances obtained in this case give rise to a very clear presumption of acceptance of the policy by the insurer instead of merely giving imprimatur to the impugned of NCDRC on the ground that it was rendered relying on the decision in Raja Vasireddy Komalavalli Kamba’s case. In this context, it is only apposite to note that though the s were passed by the District Forum which was confirmed by the State Commission would reveal that the analysis and the consequential conclusion arrived at thereunder lie in conformity with the exercise 4 (2018) 3 SCC 653 462 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports expected to be undertaken based on the aforementioned exposition of law in D. Srinivas’s case (supra). We are not oblivious of the fact that the decision in D. Srinivas’s case (supra) was rendered much later to the impugned in this appeal. But then, in view of the exposition of law in Murthy v. State of Karnataka & Others5 as also in view of D. Srinivas’s case (supra), if the analysis and the ultimate conclusions of the District Forum is in tune with the decision in D. Srinivas’s case, we are bound to restore the same. In Murthy’s case (supra), this Court held that normally the decision of the Supreme Court enunciating a principle of law is applicable to all cases irrespective of the stage of pendency thereof because it is assumed that what is enunciated by the Supreme Court is, in fact, the law from inception. 17. The decision in D. Srinivas’s case was followed by this Court again in the decision in Gokal Chand (D) Thr. LRs v. Axis Bank Ltd. and Anr.6, after rejecting a defence relying on the decision in Raja Vasireddy Komalavalli Kamba’s case. 18. Now, we will proceed to consider the question whether circumstances obtained in this case carry clear presumption of the acceptance of the policy by the insurer, as has been obligated under the decision in D. Srinivas’s case (supra). 19. Evidently, it is the case of the appellants that the first premium was accepted and a duly signed receipt therefor, noting policy No.832471906 was issued by the respondent on 09.07.1996. The contents of the same has been reproduced in the synopsis of this case at page ‘E’ as hereunder. “Annexure B Dear Sir/Madam Your proposal for Assurance as per particulars noted in the schedule has been accepted by the corporation as proposed at ordinary rates with E.D.B ................................. ............................................................................................ 5 [2003] Supp. 3 SCR 327 : (2003) 7 SCC 517 6 [2022] 17 SCR 739 : 2022 SCC OnLine 1720 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 463 Mrs. Bhumikaben N. Modi & Ors. v. Life Insurance Corporation of India We have also received amount noted in the schedule being the First Premium on the policy of assurance for the plan and amount indicated therein. The acceptance of this payment places the corporation on risk with effect from the date of this Acceptance cum First Premium Receipt or if the proposal is under the Children/Deferred or Children Anticipated Assurance Plan from the deferred date on terms & conditions of the policy of assurance which will be sent shortly.