It further held that a fraction of each proprietor’s land is taken and formed into a common pool so that the whole area may be used for the common needs and benefits of the estate, mentioned above. It further held that the proprietors naturally would also share in the benefits along with others. 37. In paragraph 14, this Court held that it was clear that the title remains in the proprietary body and in the revenue records the land would be shown as belonging to “all the owners and other right holders in proportion to their areas”. This Court held that the Panchayat would manage it on behalf of the proprietors and use it for common purposes and that it cannot use it for any other purpose. This Court held that the proprietors also enjoy the benefits derived from the use of land for common purposes. It observed that the non-proprietors also derive benefit but their satisfaction and advancement enures in the end to the advantage of the proprietors in the form of a more efficient agricultural community. The Panchayat as such does not enjoy any benefit. This Court held, in light of the facts of the said case, that the beneficiary of the modification of rights was not the State, and therefore there was no acquisition by the State within the meaning of the second proviso. 38. In paragraph 15, this Court, referring to second proviso, held that it is impossible to conceive that such adjustment of the rights of persons holding land under their personal cultivation in the interest of village economy was regarded as something to be compensated for in cash. 39. It can thus be seen that in Ajit Singh, this Court was considering the portion of lands which was taken from the proprietors; formed into a common pool and used for common needs and benefits of the estate or estates concerned. It was held that the said land could [2024] 6 S.C.R. 921 Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana & Ors. not be used for any other purpose. It has further affirmed that the proprietors also enjoy the benefits derived from the use of land for common purposes. 40. It is further pertinent to note that in Ajit Singh, this Court held that the words “acquisition by the State” in the second proviso cannot be given a technical meaning. It has been held that if the State has in substance acquired all the rights in the land for its own purposes, even if the title remains with the owner, it cannot be said that it is not acquisition within the ambit of the second proviso to Article 31-A. 41. Justice M. Hidayatullah (as his Lordship then was) in his minority disagreed with the majority view. He held that when the State acquires almost the entire bundle of rights, it is acquisition within the meaning of the second proviso and compensation at market rates must be given. 42. The third of the Constitution Bench of this Court is in the case of Bhagat Ram, which would be the most relevant for the present purpose.