Kapur v. State of Punjab,2 wherein this Court while dealing with Section 561-A, the counterpart provision of Section 482 in the erstwhile Code, observed that the High Courts should be cautious in interfering with a criminal proceeding at the stage of investigation. However, there are certain cases where the court, to prevent the abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice can quash the criminal proceedings. The said cases of exceptions have been reiterated in the case of Neeharika Infrastructure Private Limited v. State of Maharashtra & Ors.,3 by stating as below: 2 [1999] Supp. 1 SCR 121 : AIR 1960 SC 866 3 [2021] 4 SCR 1044 : (2021) 19 SCC 401 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 895 Mahesh Damu Khare v. The State of Maharashtra & Anr. “(i) Where it manifestly appears that there is a legal bar against the institution or continuance of the criminal proceeding in respect of the offence alleged. Absence of the requisite sanction may, for instance, furnish cases under this category. (ii) Where the allegations in the first information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety, do not constitute the offence alleged; in such cases no question of appreciating evidence arises; it is a matter merely of looking at the complaint or the first information report to decide whether the offence alleged is disclosed or not. (iii) Where the allegations made against the accused person do constitute an offence alleged but there is either no legal evidence adduced in support of the case or the evidence adduced clearly or manifestly fails to prove the charge. In dealing with this class of cases it is important to bear in mind the distinction between a case where there is no legal evidence or where there is evidence which is manifestly and clearly inconsistent with the accusation made and cases where there is legal evidence which on its appreciation may or may not support the accusation in question. In exercising its jurisdiction under Section 561-A the High Court would not embark upon an enquiry as to whether the evidence in question is reliable or not. That is the function of the trial Magistrate, and ordinarily it would not be open to any party to invoke the High Court’s inherent jurisdiction and contend that on a reasonable appreciation of the evidence the accusation made against the accused would not be sustained.” (emphasis supplied) 16. Having underscored the power of the High Court to exercise inherent power under Section 482 CrPC for quashing of FIR, we need to understand the scope of the offence under Section 375 IPC which deals with rape, punishable under Section 376 IPC. While the said 896 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 375 deals with various aspects of rape, in the present case, the allegation against the appellant is that the appellant had forced himself on Respondent No. 2 without her consent and engaged in sexual intercourse.