58. Section 67 of the IT Act is the principal provision that criminalizes the publication or transmission of “obscene material” in any electronic form and constitutes an offence. Section 67A of the IT Act, is a more aggravated offence, prescribing enhanced punishment than the preceding provision. It does so by further amplifying the scope of ‘obscene material’ by stipulating that any obscene material that contains or depicts any sexually explicit act or conduct, when published or transmitted shall be punishable under the said provision. 59. Section 67B of the IT Act specifically deals with child pornographic materials. It provides for an even more severe form of offence by bringing within its ambit those obscene materials in any electronic form that depict a child in any sexually explicit act or conduct and by further expanding the scope of ‘actus reus’ which is punishable under the provision to include not just publication or transmission but also the browsing, creation, collection, online facilitation or enticement of children into any sexual act or conduct etc. The said provision reads as under: - “67B. Punishment for publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit act, etc., in electronic form. — Whoever — (a) publishes or transmits or causes to be published or transmitted material in any electronic form which depicts children engaged in sexually explicit act or conduct; or (b) creates text or digital images, collects, seeks, browses, downloads, advertises, promotes, exchanges or distributes material in any electronic form depicting children in obscene or indecent or sexually explicit manner; or (c) cultivates, entices or induces children to online relationship with one or more children for and on sexually [2024] 10 S.C.R. 201 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. explicit act or in a manner that may offend a reasonable adult on the computer resources; or (d) facilitates abusing children online; or (e) records in any electronic form own abuse or that of others pertaining to sexually explicit act with children, shall be punished on first conviction with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five years and with a fine which may extend to ten lakh rupees and in the event of second or subsequent conviction with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years and also with fine which may extend to ten lakh rupees: Provided that provisions of Section 67, Section 67-A and this section does not extend to any book, pamphlet, paper, writing, drawing, painting, representation or figure in electronic form— (i) the publication of which is proved to be justified as being for the public good on the ground that such book, pamphlet, paper, writing, drawing, painting, representation or figure is in the interest of science, literature, art or learning or other objects of general concern; or (ii) which is kept or used for bona fide heritage or religious purposes. Explanation. — For the purpose of this section, “children” means a person who has not completed the age of 18 years.” ii.