13. On point No.2, the Acting President rejected the case of the appellants, by way of brief para 9.3, completely ignoring the points set out by the Member (Judicial) in the interim and the material placed on record, such as the share transfer forms, share certificates and emails/ correspondence, which supported the case of the appellants. His categorical finding that ‘not a single document existed between the parties to show that there was a transfer of shares and not a single document was filed to show that the existing shareholders were given an opportunity to buy the shares’ was clearly contrary to the material available on record, viz., the emails, transfer forms, share certificates, etc. No doubt, the genuineness of these documents required to be verified but without even venturing to do so, they could not have been dismissed thus. 14. As regards point No.3, the Acting President observed that there was no covering letter or correspondence to support the claim that the amount transferred into the account of respondent No.2 was for purchase of shares. He noted the discrepancy in the sale consideration amount to the extent of ₹1,02,157/- and the claim of respondent No.2 that one L. Ramesh was also involved. He then went on to surmise that there were some other transactions between the parties and the company had been entangled in the dispute for reasons best known to the parties. On that basis, he strangely concluded that it could not be accepted that the monies transferred into the account of respondent No.2 were for purchase of shares. The version put forth by respondent No.2, as rightly pointed out in the interim , required to be proved and could not have been taken to be the truth straightaway in this abrupt and self-serving manner. 15. As regards point No.4, the Acting President opined that the appearance of the share certificates was dubious and the numbers therein were also completely different. He held that, without going deep into the aspect, it could be concluded that the share certificates were not [2024] 9 S.C.R. 245 Chalasani Udaya Shankar and others v. M/s. Lexus Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and other genuine and were fabricated. Again, no evidence whatsoever was led or considered on the issue. Surprisingly so, as the appellants produced the original share certificates given to them along with their rejoinder and filed applications for production of the original record of shareholders of the company and their share certificates of 2004, Board Resolutions, Minutes of Meetings, etc. 16. On point No.5, the Acting President concluded that the appellants had failed to prove their case and had not bothered to realize their rights as shareholders, if at all they had considered themselves to be so. He observed that the very manner and conduct of the appellants indicated that the transaction which seems to have taken place between the parties was completely different, without involving the company, and for no reason, the company had been entangled in the dispute. The case of the appellants was held to be fraudulent in nature and devoid of fact and law.