Composition of the Council of States. — (1) The Council of States shall consist of— (a) twelve members to be nominated by the President in accordance with the provisions of clause (3); and (b) not more than two hundred and thirty-eight representatives of the States and of the Union territories. (2) The allocation of seats in the Council of States to be filled by representatives of the States and of the Union territories shall be in accordance with the provisions in that behalf contained in the Fourth Schedule. … 82 [1984] 1 SCR 939 : (1984) 2 SCC 404 83 (1997) 11 SCC 111 84 [2006] Suppl. 5 SCR 1 : (2006) 7 SCC 1 572 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (4) The representatives of each State in the Council of States shall be elected by the elected members of the Legislative Assembly of the State in accordance with the system of proportional representation by means of the single transferable vote. …” (emphasis supplied) 171. Pursuant to Article 80, the Rajya Sabha consists of twelve members who are nominated by the President and not more than two hundred and thirty-eight representatives of the States and Union Territories. Significantly, under Article 80(4), the representatives of the Rajya Sabha shall be elected by the elected members of the Legislative Assembly of the states. Therefore, the power to ‘vote’ for the elected members of the Rajya Sabha is solely entrusted to the elected members of the Legislative Assemblies of the states. It constitutes an integral part of their powers and responsibilities as members of the legislative assemblies of each of the states. 172. The next question that arises, therefore, is whether the text of Article 194(2) places any restriction on such a vote being protected by parliamentary privilege. As stated above, Article 194(2) of the Constitution reads as follows: “194. Powers, privileges, etc., of the Houses of Legislatures and of the members and committees thereof. — … (2) No member of the Legislature of a State shall be liable to any proceedings in any court in respect of anything said or any vote given by him in the Legislature or any committee thereof, and no person shall be so liable in respect of the publication by or under the authority of a House of such a Legislature of any report, paper, votes, or proceedings. …” 173. The marginal note to Article 194 uses the phrase “powers, privileges, etc. of the Houses of Legislatures and of the members and committees thereof.” It is a settled position of law that the marginal [2024] 3 S.C.R. 573 Sita Soren v. Union of India note to a section in a statute does not control the meaning of the body of the section if the language employed is clear. With reference to Articles of the Constitution, a marginal note may be used as a tool to provide “some clue as to the meaning and purpose of the Article”. However, the real meaning of the Article is to be derived from the bare text of the Article.