Thus, no infirmity in the same having been found, the conviction needs no interference. On the point of sentencing, we find that the Trial Court’s view, affirmed by the High Court, may need some tinkering, which we shall deal with in the penultimate paragraph. Needless to state, the sentence(s) awarded to the petitioner shall run concurrently. 20. In Delhi Race Club (1940) Limited v State of Uttar Pradesh (2024) 10 SCC 690, a recent decision by a Coordinate Bench of this Court, it has been elucidated as under: ‘Difference between criminal breach of trust and cheating 35. This Court in its decision in S.W. Palanitkar v. State of Bihar [S.W. Palanitkar v. State of Bihar (2002) 1 SCC 241 : 2002 SCC (Cri) 129] expounded the difference in the ingredients required for constituting of an offence of criminal breach of trust (Section 406 IPC) vis-à-vis the offence of cheating (Section 420). The relevant observations read as under : (SCC p. 246, paras 9-10) “9. The ingredients in to constitute a criminal breach of trust are : (i) entrusting a person with property or with any dominion over property; (ii) that 2274 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports person entrusted : (a) dishonestly misappropriating or converting that property to his own use; or (b) dishonestly using or disposing of that property or wilfully suffering any other person so to do in violation (i) of any direction of law prescribing the mode in which such trust is to be discharged, (ii) of any legal contract made, touching the discharge of such trust. 10. The ingredients of an offence of cheating are : (i) there should be fraudulent or dishonest inducement of a person by deceiving him, (ii)(a) the person so deceived should be induced to deliver any property to any person, or to consent that any person shall retain any property; or (b) the person so deceived should be intentionally induced to do or omit to do anything which he would not do or omit if he were not so deceived; and (iii) in cases covered by (ii)(b), the act of omission should be one which causes or is likely to cause damage or harm to the person induced in body, mind, reputation or property.” 36. What can be discerned from the above is that the offences of criminal breach of trust (Section 406 IPC) and cheating (Section 420 IPC) have specific ingredients: In to constitute a criminal breach of trust (Section 406 IPC) (1) There must be entrustment with person for property or dominion over the property, and (2) The person entrusted: (a) Dishonestly misappropriated or converted property to his own use, or (b) Dishonestly used or disposed of the property or wilfully suffers any other person so to do in violation of: (i) Any direction of law prescribing the method in which the trust is discharged; or (ii) Legal contract touching the discharge of trust (see: S.W. Palanitkar [S.W. Palanitkar v. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2275 V.D. Raveesha v. The State of Karnataka State of Bihar (2002) 1 SCC 241 : 2002 SCC (Cri) 129] ).