(2) [Omitted] (3) Every election petition shall be accompanied by as many copies thereof as there are respondents mentioned in the petition [* * *] and every such copy shall be attested by the petitioner under his own signature to be a true copy of the petition.” Section 86(1) further says that in case an election petition is filed beyond a period of 45 days it shall be dismissed. Section 86(1) reads as under:- “86. Trial of election petitions.—(1) The High Court shall dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of Section 81 or Section 82 or Section 117. Explanation.—An of the High Court dismissing an election petition under this sub-section shall be deemed to be an made under clause (a) of Section 98.” [2024] 2 S.C.R. 647 Mohd Abaad Ali & Anr. v. Directorate of Revenue Prosecution Intelligence The election statute thus expressly bars filing of an election petition beyond 45 days. The language of the statute, leaves no ambiguity in this regard. “The High Court shall dismiss an election petition”, is the language given in the statute. Simply put the Court has no choice but to dismiss an election petition, which is filed beyond a period of 45 days. There is no scope for condoning the delay in an election matter. Therefore in Hukumdev Narain Yadav (supra) it was stated as under:- “17. Though Section 29(2) of the Limitation Act has been made applicable to appeals both under the Act as well as under the Code of Criminal Procedure, no case has been brought to our notice where Section 29(2) has been made applicable to an election petition filed under Section 81 of the Act by virtue of which either Sections 4, 5 or 12 of the Limitation Act has been attracted. Even assuming that where a period of limitation has not been fixed for election petitions in the Schedule to the Limitation Act which is different from that fixed under Section 81 of the Act, Section 29(2) would be attracted, and what we have to determine is whether the provisions of this Section are expressly excluded in the case of an election petition….. In our view, even in a case where the special law does not exclude the provisions of Sections 4 to 24 of the Limitation Act by an express reference, it would nonetheless be open to the Court to examine whether and to what extent the nature of those provisions or the nature of the subject-matter and scheme of the special law exclude their operation. The provisions of Section 3 of the Limitation Act that a suit instituted, appeal preferred and application made after the prescribed period shall be dismissed are provided for in Section 86 of the Act which gives a peremptory command that the High Court shall dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of Sections 81, 82 or 117. (emphasis supplied) 11. Later, while dealing another special statute viz West Bengal Land Reforms Act, 1955 this Court in Gopal Sardar (supra) had an occasion to comment on Mangu Ram (supra) where it says that the 648 [2024] 2 S.C.R.