(b) Whether establishment of a ‘Tiger Safari’ at Pakhrau is legal or not. 254 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 104. We will now have to consider whether the establishment of the ‘Tiger Safari’ at Pakhrau is legal or not. 105. TCP in respect of the Corbett Tiger Reserve Core Zone for the period 2012-13 to 2021-2022 was submitted to the NTCA on 27th January 2015. The said TCP has been approved by the NTCA on 4th March 2015. 106. It will be apposite to refer to the relevant portion of clause 13.1.2 of the said TCP, which reads thus : “There is also need to develop a Rescue Centre cum Tiger Safari in the buffer area of CTR so as to provide an easy option for rescue and rehabilitation of injured and/or infirm or problem tigers and to provide opportunities for visitors to see tigers up close in a near natural controlled environment.” 107. It could thus be seen that, the TCP also provided for developing a Rescue Centre-cum-Tiger Safari to provide an easy option for the rescue and rehabilitation of the injured and/or infirm or problem tigers and also to provide an opportunity for visitors to see tigers up close and in a near-natural controlled environment. 108. It will be relevant to refer to clause J of the said TCP, which reads thus : “J. Exploring the possibility of a Tiger Safari : Though Corbett Tiger Reserve is known for its tigers and it attracts lots of tourists, many of them could not see tiger and they return with heavy hearts. It is a fact that maximum tourists are only interested with the sighting of tigers. Although the park administration is trying its best to educate and aware tourists to enjoy the breath taking landscape with wildlife such as elephants, deer and crocodiles, casual tourists always hunt for sighting of a tiger. At this point the recent guideline enacted by NTCA for setting up of a ‘Tiger Safari’ in the buffer area to divert casual tourists from the tourism zone which will ultimately benefit the habitat from unnecessary pressure from growing tourists. The tiger safari will generate huge revenue which will enrich the ‘Tiger Conservation Foundation of CTR’ and ultimately the fringe villagers. A [2024] 3 S.C.R. 255 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal detail proposal will be prepared as per the guidelines of NTCA and CZA for funding by NTCA. There is a strong possibility of developing such a safari in Karnashram area of Lansdowne Forest Division.” 109. The TCP takes into consideration the concept of diversion of casual tourists from the tourism zone to the ‘Tiger Safari’ in the buffer zone. It also states that this will ultimately benefit the habitat from unnecessary pressure from the growing tourists. It states that the ‘Tiger Safari’ will generate huge revenue which will enrich the ‘Tiger Conservation Foundation of CTR’ and ultimately the fringe villages. It also proposed a site for a ‘Tiger Safari’ at Karnashram area of Lansdowne Forest Division.