On the other hand, the alternative contention enables Entries 24 and 25 to operate fully in their respective fields: while Entry 24 covers a very wide field, that is, the field of the entire industry in the State, Entry 25, dealing with gas and gas-works, can be confined wo a specific industry, that is, the gas industry.” [emphasis supplied] [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2001 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons c. Parliament cannot enact laws on the gas industry under Entry 52 because the meaning of ‘industry’ in Entry 24 of List II and Entry 52 of List I is the same. Since Entry 24 does not cover the gas industry, it cannot be included in Entry 52 as well.121 68. In McDowell (supra), the constitutional validity of the Andhra Pradesh Prohibition Act 1995 was under challenge. The enactment prohibited the selling, buying, consumption and manufacture of liquor. It was submitted that the State did not have the competence to enact the statute because the manufacture and production of intoxicating liquors is an industrial activity covered by Item 26 of the Schedule to IDRA. It may be recalled that Item 26 before the 2016 amendment included alcohol and other products of fermentation industry. The three-Judge Bench of this Court rejected the submission. Justice Jeevan Reddy, writing for the Bench, observed that: a. Entry 8 expressly refers to ‘production and manufacture’ of intoxicating liquor. Including the production and manufacture of liquor in Entry 24 of List II (and as a consequence in Entry 52 of List I), would amount deleting the words “production and manufacture” in Entry 8; b. Entry 24 is a general entry and Entry 8 is a specific entry. On the application of the principle of generalia specialibus non derogant (general things do not derogate from specific things), the industry of intoxicating liquor will not fall under the general entry (Entry 24) but the special entry (Entry 8); and c. Entry 52 only governs Entry 24 and not Entry 8. Thus, the industry of intoxicating liquor cannot be taking over by Parliament under Entry 52.122 121 “11. […] As we have indicated earlier, the expression “industry” in Entry 52 of List I bears the same meaning as that in Entry 24 of List II, with the result that the said expression in Entry 52 of List I also does not take in a gas industry.” 122 “26. […] Entry 24 is a general entry relating to industries whereas Entry 8 is a specific and special entry relating inter alia to industries engaged in production and manufacture of intoxicating liquors. Applying the well-known rule of interpretation applicable to such a situation (special excludes the general), we must hold that the industries engaged in production and manufacture of intoxicating liquors do not have within Entry 24 but do fall within Entry 8. This was the position at the commencement of the Constitution and this is the position today as well. Once this is so, the making of a declaration by Parliament as contemplated by Entry 52 of List I does not have the effect of transferring or transplanting, as it may be called, the industries engaged in production and manufacture of intoxicating liquors from the State list to Union List.