47. Chapter II establishes Bar Councils and delineates their functions and responsibilities. The provisions of the Chapter II also empower Bar Councils to constitute disciplinary and other committees and appoint qualified staff. The rule-making powers granted to Bar Councils under Section 15 are regulatory powers and must be construed widely60 because they support the objective of regulation of the legal profession. 48. In Pratap Chandra Mehta v. State Bar Council of MP,61 a two- Judge Bench of this Court observed that the power of Bar Councils to frame rules must be interpreted broadly: “51. The power to frame rules has to be given wider scope, rather than a restrictive approach so as to render the legislative object achievable. The functions to be performed by the Bar Councils and the manner in which these functions 60 Gupta Modern Breweries v. State of Jammu and Kashmir (2007) 6 SCC 317 [20] 61 [2011] 11 SCR 965 : (2011) 9 SCC 573 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1523 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. are to be performed suggest that democratic standards both in the election process and in performance of all its functions and standards of professional conduct need to be adhered to. In other words, the interpretation furthering the object and purposes of the Act has to be preferred in comparison to an interpretation which would frustrate the same and endanger the democratic principles guiding the governance and conduct of the State Bar Councils.” 49. The SBCs have broad powers under Section 15 to give effect to the provisions of Chapter II. Although the rule-making power under Section 15 is broad, it is confined to the subject matters of Chapter II. In Bar Council of Delhi v. Surjeet Singh,62 the issue before a three-Judge Bench was whether the Bar Council of Delhi could frame election rules prescribing qualifications and conditions entitling an advocate to vote at Bar Council elections. It was held that the SBCs cannot use the rule-making power under Section 15 to override the specific provisions of the Advocates Act. This Court observed that Sections 3(4) and 49(1)(a) empowered the BCI to prescribe qualifications or conditions subject to which an advocate may be entitled to vote at an election to the SBCs. Resultantly, it was held that Section 15(1) cannot be interpreted to confer rule-making powers on the SBCs which are expressly provided to the BCI.63 50. In Surjeet Singh (supra), it was argued that the election rules of the Bar Council of Delhi were valid because they were approved by the BCI according to Section 15(3). It was further argued that the approval provided by the BCI had the effect of making it a rule made by the BCI itself. Speaking for the three-Judge Bench, Justice N L Untwalia held that there is a difference between making a rule and granting approval to a rule: “8. […] Any rule made by the State Bar Council cannot have effect unless it is approved by the Bar Council of India.