Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. Criminal laws of the colonial era continue to impact the postcolonial world. As a scholar noted, “while the pre-determined and codified nature of the diverse criminal justice rules provided the moral superiority and political legitimacy to colonial rule, the Imperial power was safeguarded by their coercive content, particularly in procedural matters.” 17 Criminal laws in modern times thus, as “the strongest expression of the State’s power” must “ensure that they do not deny equality before the law and the equal protection of laws”.18 Criminal laws must not endorse colonial or pre-colonial philosophy. 13. In a post-constitutional society, “the law must take affirmative steps to achieve equal protection of law to all its citizens”.19 Any discussion on the Constitution must therefore take a conscious view of the lived realities of citizens. It requires evaluating how constitutional provisions translate into meaningful outcomes in their lives. We must discuss this aspect of the Indian Constitution further, before we examine the impugned provisions. IV. The Constitution of Emancipation, Equality, and Dignity 14. The Constitution of India is an emancipatory document. It provides equal citizenship to all citizens of India. The Constitution is not just a legal document, but in India’s social structure, it is a quantum leap. In one stroke, it gave a dignified identity to all citizens of India. On 26 January 1950, the Constitution eliminated the legality of caste-based discrimination, thereby raising the human dignity of our marginalised communities. 15. Describing the vision of the framers, constitutional historian Granville Austin stated: “India’s founding fathers and mothers established in the Constitution both the nation’s ideals and the institutions and processes for achieving them. The ideals were national unity and integrity and a democratic and equitable society. The new society was to be achieved through a social- economic revolution pursued with a democratic spirit 17 B.B. Pande, “Expanding Horizons of Criminal Procedure Law”, SCC Journal (2021), https://www. scconline.com/blog/post/2021/07/07/expanding-horizons-of-criminal-procedure-law/ 18 Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India, 2018 INSC 790 [Justice Chandrachud] 19 Ibid [2024] 10 S.C.R. 517 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. using constitutional, democratic institutions. I later came to think of unity, social revolution, and democracy as three strands of a seamless web. The founders believed that none of these goals was to be pursued, nor could any be achieved, separately. They were mutually dependent and had to be sought together.”20 Marc Galanter noted in this regard: “Independent India embraced equality as a cardinal value against a background of elaborate, valued and clearly perceived inequalities. Her constitutional policies to offset these proceeded from an awareness of the entrenched and cumulative nature of group inequalities.”21 The Constitution mandates the replacement of fundamental wrongs with fundamental rights.22 Through its provisions, it displaced a centuries-old caste-based hierarchical social “that did not recognize the principle of individual equality”.23 It negated the ideals of social hierarchy. The Constitution is the embodiment of the aspirations of the millions of caste-oppressed communities, which hoped for a better future in independent India. To summarize, the “Constitution, by its very existence, was a social revolutionary statement.”24 16.