The definition [2024] 1 S.C.R. 503 M/s. K.P. Mozika v. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. and Ors. of “sale” under the Sales Tax Act, in sub-section (33) of Section 2, incorporates the requirement of transfer of property in goods. 27. Now, we come to the interpretation of sub-clause (d) of Clause 29A of Article 366. As pointed out earlier, the States had legislative competence for enacting a law regarding imposing a tax on the sale of goods as per Entry 54 of List-II. Followed by the decision of this Court in the case of Gannon Dunkerley & Co2, there are several decisions wherein the view taken was that though there were transactions which resembled sale, the tax could not be levied on the same as there was no sale of goods within the meaning of the Sale of Goods Act. The sale of goods contemplated under Entry 54 of List-II was consistently interpreted as a sale in terms of the Sale of Goods Act. 28. Clause 29A of Article 366 was inserted on 2nd February 1983, thereby introducing the concept of “deemed sale”. We are concerned with sub-clause (d) of Clause 29A, which we have reproduced earlier. As noted earlier, the condition for applicability of the sale of goods under the Sale of Goods Act is that apart from the transfer of possession of the goods, there must be a transfer of the property in goods to the buyer. However, sub-clause (d) of Clause 29A refers not to the transfer of property in the goods to the buyer but to the transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose for consideration as mentioned in sub-clause (d) of Clause 29A. The transfer of the right to use any goods can be for any purpose (whether or not for a specified period) for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration. Only because a person is allowed to use certain goods of the owner, per se, there is no transfer of the right to use any goods. The transaction can be either of transfer of right to use the goods or granting mere permission to use the goods without transfer of the right to use the goods. 29. This Court has interpreted sub-clause (d) of Clause 29A in various decisions. The first important decision on this aspect is a decision of the Constitution Bench in the case of 20th Century Finance Corporation Ltd.11. This was a case where the appellant had entered into a master-lease agreement with the lessee. The lessee was a party that desired to take equipment for use on hire. Under the agreement, the appellant agreed to give diverse machinery/ equipment listed in the schedule to the master-lease agreement. 504 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The master-lease agreement provided that the appellants would place the s for individual equipment on the request made by the lessee, and the equipment to be leased would be dispatched by the manufacturer or supplier concerned to the location specified in the lease agreement.