14. Mr. Anand Sanjay M. Nuli, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the university, has taken the same stand as the appellant. He submitted that Sec. 78 of the Universities Act gives an overriding effect to the provisions of this law over other laws. He has drawn our attention to Sec. 53 of the Universities Act as the guiding principle for appointments to the post of ‘teachers’ in the university, which includes assistant professors, readers and professors. 15. Mr. Gagan Gupta, learned Senior Counsel appearing for respondent no. 7, submits that the mandate under Sec. 4(1A) on the Government to specify the method and manner of selection by the issuance of a notification stood fulfilled when the university itself advertised by notifying that the ‘Mode of Selection’ shall be as per the 2001 Rules. He also submitted that this is the natural consequence of the purpose and object of introducing sub-Section (1A), which was to enable the universities to follow the 2001 Rules. He also relied on certain letters written by the State Government calling upon the university to follow the mandate of the 2001 Rules. 16. We will examine the question as to whether the advertisement issued by the university intending to follow the 2001 Rules made under the Civil Services Act suffers from any illegality. If we come to the conclusion that compliance with the 2001 Rules is mandatory, we will affirm the s of the Ld. Single Judge and the Division Bench, and dismiss these appeals. On the other hand, if we find that the 2001 Rules have no application, or that they are not extended to appointment by the university, we will allow the appeals and affirm the appellant’s appointment. 17. The controversy about filling up backlog vacancies of SCs and STs by the university comes to an end with the insertion of Sec. 4(1A) of the Reservation Act, 1990. In fact, the provocation for introducing sub-Section (1A) is that the mandate of the 2001 Rules was not 8 Herinafter referred to as the ‘Civil Services Act’. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 481 Chaitra Nagammanavar v. State of Karnataka & Ors. followed by the universities. In to extend the provision of the 2001 Rules to universities, sub-Section (1A) was introduced and this is clear from the SOR of the amendment introducing sub-section (1A). 18. The identification, procedure and the time for computing, filling and completing the exercise of filling up backlog vacancies is specifically delegated under sub-Section (1A) to the Government. The intent behind the amendment is to vest the power of specifying the method, procedure and time for identifying, filling and completing the same to the State. The importance of the Government specifying the same lies in the fact that these incidents vary from service to service and establishment to establishment. The Government is best placed to address the same due to its resources. This is also evident from Sec. 54 of the Universities Act, which suggests that appointments to several posts in a university shall be laid down by the Government.