A study of international efforts to conserve other species of bustards as well as other birds indicates that large swathes of land have not been closed off as a strategy of conservation. Instead, artificial insemination techniques have been used in concert with constructing enclosures in which chicks are nurtured until they are less vulnerable to predators. Such chicks are then released into the wild. This strategy has proved successful and the Government of India is replicating it with respect to the GIB. e. A blanket direction of the nature that has been imposed by this Court, besides not being feasible to implement, would also not result in achieving its stated purpose, i.e., the conservation of the GIB. 10. Prior to adjudicating the application for modification, it is necessary to briefly advert to India’s obligations towards preventing climate change [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1333 M K Ranjitsinh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. and tackling its adverse effects. This will assist the Court to take a decision based upon a holistic view of competing considerations. C. The mission to combat climate change I. India’s commitment under international conventions 11. India has made significant international commitments in its pursuit of global environmental conservation goals. India was a participant in the Kyoto Protocol, which came into force on February 16, 2005. This international agreement, linked to the UNFCCC, obligates its Parties to establish binding emission reduction targets. The Protocol allows countries to meet these targets through national measures and offers additional mechanisms such as International Emissions Trading, Clean Development Mechanism, and Joint Implementation. 12. The UNFCCC is founded on the recognition that climate change is a global issue demanding a collective global response.7 As greenhouse gas emissions originate from the territories of all nations and also impact all nations, it is imperative that all countries undertake measures to address this challenge. This fundamental premise is articulated in the preamble of the UNFCCC: “Acknowledging that the global nature of climate change calls for the widest possible cooperation by all countries and their participation in an effective and appropriate international response, in accordance with their common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities and their social and economic conditions, … Recalling also that States have … the responsibility to ensure that activities within their jurisdiction or control do not cause damage to the environment of other States or of areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction.” 13. The primary objective of the UNFCCC is to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere to prevent dangerous human- induced interference with the climate system, as articulated in Article 7 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change: resolution / adopted by the General Assembly (Adopted 20 January 1994). 1334 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2.8 Article 3 elaborates on the principles guiding this objective. Notably, Article 3(1) underscores the responsibility of parties to protect the climate system for the benefit of present and future generations, based on equity and in line with their capabilities.9 Article 3(3) emphasizes the importance of precautionary measures to anticipate, prevent, or minimize the causes and adverse effects of climate change.10 14.