There is no option but to discard the testimony of the first informant, Mohammad Arif Memon (PW-11). 38. The other eyewitness to the incident who was examined on behalf of the prosecution was the Police Constable, Demistalkumar (PW- 12). We have already discussed his evidence and have doubted the attempt made by the witness to identify the accused-appellant for the first time in the dock. Hence, the testimony of the Police Constable, Demistalkumar (PW-12) also does not help the prosecution in linking the accused-appellant with the crime. 39. So far as Mustaq (PW-13) is concerned, who was treated to be an eyewitness of the incident and whose testimony was relied upon by the trial Court as well as the High Court, suffice it to say that there are ample circumstances on record which deny the claim of the eyewitness that he had seen the alleged assault been made on the deceased. Firstly, the name of Mustaq (PW-13) does not figure in the FIR (Exhibit P-79) as an eyewitness to the incident. Furthermore, when he was examined under Section 161 CrPC, he categorically stated that he was at his house and that the information of the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 373 Allarakha Habib Memon Etc. v. State of Gujarat incident was given to him by the father of the deceased, Mohammad Iqbal Memon (PW-14). In this background, when the witness was confronted during cross-examination, he could not explain the grave improvement. Thus, we have no hesitation in holding that, Mustaq (PW-13) was falsely portrayed to be an eyewitness of the incident, and his testimony cannot be relied upon. 40. The trial Court as well as the High Court, placed extensive reliance on the confessions of the accused appellants Mohmedfaruk @ Palak Safibhai Memon and Amin @ Lalo recorded by the Medical Officer, Dr. Arvindbhai (PW-2) while preparing the injury reports of the accused. 41. We find that these so-called confessions are ex-facie inadmissible in evidence for the simple reason that the accused persons were presented at the hospital by the police officers after having been arrested in the present case. As such, the notings made by the Medical Officer, Dr. Arvindbhai (PW-2) in the injury reports of Mohmedfaruk @ Palak and Amin @ Lalo would be clearly hit by Section 26 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (hereinafter being referred to as ‘Evidence Act’). As a consequence, we are not inclined to accept the said admissions of the accused as incriminating pieces of evidence relevant under Section 21 of the Evidence Act. The circumstance regarding identification of place of incident at the instance of the accused is also inadmissible because the crime scene was already known to the police and no new fact was discovered in pursuance of the disclosure statements. 42. The trial Court as well as the High Court heavily relied upon the FSL reports (Exhibits 111-115) to hold that blood group found on the weapons of offence incriminated the accused for the crime as the same matched with the blood group of the deceased.