13. It was argued that the learned Single Judge in WPA No. 8981 of 2022 gave sufficient opportunity to the Board to put forth the relevant information pertaining to the entire recruitment exercise in a transparent manner. Despite many such requests, directions and reminders by the Court, information was not forthcoming about the respective candidates’ ranks, marks, category, cut-offs, etc. Even when the matter was posted for consideration on 26.09.2022, these relevant information were not furnished by the Board. 14. Finding that the names of the 252 Writ Petitioners in WPA No. 8981/2022 are figuring in the particulars submitted by the Board in a tabular form, the learned Judge issued direction that the 252 Writ Petitioners should be granted appointments against the unfilled vacancies (3929). The Division Bench likewise noticed the inequities that the candidates had been put through along with the arduous nature of seeking employment as well as the lack of bona fide conduct on the Board’s part. Therefore, left with no choice but to ignore the Merit List fraught with irregularities, the Division Bench directed that the appointments be made on the basis of the inter-se positions of candidates within the TET Eligibility List 2014. 15. Mr. Vinay Navare, learned senior counsel in his turn pointed out that the entire recruitment exercise had been done in a reckless manner with little to no information in the public domain. Although the Merit List had been notified by the Board, marks scored by candidates were not put forth as part of the same. Additionally, even the candidates were not informed of their scores or the cut-off mark to be breached, to be included in the Merit List. In fact, the Board was not forthcoming on why 3929 vacancies had remained, why no written test was conducted and other relevant informations, pertaining to the recruitment process. In light of the same, the counsel contends that the panel, being full of such glaring lapses and errors, was not valid in law and therefore the panel can’t possibly have an expiry date. Discussion 16. As earlier noted, the recruitment for primary school teachers is governed by the Recruitment Rules, 2016. The Rule 8 provides for 942 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the procedure for selection of candidates. After a prima facie scrutiny of application forms by the Selection Committee, candidates are made to undergo a round of interview(s) and aptitude test(s). 17. Thereafter, an evaluation is done on the basis of marks that are awarded or computed as per the criteria. These are extracted here for easy reference: “8. Procedures of selection: ……. (3) Academic qualifications, training, performance in the TET, Extra Curricular activities and performance in viva-voce or interview and Aptitude test, shall be computed in the manner as mentioned in Table A below:- Sl. No. Item for Evaluation Max. Marks (i) Madhyamik pass under the West 05 Bengal Board of Secondary Education or its equivalent (ii) Higher Secondary pass under 10 the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education or its equivalent (iii) Training as specified by NCTE 15 (iv) Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) 05 (v) Extra-Curricular Activities 05 (vi) Viva-Voce or Interview 05 (vii) Aptitude Test 05 Total 50 Note 1.- The percentage of marks obtained by the candidate in the Madhyamik Examination or its equivalent excluding additional marks, if any, shall be reduced proportionately to marks obtained out of 5.