DMRC has taken over the project and has been operating it since 01 July 2012 without having paid for its operation between 01 January 2013 till 30 June 2013, except for a small fraction of the total awarded amount; 29.3. Till early March 2023, the trains were running at 90kmph, as opposed to the speed of 120kmph at which they ought to have been running; 29.4. The issue about the relevance of the CMRS certificate has been squarely addressed by the Single Judge and this Court. The arbitrator is the sole judge of the quality and the quantity of evidence; 29.5. The award was made after 68 hearings and after consideration of 35,000 pages of documents and oral evidence. It has been two and a half years since this Court restored the award on 09 September 2021 and the review against this decision was dismissed on 23 November 2021; 29.6. According to the decision in Rupa Hurra (supra), the court is not supposed to sit over a like a court of appeal. The scope of the review jurisdiction is narrow in itself and does not warrant rehearing and correction of a . Curative proceedings cannot be treated as a second review; and 29.7. DAMEPL is not unjustly enriching itself. DAMEPL completed the project with an investment of Rs 2802 Crores comprising of debt and equity contributions and it continued to service the debt even after handing over the line to DMRC. DMRC on the other hand, has paid the decretal amount of Rs 2599.18 Crores while Rs 5088 Crores under the decree is outstanding as on 31 January 2024. 488 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports G. Analysis I. Curative Jurisdiction may be invoked if there is a miscarriage of justice 30. Senior Counsel for the respondent set forth preliminary objections challenging the maintainability of the Curative Petition, in view of the scope of that jurisdiction delineated inter alia in the decision in Rupa Hurra (supra) We will first lay down the contours of the jurisdiction of this Court to entertain a curative petition in exercise of its inherent powers under Article 142. 31. In Rupa Hurra (supra), a Constitution Bench of this Court dwelt on whether any relief is available against a final judgement of this Court after the dismissal of a petition seeking review of the judgement. Two opinions were authored. The main was by Justice Syed Shah Quadri (on behalf of Chief Justice S P Bharucha, Justice Variava, Justice Shivraj Patil and himself). A concurring opinion was authored by Justice U C Banerjee. 32. Justice Quadri observed that the concern of the Court for rendering justice in a cause cannot be considered less important than the principle of finality. There are certain situations, the opinion observed, which would require reconsideration of a final judgement even after the review has been dismissed to set right a miscarriage of justice. Such circumstances, the court held, are those where declining to reconsider the judgement would be oppressive to judicial conscience and cause the perpetuation of irremediable injustice.