Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, which is relevant for our present purposes, is reproduced below: “8. Power of court to appoint arbitrator or umpire.—(1) In any of the following cases— (a) where an arbitration agreement provides that the reference shall be to one or more arbitrators to be appointed by consent of the parties, and all the parties do not, after differences have arisen, concur in the appointment or appointments; or (b)-(c)*** any party may serve the other parties or the arbitrators, as the case may be, with a written notice to concur in the appointment or appointments or in supplying the vacancy. (2) If the appointment is not made within fifteen clear days after service of the said notice, the court may, on the application of the party who gave the notice and after giving the other parties an opportunity of being heard, appoint an arbitrator or arbitrators or umpire, as the case may be, who shall have like power to act in the reference and to make an award as if he or they had been appointed by consent of all parties.” 7. Therefore, under Section 8, before an application can be made to the court under that section, the following requirements should be satisfied: (1) The arbitration agreement should provide for appointment of arbitrator/s by consent. (2) Parties do not concur in the appointment of an arbitrator. 104 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (3) One party serves notice on the other party to concur in the appointment. (4) No appointment is made within 15 days of the service of the notice. 8. Thereupon the court may, on the application of the party who gave the notice and after giving the other party an opportunity of being heard, appoint an arbitrator. 9. In view of the express language of Section 8, it is quite clear that unless a party who desires to apply has resorted to the process set out in Section 8, and has failed to secure the concurrence of the other party to the appointment of an arbitrator within the prescribed period, the court will not intervene under Section 8. The right to apply under Section 8, therefore, would accrue when, within 15 clear days of the notice, the other parties do not concur in the appointment of an arbitrator.” (emphasis supplied) 58. In Secunderabad Cantonment Board v. B. Ramachandraiah & Sons reported in (2021) 5 SCC 705, this Court while determining the issue of limitation in relation to a Section 11(6) petition under the Act, 1996 held thus: “19. Applying the aforesaid s to the facts of this case, so far as the applicability of Article 137 of the Limitation Act to the applications under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act is concerned, it is clear that the demand for arbitration in the present case was made by the letter dated 7-11-2006. This demand was reiterated by a letter dated 13-1-2007, which letter itself informed the appellant that appointment of an arbitrator would have to be made within 30 days.