This volatility was examined by the Expert Committee, which after examining the facts presented by SEBI and engaging with market participants, opined that the impact of the Adani group-related events on the overall market was low. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 201 VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 54. The report of the Committee indicates that the Indian securities’ market showed resilience and the impact of the fluctuations in the Adani stocks was not deleterious to the economic ecosystem as a whole. The volatility in Adani stocks in the aftermath of the Hindenburg Report was stabilised due to market forces and mitigatory measures. While shares of the group fluctuated, it did not pose any systemic market- level risk. According to the Expert Committee the trend observed in volatility in the Indian market in comparison with the global volatility index has been consistent since the COVID-19 pandemic and was maintained even during the period when volatility was observed in the Adani stocks. Therefore, according to the Committee, while events related to Adani stocks had an impact at an individual scale, it did not result in volatility in the market. 55. After drawing the above conclusion, the Expert Committee has additionally made the following recommendation upon considering the submissions of SEBI and other market participants: “47. ⁠SEBI has submitted that only recently, it has made a regulatory intervention in terms of supervising the construction of stock indices. SEBI must consider directing index writers to construct indices to compute volatility of stocks that are constituents of indices so that volatility in these stocks can be compared with volatility in the indices. The availability of such data on a real time basis would enable the market to be more informed in making its investment and divestment decisions. SEBI must ensure that there are secular norms and periodic reviews for construction and design changes in indices.” In its note filed in compliance with this Court’s dated 10 February 2023, SEBI had submitted that it has implemented measures to deal with issues which may impact sudden and unusual price movements, excessive volatility, etc. by measures like Market Wide Circuit Breakers, Circuit Filters/Price bands on individual shares, additional surveillance measures15, and Market Wide Position Limits. SEBI has inter 15 ASM 202 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS alia reiterated these submissions before the Expert Committee and has further, in its affidavit dated 10 July 2023 placed on record the existing ASM and graded surveillance measure16 framework. We are inclined to direct SEBI to further consider the recommendations and take appropriate measures. 56. The chain of events which triggered the Adani group-related events and eventually the petitions filed before this Court were attributable to the report by short-seller Hindenburg Research. The Expert Committee also points to the publication of the report to explain the volatility observed. The petitioner on the other hand has argued that the real cause of the loss of investor money was the alleged unchecked violations of law and artificial boosting of share prices which would always entail the risk of volatility upon being discovered in one way or the other.