Affidavit would be furnished by every allottee on a non-judicial stamp paper in accordance with the prescribed format. 18. On similar terms and conditions, vide GoM No. 420, an allotment of 72 acres of land in Puppalaguda Village, Rajendranagar Mandal, Ranga Reddy district, was made to Indira Legislators Mutually Aided Cooperative Housing Society Limited on the basic value of land. It was further stipulated that MLAs and MPs who have previously been allotted a housing site on a concessional rate, either directly or as party of any society, would not be eligible for allotment. 19. GoM No. 422 provided for allotment of 48.15 acres of land in Puppalaguda Village, Rajendranagar Mandal, Ranga Reddy District to Adarshnagar Mutually Aided Cooperative Housing Society on payment of the basic value of land per acre as on 04.05.2006 on the same terms and conditions. Allotment of 16 acres of land at Nanakramguda Village, Serilingapalli Mandal, Ranga Reddy District, was made in favour of Koh-Ei-Noor Civil Services MACHSL, Hyderabad Officers of AIS pre-1989 service, vide GoM No. 423 on payment of the basic value of land per acre on 04.05.2006 on similar terms. GoM No. 424 was for allotment of 32 acres in village Nizampet and 38 acres in Pet Basheerabad village in Qutubullapur Mandal, Ranga Reddy District in favour of Jawaharlal Nehru Journalists Mutually Aided Cooperative Housing Society Limited on payment of the basic value of land per acre as existing on 04.05.2006. However, in this case, each member was eligible for 300 square yards of land. Other terms and conditions were the same. GoM No. 425 refers to three letters – two letters written by the Collector, Ranga Reddy District and one by the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration, Hyderabad, furnishing the Collector’s proposal, which reported the requisition made by the Indian 1388 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Revenue Service Officers Housing Society for allotment of 50 acres of Government land for housing purposes in Puppalaguda Village, Rajendranagar Mandal. The Government had carefully considered the proposal and had agreed to allot 30 acres of land in Gopannapalli Village, Serilingampally Mandal, Ranga Reddy District in favour of Indian Revenue Service13 Officers (Income Tax) Housing Society on payment of the basic value. The conditions relating to the basic value on allotment within Outer Ring Road project prescribed in GoM No. 243 were relaxed in favour of the Cooperative Society. The terms and conditions fixed as per the annexure stipulate that the IRS officers should be natives of Andhra Pradesh, working in Andhra Pradesh or any other part of the country. In case of non-Andhra IRS Officers, one should have worked a minimum of 5 years in Andhra Pradesh and should be serving in Andhra Pradesh as on 01.01.2008. If not a native of Andhra Pradesh, one should have declared any place in Andhra Pradesh as his hometown/place of settlement after retirement, through a formal declaration to Income Tax Department. Each eligible member was to be allotted 500 square yards. A member already allotted land by any other government was not eligible.