Digital Supreme Court Reports constituted, Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules may be invoked. In response to this, to reduce reliance on the inherent powers under Rule 11 and provide certainty, necessary amendments were made to Regulation 30A. There is now a detailed procedure to deal with withdrawal or settlement at both stages post admission – before and after the CoC is constituted. In view of this detailed framework, the requirement to invoke discretionary power such as Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules, or Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules or even the power of this Court under Article 142 no longer arises. 65. Mr Tushar Mehta, Senior Counsel for the second respondent, has sought to contend that the requirement under Regulation 30A (1) to move an application before the NCLT through the IRP, in cases where the CoC is not constituted, is a mere technicality which can be dispensed with. The logic he advances is that the regulation does not require adjudication by the NCLT about the factum of the settlement, the mode of settlement or adjudication on any other ground. His submission is that Regulation 30A (1) only requires that the withdrawal application be submitted to the IRP in the prescribed Form FA, which is then forwarded to the NCLT to mechanically approve the settlement. At this stage, according to him, the NCLT is not required to hear any other parties, but only approve the application and thus, whether the application is submitted through the IRP or whether it is before the NCLT or the NCLAT, is a mere technicality. 66. We do not concur with the above understanding for two broad reasons. a. Firstly, that the application is to be submitted by the IRP rather than the parties themselves is not a distinction without difference. As noted above, once the application is admitted and CIRP is initiated, it is the IRP who takes charge of the affairs of the corporate debtor. The proceedings become collective proceedings and the interests of the former management of the corporate debtor, become disjunct from the interest of the corporate debtor. Therefore, the parties (such as the former management of the corporate debtor) must submit their application for withdrawal through the IRP who is now the person in control of the insolvency proceedings. To subvert this requirement would run contrary to the scheme of the IBC and the underlying principles discussed in this ; and [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1845 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. b. Secondly, the NCLT cannot be considered a post office that merely puts a stamp on the withdrawal application submitted by the parties through the IRP. The ILC Report, in response to which, the parent provision, i.e. Section 12A was introduced in the IBC specifically discussed the possibility of the creditors, apart from the applicant creditor agreeing to a settlement as the underlying reason to permit withdrawal even after initiation of the CIRP. It was never fathomed by the ILC that withdrawal of claims would remain a unilateral process, even though the application is admitted and CIRP has been initiated.