v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons ii. All aspects from the sourcing of raw materials to the distribution of products must fall within the powers of the Union to take control of an industry under Entry 52 of List I; iii. Article 366(12) did not define the term ‘goods’ to include raw materials in particular; iv. Entry 27 of List II is subject to Entry 33 of List III. The implication of this aspect was not sufficiently dealt with by the Court in Tika Ramji (supra); and v. It is expedient in public interest that alcohol is regulated by a Central legislation. Currently, the IDRA occupies the field, and any State law on alcohol, other than potable alcohol, will be repugnant to the IDRA. The holding in Tika Ramji (supra), that there must be a notified in force pursuant to Section 18G for there to be repugnancy is not correct. Further, it was obiter dicta; e. Synthetics (7J) (supra) rightly did not consider the observations in Tika Ramji (supra) regarding the absence of a notified by the Union government; f. The debates in the Constituent Assembly would show that the framers of the Constitution intended the Union to have some control over the trade and commerce, production, supply and distribution which led to the introduction of a concurrent list entry which is identifiable as Entry 33 of List III; g. The power of taxation over potable alcohol has always been with the States and the power of taxation over non-potable alcohol has always been with the Union. This is borne out by the evolution of Entry 84 of List I and Entry 52 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. The control and the taxing power were cumulatively given to the provinces under Entry 16 of the provincial subject list of the Devolution Rules under the 1919 Act. Under the 1935 Act, Entry 45 of List I specifically excluded ‘alcoholic liquor for human consumption’ from the domain of the Union and correspondingly included it under the State list as Entry 40 of List II; h. The term ‘intoxicating liquors’ in Entry 8 of List II means a beverage which has the effect of intoxication upon consumption. 1984 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The term is not used elsewhere in the Seventh Schedule and instead the term ‘alcoholic liquor for human consumption’ is used in taxing entries. The terminological variation is because the incidence of tax is relevant in a taxing entry. Accordingly, since intoxication is not the incidence of taxation but the effect of consuming alcoholic liquor, it is not used in the taxing entries; i. Similarly, in Article 47, the term ‘intoxicating drinks’ is used to connote all drinks which have the effect of intoxication regardless of its alcoholic content, for example, Indian hemp; j. This Court, in Synthetics (7J) (supra), held that ‘intoxicating liquors’ is limited to ‘alcoholic liquor fit for human consumption’. FN Balsara (supra) defined liquor in a different context and did not deal with legislative competence; and k. Industrial alcohol is a subject which affects the entire nation and requires a uniform approach.