(vi) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in the curriculum of judicial academy. (vii) To furnish information on whether the directions of Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC or not. 27. Union Territory of Puducherry -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed, and consequently to provide the details of necessary action that has been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. 1104 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) In terms of para 100.7, it is directed that the Union Territory shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for the creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) In terms of the above referred , we direct the Union Territory to ensure that the prosecutors are stating the correct position of law as per the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). (b) To circulate the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) (c) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 27.1 High Court of Madras (Refer to Serial No: 31.1) 28. State of Punjab -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed, and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. 28.1 High Court of Punjab and Haryana -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of the directions issued in Para 100.2 and 100.3, bail has been granted in non-compliance of Sections 41 and 41-A of CrPC, notably in districts such as Amritsar, Kapurthala and Mansa. On the basis of the compliance affidavit dated 10.11.2022, it is noted that bail has been granted for non- [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1105 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. compliance even though it has been stated that there is compliance of the said directions.