He further deposed that to redeem himself, he had voluntarily taken the initiative to publish fresh advertisements seeking public apology in various national and regional newspapers with wide circulation which were carried on 24th April, 2024. The apologies published by the proposed contemnors extracted in para 7 of the affidavit, stated as follows: “In the wake of on going matter before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India (Writ Petition C. No. 645/2022), we in our individual capacity as well as on behalf of the Company, unconditionally apologise for the non-compliance or disobedience of directions/s of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. We unconditionally extend the apology for holding meeting/ press conference dated 22.11.2023. We earnestly apologize for the mistake made in publishing our advertisements and it is our whole-hearted commitment that such errors will not be repeated. We undertake to abide by directions and instructions of the Hon’ble Court with due care and utmost sincerity. We undertake to uphold the majesty of the court and comply with applicable laws and directions of the Hon’ble Court of law/relevant authorities. Patanjali Ayurved Limited, Acharya Balkrishna, Swami Ramdev Haridwar, Uttarakhand” 20. On 30th April, 2024, learned counsel for the proposed contemnors alluded to the aforesaid affidavit sworn by his clients and to the publications carried in various newspapers on 22nd April, 2024 containing their apologies for the breach of the passed by this Court on 21st November, 2023 and submitted that the apologies tendered by the proposed contemnors this time, were published in bold letters and the font size was legible. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 421 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others L. AFFIDAVIT DATED 16TH MAY, 2024 21. On 14th May, 2024, on a query posed by the Court, time was sought on behalf of the proposed contemnors for permission to file affidavits setting out the steps that were being taken by them to bring down the advertisements of those products of Patanjali, licenses whereof had been suspended by the State of Uttarakhand and for recalling the said medicines sent for sale to stockists and other agencies. The proposed contemnors were permitted to file the said affidavits and s on the suo motu contempt proceedings were reserved. Following is the relevant extract of the affidavit filed by Patanjali on 16th May, 2024 : "2. That in pursuance of the dated 10.04.2024 of this Hon’ble Court, the State Government of Uttarakhand cancelled the manufacturing licenses of 14 ayurvedic medicines/formulations. The Respondent No. 5 is in the process of taking the appropriate remedy against the aid suspension , mentioned hereinbelow, in terms of applicable law and further in light of the dated 14.05.2024 passed by this Hon’ble Court. 3. That in light of the suspension , the sale of these ayurvedic medicines/formulations has been stopped by Respondent No. 5 by issuing various directions to entities associated with it, details of which are mentioned hereinafter.