To avoid repetition or prolixity, we are not reproducing the said clauses. 1020 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports subscribers, under the terms of this Agreement. The FRANCHISEE has also represented that they have infrastructure, manpower and experience in the above area and they possess the financial to perform the above functions and such other functions as may be assigned to them by BML from time to time. xx xx xx A. It is expressly understood that the Agreement does not confer any exclusive right to the FRANCHISEE to market the Services nor does the Agreement gives any territorial right to the FRANCHISEE. The BML expressly reserves its right to enter into similar arrangements with other party(ies) to market and promote the Services and to market the Services directly to the customers if considered appropriate in terms of business exigency and market requirements. xx xx xx 2.1 Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, BML hereby appoints Central Supply Corporation, as its FRANCHISEE to promote and market the Pre Paid Services of BML and more particularly in terms of the policies of BML as shall be informed by BML from time to time and the FRANCHISEE hereby accepts the appointment as the FRANCHISEE of BML. xx xx xx 2.3 The parties recognize that it is commercially prudent and desirable for the FRANCHISEE in the performance of the obligations under this Agreement to appointment (sic) Retailers/outlets for the retail promotion and marketing of Pre Paid services. In such an event the FRANCHISEE shall obtain the prior approval of BML for appointment(s) of Retailers/outlets, and also to the terms and conditions of such appointment. 2.4 The FRANCHISEE acknowledges that the business of cellular mobile services is extremely competitive and exists [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1021 Bharti Cellular Limited (Now Bharti Airtel Limited) v. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Circle 57, Kolkata and Another in an ever expanding market. The FRANCHISEE agrees and acknowledges that during the term of this Agreement it shall not undertake the activities under this Agreement for any other provider of Cellular Mobile Telephone Services or any similar competitive business. xx xx xx 3.1 The FRANCHISEE warrants and represents that: (a) It has all necessary statutory, regulatory and municipal permissions, approvals and permits for the running and operation of its establishment and for the conduct of its business, more particularly for the business as provided for in this Agreement. (b) It is in compliance of all laws, regulars and rules in the conduct of its business and the running of its business establishment. 3.2 The FRANCHISEE shall indemnify and keep indemnified BML from and against all and any costs, expenses and charges imposed on BML as a result of any action by a statutory, regulatory or municipal authority arising out of non-compliance by the FRANCHISEE of laws, rules or regulations in the running, operation and conduct of its business and business establishment, more particularly with respect to the conduct of its business provided for in this Agreement.