The said company is also one of the accused in the Prosecution Complaint filed on 27.07.2022. The said company had received proceeds of crime amounting to Rs.69,00,300/- during the check period in the form of accommodation entries from the Kolkata based shell companies. The said appellant-Vaibhav Jain had transferred the land possessed by M/s. Mangalayatan Projects Pvt. Ltd. in the name of his mother Sushila Jain and wife-Swati Jain to frustrate the proceeds of crime. He also took back the shares without consideration from shell companies and thus both the appellants helped Satyendar Kumar Jain in projecting the tainted money as untainted in the process of money laundering. (iii) Both the appellants had made declarations in their individual capacity under the IDS, 2016 for declaring undisclosed income of Rs.8.6 Crores during check period i.e. from 2010-11 to 2015- 16, in to shield Satyendar Kumar Jain for concealing the true nature of proceeds of crime. (iv) Both the appellants prepared back dated documents with the help of each other and with the help of Sunil Kumar Jain and Jagdish Prasad Mohta for becoming directors in their respective companies i.e. Mr. Ankush Jain in M/s. Akinchan Developers Pvt. Ltd., and M/s. Indo Metalimpex Pvt. Ltd., and Mr. Vaibhav Jain in M/s. Akinchan Developers Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Mangalayatan Projects Pvt. Ltd. and M/s. Indo Metalimpex Pvt. Ltd. for showing the IDS declarations as genuine. (v) The income sought to be disclosed by the appellants under the IDS declarations belonged to the appellant- Satyendar Jain, and the said IDS declarations were rejected by the Income Tax authorities under Section 193 of the Finance Act, 2016 on the ground of misrepresentation and suppression of facts. The said was upheld by the High Court and the Supreme Court. 794 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (vi) The declarations of the appellants were held void under Section 193 of the Finance Act, 2016, which applied only for the purpose of the said scheme, however, if the making of such declarations was an offence under a separate Act, namely, PMLA, then such an act would not be effaced merely because of Section 193. (vii) The very fact that such declarations were made by the said appellants, was the relevant fact for the purposes of the alleged offence under the PMLA, as both the appellants are being prosecuted in their individual capacities for allegedly actively assisting the appellant- Satyendar Jain in concealing the proceeds of crime and projecting the proceeds of crime as untainted. (viii) Section 13(1)(e) and Section 13(2) are both scheduled offences under the PMLA, and Section 3 of PMLA ropes in any person who may or may not have any role to play in the scheduled offence but has directly or indirectly attempted to indulge or knowingly assisted or knowingly is a party involved in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime. (ix) The money laundering need not commence only after the check period, inasmuch as the offence under Section 13(1) (e) of the PC Act contemplates that at any time the assets of the public servant could be disproportionate to his income, which could have been acquired by the public servant either at the beginning or in the middle of the check period also.