14. In this respect, it will be relevant to refer to the testimony of Sunita Bhosale (PW-6), the wife of the deceased. She in her evidence states that, she and her husband deceased Gopal had gone to the house of Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5). When they went to the house of Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5), he had gone to answer nature’s call. She further states that the accused appellant came there and started abusing Chayya and Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5). Thereafter, her husband tried to persuade the accused appellant telling him why he was abusing them, and they would see about his grievance in the morning. She states that thereafter the accused appellant started abusing her husband deceased Gopal due to his intervention. The 1446 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports accused appellant went from there and the deceased also went behind him. She further stated that she and Chayya, the wife of Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5) stood outside the house. At that time, Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5) also arrived. She states that, when Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5) returned, she and Chayya told Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5) about the incident stating that deceased Gopal had gone behind the accused appellant. She states that, thereafter Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5) went towards Khadkoba temple. He was followed by Mangesh Bhosale (PW-3) and one Aniket Bhosale. 15. From the testimony of Sunita Bhosale (PW-6) itself, it will be clear that after a scuffle took place at the house of Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5), the accused appellant went from there and the deceased followed him. Thereafter, as to how the assault took place is not clear either from the evidence of Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5) or from the evidence of Sunita Bhosale (PW-6). It is however clear that after the accused appellant left the place, the deceased followed him. After that, as to what had happened between the deceased and the appellant is not clear from the evidence of the eyewitnesses. 16. From the evidence of Sunita Bhosale (PW-6) itself, it is clear that the deceased had nothing to do with the incident. The appellant had come to the house of Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5) where she and her husband had gone. Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5) had gone to answer nature’s call and three of them i.e. the deceased, Sunita Bhosale (PW-6) and Chayya, the wife of Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5), were present there. The appellant started abusing Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5) and his wife Chayya. The deceased intervened and asked the appellant as to why he was abusing Rajendra Bhosale (PW- 5). Irked by the intervention of the deceased, the appellant started abusing the deceased and thereafter went away. It is thus clear that no motive has come on record as to why the appellant wanted to commit the murder of the deceased. 17. The evidence of the eyewitnesses also does not show that the appellant had come with any weapon. On the contrary, the medical evidence would show that the injuries caused are with the bamboo stick, which is commonly available in a village. The possibility of the deceased following the appellant and an altercation taking place between them and in a sudden fight in the heat of passion the appellant assaulting the deceased cannot be ruled out.