5. However, without issuing notice and without providing any opportunity of being heard to the appellant, respondent No.6-College issued a letter/communication dated 9th August, 2023 cancelling the admission of the appellant. 6. The letter/communication cancelling the admission was challenged by the appellant by filing Writ Petition No. 5141 of 2023 before the Bombay High Court, Nagpur Bench raising a pertinent ground that the appellant was entitled to the exception as provided under clause 4.8 of the NEET UG-2023 Information Brochure (hereinafter referred to as ‘Information Brochure’) which pertains to the ‘Children of employees of Government of India or its Undertaking’ and that cancellation of his admission was totally illegal and arbitrary. 7. The High Court, after considering the entirety of facts and circumstances dismissed the Writ Petition No. 5141 of 2023 vide dated 5th September, 2023 holding that the appellant did not satisfy the requirements of clauses 4.8 and 9.4.4 of the Information Brochure. It was held that since the appellant did not select specified reservation i.e., in the category of Children of Defence personnel(DEF), while submitting the online application form, he was precluded from raising such a claim at a belated stage, as being impermissible in view of the rider contained in clause 9.4.4 of the Information Brochure. 8. Being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the dated 5th September, 2023, the appellant filed Misc. Civil Application (Review) No. 980 of 2023 which too was rejected vide dated 26th October, 2023. These two s are assailed in the present appeals. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 709 Vansh S/o Prakash Dolas v. The Ministry of Education & The Ministry of Health & Family Welfare & Ors. 9. Mr. Kshitij Kothale, learned counsel representing the appellant urged that the High Court misconstrued the appellant’s claim to be one under Children of Defence personnel(DEF) category because the appellant had sought admission under the OBC/NCL category as being domicile of the State of Maharashtra. 10. He contended that the appellant and his parents are domicile of the State of Maharashtra. The appellant fulfils the requisite criteria for being admitted in the State quota and stood in merit and was allotted a seat in the OBC/NCL category as a domicile of the State of Maharashtra and, thus, cancellation of appellant’s admission by the dated 9th August 2023 is absolutely unjust and arbitrary in addition to being in gross violation of principles of natural justice. 11. Learned counsel urged that two Division Benches of the Bombay High Court, one at Nagpur Bench in Archana Sudhakar Mandulkar v. Dean, Govt. Medical College, Nagpur and others1 and the other at Principal Seat at Bombay in Rajiv Purshottam Wadhwa v. State of Maharashtra(through it’s Dept of Medical Education and Drugs & Others2 examined a similar set of rules/guidelines as prevailing in the present case and while reading down the rules, provided relief to the candidates therein who were similarly circumstanced as the appellant. He placed reliance on the following excerpts(infra) from the in the case of Archana Sudhakar Mandulkar(supra) and contended that the impugned s are bad in the eyes of law and the appellant herein deserves the relief sought for by directing the respondents to create an additional seat and thereby protecting admission of the appellant in the ongoing session of MBBS (UG) course:- “3.