Thus it follows that no court can grant the relief of possession of land or other immovable property, subject-matter of the agreement for sale in regard to which specific performance is claimed, unless the possession of the immovable property is specifically prayed for. 18. In the instant case the suit is for specific performance of the agreement for sale of the suit property wherein relief of delivery of the suit property has not been specifically claimed, as such it cannot be treated as a “suit for land”. 19. We cannot also accept the contention of Mr Chitale that the suit is for acquisition of title to the land and is a “suit for land”. In its true sense, a suit simpliciter for specific performance of contract for sale of land is a suit for enforcement of terms of contract. The title to the land as such is not the subject-matter of the suit.” 28. What appears from a close reading of the decision in Adcon Electronics (supra) is that the decision of this Court in Babu Lal (supra) was not considered and reliance was placed on the decision of the Federal Court in Moolji Jaitha (supra) which was rendered in the context of the old Specific Relief Act. The Federal Court had no occasion to consider the amended regime brought into being by virtue of the Specific Relief Act enacted in 1963. The decision in 1306 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Babu Lal (supra) took note of the divergent views occupying the field prior to the enactment of the Specific Relief Act in 1963. The relevant paragraphs from Babu Lal (supra) wherein the conflict in position of law was noted are extracted hereinbelow: “6. It would be appropriate to refer to the state of law as it existed prior to the amendment of the Specific Relief Act in 1963. One view was that the decree-holder does not acquire title or right to recover possession unless a sale deed is executed, in execution of the decree for specific performance. In Hakim Enayat Ullah v. Khalil Ullah Khan [AIR 1938 All 432 : ILR 1938 All 677 : 1938 All LJ 569 : 176 IC 436] a Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court dealing with the question observed: “A decree for specific performance only declares the right of the decree-holder to have a transfer executed in his favour of the property covered by the decree. The decree by itself does not transfer title. That this is so is apparent from the fact that in to get title to the property the decree-holder has to proceed in execution in accordance with the provisions of 21 of the Code. So long as the sale deed is not executed in favour of the decree-holder, either by the defendant in the suit or by the court, the title to the property remains vested in the defendant and till the execution of the sale deed the decree-holder has no right to the possession of the property.