Before the Chief Executive Officer and even before the appellate authority the petitioner has failed to show any 1454 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports justifiable reason as to why it took these many years for the petitioner to simply obtain a revised Annexure-II when as per norms issued by the Slum Rehabilitation Authority Annexure-II is required to be finalised within a period of four months when the hutment dwellers are below 500 in number. Further the record clearly indicates that even after obtaining the revised Annexure II, on 23 December 2013, the petitioner did not initiate immediate steps to obtain LOI for the next three years. There is, thus, much substance in the contention of the society that only after the society initiated proceedings under Section 13(2) of the Slums Act, the petitioner initiated steps to obtain a LOI. ... 57. There cannot be a myopic approach to these issues of a delay in implementation of a slum rehabilitation scheme. Things as they stand are required to be seen in their entirety. The only mantra for the slum schemes to be implemented is it’s time bound completion and a machinery to be evolved by the authorities, to have effective measures in that direction to monitor the schemes as a part of their statutory obligation to avoid delays. Non-commencement of the slum scheme for long years and substantial delay in completion of the slum schemes should be a thing of the past. In the present case, looked from any angle there is no plausible explanation forthcoming for the delay of so many years at the hands of the petitioner to take bare minimum steps to commence construction. 58. The authorities should weed away and reprimand persons who are not genuine developers and who are merely agents and dealers in slum schemes. These persons after get themselves appointed as developers, to ultimately deal/sell the slum schemes, as if it is a commodity. Any loopholes in the rules to this effect, therefore, are required to be sealed. ... 64. Thus, it is quite clear that inordinate delay is a sufficient ground for removal of a developer. There is neither any [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1455 Yash Developers v. Harihar Krupa Co-Operative Housing Society Limited & Ors. perversity nor any illegality in the findings as recorded by both authorities below, in observing that the petitioner had grossly delayed the implementation of the slum scheme in question. The findings as recorded in the impugned passed by the Apex Grievance Redressal Committee are also sufficiently borne out by the files produced before this Court…” (emphasis supplied) 11. A Full Bench of the Bombay High Court in Tulsiwadi Navnirman Co- op Housing Society Ltd. & Anr. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors.,7 held that the SRA has been conferred with certain powers and each one of them is coupled with a duty. If the slum dwellers are eligible to be rehabilitated at the site and within a reasonable period, they cannot be left at the mercy of developers and builders.