This period witnessed a substantial exodus of people from the valley, seeking refuge in the bing towns of Bengal and other adjacent territories.74 However, there was soon a change of hands in terms of control over these regions after the First Anglo–Burmese War.75 By the middle of the nineteenth century, most of the Brahmaputra valley of Assam had fallen under British rule, and the East India Company assumed control over Assam. In 1874, a distinct province of Assam, administered by a Chief Commissioner, was established by amalgamating Goalpara, Cachar, Garo, Khasi and Jaintia Hills, and Naga Hills, with its capital at Shillong.76 81. Thereafter, in 1905, as part of the British partition of the Bengal Province, Assam became a constituent of the East Bengal region, with Dhaka serving as its capital, which is often regarded as the inception of friction between the Assamese and Bengali communities.77 82. Initially, during the partition deliberations, Assam was intended to be amalgamated with Bengal. However, this proposal encountered 73 eDwArD GAit, A History of Assam, Thacker, Spink & Company, 1906. 74 mAnor Din: ArupJyoti sAiKiA on how the Burmese invAsion oF AssAm trAnspireD Down to eArth, https:// www.downtoearth.org.in/interviews/governance/manor-din-arupjyoti-saikia-on-how-the-burmese- invasion-of-assam-transpired-93414. 75 sAnGeetA BArooAh pishAroty, Assam: The Accord, the Discord, Penguin Random House, 2019, 221. 76 ArupJyoti sAiKiA, The Quest for Modern Assam,Penguin Random House, 2023, 25. 77 sAnGeetA BArooAh pishAroty, supra note 75. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1051 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 significant opposition from political leaders in Assam, who opposed the integration. They perceived the proposed amalgamation as another attempt to subject Assam to Bengali dominance, resulting in their opposition to the British tendency to treat Assam as an extension of Bengal.78 83. This period also witnessed first-hand, the blending of communities and groups between the two regions. Unlike present-day India, which has linguistically organised states, the then-eastern front of British India witnessed numerous culturally divergent communities living together. The population of Sylhet in modern-day Bangladesh, for example, was then comprised of Bengali-speaking as well as Assamese-speaking people. This was representative of the fact that unlike the western b, in the eastern b, issues of culture and language were more at play. 84. After this period of unrest, the Nehru-Liaquat Pact of 1950 was signed between India and Pakistan, symbolising their mutual commitment to safeguard minorities and their interests in both nations. This period also denoted the Constitution of India coming into force, which contained a part prescribing different modes of citizenship, as already elucidated in paragraphs 19 and 21. In line with this, the Citizenship Act was enacted, empowering the Central Government to declare law on citizenship or nationality, the details of which have also been dealt with elaborately in the same. 85. Parallelly, in 1948, a permit system was instituted between West Pakistan and India vide the West Pakistan (Control) Ordinance, and subsequently, in 1952, a formal passport and visa system was introduced along the eastern b.79 Until then, b traffic was almost entirely unregulated on the eastern bs.