This overriding and exceptional power is, however, to be exercised sparingly and only in furtherance of cause of justice. Thus, when the under appeal has resulted in grave miscarriage of justice by some misapprehension or misreading of evidence or by ignoring material evidence then this Court is not only empowered but is well expected to interfere to promote the cause of justice.” [emphasis added] 19.6 From the aforesaid discussion, it is apparent that Article 136 can be invoked by a party in a petition for special leave to appeal from any judgement, decree, determination, sentence or in any cause or matter passed or made by a Court or Tribunal within the territory of India. The reach of the extraordinary powers vested in this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India is boundless. Such unbridled powers have been vested in Court, not just to prevent the abuse of the process of any court or to secure the ends of justice as contemplated in Section 482, Cr.P.C, but to ensure dispensation of justice, correct errors of law, safeguard fundamental rights, exercise judicial review, resolve conflicting decisions, inject consistency in the legal system by settling precedents and for myriad other to undo injustice, wherever noticed and promote the cause of justice at every level. The fetters on this power are self imposed and carefully tampered with sound judicial discretion. 19.7 Coming back to the case in hand, ordinarily, a party aggrieved by the filing of a chargesheet or framing of charges ought to first approach the High Court in a petition under Section 482, Cr.P.C. Though such a route would have been available to the appellants herein as well, but in view of the categorical directions issued by this court in M.L. Sharma (supra) that this Court alone shall have the jurisdiction to entertain cases relating to allocation of coal blocks including cases for staying [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1253 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation the investigation or trial in a matter relating to coal, one rung of an appeal before the High Court for quashing the chargesheet or interfering in the on charge by invoking the inherent jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr.P.C. stands fore closed. The appellants were left with only one chance of directly invoking Article 136 of the Constitution of India and filing a petition for special leave before this court to challenge the impugned s passed by the learned Special Judge, CBI framing charges against them and dismissing their application for seeking discharge. 19.9 Given the broad amplitude of the extraordinary powers of this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, the respondent-CBI cannot be heard to urge that since a Chargesheet has already been filed against the appellants and charges framed, the appellants should be left to take all the pleas available to them before the learned Special Judge, CBI during the course of the trial and that no interference is called for by this Court at this stage.