(2) In any case, where the Advisory Board has reported that there is, in its opinion, no sufficient cause for the detention of the person concerned, the Government shall revoke the detention and cause the person to be released forthwith. 55. What can be discerned from a bare perusal of the abovementioned provisions is that the Advisory Board performs the most vital duty of independently reviewing the detention , after considering all the materials placed before it, or any other material which it deems necessary. When reviewing the detention along with the relevant materials, the Advisory Board must form an opinion as to the sufficiency of the cause for warranting detention. An of detention passed under the Act, 1986 can only be confirmed if the Advisory Board is of the opinion that there exists sufficient cause for the detention of the detenu. 56. The framers of the Constitution being in seisin of the draconian nature of an of preventive detention and its adverse impact on individual liberty, have specifically put in place safeguards within Article 22 through the creation of an Advisory Board, to ensure that any of preventive detention is only confirmed upon the evaluation and scrutiny of an independent authority which determines and finds that such an for detention is necessary. 57. The legislature in its wisdom has thought it fit, to entrust the Advisory Board and no one else, not even the Government, with the performance of this crucial and critical function which ultimately culminates into either the confirmation or revocation of a detention . The Advisory Board setup under any preventive detention law in to form its opinion is required to; (i) consider the material placed before it; (ii) to call for further information, if deemed necessary; (iii) to hear the detenu, if he desires to be heard and; (iv) to submit a report in writing as to whether there is sufficient cause for “such detention” or whether the detention is justified. 1226 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 58. An Advisory Board is not a mere rubber-stamping authority for an of preventive detention. Whenever any of detention is placed before it for review, it must play an active role in ascertaining whether the detention is justified under the law or not. Where it finds that such of detention is against the spirit of the Act or in contravention of the law as laid down by the courts, it can definitely opine that the of detention is not sustainable and should not shy away from expressing the same in its report. 59. As stated by us above, preventive detention being a draconian measure, any of detention as a result of a capricious or routine exercise of powers must be nipped in the bud. It must be struck down at the first available threshold and as such, it should be the Advisory Board that must take into consideration all aspects not just the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authorities but whether such satisfaction justifies detention of the detenu.