We may once again explain the well-settled principles governing the scope of a second appeal under Section 100 of the CPC. 24. In Navaneethammal v. Arjuna Chetty reported in AIR 1996 S.C. 3521, it was held by this Court that the High Court should not reappreciate the evidence to reach another possible view in to set aside the findings of fact arrived at by the first appellate Court. 25. In Kshitisn Chandra Purkait v. Santhosh Kumar Purkait reported in (1997) 5 S.C.C. 438), this Court held that in the Second Appeal, the High Court should be satisfied that the case involves a substantial question of law and not mere question of law. 26. In Dnyanoba Bhaurao Shemade v. Maroti Bhaurao Marnor reported in 1999 (2) S.C.C. 471, this Court held:- “Keeping in view the amendment made in 1976, the High Court can exercise its jurisdiction under Section 100, C.P.C. only on the basis of substantial questions of law which are to be framed at the time of admission of the Second Appeal and the Second Appeal has to be heard and decided only on the basis of such duly framed substantial questions of law. A rendered by the High Court under Section 100 C.P.C. without following the aforesaid procedure cannot be sustained.” [2024] 12 S.C.R. 729 Jaichand (Dead) Through Lrs. & Ors. v. Sahnulal & Anr. 27. This Court in Kondira Dagadu Kadam v. Savitribai Sopan Gujar reported in AIR 1999 S.C. 2213 held:- “The High Court cannot substitute its opinion for the opinion of the first appellate Court unless it is found that the conclusions drawn by the lower appellate Court were erroneous being contrary to the mandatory provisions of law applicable or its settled position on the basis of pronouncements made by the Apex Court, or was based upon inadmissible evidence or arrived at without evidence.” 28. It is thus clear that under Section 100, C.P.C., the High Court cannot interfere with the findings of fact arrived at by the first Appellate Court which is the final Court of facts except in such cases where such findings were erroneous being contrary to the mandatory provisions of law, or its settled position on the basis of the pronouncement made by the Apex Court or based upon inadmissible evidence or without evidence. 29. The High Court in the Second Appeal can interfere with the findings of the trial Court on the ground of failure on the part of the trial as well as the first appellate Court, as the case may be, when such findings are either recorded without proper construction of the documents or failure to follow the decisions of this Court and acted on assumption not supported by evidence. Under Section 103, C.P.C, the High Court has got power to determine the issue of fact. The Section lays down:- “Power of High Court to determine issue of fact: In any Second Appeal, the High Court may, if the evidence on the record is sufficient to determine any issue necessary for the disposal of the appeal,- (a) Which has not been determined by the lower Appellate Court or both by the Court of first instance and the lower Appellate Court, or (b) Which has been wrongly determined by such Court or Courts by reason of a decision on such question of law as is referred to in Section 100.” 30.