(1) Where the allegations made in the first information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their [2024] 10 S.C.R. 275 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. face value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the first information report and other materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not disclose a cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by police officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an of a Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2) of the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or complaint and the evidence collected in support of the same do not disclose the commission of any offence and make out a case against the accused. (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a cognizable offence but constitute only a non-cognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a police officer without an of a Magistrate as contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which no prudent person can ever reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act (under which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to the institution and continuance of the proceedings and/or where there is a specific provision in the Code or the concerned Act, providing efficacious redress for the grievance of the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide and/or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to spite him due to private and personal grudge.” 200. In S.M. Datta v. State of Gujarat reported in (2001) 7 SCC 659 this Court again cautioned that criminal proceedings ought not to be 276 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports scuttled at the initial stage. Quashing of a complaint or FIR should rather be an exception and a rarity than an ordinary rule. This Court also held that if a perusal of the first information report leads to disclosure of an offence even broadly, law courts are barred from usurping the jurisdiction of the police, since the two organs of the State operate in two specific spheres of activities and one ought not to tread over the other sphere. 201. In view of the aforesaid consistent line of decisions of this Court, the High Court in our considered view could be said to have committed an egregious error by quashing the criminal proceedings without even properly perusing the chargesheet and the other material on record. 202. The High Court should neither be picky nor remain oblivious in deciding which provision to advert to while considering a quashing petition.