No.10785 of 2024 is concerned, the charge-sheet has already been filed. It is submitted that since the investigation is complete, further custody of the appellant would not be required. 6. Shri Rohatgi, relying on the of this Court in the case of Manish Sisodia v. Directorate of Enforcement,1 submits that inasmuch as both the said case and the present case arise out of the same set of facts and so in the present case also there are about 493 witnesses to be examined and the documents to be considered are in the range of about 50,000 pages. He further submits that no proceeds of crime have been recovered from the appellant. Shri Rohatgi further submits that the appellant is a woman and is therefore entitled to special treatment under proviso to Section 45(1) of the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 (for short, ‘PMLA’). 7. Shri S.V. Raju, learned ASG vehemently opposed these appeals. He submits that the statements of various witnesses as well as co- accused would clearly show that the present appellant was a kingpin in arranging the deal between the co-accused-Arvind Kejriwal and the south lobby. He submits that the statements of the witnesses clearly show that the proceeds of the crime have passed through, or at least at her instance. Learned ASG further submits that not only the statements recorded under Section 50 of the PMLA but also the statements recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 before the learned Magistrate would clearly implicate the present appellant in the trial. 8. Learned ASG further submits that the learned Trial Judge has rightly refused to grant the benefit of the proviso to Section 45(1) of the PMLA on the ground that the appellant is a woman, inasmuch as she has indulged herself into tampering with the evidence and influencing the witnesses. He submits that the appellant has formatted her mobile set in to destroy the evidence which was against her. 1 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1920 : 2024 INSC 595 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 721 Kalvakuntla Kavitha v. Directorate of Enforcement 9. Learned ASG further submits that the sequence as to in what manner the accused Arun Pillai has retracted his statement would clearly show that it is the present appellant, who has a role to play. He submits that though the statement of Arun Pillai under Section 50 of the PMLA was recorded on 10.11.2022 after a period of more than three months, he has retracted the statement on 09.03.2023. He further submits that it is relevant to note that the first summons were issued to the present appellant on 07.03.2023 i.e., two days prior to the day Arun Pillai retracted his statement. He therefore submits that the Court will have to draw an inference that the appellant is indulging in influencing the witnesses. 10. On perusal of the record, we find that in CBI case charge-sheet has been filed and in ED case complaint has been filed. As such, the custody of the appellant herein is not necessary for the purpose of investigation.