Digital Supreme Court Reports him or which is in excess of the ceiling area with payment of little compensation or no compensation at all, but where land is acquired under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, it would not be fair and just to deprive the holder of his land without payment of the true market value when the law, in so many terms, declares that he shall be paid such market value. The State Government must do what is fair and just to the citizen and should not, as far as possible, except in cases where tax or revenue is received or recovered without protest or where the State Government would otherwise be irretrievably be prejudiced, take up a technical plea to defeat the legitimate and just claim of the citizen. We are, therefore, of the view that, in the present case, the Division Bench as well as the learned Single Judge should have allowed the appellants to pay up the deficit court fee and awarded to them compensation at the higher rate or rates determined by them.” The said principle has been followed in other cases including in Ashok Kumar and Another vs. State of Haryana (2016) 4 SCC 544 wherein para 7 it was held as under: - “7. The pre-amended provision puts a cap on the maximum : the compensation by court should not be beyond the amount claimed. The amendment in 1984, on the contrary, puts a cap on the minimum : compensation cannot be less than what was awarded by the Land Acquisition Collector. The cap on maximum having been expressly omitted, and the cap that is put is only on minimum, it is clear that the amount of compensation that a court can award is no longer restricted to the amount claimed by the applicant. It is the duty of the court to award just and fair compensation taking into consideration the true market value and other relevant factors, irrespective of the claim made by the owner. 92. The above are classic instances where this Court ensured that justice and fairness triumphed over technicalities. By the said course, it is ensured that a balance was struck between recognizing the right of the State in exercising its power of eminent domain with the right of the citizen to receive what was legally due. In accordance with the above , we also direct that the deficit court fee which [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2287 Kazi Akiloddin v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. will now become payable when compensation is awarded @ of Rs. 42/- per sq. ft along with other statutory benefits shall be payable by the appellant. 93. The Civil Appeal is allowed in the above terms and the impugned dated 18.02.2021 in First Appeal No. 896 of 2016 stands set aside and will be superseded by the present insofar as fixing the market value is concerned. All statutory and other benefits as ed by the Reference Court shall continue to operate. No as to costs.