Notably, the claim 570 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was in respect of: (a) declaration qua invalidity of Debit note(s); (b) outstanding principal amount; and (c) interest. Insofar as relief qua declaration was concerned, it was found barred by time prescribed by Article 58, and there is no serious challenge to that finding. As regards claim for the outstanding principal amount, it was a composite claim for the balance amount payable for supplies made and work done under the Supply Purchase and the Erection Purchase respectively, which was found within limitation. 89. According to the appellant(s), Article 14 is applicable to the claim in respect of balance amount for the price of the goods supplied under the Supply Purchase ; and Article 18 would apply to the claim for the work done under the Erection Purchase . It is their case that if the project was to be completed by 31 March 2014, three years period should be counted from that date and, therefore, claim would be barred by limitation as on 2 May 2019 i.e., the date of commencement of the arbitral proceeding. 90. Per contra, Enexio’s case is that it is a composite contract for design, manufacture, supply, erection and commissioning of air-cooled condenser unit (ACC Unit) with auxiliaries for 160 MW Coal Based Thermal Power Plant (Project) at Gummidipoondi in the State of Tamil Nadu whereunder payments were to be made on pro rata basis, and final payment was to be made only on completion of the work, subject to issuance of relevant certificates. The completion of work got delayed due to reasons beyond the control of Enexio, as held by the Tribunal, therefore, 539 days of extension, up to the deemed date of completion of the project i.e., 21 September 2015, was granted. In between, the contract was not repudiated by either party. Hence, the limitation period of three years would have to be counted from the date of completion of the work, that is, from 21 September 2015. It is also their case that before expiry of the prescribed period of three years, a written acknowledgment of the outstanding amount was made vide minutes of the meeting dated 19 April 2018. Therefore, by virtue of Section 1873 of the 1963 Act, a fresh 73 Section 18. Effect of acknowledgment in writing.— (1) Where, before the expiration of the prescribed period for a suit or application in respect of any property or right, an acknowledgement of liability in respect of such property or right has been made in writing signed by the party against whom such property or right is claimed, or by any person through whom he derives his title or liability, a fresh period of limitation shall be computed from the time when the acknowledgment was so signed. (2) Where the writing containing the acknowledgement is undated, oral evidence may be given of the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 571 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr.