463 Smt. Najmunisha v. The State of Gujarat effecting search of the building neither any search warrant or authorisation was obtained nor were the grounds for possible plea that if opportunity for obtaining search warrant or authorisation is accorded the evidence will escape indicated. In other words, there has been a non- compliance with the provisions of the proviso to Section 42 and therefore, the trial stood vitiated. 3. The appeals are, accordingly, allowed.” 34. In Dharamveer Parsad v. State of Bihar (2020) 12 SCC 492, there was non-examination of the independent witness without any explanation provided by the prosecution and even the panchnama or the seizure memo were not prepared on the spot but after having had reached police station only. Since the vehicle was apprehended and contraband was seized in non-compliance of the Section 42 of the NDPS Act 1985 – conviction and sentence of the appellant therein was set aside. Apart from the said reasons there were various suspicious circumstances that inspired the confidence of the Court to set aside the conviction affirmed by the High Court therein. Paragraph numbers 05 and 06 are reiterated below for reference: “5. In the present case PW 1, who is the investigating officer, in his deposition has stated that the information i.e. the contraband was being carried from the Indo- Nepal b identified in a vehicle, details of which had also been provided, had been received in the evening of 2-7-2007. PW 1 has further stated that on receipt of this information, he had formed a team and had moved to Raxaul from Patna, which place they had reached by 2.00 a.m. in the morning of 3-7-2007. The vehicle in question had been apprehended and the contraband seized at about 6.00 a.m. of 3-7-2007. No explanation has been offered why the statement had not been recorded at any anterior point of time and the same was so done after the seizure was made. 6. Even if we were to assume that the anxiety of the investigating officer was to reach Raxaul which is on the international b and therefore, he did not have the time to record said information as per requirement of Section 42 of the Act, the matter does not rest there. 464 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports There are other suspicious circumstances affecting the credibility of the prosecution case. Though, the investigating officer has stated that he had moved to Raxaul along with a team and two independent witnesses, the said independent witnesses were not examined. No explanation is forthcoming on this count also. That apart from the materials on record it appears that no memos including the seizure memo were prepared at the spot and all the papers were prepared on reaching the police station at Patna on 4-7-2007.” 35. The case presented by the prosecution appears to be primarily standing on the fact that initially, Accused No. 04 – who was identified by Mr Tomar to be sitting inside the auto rickshaw which was part of the secret information – had absconded, leaving behind the contraband which was eventually seized by members of the raiding party.