Case Arising From CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition (Civil) No.251 of 2016 (Under Article 32 of The Constitution of India) With Writ Petition (C) Nos. 663 and 735 of 2021, 1073 and 1146 of 2022 and 785 of 2023 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 539 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. Appearances for Parties Ajit Kumar Sinha, Rameshwar Singh Malik, Yatindra Singh, Sr. Advs., Deepak Goel, Mithilesh Kumar Jaiswal, Ms. Alka Goyal, Ms. Urvashi Sharma, Ms. Harshita Maheshwari, Kumar Kartikay, Mrs. Archana Preeti Gupta, Naveen Soni, Vipin Kumar Saxena, Jitesh Malik, B C Bhatt, Mrs. Leelawati Suman, N D Kaushik, Satish Kumar, Anil Kumar Sahu, Arvind Gupta, Prakash Gautam, Sujeet Kumar, Arunansh Bharti Goswami, Brahma Prakash, Pawanshree Agrawal, Sunil Kumar Jain, Ms. Rashika Swarup, Rishabh Sancheti, Ms. Padma Priya, Garvit Sharma, K. Paari Vendhan, Ms. Shraddha Deshmukh, Arjun Singh Bhati, Gurdeep Singh, Gautam Narayan, Ms. Asmita Singh, Harshit Goel, Sujay Jain, K. Prasad, Purvish Jitendra Malkan, Ms. Dharita Purvish Malkan, Alok Kumar, Kush Goel, Ms. Deepa Gorasia, Ms. Deepanwita Priyanka, Ms. Prerna Singh, Guntur Prabhakar, Guntur Pramod Kumar, Lalit Kumar, Devendra Singh, Mritunjay Kumar Sinha, Mrs. Vimal Sinha, Abhay Kumar, B S Rajesh Agrajit, Ms. Rajbala, Ms. Meetu Goswami, Shyamal Kumar, Krishnavani Sharma, Hitesh Kumar Sharma, Akhileshwar Jha, Sandeep Singh Dingra, Ms. Tanishka Grover, Amit Kumar Chawla, Verendra Mohan, Ms. Niharika Dewivedi, Ranjit Kumar Sharma, Amit Pawan, Ratnesh Kumar Shukla, Purushottam Sharma Tripathi, Vimal Dubey, Mukesh Kumar Singh, Ravi Chandra Prakash, Ms. Vani Vyas, Anup Kumar, M/S. Parekh & Co., Advs. for the appearing parties. / of the Supreme Court Hrishikesh Roy, J. 1. The common challenge in these six writ petitions filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of India is to the constitutionality of the Rules stipulating minimum qualifying marks in the viva voce test as a part of the selection criteria for appointment to the District Judiciary in the States of Bihar and Gujarat respectively. The writ petitioners have approached this Court alleging a violation of their fundamental rights under Articles 14 and 16 contained in Part III of the Constitution of India. The specific consideration to be made in these matters is whether prescribing minimum qualifying marks for viva voce is in contravention of the law laid down by this Court 540 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in All India Judges Association and Others vs. Union of India and Others1 (for short “All India Judges (2002)) which accepted certain recommendations of Justice KJ Shetty Commission (for short “Shetty Commission”). The recruitment pertains to the selection of judicial officers of different ranks and respective selection cycles i.e. District Judge (Entry Level) by direct recruitment from the Bar (2015 Advertisement) for the State of Bihar and the post of Civil Judge (2019 and 2022 Advertisement) for the State of Gujarat. The Individual facts in the writ petitions may differ but the legal arguments broadly overlap. Wherever necessary, the individual facts and legal arguments will be dealt with separately. I. FACTS 2.