v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. into consideration for the determination of compensation. Para 117 and para 121 of the majority judgement summed up the striking down of Bank Nationalising Act as follows: “117. We are of the view that by the method adopted for valuation of the undertaking, important items of assets have been excluded, and principles some of which are irrelevant and some not recognised are adopted. What is determined by the adoption of the method adopted in Schedule II does not award to the named banks compensation for loss of their undertaking. The ultimate result substantially impairs the guarantee of compensation, and on that account the Act is liable to be struck down. …………………….. 121. Section 4 of the Act is a kingpin in the mechanism of the Act. Sections 4, 5, and 6, read with Schedule II provide for the statutory transfer and vesting of the undertaking of the named banks in the corresponding new banks and prescribe the method of determination of compensation for expropriation of the undertaking. Those provisions are, in our , void as they impair the fundamental guarantee under Article 31(2). Sections 4, 5, and 6 and Schedule II are not severable from the rest of the Act. The Act must, in its entirety, be declared void.” 74 Within a week of the pronouncement of the in RC Cooper, the Government came up with another ordinance which turned into the Banking Companies Act, 1970 (Act 5 of 1970). This new Act was the modified form of the earlier Act and this new Act provided for a specific amount to each bank nationalised, in to facilitate the bank nationalisation. In this way, the first phase of Bank Nationalisation took place in India. 42. Ultimately the Parliament brought the Constitution (Twenty Fifth Amendment) Act, 1971 into force which inter alia further diluted the right to property. This Constitutional Amendment was the direct result 74 (1970) 1 SCC 248, paras 117 and 121. 316 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of RC Cooper, as it was evident from the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Constitution (Twenty-fifth Amendment) Bill, 1971 which reads as follows: “STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS Article 31 of the Constitution as it stands specifically provides that no law providing for the compulsory acquisition or requisitioning of property which either fixes the amount of compensation or specifies the principles on which and the manner in which the compensation is to be determined and given shall be called in question in any court on the ground that the compensation provided by that law is not adequate. In the Bank Nationalization case [1970, 3 S.C.R. 530), the Supreme Court has held that the Constitution guarantees right to compensation, that is, the equivalent in money of the property compulsorily acquired. Thus in effect the adequacy of compensation and the relevancy of the principles laid down by the Legislature for determining the amount of compensation have virtuality become justiciable inasmuch as the Court can go into the question whether the amount paid to the owner of the property is what may be regarded reasonably as compensation for loss of property.