(3) After the of approval under sub-section (1),- (a) the moratorium passed by the Adjudicating Authority under section 14 shall cease to have effect; and (b) the resolution professional shall forward all records relating to the conduct of the corporate insolvency resolution process and the resolution plan to the Board to be recorded on its database. (4) The resolution applicant shall, pursuant to the resolution plan approved under sub-section (1), obtain the necessary approval required under any law for the time being in force within a period of one year from the date of approval of the resolution plan by the Adjudicating Authority under sub-section (1) or within such period as provided for in such law, whichever is later: Provided that where the resolution plan contains a provision for combination, as referred to in section 5 of the Competition Act, 2002, the resolution applicant shall 2164 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports obtain the approval of the Competition Commission of India under that Act prior to the approval of such resolution plan by the committee of creditors.” (emphasis added) The resolution plan of the corporate debtor approved by the adjudicating authority binds the corporate debtor, its employees, members, creditors, guarantor and other stakeholders. Therefore, where a company furnishes a corporate guarantee for securing a loan taken by another company and if the CIRP of the corporate guarantor ends in a resolution plan, it will bind the creditor of the corporate guarantor. The corporate guarantor’s liability may end in such a case by operation of law. However, such a resolution plan of the corporate guarantor will not affect the liability of the principal borrower to repay the loan amount to the creditor after deducting the amount recovered from the corporate guarantor or the amount paid by the resolution applicant on behalf of the corporate guarantor as per the resolution plan. 18. As observed earlier, in such a loan transaction secured by a guarantee, the guarantor has an obligation to repay the loan amount to the creditor, and there is a separate and distinct obligation on the borrower to pay the amount to the creditor. Such a transaction creates a right in favour of the creditor to proceed against the guarantor and borrower for recovery. However, he has the right to recover the amount only to the extent of the loan amount payable by the borrower. SIMULTANEOUS PROCEEDINGS UNDER THE IBC AGAINST THE CORPORATE DEBTOR AND GUARANTOR 19. Now, we turn to the provisions of the IBC. Sub-section (8) of Section 5 defines ‘financial debt’. Clauses (a) and (i) of sub-section (8) show that the money borrowed against the payment of interest and the amount of any liability in respect of any guarantee for repayment of the loan covered by clause (a) have been put under separate headings. Thus, the liability of the guarantor or surety is a financial debt, and even the money borrowed against the payment of interest is also a financial debt. In the light of these provisions, Section 60 of the IBC is relevant, which reads thus: [2024] 7 S.C.R.