5. Shri Nagamuthu, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant submitted that the learned Judges of the Division Bench of the High Court have grossly erred in convicting the appellant – original accused No.1. He submitted that, on the basis of the very same evidence of Kovilraj (PW-1), the learned Judges of the High Court have disbelieved the testimony of Kovilraj (PW-1) insofar as accused Nos.2 and 3 are concerned. However, on the basis of the same evidence, the appellant has been convicted. It is therefore submitted that, on this short ground alone, the appeal deserves to be allowed. 6. Shri Elango, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the State has opposed the appeal submitting that in view of the concurrent findings of fact, no interference is warranted in the present appeal. 7. With the assistance of the parties, we have examined the material placed on record. 8. As submitted by Shri Nagamuthu, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, the conviction is based solely on the testimony of Kovilraj (PW-1). Kovilraj (PW-1), in his evidence, 774 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports stated that a year prior to the occurrence during Immanuel Church Consecration, accused No.1 i.e., the appellant herein had beaten up his son (deceased). He stated that the issue was settled in his village by compromise, thereafter, there was no issue. It is stated that on 15th May 2015 at 05:00 o’clock in the evening, he along with his wife Chandra and his son (Praveen Kumar) went to Aananthapuram from Nazareth. He stated that about 500 persons had participated in the Consecration Prayer which began at about 06:30 in the evening and lasted up to 09:00 o’clock in the night. Thereafter, in the Church, there was a united feast in which he and his family participated too. He further submitted that, in to participate in the early morning 03:00 o’clock prayer, they all stayed in the Church. He stated that, in the midnight at 12:30 o’clock, his son (deceased) went out. He saw his son (deceased) standing and talking with his friends, namely Melvin Abraham, Praveen Immanuel and Gerome. At that time, the accused persons hurled abuses at his son (deceased). He stated that the appellant herein threatened his son (deceased) with a knife and tried to attack the deceased. However, his son (deceased) escaped and ran directly to the main road. He stated that the accused persons also ran after his son (deceased). He also stated that he along with his wife and friends of his son (deceased) also ran behind them. He stated that accused Nos.2 and 3 held his son (deceased) by his hands whereas the appellant herein assaulted him with the knife. His son (deceased) fell down on the ground. Thereafter, his son (deceased) was taken to the hospital where he was declared dead. 9. The High Court has found the evidence of Kovilraj (PW-1) unreliable insofar as accused Nos.2 and 3 are concerned and therefore did not find it safe to convict them and granted them benefit of doubt.