Therefore, the reference cannot be said to be vitiated for lack of jurisdiction. This Court has acted well within its power in making the reference.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1959 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. D.5. A holistic approach 120. It is undoubtedly true that the correctness of the view expressed in the of this Court in Azeez Basha [supra] has been specifically referred to a larger bench of seven judges. Further it is correct that Court is supposed to decide the question of law - Question 3(a), which was formulated for an answer in T.M.A. Pai [supra]. 121. The status of AMU is in question due to the amendments made to the AMU Act in 1981 and the decisions of the AMU authorities in 2005. The said changes, especially the legislative changes, have taken place after the in Azeez Basha [supra], and therefore, it is imperative that this Court decides the questions arising therefrom. The validity of the amendments made to the AMU Act in 1981 and decisions of the AMU authorities made in 2005 may be left to be decided by a regular bench. 122. This Court shall therefore decide the Question 3(a), which was formulated for an answer in T.M.A. Pai [supra]. A decision on the said question would naturally have an impact on the correctness, or lack thereof, on the of Azeez Basha [supra]. 123. Once the correctness of the in Azeez Basha [supra], is under scanner and the Question 3(a) has been decided, the regular bench may decide the status of the AMU especially with regard to the question whether it was “established” by the minority community or not, would have to be adjudicated. The decision on the said question, would lay down the parameters of scope and extent to which the Parliament could have amended the AMU Act. Once the fate of the 1981 amendments to the AMU Act is decided, the Court would adjudicate upon the validity of actions of the AMU authorities in 2005. 124. In light of the above, despite the strong contest with regard to the correctness of Anjuman [supra], this bench would be taking a holistic approach to the present reference in deciding the questions present before it. e. Issues 125. In light of the above, the following issues would be decided by the present reference : 1960 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports i. Whether the bench of two judges in Writ Petition No.54-51 of 1981 titled Anjuman-e-Rehmania & Ors v. Distt. Inspector of School & Ors. could have referred to the matter to a bench of seven Hon’ble Judges directly, without the Hon’ble Chief Justice of India, being a part of the bench? [already decided above] ii. Whether the “establishment” of an institution by the minority is necessary for the said minority to claim right of administration? To put it different, is “establish” and “administer” used disjunctively or conjunctively in Article 30 of the Constitution? iii. What is the meaning of the term “establish” in Article 30 of the Constitution and what are the real positive indicia for determining the question of establishment of an institution?