The Union of India and statutory authorities shall continue to strictly monitor the same. In case of any adverse change in circumstances, the decision for field trials can be reviewed. 50.2. GEAC to ensure that the conditions mentioned in the conditional approval of DMH-11 are strictly complied with by the applicant in letter and spirit. 50.3. The GEAC to take into account all environmental factors before granting future approvals and make an endeavour to have specifically designated farms for field testing, in collaboration with the Union of India. 50.4. All studies conducted and received while granting such approvals, to be uploaded on the website of the GEAC in a time-bound manner, in accordance with the mandate of law. The GEAC to ensure public participation in this process and wider publicity of the same to be facilitated. 50.5. That apart, wider publicity should also be given to GMOs in general, enabling people to take a decision in regard thereto, keeping in view all factors and specifications. 50.6. All decisions to be taken in regard to GMOs should endeavour to strictly follow “wholistically aware” approach which takes the preservation of naturally occurring seeds hand in hand with popularising Genetically Modified seeds. 50.7. The condition imposed in this Court’s dated 08.05.2007 in respect of 200 meters distance being maintained between fields hosting GM crops versus those wherein regular seeds are planted, has to be strictly maintained. 50.8. The Post-Release Monitoring Committee be provided with adequate infrastructural and administrative facilities to closely monitor the field testing. 50.9. The Union of India may consider constituting a special cell under the MoEFCC to monitor all studies being undertaken with respect to GMO’s. 1954 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 50.10. Before commercial release of DMH-11 and other GMOs in the future, specific testing on their impact on human health must be conducted prior thereto. 50.11. The GEAC or any other body, possessing sufficient expertise, duly notified by the government, to consider conducting independent studies on GMOs to ascertain the veracity of the data submitted by the applicant(s) so as to ensure that the approval so granted are bolstered by independent data informing such decision. 50.12. The Union of India should consider implementing a national, all-encompassing policy in respect of GMOs so as to ensure a streamlined approach to this important issue. Connected thereto, is the setting up of infrastructure including laboratories with state of the art facilities, to aid the interplay of biotechnology and agriculture and the advancement thereof. 50.13. Union of India to ensure strict compliance qua labelling of GM foods, in accordance with the Food Safety and Security Act. 51. Before parting with the present lis, I lament the delay with which the present writ petition has come to be disposed. The genesis of this case was 20 years ago from the present day. The detrimental effect of such prolonged litigation was noted by this Court in Rajeev Suri (supra) wherein it was observed: “574…the underlying principle at play is the duty of this Court to do complete justice as envisaged under Article 142 and to obviate the possibility of project of national importance being stuck, embroiled and delayed due to engagement of the project proponent before multiple legal forums/proceedings.