The tools of analysis go beyond legal concepts. The result of the framework is more than just the sum total of its parts. Together, the elements which it embodies aspire to safeguard the bounties of nature against existential threats. For it is founded on the universal recognition that the future of human existence depends on how we conserve, protect and regenerate the environment today. xxx xxx xxx 54. In an article in Georgetown Environmental Law Review (2020), Arnold Kreilhuber and Angela Kariuki explain the manner in which the environmental rule of law seeks to resolve this imbroglio [ Arnold Kreilhuber and Angela Kariuki, “Environmental Rule of Law in the Context of Sustainable Development”, 32 Georgetown Environmental Law Review 591 (2020).] : “One of the main distinctions between environmental rule of law and other areas of law is the need to make decisions to protect human health and the environment in the face of uncertainty and data gaps. Instead of being paralyzed into inaction, careful documentation of the state of knowledge and uncertainties allows the regulated community, stakeholders, and other institutions to more fully understand why certain decisions were made.” [2024] 5 S.C.R. 135 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. The point, therefore, is simply this — the environmental rule of law calls on us, as Judges, to marshal the knowledge emerging from the record, limited though it may sometimes be, to respond in a stern and decisive fashion to violations of environmental law. We cannot be stupefied into inaction by not having access to complete details about the manner in which an environmental law violation has occurred or its full implications. Instead, the framework, acknowledging the imperfect world that we inhabit, provides a roadmap to deal with environmental law violations, an absence of clear evidence of consequences notwithstanding.” (emphasis supplied) Role of Courts ● H.P. Bus-Stand Management & Development Authority (Supra) “I.2. Role of courts in ensuring environmental protection 56. In a recent decision of this Court in BDA v. Sudhakar Hegde [(2020) 15 SCC 63] , this Court, speaking through one of us (D.Y. Chandrachud, J.) held : (SCC pp. 112-13, paras 94-95) “94. The adversarial system is, by its nature, rights based. In the quest for justice, it is not uncommon to postulate a winning side and a losing side. In matters of the environment and development however, there is no trade-off between the two. The protection of the environment is an inherent component of development and growth. … Professor Corker draws attention to the idea that the environmental protection goes beyond lawsuits. Where the State and statutory bodies fail in their duty to comply with the regulatory framework for the protection of the environment, the courts, acting on actions brought by public- spirited individuals are called to invalidate such actions. … 136 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 95. The protection of the environment is premised not only on the active role of courts, but also on robust institutional frameworks within which every stakeholder complies with its duty to ensure sustainable development.