The Award Debtors raised multiple challenges and also defied the Court’s . They had to serve jail time for such contemptuous actions. In this backdrop, the travails of Award holders suggest a Pyrrhic victory. It is not unlike the situation articulated by the playwright & author Oscar Wilde who commented - “In this world, there are only two tragedies. One is not getting what one wants, and the other is getting it.”35 As can be noticed, in this case, despite the award being in their favour, the award-holders found themselves embroiled in multiple litigations in different forums by the concerted and unmerited action of the appellants. It will bear mention here, that in every forum the award debtors have lost and Courts’ verdicts are in the favour of the award holders. Despite this, the benefit of the foreign award is still to reach the respondents. This sort of challenge where arbitral bias is raised at the enforcement stage, must be discouraged by our Courts to send out a clear message to the stakeholders that Indian Courts would ensure enforcement of a foreign Award unless it is demonstrable that there is a clear violation of morality and justice. The determination of bias should only be done by applying international standards. Refusal of enforcement of foreign award should only be in a rare case where, non- adherence to International Standards is clearly demonstrable. 43. The High Court in this matter has rightly held that the award-debtors have failed to substantiate their allegation of bias, conflict of interest or the failure by the Presiding Arbitrator to render disclosure to the parties, as an objection to the enforcement of the award. The award debtors have failed to meet the high threshold for refusal of enforcement of a foreign award under Section 48 of the Indian Arbitration Act. Accordingly, the decision given by the High Court for enforcement/execution of the foreign award stands approved. The appeals are found devoid of merit. 44. Even as the appeals filed by the award debtors are dismissed, the respondents, notwithstanding their victory in all the legal battles until 35 Oscar Wilde, Act III, Lady Windermere’s Fan, 1893 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 993 Avitel Post Studioz Limited & Ors. v. HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius) Limited (Previously Named Hpeif Holdings 1 Limited) now, must not be allowed to feel that theirs is a case of winning the battle but losing the war. In the circumstances, we emphasize the need for early enforcement of the foreign award by the competent forum, without showing any further indulgence to the award debtors. It is ed accordingly. The appeals stand dismissed on these terms. 45. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand closed. Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan Result of the case: Appeals dismissed.