The State cannot be deprived of measures for upliftment of various classes, at the same time, which is the very purpose of providing such measure. The spirit of the reservation is the upliftment of all the classes essential for the nation›s progress. 55. In the federal structure, the State, as well as Parliament, have a constitutional directive for the upliftment of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and socially and (sic educationally) backward classes. Only inclusion or exclusion in the Presidential notification is by Parliament. The State Government has the right to provide reservation in the fields of employment and education. There is no constitutional bar to take further affirmative action as taken by the State Government in the cases to achieve the goal. By allotting a specific percentage out of reserved seats and to provide preferential treatment to a particular class, 1550 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cannot be said to be violative of the List under Articles 341, 342 and 342-A as no enlisted caste is denied the benefit of reservation. 56. The “inadequate representation” is the fulcrum of the provisions of Article 16(4). In our opinion, it would be open to the State to provide on a rational basis the preferential treatment by fixing reasonable quota out of reserved seats to ensure adequate representation in services. Reservation is a very effective tool for emancipation of the oppressed class. The benefit by and large is not percolating down to the neediest and poorest of the poor. 57. The interpretation of Articles 14, 15, 16, 338, 341, 342 and 342-A is a matter of immense public importance, and correct interpretation of binding precedents in Indra Sawhney [Indra Sawhney v. Union of India, 1992 Supp (3) SCC 217 : 1992 SCC (L&S) Supp 1] and other decisions. Though we have full respect for the principle of stare decisis, at the same time, the Court cannot be a silent spectator and shut eyes to stark realities. The constitutional goal of social transformation cannot be achieved without taking into account changing social realities.” 171. Recording the above observations, the Constitution Bench requested the Hon’ble Chief Justice to place the matter before the 7 Judges or more as considered appropriate. The matter was thus placed before the present Bench. V. CONSIDERATION 172. At one stage, the atrocious caste discrimination in India had even surpassed the racial discrimination and the slave trade, premised on the colour of skin, in other parts of the world. For centuries the people belonging to certain castes were inhumanly treated by the upper classes in society. They have been treated worse than animals. They were not permitted to be touched by the upper classes. In some areas, even the upper classes did not permit the shadow of such people to fall on them. As such, while walking, they were required to maintain a distance so that their shadow does not pollute the upper caste. In some areas, they were required to tie a broom to their back so that they clean the path after they travel from the same.