(ii) Whether Rule 27 of the CRPF Rules to the extent it provides for punishments other than those specified in Section 11 of the CRPF Act, ultra vires the CRPF Act and as such inoperable and void? (iii) Whether the punishment of compulsory retirement imposed upon the respondent suffers from any procedural infirmity and / or is shockingly disproportionate to the proven misconduct of the respondent? An Overview of the CRPF Act and the Rules 14. Before we address the above issues it would be useful to have an overview of the relevant provisions of the CRPF Act and the rules made thereunder. The CRPF Act is “an Act to provide for the constitution and regulation of an armed Central Reserve Police Force (for short the Force)”. Section 3 provides for constitution of 11 [1988] 3 SCR 62 : (1988) 2 SCC 351 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 441 Union of India & Ors. v. Santosh Kumar Tiwari the Force. Sub-section (2) of Section 3 provides that the Force shall be constituted in such manner, and the members of the Force shall receive such pay, pension and other remuneration, as may be prescribed. The word “prescribed” is defined in Section 2 (f) as prescribed by rules made under the Act. Section 812 vests the superintendence, control and administration of the Force in the Central Government. It declares that the Force shall be administered by the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of the Act and of any rules made thereunder, through such officers as the Central Government may from time to time appoint in that behalf. Section 9 enumerates “more heinous offences”, whereas Section 10 enumerates “less heinous offences”, both punishable under the Act. For “more heinous offences”, the punishment is of transportation for life or for a term of not less than seven years or with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 14 years or with fine which may extend to three months’ pay, or with fine to that extent, in addition to such sentence of transportation or imprisonment. The punishment for “less heinous offences” is imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to three months’ pay or with both. Section 11 deals with minor punishments. According to it, the Commandant or any other authority or officer as may be prescribed, may, subject to any rules made under the Act, award in lieu of, or in addition to, suspension or dismissal anyone or more of the punishments specified therein to any member of the Force whom he considers to be guilty of disobedience, neglect of duty, or remissness in the discharge of any duty or of other misconduct in his capacity as a member of the Force. One of the minor punishments specified in Section 11, other than dismissal or suspension, is “removal from any office of distinction or special emolument in the Force”. 15. Section 18 confers rule-making power on the Central Government. Sub-section (1) of Section 18 states that the Central Government 12 Section 8.