The Court acknowledged that the question of sanction can be raised at any time after cognizance i.e., maybe immediately after cognizance or framing of charge or even at the time of conclusion of trial and after conviction as well. However, there may be certain cases where it may not be possible to decide the question of sanction effectively without giving opportunity to the defence to establish that what he did, he did in the discharge of official duty. In such cases, the question of sanction must be left open to be decided in the main which may be delivered upon conclusion of the trial. The relevant observations are as follows: “15….It is well settled that question of sanction under Section 197 of the Code can be raised any time after the cognizance; maybe immediately after cognizance or [2024] 12 S.C.R. 829 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. framing of charge or even at the time of conclusion of trial and after conviction as well. But there may be certain cases where it may not be possible to decide the question effectively without giving opportunity to the defence to establish that what he did was in discharge of official duty. In to come to the conclusion whether claim of the accused that the act that he did was in course of the performance of his duty was a reasonable one and neither pretended nor fanciful, can be examined during the course of trial by giving opportunity to the defence to establish it. In such an eventuality, the question of sanction should be left open to be decided in the main which may be delivered upon conclusion of the trial. 16. In the present case, the accused is claiming that in awarding contract in his capacity as Secretary, Department of Rural Development, Government of Sikkim, he did not abuse his position as a public servant and works were awarded in favour of the contractor at a rate permissible under law and not low rates. These facts are required to be established which can be done at the trial. Therefore, it is not possible to grant any relief to the appellant at this stage. However, we may observe that during the course of trial, the court below shall examine this question afresh and deal with the same in the main in the light of the law laid down in this case without being prejudiced by any observation in the impugned s.” (emphasis supplied) 73. This Court in Devinder Singh v. State of Punjab reported in (2016) 12 SCC 87 had observed that sometimes certain questions about the requirement of sanction cannot be decided without evidence and questions like the good faith or bad faith of the public servant can be decided on the conclusion of trial. The relevant observations made are reproduced hereinbelow: “39.8. Question of sanction may arise at any stage of proceedings. On a police or judicial inquiry or in course of evidence during trial. Whether sanction is necessary or not may have to be determined from stage to stage and material brought on record depending upon facts of each 830 [2024] 12 S.C.R.