He therefore advocates for confinement of reservation to a minority of seats. He therefore states that unless some qualifying phrase as “backward” is used for making reservation, the entire rule would be unworkable. He therefore justifies the efforts of the Drafting Committee in employing the word ‘backward’. 184. It will further be apposite to refer to the following observation in the said speech. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1557 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. Article 16 (Article 10 in Draft Constitution) “The Hon’ble Dr. B.R. Ambedkar: ……..Somebody asked me: “What is a backward community”? Well, I think anyone who reads the language of the draft itself will find that we have left it to be determined by each local Government. A backward community is a community which is backward in the opinion of the Government. My honourable Friend, Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari asked me whether this rule will be justiciable. It is rather difficult to give a dogmatic answer. Personally I think it would be a justiciable matter. If the local Government included in this category of reservations such a large number of seats, I think one could very well go to the Federal Court and the Supreme Court and say that the reservation is of such a magnitude that the rule regarding equality of opportunity has been destroyed and the court will then come to the conclusion whether the local Government or the State Government has acted in a reasonable and prudent manner. …………” 185. Dr. Ambedkar observed that “what is a backward community” will have to be determined by each local Government. A backward community, in his view, is a community which is backward in the opinion of the Government. He also foresighted that if the local Government included in this category of reservations such a large number of seats, one could very well go to the Federal Court and the Supreme Court and contend that the reservation is of such a magnitude that the rule regarding equality of opportunity has been destroyed. He also foresighted that the court will then conclude whether the local Government or the State Government has acted in a reasonable and prudent manner. 186. His foresight as to the debate regarding the identification of the backward classes and the extent of reservations can be judged from the spate of litigations that this country has witnessed for last 74 years. 187. It could thus be seen that initially insofar as the issue regarding the identification of the backward classes except the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes was concerned, the same was left to the Executive. Insofar as the identification of Scheduled Castes 1558 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and Scheduled Tribes is concerned, the Constitution of India under Articles 341 and 342 provided the issuance of a general notification specifying all the castes and tribes or groups thereof to be Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the purposes of privileges which have been defined in the Constitution. 188.