This general power to frame Rules includes the power to levy charges for services rendered under the Act; f. Merely because a charge is levied at the time of ‘enrollment’ does not make it an enrollment fee. The ‘enrollment fee’ charged by most SBCs under Section 24(1)(f) continues to be six hundred [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1505 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. rupees and the remaining amount is usually attributable to additional charges for other services. SBCs may be directed to comply with Section 24(1)(f) while charging an ‘enrollment fee’. But this must be distinguished from other charges levied at the time of enrolment. Such charges are permissible provided they pass the test of quid pro quo in terms of services rendered in return for the charges levied; and g. The BCI has the power to frame rules to charge reasonable fees under Section 49(1) (ah) and Section 49(h). The term ‘any matter’ used in Section 49(h) also includes matters relating to the enrolment of an advocate. In exercise of this power and to ensure uniformity, the BCI has placed on record before this Court, the draft Uniform Rules (For Enrolment and Other Fees To Be Charged By The State Bar Councils) 202311 laying down a uniform fee to be charged by all SBCs at the time of enrollment. 11. In view of the above submissions, the BCI has submitted that this Court exercise its extraordinary powers under Article 142 to implement a uniform enrolment fee structure that adequately caters to the financial requirements of the SBCs until legislative amendments are made to the Advocates Act. Additionally, it has urged this Court to direct the Union Government to revise the enrolment fee prescribed in Section 24(1)(f). 12. The SBCs have filed counter affidavits justifying the imposition of the fees charged by them at the time of enrollment. In essence, they contend that (i) the statutorily prescribed enrolment fee in Section 24(1)(f) fails to account for the current economic situation; (ii) the SBCs are charging fees in addition to the statutorily prescribed enrolment fee in return for services such as library fee and ID card fee under their rule-making powers under Section 15 and Section 28; and (iii) the additional charges are essential to enable the SBCs to fulfil their statutory functions. In to fulfil these statutory functions, the SBCs inter alia run various welfare programs, insurance schemes, seminars and training programmes, which require adequate funding. 13. Mr Raghenth Basant, senior counsel appearing for the petitioners before the Kerala High Court assailed the levy of enrollment fees by 11 “BCI Draft Enrolment Rules” 1506 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Bar Council of Kerala in excess of the fee prescribed in Section 24(1)(f). Mr Basant made the following submissions: a. Rules prescribed by the SBCs under general provisions such as Section 24(1)(e) cannot be with respect to the enrolment fee which has been specifically dealt with in Section 24(1)(f); b. Rule-making powers cannot be used to frame rules contrary to the Advocates Act, especially in the absence of any provision stipulating that the BCI or the SBCs are entitled to increase the statutory enrolment fee as they deem fit; c. The 1993 amendment which increased the statutory enrolment fee to its present form indicates that Parliament has been conscious of the need to increase the enrolment fee as and when required and is the only competent authority to carry out such changes; and d. Other fees charged by the Bar Council of Kerala, such as the sums charged under Rule 40 of Section IVA under Chapter II of Part VI of the Bar Council of India Rules12 cannot be made a condition precedent for enrolment.