[Paras 8-12, 15-17] Constitution of India – Art.16 – Reservation – Horizontal Reservation – Overall reservations and Compartmentalised reservations – Concept of: Held: Horizontal Reservation is of two types-Compartmentalised Horizontal Reservation and Overall Horizontal Reservation – Under Compartmentalised Horizontal Reservation, the proportionate vacancies are reserved in each vertical reserved category – However, in case of Overall Horizontal Reservation, the Reservation is provided on the total post advertised i.e. such reservation is not specific to each vertical category – Where the seats reserved for the Horizontal Reservations are proportionately divided amongst the Vertical (Social) Reservations and are not intertransferable, it would be a case of Compartmentalised Reservations, whereas in the Overall Reservation, while allocating the special reservation candidates to their respective social 490 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports reservation category, the Overall Reservation in favour of special reservation categories has to be honoured – Thus, the Special reservations cannot be proportionately divided among the Vertical (Social) reservation categories, and the candidates eligible for special reservation categories have to be provided overall seats reserved for them, either by adjusting them against any of the Social/Vertical reservations or otherwise, and thus they are intertransferable. [Paras 9, 14] Case Law Cited Indra Sawhney & Others v. Union of India and Others [1992] Suppl. 2 SCR 454 : (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217; Anil Kumar Gupta and Others v. State of U.P. and Others [1995] Suppl. 2 SCR 396 : (1995) 5 SCC 173 – referred to. List of Acts Rajasthan Judicial Services Rules, 2010; Rajasthan Rights of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2018; Constitution of India. List of Keywords Disabled category; Persons with benchmark disabilities; Cut off marks for the category of Persons with benchmark disabilities; Non-fixation of cut off marks for the category of persons with benchmark disability; Rights of Persons with Disabilities; Cadre of Civil Judge; Selection process; Preliminary examination; Compartmentalised Horizontal Reservation; Overall Horizontal Reservation; Recruitment process; Horizontal Reservation; Vertical reservation; Reservation for women (widow or divorcee); Compartmentalised reservation; Overall reservation; Vertical (Social) Reservations; Special reservation; Social/Vertical reservations. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.5051 of 2023 From the and dated 06.04.2022 of the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan at Jaipur in DBCWP No.1868 of 2022 With Civil Appeal No. 5052 of 2023 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 491 Rekha Sharma v. The Rajasthan High Court, Jodhpur & Anr. Appearances for Parties Sridhar Potaraju, Sr. Adv., Sudhanshu S. Pandey, Gaichangpou Gangmei, Ishat Singh, Ms. Nisha Pandey, Aayush, Maitreya Mahaley, Lalit Mohan, Yimyanger Longkumer, Ms. Niharika Singh, Sai Swaroop, Sameer Shrivastava, Ms. Yashika Varshney, Dr. Sangeeta Verma, Advs. for the Appellant. Ms. Pinky Anand, Sr. Adv., Samrat Pasricha, Ms. Saudamini Sharma, Ms. Asees Jasmine Kaur, Mukul Kumar, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court Bela M. Trivedi, J. 1. Both the appeals having common question of law and facts were heard together and are being decided by this common . 2. The facts in nutshell are that the respondent High Court had issued an advertisement for the direct recruitment of 120 posts of Civil Judge and Judicial Magistrate under the Civil Judge Cadre.