The final authority insofar as selection of the animals is concerned, vested with the NTCA. It could also be seen that the said 2016 Guidelines are also consistent with the SOP of the NTCA to deal with orphaned, abandoned tiger cubs and old/injured tigers in wild. The concept was changed in the 2019 Guidelines i.e. animals from zoo will be put in Safari. It provided that the selection of the animals shall be done in conformity with Section 38I of the WLP Act. The final authority of the selection of animals is vested with the CZA. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 253 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal 100. We prima facie find no infirmity in the guidelines issued by the NTCA, i.e., the 2012 Guidelines and the 2016 Guidelines for establishing the ‘Tiger Safaris’ in the buffer and fringe areas of the ‘Tiger Reserve’. In our view, the said Guidelines emphasizes on the rehabilitation of injured tigers (after suitable treatment), conflict tigers, and orphaned tiger cubs which are unfit for re-wilding and release into the wild. However, the 2019 Guidelines, departing from the aforesaid purpose, provide for sourcing of animals from zoos in the Tiger Safaris. In our view, this would be totally contrary to the purpose of the Tiger Conservation. Similarly, the vesting of final authority in the CZA and not in the NTCA, in our view, is not in tune with the emphasis on tiger conservation as provided under Chapter IVB of the WLP Act. We are also of the view that since undertaking of establishment of such a ‘Tiger Safari’ would be basically for the ‘in-situ’ conservation and protection of the tiger, it is the NTCA that shall have the final authority. No doubt that the CZA can be taken on board so that it can render its expertise in the management of such ‘Safaris’. 101. We also find that, a reading of the provisions contained in the proviso to Section 33(a) and the provisions contained in the Explanation (ii) of sub-section 4 of Section 38V of the WLP Act would reveal that, although it will not be permissible to establish a ‘Tiger Safari’ in a core or critical tiger habitat area without obtaining the prior approval of the National Board, such an activity would be permissible in the buffer or peripheral area. 102. As already discussed herein above, while preparing a TCP, the State Government is required to ensure that the agricultural, livelihood, developmental, and other interests of the people living in tiger bearing forests or a tiger reserve are taken care of. 103. Undisputedly, it may not be out of place to mention that the establishment of such ‘safaris’ in the buffer zone would generate employment for the local people and promote co-existence between wildlife and human activity. However, we are of the considered view that such a ‘safari’ can be established only for the purposes specified in clause 9 of the 2016 Guidelines and not as per the 2019 Guidelines.