These cracks were analysed by M/s SYSTRA and their report is, enclosed as Annexure xix. They have concluded that there is no effect on the integrity of the girders and that there is no reason to-be further worried. M/s SYSTRA have also given the repair methodology for these cracks from the point of view of durability and to avoid permeation of water during the service life of girders, (Included in Annexure-xvi). Accordingly, the cracks wider than 0.2 mm have been [2024] 4 S.C.R. 499 Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. v. Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt. Ltd. Injected with epoxy resin and cracks less than 0.2 mm have been sealed with epoxy sealant. h) Train trials after repairs by DMRC have been completed successfully and all systems have been checked for correct functioning at various speeds Including at speed of 120 kmph. Track recording was done with OMS-2000 during these trials and no peak of value ≥ 0.15g was recorded upto 120 Kmph (results of OMS 2000 are enclosed in Annexure XIV)” (emphasis supplied) 58. Admittedly, some of the defects were cured in their entirety and steps were taken by DMRC to cure the remainders, based on which the parties had jointly sought permission under the 2002 Act. The parties stated that the repairs had been inspected by an independent engineer; an analysis of the cracks revealed that the integrity of the girders was intact and there was no cause of concern. Further, the parties stated that the train trials “after repairs by DMRC have been completed successfully and all systems have been checked for correct functioning at various speeds including the speed of 120kmph”. It is apparent on the face of the record that certain repairs were completed by DMRC and the trials had been completed at full speed as on the date of application, 19 November 2012. 59. On 9 July 2012, about four months before the date of the joint application, DAMEPL had averred in the cure notice that the project was not ‘safe for operations’ and that it posed a threat to life and property. The arbitral tribunal was correct in concluding that the joint application does not constitute a waiver of the termination, but this evidence was vital considering the change in DAMEPL’s position on the safety of the line from the date of the cure notice to the date of the joint application. DMRC did take certain steps to alleviate DAMEPL’s concerns so as to warrant this change of position. There is no explanation forthcoming in the award about why none of these steps initiated during the cure period were ‘effective steps’. This gap in reasoning stems from the arbitral tribunal wrongly separating the issue of termination and the CMRS certificate. 60. Besides the effective steps aspect, there is another reason why the CMRS certificate ought to have been treated as relevant. The Tribunal treats the cure notice as a crucial document. At paragraph 26 of the 500 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports award, it noted that “since the cure notice dated 9th July 2012 is a crucial document in this case, it is useful to quote certain paragraphs of the said letter”.