For suffering, no part of which was the claimant-appellant’s own fault, she has been awarded a sum which can, at best, be described as ‘paltry’. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 775 Jyoti Devi v. Suket Hospital & Ors. 17. In regard to the application of the Eggshell-Skull Rule, we may observe that the impugned is silent as to how this rule applies to the present case. Nowhere is it mentioned, as to what criteria had been examined, and then, upon analysis, found to be met by the claimant-appellant for it to be termed that she had an eggshell skull, or for that matter, what sort of pre-existing condition was she afflicted by, making her more susceptible to such a reaction brought on because of surgery for appendicitis. All that has been stated is, “9. Therefore, OP cannot take a plea that; patient took treatment from few other hospitals which might have caused the retention of needle in the abdominal wall. In this context we apply the “Egg Skull Rule” in this case, wherein liability exists for damages stemming from aggravation of prior injuries or conditions. It holds an individual liable for all consequences resulting from their activities leading to an injury, even if the victim suffers unusual damage due to pre-existing vulnerability or medical condition” If we take the rule as exposited by the NCDRC, even then it stands to reason that the record ought to have been speaking of a pre- existing vulnerability or medical condition, because of which the victim may have suffered ‘unusual damage’. However, none of the s - be it District, State Commission or the NCDRC refer to any such condition. 18. Considering the discussion as aforesaid, we deem it fit to set aside the Awards of the NCDRC as also the State Commission and restore the Award as passed by the District Forum, meaning thereby that a sum of Rs.5 lakhs ought to be paid expeditiously by the respondents to the appellant for being medically negligent and providing services deficient in nature. The sum of Rs.5 lakhs shall be accompanied by interest simple in nature @ 9% from the date of the award passed by the District Forum. The same be paid within a period of four weeks from the date of this . Additionally, a cost of Rs.50,000/- be paid in terms of the cost of litigation. The appeal is accordingly allowed. Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey Result of the case: Appeal allowed.