In to challenge the grant of sanction as invalid, the grounds that can be urged are that (1) all the relevant material was not placed before the authority; (2) the authority has not applied its mind to the said material; and (3) insufficiency of material. This list is only illustrative and not exhaustive. The common thread that runs through the three grounds of challenge above is that the party putting forward this challenge has to lead evidence to such effect. That, needless to say, can only be done before the Trial Court. In that view of the matter, we have no hesitation in holding that while we recognise the treasured right of an accused to avail all remedies available to him under law, in ordinary circumstances challenge to sanction under UAPA should be raised at the earliest possible opportunity so as to enable the Trial Court to determine the question, for its competence to proceed further and the basis on which any other proceeding on the appellate side would depend on the answer to this question. [See: S. Subbegowda (supra)] In the attending facts and circumstances of the present case, keeping in view the submission made at the bar that the trial is underway 342 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and numerous witnesses (113 out of 125) already stand examined, we refrain from returning any finding on the challenge to the validity of the sanction qua the present appellant and leave it to be raised before the Trial Judge, who shall, if such a question is raised decide, it promptly. ISSUE No.2 : 19. The next issue that we must consider is whether the timelines in accordance with Section 45(2) of the UAPA r/w Rules 3 & 4 of the 2008 Rules and the requirement of independent review are necessary aspects of procedure, non-adherence of which would vitiate proceedings. As already reproduced above, the rules provide a seven day period within which the concerned authority is to make its recommendation on the basis of materials gathered by the investigating officer and a further seven days period for the government to grant sanction for prosecution, having considered the report of the authority. 20. The ins and outs of the Appellant’s contention is that the said timelines were not followed and, in fact, the first sanction was granted more than a year after the recommendation was moved. This contention ties into another submission that there was no independent review on the part of both recommending authority and central government, as the sanction was merely granted within a day each. Timelines, whether directory or mandatory? 21. Let us now consider one of the primary arguments of the appellants, i.e., non-following of the statutory timelines. 22. Timelines, generally speaking, as part of statutory framework are extremely essential to an effective, efficient and focused machinery of criminal investigation, prosecution and trial. It cannot be gainsaid that all stakeholders to the smooth functioning of these procedures of law must do their part in realising such timelines.