2223 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company public tasks to private entities. The procurement of goods and services is among the most common forms of government contracting with private providers.98 Indian law does not provide a special regime governing contracts by public authorities. Generally, the resolution of disputes arising out of the contractual terms of a public-private contract is subject to ordinary civil law remedies.99 Arbitration is one of the preferred private dispute resolution mechanisms adopted in public-private contracts. 57. An arbitration involving a company owned or controlled by government would likely involve public interest, considering the impact of an arbitral award on public finances. However, the Arbitration Act does not make a distinction between public-private arbitrations and private arbitrations. This lack of differentiation also extends to other aspects of arbitration including appointment of arbitrators, conduct of arbitration proceedings, and setting aside and enforcement of arbitral awards.100 Since the grounds for setting aside an arbitral award have been narrowly framed, the thrust of this privately ed legal system is on the decision made by the arbitral tribunal. Moreover, the Arbitration Act mandates the arbitration proceedings to be conducted following two main principles: (i) equality of parties; and (ii) independence and impartiality of arbitral proceedings. 58. In Pam Developments Private Limited v. State of West Bengal,101 the arbitrator made an award in favour of the contractor. When the contractor sought to enforce the award, the State government obtained a stay by relying on XXVII Rule 8-A of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908.102 This Court held that since the Arbitration Act is a self-contained code, the provisions of the CPC “will apply only insofar as the same are not inconsistent with the spirit and provisions of the Arbitration Act.” Noting that no special treatment can be given to the government under the Arbitration Act, the Court observed: “26. Arbitration proceedings are essentially alternate dispute redressal system meant for early/quick resolution of 98 Jody Freeman, ‘The Contracting State’ (2000) 28(1) Florida State University Law Review 155 99 Subodh Kumar Singh Rathour v. Chief Executive Officer, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1682 100 Stavros Brekoulakis and Margaret Devaney, ‘Public-private arbitration and the public interest under English law’ (2017) 80(1) Modern Law Review 22, 30. 101 (2019) 8 SCC 112 102 “CPC” 2224 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports disputes and in case a money decree — award as passed by the arbitrator against the Government is allowed to be automatically stayed, the very purpose of quick resolution of dispute through arbitration would be defeated as the decree-holder would be fully deprived of the fruits of the award on mere filing of objection under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. The Arbitration Act is a special Act which provides for quick resolution of disputes between the parties and Section 18 of the Act makes it clear that the parties shall be treated with equality. Once the Act mandates so, there cannot be any special treatment given to the Government as a party.