11 Level 9 Biz Pvt. Ltd. v. Himachal Pradesh Housing and Urban Development Authority & Another and had issued a fresh NIT on 17.11.2021, it was incumbent on the part of the respondent no. 2 to implead the said two petitioners as the party respondents in the new petition filed by it i.e. 1481/2021, and it was also incumbent on the part of the High Court to give opportunity of hearing to the said petitioners before passing the impugned disposing of the said petition merely recording the statements of the learned counsels for the respondent nos. 1 and 2, and permitting the respondent nos. 1 and 2 to go ahead with execution of the work as per the initial tender which was already cancelled by the respondent no.1. 10. Though it is true that initially an LOI was issued by the respondent no. 1 in favour of the respondent no. 2 on 17.12.2018, but the same was withdrawn by the respondent no. 1 as per the letter dated 02.01.2019 on account of pending litigations in the High Court. In any case, it hardly needs to be reiterated that the Letter of Intent is merely an expression of intention to enter into a contract. It does not create any right in favour of the party to whom it is issued. There is no binding legal relationship between the party issuing the LOI and the party to whom such LOI is issued. A detailed agreement/ contract is required to be drawn up between the parties after the LOI is received by the other party more particularly in case of contract of such a mega scale. 11. Since, there was no right whatsoever created in favour of the respondent no. 2, and since the respondent no. 1 HIMUDA had already accepted the recommendations of the Committee appointed by the High Court and the dated 08.01.2021 passed by the High Court, and had cancelled the tender and issued fresh NIT on 17.11.2021, the respondent no. 1 could not have agreed to allow the respondent no. 2, who was found to be not technically qualified, to go ahead with the execution of the project in question and that too without giving the other two parties any opportunity to negotiate. If the respondent no. 1 was so keen to provide the facilities to the public without causing any additional burden on the public exchequer, all the three parties who had participated in the original tender should have been given the opportunity to negotiate with it. 12. Having regard to the entire chain of events, and the conduct of the respondent nos. 1 and 2, we have no hesitation in holding that the respondent no. 1 in collusion with the respondent no. 2, had 12 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports taken the High Court for a ride and misused the process of law for covering up the irregularities and illegalities committed in the tender process by the officers of the respondent no. 1, and for anyhow awarding the contract to the respondent no.