20. The programme loaded in the EVM18 is key hashed and burnt into a One Time Programmable microcontroller chip at the time of manufacturing, thus dispelling any possibility of tampering. It is pertinent to note that all the three units of the EVM – ballot unit, control unit and VVPAT, have microcontrollers in which the respective firmware is burnt. The burnt programme/code is unalterable and cannot be modified after the EVM is delivered/supplied by the manufacturer to ECI. Every key press of the control unit is dynamically coded, thus making it impossible to decode the signal flowing among the units of the EVM inter se. Further, each key press is recorded with date and time stamp on a real time basis. 21. As mentioned earlier, the firmware of the control unit is agnostic to any candidate name or political party symbol. The control unit only recognises the button/key pressed on the ballot unit. The control unit has a capacity to store up to 2000 vote entries. 22. Apart from the burnt one-time programmable memory, the VVPAT has a flash memory of 4 megabytes. The flash memory of the VVPAT is designed to solely store and recognise a bitmap format file. The VVPAT can store a maximum of 1024 bitmap files containing the symbol, the serial number and name of the candidate. One candidate’s name, symbol, and serial number is packed into a single bitmap file 16 For short, ‘ECIL’. 17 Collectively referred to as the ‘manufacturers’. 18 EVM here refers to the ballot unit, the control unit and the VVPAT unit. 432 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of 4 kilobytes. The VVPAT does not store or read any other software or firmware.19 23. The VVPAT flash memory is empty and does not contain any symbol or name related details at the time of supply/delivery to the ECI. VVPATs in this form/state are stored in warehouses. The control units and ballot units are also stored and secured in the warehouses. 24. Five to six months before national or state elections are to be held, the required quantity of the EVMs are taken out from the warehouses and stored in the designated strong rooms. The EVMs, after they are put in the strong room, are subjected to First Level Check20 by engineers of the manufacturers in the presence of the representatives of the recognised political parties. The FLC is carried out at the district level under the supervision of the District Election Officer. 25. During the FLC, 100% or all machines are checked by casting of vote in each of the 16 buttons on the ballot unit 6 times. Further, 5% of the machines are randomly selected by the representatives of the recognised political parties for a higher mock poll by them. Out of the 5% EVMs; 1200 votes are cast in 1% EVMs, 1000 votes are cast in 2% EVMs and 500 votes are cast in 2% EVMs. The voting result indicated in the control unit is tallied with the VVPAT slip count.