2 (2013) 3 SCC 594 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 237 Dharmendra Kumar @ Dhamma v. State of Madhya Pradesh 46. We are, however, not impressed by the submission. We say so for the following reasons : (a) The statement of Usha Bai (P.W.10) has to be read and appreciated in its entirety and not in piecemeal. (b) She, as discussed earlier, deposed that she knew the remaining accused by name. She was indisputably referring to the remaining accused who were present in court which included the Appellant as well. (c) She deposed that “all the accused” attacked Lalaram, Tularam and Devi Singh @ Tillu with dandas, rods and pipes. (d) She further deposed that all the accused assaulted Tillu and Tularam with the intention to kill them. (e) She also admitted that she went to Police Station Kamla Nagar and got the FIR (Ex.P.7) lodged, which bore her thumb impression. (f) Having admitted these material facts, it would be too far-fetched to dissect Usha Bai’s version to hold that the Appellant was not present or participated in the occurrence. (g) In any case, Lallu Vishwakarma (P.W.11), another eyewitness, explicitly stated that the Appellant was present and he participated in the incident by delivering a knife blow to Tillu’s abdomen. (h) The knife injury attributed to the Appellant has been duly established by Dr. R.S. Vijayvargiya (P.W.4) and Dr. C.S. Jain (P.W.13). (i) The Investigating Officer (P.W.14) successfully established the recovery of the weapon of offence, namely a knife, based on the Appellant’s disclosure statement. Lallu Vishwakarma (P.W.11), who witnessed the recovery, supported the Investigating Officer’s testimony. (j) To dispel any doubts, Lallu Vishwakarma (P.W.11) identified the Appellant in court and specifically pointed out, “The person standing in front wearing a check shirt is Dharmendra”. 47. It is trite law that identification tests (TIP) do not serve as substantive evidence but are primarily intended to assist the investigating agency in ensuring that their progress in investigating the offence is on the 238 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports correct path. Holding a TIP is not obligatory. Further, a failure to hold TIP cannot be a ground to eschew the testimony of witnesses whose evidence was concurrently accepted by the trial and appellate courts.3 Additionally, a failure to hold a parade would not make inadmissible the evidence of identification in the court.4 48. Similarly, the contention of poor visibility owing to darkness at the spot of occurrence is also not tenable. In analysing the incidents occurring at night, this Court in Nathuni Yadav v. State of Bihar 5 has taken into account several factors, including: (i) The proximity at which the assailants would have confronted the injured. (ii) The possibility of some ambient light reaching the scene from the stars. (iii) The familiarity of the witnesses with the appearance of each assailant. 49. In the instant case, firstly, the place of occurrence, i.e., Bharav Shastri’s Jhuggi, was adjacent to that of the Complainant (P.W.10) making it easier for the witnesses to observe and identify the accused persons.