Such provisions are in recognition of public interest in protecting a statutory functionary against prosecution or legal proceedings. This immunity is limited. It is confined to acts done honestly and in furtherance of achieving the statutory purpose and objective. Section 3(22) of the General Clauses Act, 1897 best explains ‘good faith’ as an act done honestly, whether it is done negligently or not.3 Good faith clauses in statutes providing immunity against suits, prosecution or other legal proceedings against officials exercising statutory power are therefore limited by their very nature, that far, and no further. The scope and ambit of good faith has been explained in a number of decisions of this Court,4 which need not be elaborated herein again. 9. A good faith clause in a statute will therefore be a defense. If successfully pleaded, it not only legitimises the action but also protects the statutory functionary from any legal action. If a statutory functionary invokes the defence of good faith in a suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings initiated against him, it is for the court or a judicial body to consider, adjudicate, and determine whether the claim that the action was done in good faith is made out or not. Such a scrutiny, enquiry, or examination is done only in a proceeding against the statutory functionary. This Court has held that the scrutiny 3 Section 3(22) of the General Clauses Act, 1897 defines ‘good faith’ as follows: “3. Definitions.—In this Act, and in all Central Acts and Regulations made after the commencement of this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,— (22) a thing shall be deemed to be done in “good faith” where it is in fact done honestly, whether it is done negligently or not;” 4 See Goondla Venkateswarlu v. State of AP, [2008] 12 SCR 608 : (2008) 9 SCC 613, paras 22 and 23; Army Headquarters v. CBI [2012] 5 SCR 599 : (2012) 6 SCC 228, paras 69-78 1146 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports whether the act is done in good faith or not would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.5 10. It is in the above referred context that we have examined the observations made by the High Court in Paragraph 28 extracted hereinabove. The High Court was not conducting a suit, prosecution, or other legal proceeding against a statutory functionary. We have no doubt that the High Court was conscious of the principles governing good faith clauses and therefore couched its displeasure and distress by stating that such officials “may not” be protected or that it “may be difficult” to accept the contention of good faith. We are of the opinion that these observations are in the nature of advance rulings. This is because even before the initiation of a suit, prosecution or legal proceeding, the High Court expressed a tentative opinion. If such observations remain, they will affect the integrity and independence of that adjudication, compromising the prosecution and the defence equally.