TRF (supra) and Perkins (supra) have been relied upon by this Court on numerous occasions, including in Glock Asia-Pacific Limited v. Union of India245 and Lombardi Engg Ltd. v. Uttarakhand Jal Vidyut Nigam Ltd.246 239 Gary Born (supra) 1952 240 Ibid, 211 241 Ibid. 242 Gary Born (supra) 1794 243 Ibid, at 1796. 244 Perkins (supra) [16] 245 (2023) 8 SCC 226 [20] 246 (2024) 4 SCC 341 [85] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2259 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company 132. In Voestalpine (supra) and CORE (supra), one of the parties curated a panel of arbitrators and mandated the other party to select their arbitrator from the panel. Since the curation of the list is exclusively undertaken by one party, the other party is effectively excluded from the process of curating the panel from which exclusively, the appointment of an arbitrator is to be made. The other party has to mandatorily select its arbitrator from a curated panel, restricting their freedom to appoint an arbitrator of their choice. This is against the principle of equal treatment contained under Section 18. In this situation, there is no effective counter-balance because both parties do not participate equally in the process of appointing arbitrators. The party curating the panel can restrict the choice of the party only to a person who is on the panel selected by the other party and to no other person. 133. Many PSUs are regularly involved in arbitration disputes and constantly need the services of arbitrators. Such institutions often maintain a pool of potential arbitrators with the sole object of having a ready pool of qualified professionals who have committed their time and consented to act as arbitrators for fixed fees. The Arbitration Act does not prohibit parties to an arbitration agreement from maintaining a curated panel of potential arbitrators. However, the problem arises when the PSUs make it mandatory for other parties to select their nominees from the curated panel of arbitrators. When a PSU exercises its discretion to curate a panel, the very factor that the PSU is choosing only a certain number of persons as potential arbitrators and not others will raise a reasonable doubt in the mind of a fair-minded person. The PSUs may conceivably have nominated a person on the panel of potential arbitrators because they have a certain predisposition in favour of the former. This doubt is reinforced when the other party is given no choice but to select its arbitrator from the curated panel. 134. In CORE (supra), the three-member tribunal was sought to be constituted in the following manner: (i) the Railways would suggest at least four names of retired railway officers; (ii) the contractor would select two names out of the panel for appointment as their arbitrator; (iii) The General Manager (of the Railways) would thereafter choose at least one person out of the two to be appointed as the contractor’s arbitrator; and (iv) The General Manager would proceed to appoint 2260 [2024] 11 S.C.R.