11. Arrest under Section 19(1) of the PML Act may occur prior to the filing of the prosecution complaint and before the Special Judge takes cognizance.11 Till the prosecution complaint is filed, there is no requirement to provide the accused with a copy of the ECIR.12 The ECIR is not a public document. Thus, to introduce checks and balances, Section 19(1) imposes safeguards to protect the rights and liberty of the arrestee. This is in compliance with the mandate of Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India. 11 See Tarsem Lal v. Directorate of Enforcement, Jalandhar Zonal Office (2024) SCC Online SC 971. 12 It appears that in several cases multiple complaints in same ECIR are filed. Whether a copy of the ECIR must be supplied to an accused has been examined in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) which has been referred to subsequently. 2376 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 12. V. Senthil Balaji v. State and others13 similarly states that the designated officer can only arrest once they record “reasons to believe” in writing, that the person being arrested is guilty of the offence punishable under the PML Act. It is mandatory to record the “reasons to believe” to arrive at the opinion that the arrestee is guilty of the offence, and to furnish the reasons to the arrestee. This ensures an element of fairness and accountability. 13. The decision in V. Senthil Balaji (supra) has also examined the interplay between Section 19 of the PML Act and Section 167 of the Code. The magistrate is expected to do a balancing act as the investigation is to be concluded within 24 hours as a matter of rule. Therefore, the investigating agency has to satisfy the magistrate with adequate material on the need for custody of the arrestee. Magistrates must bear this crucial aspect in mind while examining and passing an on the DoE’s prayer for custodial remand. More significantly, the magistrate is under the bounden duty to ensure due compliance with Section 19(1) of the PML Act. Any failure to comply would entitle the arrestee to be released. Section 167 of the Code, therefore, enjoins upon the magistrate the necessity to satisfy due compliance of the law by perusing the passed by the authority under Section 19(1) of the PML Act. Upon such satisfaction, the magistrate may consider the request for custodial remand. 14. Pankaj Bansal (supra) reiterates V. Senthil Balaji (supra) to hold that the magistrate/court has the duty to ensure that the conditions in Section 19(1) of the PML Act are duly satisfied and that the arrest is valid and lawful. This is in lieu of the mandate under Section 167 of the Code. If the court fails to discharge its duty in right earnest and with proper perspective, the remand would fail on the ground that the court cannot validate an unlawful arrest made under Section 19(1). The Court relied on In the matter of Madhu Limaye and others,14 which held that it is necessary for the State to establish that, at the stage of remand, while directing detention in custody, the magistrate has applied their mind to all relevant matters.