To evaluate the claim of discrimination, the Court laid down the following test: “A particular discriminatory practice or provision might often be insufficient to expose the entire gamut of discrimination that a particular structure may perpetuate. Exclusive reliance on tools of direct or indirect discrimination may [2024] 10 S.C.R. 535 Sukanya Shantha v. Union of India & Ors. also not effectively account for patterns arising out of multiple axles of discrimination. Therefore, a systemic view of discrimination, in perceiving discriminatory disadvantage as a continuum, would account for not just unjust action but also inaction. Structures, in the form of organizations or otherwise, would be probed for the systems or cultures they produce that influence day-today interaction and decision-making. The duty of constitutional courts, when confronted with such a scheme of things, would not just be to strike down the discriminatory practices and compensate for the harm hitherto arising out of them; but also structure adequate reliefs and remedies that facilitate social redistribution by providing for positive entitlements that aim to negate the scope of future harm… Therefore, an analysis of discrimination, with a view towards its systemic manifestations (direct and indirect), would be best suited for achieving our constitutional vision of equality and antidiscrimination. Systemic discrimination on account of gender at the workplace would then encapsulate the patriarchal disadvantage that permeates all aspects of her being from the outset, including reproduction, sexuality and private choices which operate within an unjust structure.” Applying the above principles, the Court concluded that the process adopted by the Army to grant Permanent Commissions to women officers “did not redress the harms of gendered discrimination that were identified by this Court in Babita Puniya”. The Court found the evaluation process to be an instance of “indirect discrimination” and “systemic discrimination”, which “disproportionately affects women”. “This discrimination”, it was held, “has caused an economic and psychological harm and an affront to their dignity”. 46. The petitioner in Nipun Malhotra v. Sony Pictures Films India (P) Ltd,62 was aggrieved by the manner in which persons with disabilities have been portrayed in a movie and approached the Court seeking directions for the inclusion of an expert on disability within the Central Board of Film Certification and its advisory panel constituted under Sections 3 and 5 of the Cinematograph Act, among other reliefs. 62 [2024] 7 SCR 246 : 2024 INSC 465 536 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports This Court recapitulated “the impact of stereotypes on discrimination and the enjoyment of fundamental rights”. It reiterated that the anti- discrimination code under Article 15 prevents stereotyping. Regarding the safeguards against stereotyping of persons with disabilities, the Court held: “… language that disparages persons with disabilities, marginalises them further and supplements the disabling barriers in their social participation, without the redeeming quality of the overall message of such portrayal must be approached with caution. Such representation is problematic not because it offends subjective feelings but rather, because it impairs the objective societal treatment of the affected groups by society.