ii. Issues for Determination 46. Having heard the parties extensively on the aforesaid aspects and having perused the materials on record, the following two questions fall for our consideration: I. Whether the suspension of legal proceedings as envisaged under Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act would extend to a civil suit for recovery of money even if the debt sought to be proved in the plaint has not been admitted by the sick industrial company? If so, whether the decree in favour of the original plaintiff could be said to be coram non-judice? II. Whether the High Court was correct in granting 24% compound interest on the principal decretal amount in favour of the original plaintiff? [2024] 5 S.C.R. 341 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited iii. Overview of Industrial Sickness and the Legislative Scheme of the 1985 Act. 47. Before we proceed to answer the aforesaid issues, we would like to discuss briefly the concept of industrial sickness, the legislative scheme of the 1985 Act and the object behind its enactment. This will help us develop a better contextual understanding of the questions before us. 48. Sickness in industries is a natural fall-out of industrialisation. Industrial sickness can be understood to refer to a situation wherein an industrial unit fails to generate surplus and is incurring losses over a period of time resulting in the erosion of its net-worth. Section 3(o) of the 1985 Act defines a ‘sick industrial company’ to be one which at the end of a financial year accumulates losses equal to or exceeding its net worth. 49. While there could be numerous causes of sickness, the mismanagement of the industrial unit, faulty planning at the inception of an industry, technical drawbacks, recession in the market, labour disputes, changes in the fiscal policies of the government, unavailability of credit facilities, and non-availability of raw-materials are some of the prominent factors causing industrial sickness. 50. As the Indian economy transitioned from being an agriculture-intensive one towards a more industry-centric one, a growing number of industries suffered huge financial losses resulting in their closure, which in turn led to the loss of employment, government revenue and locking up of the investible funds of banks and financial institutions which were invested in setting up of those industries. In to curb industrial sickness and its detrimental impacts on the Indian economy, many policies and legislations were enacted over the years by the executive and the legislative wing respectively. The aim of such enactments was two-fold – first, to reduce the incidence of sickness in industries by promoting a conducive industrial climate and secondly, to identify sick companies and take effective remedial steps for revival of such companies and upon failure, to wind them up. 51. One of the first such enactments was the Industrial Development and Regulation Act, 1951 (“IDRA Act, 1951”) which contained provisions empowering the Central Government to cause investigation into the affairs of an Industrial Company which is to be wound up for the 342 [2024] 5 S.C.R.