More so, the Scrutiny Committee under Rule 4(3) of the 2012 Rules can even allow caste claim without any supporting documents. Hence, as already discussed above, such adjudication is kept within the exclusive domain of Scrutiny Committee under Rule 13(2)(a) of 2012 Rules. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 149 Navneet Kaur Harbhajansing Kundles @ Navneet Kaur Ravi Rana v. State of Maharashtra and Other 22. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we are of the considered opinion that High Court inadvertently undertook an erroneous exercise of appreciating evidence in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of Constitution of India and swayed itself into a roving inquiry which was not expected as per settled legal position. At the cost of repetition, we again observe that under Rule 13(2)(a) of 2012 Rules, the adjudication on the basis of the documents falls solely within the domain of Scrutiny Committee based on the inputs received from the Vigilance Cell. The Scrutiny Committee is an expert forum armed with fact finding authority. The High Court ought not to have interfered, especially when Scrutiny Committee had followed the due procedure under Rule 12, 17 and 18 of the 2012 Rules and that there was nothing perverse about a finding of fact. 23. In the instant case, the Scrutiny Committee duly considered the documents placed before it and after due application of mind on being satisfied, accorded reasons for accepting/validating the caste claim of the Appellant herein while accepting/rejecting other certain documents. The Scrutiny Committee heard all the parties in detail complying with the principles of natural justice. Hence, in our considered opinion, the of Scrutiny Committee did not merit any interference by the High Court in a ‘writ of certiorari’ under Article 226 of Constitution of India. 24. So far as question as to judicial scope to tinker with Presidential is concerned, there is no quarrel that Presidential cannot be amended directly or indirectly. However, the whole argument of Respondents to the effect interference by this Court would amount to fiddling with the Presidential is not sustainable for the reason that, the case of the Appellant neither calls for any inquiry into a sub-caste nor does it amend the Presidential . The Appellant had claimed ‘Mochi’, the Scrutiny Committee validated and granted the ‘Mochi’ caste certificate and ‘Mochi’ caste is clearly mentioned in Entry 11 of the Presidential . The argument of the Respondents that a reserved category in one State cannot be granted benefit of reservation in another State has no bearing in the present case since in the instant case, the Appellant did not claim ‘Mochi’ caste based on her caste in some other State. Rather, the claim was for ‘Mochi’ based on genealogical caste history of Appellant’s forefathers. The Scrutiny Committee has verified the claim of Appellant holding that 150 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Appellant belongs to ‘Mochi’ caste in accordance with Entry 11 of Presidential as application to Maharashtra. 25. Accordingly, in the light of discussion made hereinabove and considering the peculiar facts and circumstances, the instant appeals stand allowed and the impugned passed by the High Court stands set-aside.