5. That Accused No.3 is the mother-in-law of the first informant, who is a teacher and she used to leave the house at 7:00 hrs in the morning for the school and the first informant used to do all household works and when her mother-in-law returned from the school, she deliberately used to point out defects in her work and used to taunt the first informant that your family should have given gold bangles to me and now, you would have to bring gold bangles from your family and when the first informant tell her that her family had already spent a lot over her marriage, then she used to abuse and give beatings to the first informant. 6. That Accused No.4 is the sister-in-law of the first informant who used to say that your family should have given a diamond set for me in the marriage which they have not given and now if you want to live in this house you have to bring diamond set for me otherwise I will not let you live in the house and besides this, Accused No.4 treated the first informant like a domestic servant and used to abuse and give beatings to the first informant over petty issues and instigated the other members of the family against the first informant. That the first informant always performed the duties of an ideal wife with utmost honesty and sincerity and the first informant had always lived with Accused No.1 with love and always fulfils his demands and demands of the other accused persons. That the first informant used to do all household work at her matrimonial house in whatever manner the accused persons used to ask her. In this way, there is no fault on the part of the first informant. That Accused No.1 had never treated 136 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the first informant with love and care rather he used to treat the first informant with cruelty. Beating and abusing the first informant on account of demand of dowry was a daily routine of the Accused persons. 7. That Accused No. 1 is an alcoholic. Who use to torture, abuse, beat the first informant and treated her inhumanely on account of less dowry under the effect of alcohol. Whenever the first informant used to tell her parents-in law Accused No. 2 and 3 about this they said that until you do not get our demand of dowry fulfilled by your parents till then you have to bear all this. The Accused persons used to treat the first informant like a domestic servant. The first informant was not allowed to even make phone calls to her family and Accused No. 1 deliberately had hacked the phone of the first informant and she was not allowed to step out of the house. Being a Hindu woman the first informant tolerated all tortures of the Accused with a hope that one day they will mend their ways and the first informant’s will live in the house happily but the same did not happen rather the behaviour of the Accused persons became more cruel towards the first informant.