98 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9. Section 11A of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (briefly ‘Central Excise Act’ hereinafter) deals with recovery of duties not levied or not paid or short-levied or short paid or erroneously refunded. Relevant for our purpose is sub-section (1) which says that where any duty of excise has not been levied or not paid or has been short levied or short paid or erroneously refunded, for any reason other than the reason of fraud or collusion etc. with intent to evade payment of duty, the Central Excise Officer shall serve notice on the person so chargeable within two years from the relevant date requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the amount specified in the notice. The person chargeable with duty may either before service of notice pay on the basis of his own ascertainment or the duty ascertained by the Central Excise Officer, the amount of duty along with interest payable thereon under Section 11AA. In the event of fraud, collusion etc. the notice period gets extended to five years. 9.1. Duty is cast upon the person liable to pay duty either voluntarily or after determination under Section 11A to pay interest in addition to the duty under sub-section (1) of Section 11AA. As per sub-section (2), such interest shall not be below ten percent and shall not exceed thirty six percent per annum, as the Central Government may by notification in the Official Gazette fix. Such interest shall be calculated from the date on which the duty becomes due up to the date of actual payment of the amount due. 9.2. Section 11B of the Central Excise Act entitles any person claiming refund of any duty of excise and interest to make an application for refund of such duty and interest before the expiry of one year from the relevant date (prior to 12.05.2000, it was six months instead of one year). 9.3. Section 11BB provides for interest on delayed refund. It says that if any duty ed to be refunded under sub-section (2) of Section 11B to any applicant is not refunded within three months from the date of receipt of the application under sub- section (1) of that section, there shall be paid to such applicant interest at such rate not below five percent and not exceeding thirty percent per annum as for the time being fixed by the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette. Prior to 11.05.2001, the rate of interest was not below ten percent. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 99 Union of India and Ors. v. M/S. B.T. Patil and Sons Belgaum (Construction) Pvt. Ltd. The applicant would be entitled to interest after expiry of three months from the date of receipt of such application till the date of refund of such duty. 10. Section 27 of the Customs Act deals with claim for refund of duty. As per sub-section (1), any person claiming refund of any duty or interest paid by him or borne by him, may make an application in the prescribed form and manner, for such refund addressed to the designated authority before the expiry of one year from the date of payment of such duty or interest.