However, courts have the jurisdiction to ensure that the manner in which the Board proceeds and 20 Omkar Gond v. Union of India (2024) SCC OnLine SC 2401; Vikash Kumar v. UPSC (2021) 5 SCC 370; Bambhaniya Sagar Vasharambhai v. Union of India, WP (C) 856 of 2023 21 [2019] 12 SCR 821 : (2019) 10 SCC 20 2214 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports functions is in compliance with established principles of law. Ultimately, the Court will have to rely on the opinion of the Board to adjudicate the legal remedies of a person with disability. The interference of Courts is not to supplant its opinion for that of the experts but to ensure that a holistic evaluation of competence is conducted and that no person’s career is set at naught with the stroke of a pen. 40. The Courts cannot be stupefied into inaction by the lack of adequate framework or expertise when questions of fundamental rights emerge. No person forfeits their claim to education or other pursuits of life on account of their disability. The flurry of cases concerning medical aspirants with disability which has come before this Court shows that the overarching issue is a sense of over medicalization of disabled bodies by the Assessment Boards. The approach often taken, due to inertia or unwittingly, is to assume that a person with disability may not be eligible for pursuing the course and then to put the candidates under tests to prove the assumption. The approach focuses more on the disability of a person than their ability. This turns the principle of reasonable accommodation on its head. The question instead that the Board ought to ask itself is this - what measures can be taken to ensure that the candidate with disability can start their MBBS course on an equal footing with their prospective classmates? The change in question brings a change in perspective. The only negative answer to the question would be that - in line with contemporary scientific advancements, no devices or accommodations can enable the person with disability before them to compete at a level playing field. Courts must ensure that the sanctity of the principles in the RPWD Act and in the Constitution are not violated by the conduct or the outcome of the assessment. E. Building bridges for the nation: principle to practice “But it taught me, at a very early age, that most things are possible when you assume problems can be solved.” ― Judith Heumann22 (regarded as the mother of the disability rights movement) 22 Judith Heumann & Kristen Joiner (2020). Being Heumann: An Unrepentant Memoir of a Disability Rights Activist. Beacon Press : Boston, Massachusetts. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2215 Om Rathod v. The Director General of Health Services & Ors. 41. We started by noting that the principle and application of law have stood at opposite banks of the river. The true mandate of the law is to be an agent of inclusion and an abettor and executor of justice.