Sir, with the aforesaid basis he came to Lucknow from Varanasi on 01.11.06 and stayed in Hotel Amber along with his colleagues. On 02.11.06 he talked at home through phone. On 03.11.06 my brother was again harassed unnecessarily. 1488 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports After that those officers handed over some letter to him. My brother Late Rajiv Jain told about his difficulty at home also on telephone on 03.11.06. Then they came to their hotel from meeting. Afterwards his dead body is found in the room. Sir, I have the complete belief that for instigating my brother Shri Rajiv Jain to take such a weak step following officer and other officers of the company are mainly responsible. 1. Shri Venki Vekatesh R.M. North India, H.L.L. 2. Shri Kaloi Chakraborty R.P.M. North India, H.L.L. 3. Shri Rupendra Yadav, R.S.M. North India H.L.L. 4. Shri Z.I. Alwi, A.E. H.L.L. 5. Shri Meenish Sharma, A.E. H.L.L. 6. Shri Nipun Aneja, A.S.M. Eastern U.P. H.L.L. This fact is also important because even after occurrence of such a painful incident no officer of company till date has come in front in any manner Sir, it is requested that on writing the report kindly initiate the necessary proceedings. My bhabhi and me unlucky brother who are in pain will be very grateful to you.” 4. Thus, it appears on plain reading of the First Information Report that the appellants before us in their capacity as senior officers of the company had convened a meeting on 3 November 2006 with the employees of the company at Hotel Amber in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. The deceased alongwith his colleagues was present in the meeting. The gravamen of the charge is that the company wanted around fifty to sixty office employees to opt for Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS). As all those employees were not ready to opt for the VRS scheme, they were being harassed in some manner or the other. It is further alleged that in the course of the meeting the deceased was humiliated by the appellants & he felt very bad about it. 5. In the course of investigation, the police recorded statements of some of the colleagues of the deceased who were also present in the meeting. We may look into just two statements in this regard. The first statement is of Sudhir Kumar Ojha. In his police statement, [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1489 Nipun Aneja and Others v. State of Uttar Pradesh he has stated the following: “Shri Sudhir Kumar Ojha son of Late Shri Shyam Kishore Ojha resident of Om Niwas Civil Lines P.S. Kotwali District Sultanpur on oath stated that I and Shri Rajeev are working in Hindustan Lever Limited Company at the post of salesman. I was appointed as salesman and Shri Rajiv Jain was posted in Varanasi. On 01.11.06 we came in Ambar Hotel and both of us stayed in no.244. On 03.11.06 we reached at Deep Palace Hotel at around 09:30 AM for the purpose of participating in meeting.