After adjusting this amount and after accounting for interest, the respondent submits that it is entitled to Rs. 6,57,62,057 from the appellants. 4. Analysis – Statutory Scheme: It is important to first set out the statutory scheme for the enforcement of foreign arbitral awards in India. Under the Act, Part II deals with the enforcement of certain foreign arbitral awards. Chapter I deals with awards under the New York Convention. Section 45 provides for the power of a court to refer parties to arbitration.11 Section 46 provides that a foreign award 10 [1968] 3 SCR 367 11 Section 45 reads: “45. Power of judicial authority to refer parties to arbitration.—Notwithstanding anything contained in Part I or in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), a judicial authority, when seized of an action in a matter in respect of which the parties have made an agreement referred to in section 44, shall, at the request of one of the parties or any person claiming through or under him, refer the parties to arbitration, [2024] 8 S.C.R. 301 DLF Ltd. (Formerly Known as DLF Universal Ltd) and Anr. v. Koncar Generators and Motors Ltd. which is enforceable under this Chapter shall be treated as binding for all purposes on the persons between whom it is made.12 Section 47 provides for the evidentiary requirements for enforcement of a foreign award.13 Section 48 sets out various grounds on which the court may refuse the enforcement of a foreign award.14 Section 49 [unless it prima facie finds] that the said agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed.” 12 Section 46 reads: “46. When foreign award binding.—Any foreign award which would be enforceable under this Chapter shall be treated as binding for all purposes on the persons as between whom it was made, and may accordingly be relied on by any of those persons by way of defence, set off or otherwise in any legal proceedings in India and any references in this Chapter to enforcing a foreign award shall be construed as including references to relying on an award.” 13 Section 47 reads: “47. Evidence.—(1) The party applying for the enforcement of a foreign award shall, at the time of the application, produce before the court— (a) the original award or a copy thereof, duly authenticated in the manner required by the law of the country in which it was made; (b) the original agreement for arbitration or a duly certified copy thereof; and (c) such evidence as may be necessary to prove that the award is a foreign award. (2) If the award or agreement to be produced under sub-section (1) is in a foreign language, the party seeking to enforce the award shall produce a translation into English certified as correct by a diplomatic or consular agent of the country to which that party belongs or certified as correct in such other manner as may be sufficient according to the law in force in India. [Explanation.—In this section and in the sections following in this Chapter, “Court” means the High Court having original jurisdiction to decide the questions forming the subject-matter of the arbitral award if the same had been the subject-matter of a suit on its original civil jurisdiction and in other cases, in the High Court having jurisdiction to hear appeals from decrees of courts subordinate to such High Court.