This was by way of an obiter but having persuasive value. [Para 22(IV)] 5. The majority in Ranganatha Reddy, no doubt, did not concur with the views of Krishna Iyer, J. expressed in his separate opinion. However, in Sanjeev Coke the Constitution Bench of five-Judges independently upheld what was challenged in the said case, namely, the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 and while doing so in paragraphs 19 and 20 referred to the observations of Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy and made certain observations on the majority in Minerva Mills. However, A.N. Sen, J. did not express any opinion on the of this Court in Minerva Mills. What is significant is that the s in Ranganatha Reddy as well as in Sanjeev Coke upheld the respective Nationalisation Acts. Therefore, on merits it cannot be held that Sanjeev Coke violated judicial discipline. One cannot lose sight of the fact that in Sanjeev Coke this Court did not decide the case only on the basis of the opinion of Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy but on merits on the validity of the Nationalisation Act. Therefore, Sanjeev Coke is good law insofar as on the merits of the matter is concerned. [Para 23(b)] 6. The single-sentence observation in Mafatlal to the effect that “material resources of the community” include privately owned resources may be obiter but has great persuasive value. [Para 23(c)] 7. Yes, privately owned resources except “personal effects” as explained above can come within the scope and ambit of the phrase “material resources of the community” provided such resources get transformed as “resources of the community” as discussed by me above. [Para 23(d)] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 17 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. 8. I agree that the inquiry about whether the resource in question falls within the ambit of Article 39(b) must be context-specific and subject to a non-exhaustive list of factors such as the nature of the resource and its characteristics; the impact of the resource on the well-being of the community; the scarcity of the resource; and the consequences of such a resource being concentrated in the hands of private players. The Public Trust Doctrine evolved by this Court may also help identify resources which fall within the ambit of the phrase “material resource of the community”. In addition, I also reiterate my discussion and conclusion on how privately owned material resource can be transformed as “material resource of the community”. [Para 23(e)] 9. The term “distribution” has no doubt a wide connotation but vesting in the State of a particular privately owned “material resource” or nationalisation of the same are only conditions precedent to distribution which have to comply with Article 300A of the Constitution. Further, a resource which has vested in the State or a resource retained by a State on nationalisation could be utilised by the State to subserve the common good as a material resource of the community. The public trust doctrine would apply to such material resources.