With the governmental authorities not showing any concern with the enforcement of the said Acts, and with the development taking place for personal gains at the expense of environment and with disregard of the mandatory provisions of law, some public-spirited persons have been initiating public interest litigations. The legal position relating to the exercise of jurisdiction by the courts for preventing environmental degradation and thereby, seeking to protect the fundamental rights of the citizens, is now well settled by various decisions of this Court. The primary effort of the court, while dealing with the environmental-related issues, is to see that the enforcement agencies, whether it be the State or any other authority, take effective steps for the enforcement of the laws. The courts, in a way, act as the guardian of the people’s fundamental rights but in regard to many technical matters, the courts may not be fully equipped. Perforce, it has to rely on outside agencies for reports and recommendations whereupon s have been passed 6 [1996] Supp. 1 S.C.R. 507 : (1996) 5 SCC 281 : 1996 INSC 543 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 247 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal from time to time. Even though, it is not the function of the court to see the day-to-day enforcement of the law, that being the function of the Executive, but because of the non-functioning of the enforcement agencies, the courts as of necessity have had to pass s directing the enforcement agencies to implement the law.” 77. Emphasizing on the concern for environmental and ecological protection, the Courts have recognised the importance of sustainable development. Development which can be achieved only by way of protecting the environment and conserving the natural resources for the benefit of humanity and future generations. This Court holds that, it is now an accepted social principle that all human beings have a fundamental right to a healthy environment, commensurate with their well-being, coupled with a corresponding duty of ensuring that resources are conserved and preserved in such a way that the present as well as future generations will be aware of them equally. This Court has further held that, the primary effort of the court while dealing with the environment-related issues, is to see that the enforcement agencies, whether it be the State or any other authority, take effective steps for the enforcement of the laws. It has been held that the courts, in a way, act as the guardian of the people’s fundamental rights. This Court has observed that it is not the function of the court to see the day-to-day enforcement of the law; that being the function of the Executive, but because of the non-functioning of the enforcement agencies, the courts out of necessity have had to pass s directing the enforcement agencies to implement the law. In the recent s of this Court in the cases of Resident’s Welfare Association and another v. Union Territory of Chandigarh and others7, State of Himachal Pradesh and others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and another8 and State of Uttar Pradesh and others v. Uday Education and Welfare Trust and others9, to which one of us (B.R.