'°° The observations in ACrisckest ociatiof oBennga l (supra) cannot be interpreted to mean that other implied grounds of restrictions have been read into Article 19(2). 136 Cricket Association of Bengal [201 (1)(a) and 201(1)(b)] [2024] 2 S.C.R. 512 Digital Supreme Court Reports 116. From the above discussion, it is clear that the right to information under Article 19(1)(a) can only be restricted based on the grounds stipulated in Article 19(2). It could be argued that curbing black money can be traced to the ground of “public ”. However, a Constitution Bench of this Court has interpreted the ground “public ” to mean “oublic safety and tranquility” and “dis involving breaches of local significance in contradistinction to national upheavals, such as civil strife, war, affecting the security of the State.”"*” Thus, the purpose of curbing black money is not traceable to any of the grounds in Article 19(2). 117. We proceed to apply the subsequent prongs of the proportionality standard, even assuming that curbing black money is a legitimate purpose for restricting the right to information. The second prong of the proportionality analysis requires the State to assess whether the means used are rationally connected to the purpose. At this stage, the court is required to assess whether the means, if realised, would increase the likelihood of curbing black money. It is not necessary that the means chosen should be the only means capable of realising the purpose. It is sufficient if the means used constitute one of the many methods by which the purpose can be realised, even if it only partially gives effect to the purpose. '*® 118. The respondents submit that before the introduction of the Electoral Bond Scheme, a major portion of the total contributions received by political parties was from “unknown sources”. For example, immediately preceding the financial year (2016-17) in which the Electoral Bond Scheme was introduced, eighty one percent of the contributions (Rupees 580.52 Crores) were received by political parties through voluntary contributions. Since the amount of voluntary contributions is not regulated, it allowed the circulation of black money. However, after the introduction of the Electoral Bond Scheme, forty- seven percent of the contributions were received through electoral bonds which is regulated money. The Union of India submitted that providing anonymity to the contributors incentivizes them to contribute through the banking channel. Assuming, for the purpose of hypothesis that the Union of India is right on this prong, what it 137 Superintendent, Central Prison, Fatehgarh v. Dr Ram Manohar Lohia, [1926 S0CR ]82 1 : AIR 1960 SC 633 [18] 138 Media One (supra) [100] [2024] 2 S.C.R. 513 Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. urges Is that non-disclosure of information about political expenditure has a rational nexus with the goal, that is, curbing black money or unregulated money. 119. The next stage of the proportionality standard is the least restrictive means stage. At this stage, this Court is required to determine if the means adopted (that is, anonymity of the contributor) is the least restrictive means to give effect to the purpose based on the following standard:'°9 a.