The High Court, after verification, found the authenticity of the said certificate to be fake and held that the appellant had taken recourse to falsehood with production of fake medical certificate and on that count alone, the writ petition was dismissed which cannot be said to be unreasonable warranting interference. It was submitted that in compliance of the of this Court in the present matter on 28.07.2017 directing the Tribunal to examine the documents 2 ‘26. There is good and sound reason for placing the burden of proof upon the person concerned who asserts to be a citizen of a particular country. In to establish one’s citizenship, normally he may be required to give evidence of (i) his date of birth (ii) place of birth (iii) name of his parents (iv) their place of birth and citizenship. Sometimes the place of birth of his grandparents may also be relevant like under Section 6-A(1)(d) of the Citizenship Act. All these facts would necessarily be within the personal knowledge of the person concerned and not of the authorities of the State. After he has given evidence on these points, the State authorities can verify the facts and can then lead evidence in rebuttal, if necessary. If the State authorities dispute the claim of citizenship by a person and assert that he is a foreigner, it will not only be difficult but almost impossible for them to first lead evidence on the aforesaid points. This is in accordance with the underlying policy of Section 106 of the Evidence Act which says that when any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him.’ [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2337 Md. Rahim Ali @ Abdur Rahim v. The State of Assam & Ors. filed by the appellant and to undertake an inquiry and submit report, the Tribunal undertook such exercise and submitted its opinion finally holding that the appellant had entered India illegally on or after 25.03.1971 i.e., the cut-off date and thus, was an illegal migrant post the cut-off date. 18. It was submitted that this Court may also consider the fact that the proceedings against the appellant had already taken two decades to reach this stage and any further delay would defeat the very object and purpose of the Act which is speedy detection and deportation of illegal migrants/foreigners staying in India. He also reiterated the fact that because the appellant was declared to be a foreigner prior to the preparation of the Draft and Supplementary NRC List, his name was not included in the same. Learned counsel submitted that this Court in Abdul Kuddus (supra) had settled the position that the proceedings before the Tribunal being quasi-judicial in nature, the findings thereof would operate as res judicata over the administrative process of inclusion in NRC List and any person aggrieved by the findings/opinion of the Tribunal would have to invoke the power of judicial review under writ jurisdiction. Thus, he contended that if any further liberty is given to the appellant to again challenge the fresh report dated 16.11.2017 of the Tribunal in writ proceedings, a time-limit be fixed so that closure could be given to the proceedings.