547 Sita Soren v. Union of India of bribe by a member of Parliament. In the absence of a statute, the question of taking bribe by a member of Parliament had remained a question of breach of privilege and only the House was empowered to take action against such corruption. 135. The Royal Commission on Standards of Conduct in Public Life, chaired by Lord Salmon, submitted its report in 1976 which inter alia recommended bringing “corruption, bribery and attempted bribery of a Member of Parliament acting in his Parliamentary capacity within the ambit of the criminal law.” While presenting his report to the House of Lords, Lord Salmon said: “To my mind equality before the law is one of the pillars of freedom. To say that immunity from criminal proceedings against anyone who tries to bribe a Member of Parliament and any Member of Parliament who accepts the bribe, stems from the Bill of Rights is possibly a serious mistake. The passage in the Bill of Rights is: “That the Freedom of Speech and Debates or Proceedings in Parliament ought not to be impeached or questioned in any Court or Place out of Parliament.” Now this is a charter for freedom of speech in the House. It is not a charter for corruption. To my mind, the Bill of Rights, for which no one has more respect than I have, has no more to do with the topic which we are discussing than the Merchandise Marks Act. The crime of corruption is complete when the bribe is offered or given or solicited and taken. We have recommended that the Statutes relating to corruption should all be replaced by one comprehensive Statute which will sweep away the present anomalies. If you are not an agent—and Members of Parliament neither of this House nor of the other place are agents—if you are not the member of a public body (and we are not members of public bodies) the Statutes do not touch you. At Common Law you cannot be convicted of bribery and corruption unless you are the holder of an office, and most of us are not the holders of an office.” (emphasis supplied) 548 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 136. No action was taken by Parliament on this recommendation of the Salmon Report. However, in R v. Greenway,64 a member of Parliament was accused of accepting a bribe for helping the interests of a company. A case to quash the prosecution was filed. The member of Parliament asserted that his actions were protected by parliamentary privileges. Rejecting this assertion, Buckley, J held that: “That a member of Parliament against whom there is a prime facie case of corruption should be immune from prosecution in the courts of law is to my mind an unacceptable proposition at the present time. I do not believe it to be the law.” 137. Another commission was constituted after allegations of sleaze by many members of Parliament. The Standing Committee on Standards in Public Life under the Chairmanship of Lord Nolan submitted its report in 1994.