Rule 25 of the Manual demonstrates this. It provides that though the SP is required to obey the instructions of the Deputy Commissioner in the first instance, the SP can thereafter request the Deputy Commissioner to refer any difference of opinion between them on any question relating to police administration to the Commissioner, who would decide such reference. Moreover, the SP is at liberty to submit his case to the Inspector General of Police if he is dissatisfied with the decision of the Commissioner. It is, thus, clear that a SP is required to work under the ‘general control and direction’ of a Deputy Commissioner and obey his/her instructions but that does not place the SP under the hierarchical supremacy of that Deputy Commissioner. 22. Further, when liberty has been given to the SP to disagree with the Deputy Commissioner on any point relating to police administration and seek resolution of such difference of opinion through the Commissioner and, thereafter, the Inspector General of Police, it would be a parody to subject the performance assessment of such a SP to the same Deputy Commissioner with whom he/she had disagreed. Such an ACR/APAR cannot be taken to be impartial and 3 (1996) 4 SCC 596 4 (1997) 1 SCC 373 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 485 The State of Assam and Others v. Binod Kumar and Others objective, once it is preceded by a difference of opinion between the SP and the Deputy Commissioner, leading to a reference being made to higher authorities. Such a situation must necessarily be avoided to maintain the sanctity of the assessment process. This constitutes one more reason why the Deputy Commissioner should not be the ‘Reporting Authority’ of the SP of that district. 23. Significantly, Circular No. 11059/4/89-AIS.III, dated 28.12.1990, issued by the Government of India in exercise of power under Rules 3 and 10A of the 1970 Rules, stipulated that the ‘Reporting Authority’ should be in a higher grade of pay than the officer reported upon. The Government noted that there were instances where the ACRs of the members of All India Services were initiated by officers belonging to the same batch or drawing the same pay scale as the officer reported upon and instructed that the State Governments must ensure that a member of the service does not initiate the Confidential Report of another member of the service in the same grade of pay. It is, therefore, clear that the ‘Reporting Authority’ must necessarily be in a higher grade of pay than the officer who is being reported upon. It may be noticed that Rule 11 of the 2007 Rules empowers the Central Government to issue instructions with regard to the writing of the Performance Appraisal Report. However, no new instruction or circular has been issued in exercise of power thereunder, contrary to the earlier Circular dated 28.12.1990. However, instances have been cited by the respondents where ACRs/APARs of the SPs in the State of Assam were initiated by Deputy Commissioners who were not in a higher grade of pay.