There can be no doubt that a re-union after a marital discord is possible only if the parties are put to a conducive situation to regain the mutual respect, mutual love and affection. No doubt putting a condition that one of the parties should undertake to fulfil all physical as well as financial requirements of the other party could not bring about such a situation. It may compel one among the couple to be susceptive and turn the other supercilious. When the couple who are trying to bridge their emotional differences putting one among them under such an onerous condition would deprive a dignified life not only to the grantee but to both. It is to be noted that with the said conditions the appellant was granted only a provisional bail. In short, we stress upon the need to put compliable conditions while granting bail, recognizing the human right to live with dignity and with a view to secure the presence of the accused as also unhindered course of investigation, ultimately to ensure a fair trial. In respect of matters relating to matrimonial cases, conditions shall be put in such a way to make the grantee of the bail as also the griever to regain the lost love and affection and to come back to peaceful domesticity. In this case, the parties, obviously, expressed their desire and willingness to live together and in that regard the appellant-husband, expressed his willingness to withdraw the divorce case. 9. The above discussions tend us to hold that the conditions as mentioned above contained in paragraph 6 of the impugned for the release of the appellant on the provisional bail cannot be sustained and as such the said conditions to give undertaking that the appellant would fulfil all physical and financial requirements by way of an affidavit are set aside. However, this shall not be understood to have an releasing both of their marital obligations and duties and we hope and trust that the couple will continue to strive to restore their domesticity. 10. The granting the bail is made absolute and the appellant in the event of his arrest be released on bail subject to the same terms stipulated by the High Court under the impugned regarding suretyship as also the liability to comply with conditions as laid down [2024] 8 S.C.R. 669 Sudeep Chatterjee v. State of Bihar & Anr. under Section 438(2), Cr. P.C. Needless to say, that this will further be subject to the final outcome of the pending complaint case. The impugned stands set aside only to the aforesaid extent and accordingly, the appeal stands disposed of. 11. Pending application(s), if any, stands disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal disposed of. †Headnotes prepared by: Gaurav Upadhyay, Hony. Associate Editor (Verified by: Shadan Farasat, Adv.)