It was submitted that this of CAT has been upheld by the Impugned , observing that the Circular was clear and unambiguous that deputation service was to be considered and 2 2016 SCC OnLine Del 2698 528 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports did not provide that the person must continue to be on deputation or be absorbed for that service to be considered. 16. It was further submitted that the appellant had failed to make any case for interference with the well-reasoned s of the CAT and the High Court. Admittedly, the respondent no.1 had served on deputation basis for six years without a break, which is well beyond the requirement of four years. It was submitted that he had to return to the parent department as the maximum period of deputation was over but returned to the appellant at the earliest opportunity on direct recruitment basis after clearing the examination. It was submitted that his compliance with the service rules governing his deputation at the relevant time should not be held against him. 17. Learned counsel contended that if the appellant’s submissions are accepted, then even persons who joined the appellant in 2013 but just happened to be in service on the date of the Circular would be eligible for promotion, but the respondent no.1 would not be despite having joined in 2008. This would be manifestly arbitrary and unfair. Further, as noted by CAT, the appellant granted the benefit of the Circular to three other candidates but only in the respondent no.1’s case, the Circular and the Executive Committee decision has not been applied, which is discriminatory. It was pointed out that even these three other candidates are junior to the respondent no.1 and have joined in 2010-11. 18. Next, it was submitted that the concept of ‘break in service’ is inapplicable in the instant case as the qualifying service of four years has admittedly been met. As noted by the CAT and High Court, the appellant’s contention amounts to inserting an additional requirement into the Circular, which is not supported by the plain language of the Recruitment Regulations, Circular or the Executive Committee decision. It was further submitted that the decision in Sanjeev Kumar Sharma (supra) relied on by the appellants would not help their case, as the question of ‘break in service’ or ‘absorption’ was not an issue before the Delhi High Court. For these reasons, learned counsel sought dismissal of the appeal. ANALYSIS, REASONING & CONCLUSION: 19. Having given our anxious thought, we find that two basic issues need to be addressed before arriving at a final conclusion. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 529 National Highway Authority of India v. G Athipathi and Others 20. Firstly, and most importantly, as to what would be the criteria for considering such one-time promotion to the post of Deputy General Manager (Technical) in terms of the Circular dated 22.05.2017, and; secondly, as to whether the respondent no.1 fulfils such criteria on the relevant date. 21. In the Circular, the language of Clause 6 is very clear and stipulates that a person’s deputation service, if any, rendered on the post of Manager (Technical) in the appellant shall be treated as regular service for the purposes of promotion to the post of Deputy General Manager (Technical) and such promotion would be notional with effect from the date he fulfils the eligibility criteria of promotion but not before the date of absorption of applicants in OA Nos.3696/2014 and 3762/2014 s dated 29.12.2014, subject to recommendations of the Selection Committee.