The dying declaration now shown to me is the same. It is in my hand writing. It bears my signature. It is at exh. 25. The contents therein are true and correct. Thereafter I handed over the statements to the police chauky, Civil hospital, Solapur.” 17. This witness was cross-examined by the defence as there was some discrepancy in his statement as to whether the deceased was in a proper state of mind to give a statement. His examination-in- chief was taken again by the Assistant Public Prosecutor and the witness was declared hostile only to the extent of discrepancy that the patient was not in a position to talk. But nothing substantially 998 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports moves on this aspect, inasmuch as, even if we do not consider the dying declaration of the deceased which was given at 01.30 AM in the night on 27.01.2007, there is sufficient evidence to prove that it was the appellant who had poured kerosene on the deceased which led to the burn injuries and the death of the deceased and the child she was bearing. There is no doubt that an offence under Section 316 has clearly been made out. We only have to examine whether an offence here is under Section 302 of IPC or is it of a lesser magnitude. 18. Having considered the entire evidence at length, we are also of the considered opinion that under the given facts and circumstances of the case, it would not be a case of murder but of culpable homicide not amounting to murder for the reasons which we want to state as under. 19. We have, by and large, accepted the case of the prosecution as to the incident itself. There is sufficient evidence to prove that the burn injury was caused to the deceased by an act done at the hands of the appellant and it was the appellant who had come to his house under the influence of liquor and poured kerosene on his wife while she was cooking food for him on a stove, which resulted in bursting of the stove and causing burn injuries on the deceased. There is also sufficient proof of the fact that the husband and wife were having frequent fights even earlier. This has come out in the deposition of PW-7 and her cross-examination has inspired our confidence as well as that of PW-8 though she is not an eye-witness to the incident. The fact that the deceased gave birth to a stillborn child on the next day i.e., 28.01.2007 while she was still alive and the death was caused by the act of the appellant which we have already stated above, also makes a case under Section 316 of the Indian Penal Code. 20. From every available evidence, which was placed by the prosecution, it is a case where a sudden fight took place between the husband and wife. The deceased at that time was carrying a pregnancy of nine months and it was the act of pouring kerosene on the deceased that resulted in the fire and the subsequent burn injuries and the ultimate death of the deceased.