Another member of the Board did not append his signature and recorded that he had a dissenting view and would pass the detailed on the next date i.e. 12.04.2022. In fact, in terms of Section 7(4) of the Act, the proceeding for determination of the forum, which was to conduct the inquiry or trial, concluded on that day itself, as the opinion of the Principal Magistrate is final. The manner in which the case was dealt with subsequently, is strange. Subsequent dated 12.04.2022 was passed by different members of the Board. The entire proceedings were non-est. There was no error in the application moved by the victim for termination of proceedings before the Board and referring the matter to the Children’s Court, for which an had already been passed by the Principal Magistrate on 05.04.2022. 6.4 It was further argued that merely because proceedings under Section 15 of the Act could not be concluded within three months, by default the CCL will not be tried by the Board. The provision cannot be held to be mandatory, as no consequence of such a default has been provided in the Act. Even proviso to Section 14(4) provides for extension of time in case the inquiry as envisaged under Section 14(1) cannot be concluded within the time prescribed. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 773 Child in Conflict with Law Through his Mother v. The State of Karnataka and Another 6.5 It was further submitted that though there is no direct of this Court in this matter dealing with Section 14(3) of the Act. However, the learned counsel for the State referred to the following s of the Madhya Pradesh, Punjab & Haryana and Delhi High Courts Bhola vs State of Madhya Pradesh14, Neeraj and Others vs State of Haryana15 and X vs. State16. 6.6 It was further argued that the inquiry envisaged under Section 15 of the Act provides for taking opinion from experienced psychologists or psycho-social workers or other experts. The role of investigating officer is also relevant as he is investigating the same. There can be intentional delays caused in the process also to take benefit, in case by default CCL in a heinous offence is to be tried by the Board. As in the case in hand the investigating officer himself took about two months in getting the report from NIMHANS. In such a situation the Board should not be treated as powerless to extend the time for reasons to be recorded. No doubt, in such a matter all the proceedings have to be completed as expeditiously as possible. 6.7 It was further submitted that there is no merit in the arguments raised by the learned counsel for the appellant, to give him liberty to challenge the dated 05.04.2022 in case he has grievance against the same. Much water has flown thereafter. All possible arguments were raised in the revision decided by the High Court, and considered. To give liberty to the appellant to raise the same before a lower authority would be an exercise in futility.