16. But then, it is to be noted that later a five-Judge Constitution Bench in Expeditious Trial of Cases Under Section 138, N.I. Act, 1881, In re (2021) 16 SCC 116 held that observation in Kanchan Mehta’s decision giving discretion to the trial Court “to close the proceedings and discharge the accused”, by reading Section 258, Cr.P.C., which confers the power to stop proceeding in certain cases, ‘not a good law’. In Raj Reddy Kallem’s case (supra), after referring to the above positions this Court further observed that even in Kanchan Mehta’s case (supra) nowhere it was contemplated that ‘compounding’ could be done without the ‘consent’ of the parties. It is worthwhile to note at this juncture that in Raj Reddy Kallem’s case this Court drew nice distinction between ‘quashing of a case’ and ‘compounding an offence’. To drive that point home, this Court referred to the decision in JIK Industries Ltd. case (supra), where this Court distinguished the quashing of a case from compounding as hereunder: - [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1485 A.S. Pharma Pvt. Ltd. v. Nayati Medical Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. “Quashing of a case is different from compounding. In quashing, the Court applies it but in compounding it is primarily based on consent of the injured party. Therefore, the two cannot be equated.” 17. It is in the aforesaid circumstances that we held that the question whether the offence under Section 138, N.I. Act could be compounded invoking the power under Section 147, N.I. Act, without consent of the complainant concerned, is no longer res integra. In short, the position is ‘that an offence under Section 138, N.I. Act could be compounded under Section 147 thereof, only with the consent of the complainant concerned’. In that view of the matter, the impugned of the High Court wherein despite the absence of the consent of the appellant-complainant compounded the offence under Section 138, N.I. Act, on the ground that the appellant was equitably compensated, could not be sustained. 18. In the context of the issues involved another aspect of the matter also requires consideration. The decision in Raj Reddy Kallem’s case (supra), also stands on a similar footing inasmuch as the complainant therein was duly compensated by the accused but the complainant did not agree for compounding the offence. After observing that, Courts could not compel the complainant to give consent for compounding the offence under Section 138, N.I. Act, this Court in Raj Reddy Kallem’s case (supra) took note of the peculiar factual situation obtained and invoked the power under Section 142 of the Constitution of India to quash the proceeding pending against the appellant-accused under Section 138, N.I. Act. True that in Raj Reddy Kallem’s case it was despite the non-consent of the complainant-respondent that the proceedings were quashed against the appellant therein, inter alia, taking note of the fact that the accused therein had compensated the complainant and furthermore deposited the additional amount, as has been ed by this Court. We have no doubt in holding that merely because taking into account such aspects and circumstances this Court ‘quashed’ the proceedings by invocation of the power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, cannot be a reason for ‘compounding’ an offence under Section 138, N.I.