Answering the question whether such of remand by the court can be equated with an act of arrest, the Court held that the purpose of remand as in the case of arrest is to collect evidence during investigation, and thus both amount to one and the same thing. 15. The High Court proceeded to explain that if a new case is registered against a person already in custody in connection with one case, the police in such circumstances can either seek an of remand from the court or arrest the accused, as and when he is released from custody in connection with the other case. The Court explained that it is only in the latter scenario that an of anticipatory bail under Section 438 of the CrPC would become effective because it is only after the accused is released from custody that he can be arrested in relation to the subsequent case. The Court said that the anticipatory bail operates at a future time. After being released from custody in the former case, if he is sought to be arrested in relation to the subsequent case, there is no reason why he should be precluded from approaching the court beforehand with the necessary protection in the form of anticipatory bail. 16. The court clarified that a person cannot be arrested if he is already in custody in connection with some case, however, his right to obtain an anticipatory bail in connection with a different case cannot be curtailed having regard to the scheme of the CrPC. The anticipatory bail, if granted, shall however be effective only if he is arrested in [2024] 9 S.C.R. 275 Dhanraj Aswani v. Amar S. Mulchandani & Anr. connection with the subsequent case consequent upon his release from custody in the previous case. 17. Lastly, the Court observed that there is nothing in the CrPC which takes away the right of the accused to seek his liberty or of the investigating agency to investigate the case only because the accused is in custody in a different case. The Court observed that an accused can exercise his right of moving the court for anticipatory bail just as the investigating agency can exercise its right to investigate the subsequent case by seeking remand of the accused from the court having jurisdiction over the case. Both the rights can co-exist and operate at their respective and appropriate times. The court held that if the application of the investigating agency, seeking remand of the accused whilst he is in custody in connection with the former case, is allowed, the accused can no longer pray for anticipatory bail in the subsequent case, as then he could be said to be technically in custody in connection with the subsequent case also. In such a scenario, the accused can only seek regular bail. The Court further elaborated that the grant of anticipatory bail does not clothe the accused with a licence to avoid investigation or claim any immunity therefrom. 18. We may refer to some of the relevant observations made by the learned Single Judge as under: “13.