However, the boundary which brings members of the same caste together also serves to separate them from innumerable compartments embracing other castes. It further 3 Abhinav Chandrachud, These Seats are Reserved: Caste, Quotas and the Constitution of India (Viking by Penguin Random House India 2023). 1448 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports states that this has resulted in a rigid and detailed subdivision of Hindu society which strongly contrasts with the theory of equalitarian ideas among Moslems and Christians. 12. Paragraph 53 of the Report deals with “the depressed classes”. It states that the depressed classes comprise about 20% of the total population of the British India or about 30% of the Hindu population. They constitute the lowest castes recognized as being within the Hindu religious and social system. It further states that in origin these castes seem to be partly “functional,’’ comprising those who followed occupations held to be unclean or degrading, such as scavenging or leather working, and partly “tribal,” i.e., aboriginal tribes absorbed into the Hindu fold and transformed into an impure caste. It further states that their essential characteristic is that, according to the tenets of orthodox Hinduism, they are, though within the Hindu system, “untouchable,” – that is to say, that for all other Hindus they cause pollution by touch and defile food or water. They are denied access to the interior of an ordinary Hindu temple. It states that they are not only the lowest in the Hindu social and religious system, but with few individual exceptions are also at the bottom of the economic scale and are generally quite uneducated. The Report shows that in the villages they are normally segregated in a separate quarter and very frequently eat food which would not be even touched by any other section of the community. 13. A large proportion of them are landless agricultural labourers employed by cultivators for small remuneration. It states that it was not uncommon for a particular shed in a factory to be reserved for depressed class workers. 14. Paragraph 54 of the Report deals with “Disabilities of the Untouchables”. It states that the actual disabilities, other than religious, suffered by the untouchables owing to their untouchability vary very greatly in different parts of India, not only from province to province, but also in different parts of the same province and even sometimes in different parts of the same district. It states that the two most widespread difficulties are about water and schools. It states that in many places it was customary for the untouchables to be denied access to the wells or tanks used by the other castes and great difficulty has often been found, when a new source of water supply has been provided from public funds by local authorities, in [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1449 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. arranging for the untouchables to have use of it. The Report highlights that if any village draws its water from a river, the untouchables will be required to take their supply from a different point, lower down.