Even the Sessions Court ought to have acted upon the several letters from the Prison and issued notice to the State Government. However, that was not done. Thus, there was an inordinate delay in issuing warrants for executing the death sentence. This delay from June 2017 to April 2019 was entirely avoidable. This also is a delay post-confirmation of the death sentence by this Court, which must be taken into consideration. THE EFFECT OF THE DELAY 34. Thus, on facts, it can be said that there was undue and unexplained delay at all three stages. The undue delays have occurred in placing the mercy petitions before the Hon’ble Governor for the State and the Hon’ble President of India. In the facts of the case, the inordinate delay is on the part of the executive and not on the part of the Constitutional functionaries. 35. The time consumed from the filing of mercy petitions before the Hon’ble Governor to the date of issue of the execution of warrants by the learned Sessions Court, Pune, is of three years, eleven months [2024] 12 S.C.R. 607 State of Maharashtra & Ors. v. Pradeep Yashwant Kokade & Anr. and fourteen days. Even if we exclude the time actually taken by the constitutional functionaries to decide mercy petitions, still the delay will be of more than three years. The Court must consider the cumulative effect of the delays at three stages after taking into consideration the facts of the case. The reason is that in a given case, there may not be an inordinate delay in one stage, but there may be an inordinate delay in two other stages. The only conclusion in this case is that the delay is unexplained and inordinate. Therefore, it is impossible to find fault with the view taken by the High Court that there was a violation of the rights of the convicts guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Therefore, the commutation of the death sentence to a fixed term sentence of thirty-five years by the High Court cannot be faulted. DUTY OF THE EXECUTIVE AND THE SESSIONS COURT 36. The Executive must promptly deal with the mercy petitions filed by the convicts of the death sentence. In this case, the approach of the Executive, and especially the State Government, has been casual and negligent. Even the Sessions Court ought to have been pro-active. When the delay from the date of filing of mercy petitions till the date of issue of a warrant of execution is inordinate and unexplained, the right of the convicts guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India is violated. This right must be upheld, and it is the duty of the Constitutional Courts to do so. 37. We must also consider the rights of the victims of the offences to justice. Their right is to ensure that there is a prompt and proper investigation. However, we hasten to add that there is no right vested in the victim to insist on imposing capital punishment.