Furthermore, the grant of passport to the minor child did not confer any benefit upon the Appellant-wife, nor did it result in any loss or damage to Respondent No. 2. In the same vein, Appellant No. 2, being the father of the Appellant – wife and assisting in securing the passport for the chid, derived no direct or indirect benefit from this action. 17. In this context, the critical inquiry arises: how does the act of forging signatures on the passport application, aimed at obtaining the minor child’s passport, amount to inducing Respondent No. 2 to relinquish any property or valuable security? Examining the situation, it becomes apparent that the aforementioned act does not entail inducement leading to the parting of any property by Respondent No. 2. The nature of the property which can be claimed to have been relinquished or the tangible loss, damage, or injury, if any, suffered by Respondent No. 2 are not visible at all. The unequivocal response to these queries is clearly in the negative. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 635 Mariam Fasihuddin & Anr. v. State by Adugodi Police Station & Anr. 18. Respondent No. 2, the biological father and natural guardian of the minor child, is positioned as such in relation to the grant of a passport to his son. This grant can be best characterised as the minor child’s acquisition of property. Since the gain by the minor child is not at the cost of any loss, damage or injury to Respondent No. 2, both the fundamental elements of ‘deceit’ and ‘damage or injury’, requisite for constituting the offence of cheating are conspicuously absent in this factual scenario. 19. Conversely, can the Appellant – wife, being the natural mother of the child and a natural guardian, be accused of acting `dishonestly’ when applying for the passport of her minor child? A passport, is an authorised instrument which enables a person to travel outside the country of his origin. In this case, the passport was admittedly issued in favour of the minor child. Whether it was stolen by Respondent No. 2 or misplaced, is wholly immaterial to the present discussion. The grant of passport to the minor child is nothing but a right conferred upon him by statute. The passport is meant to facilitate him to accompany his mother to London and stay with his father. However, there is not even a whisper of allegation or suggestion that the passport was obtained to the detriment of the child’s wellbeing. The underlying intent of obtaining the passport was, ironically, essential for the Appellant – wife and minor child to live together with Respondent No. 2, on whose instructions the passport was statedly obtained. Conversely, it is the actions of Respondent No. 2 that have seemingly deprived the minor child of his right to seek the care and company of his father, as the passport was allegedly taken away by Respondent No. 2 in a clandestine manner. 20. The background of this case and the chronology of events squarely indicate that it is the touchstone of a marital dispute.