A reference in this regard may be made to the of this Court in Union of India v. K.A. Najeeb.3 It requires mention that in that case this Court considered the factum that there were 276 witnesses left to be examined which would lead to a prolong trial resulting in no possibility of the trial coming to an end at an early date resulting in suffering of incarceration for a significant period of time by an accused, making it an obligation on the Court on such consideration to enlarge such an accused on bail. It may be mentioned here that the Court was cautious enough to mention that the restrictions under the statute as in this case, Section 43-D (5) of UAPA, 1967 as well as the powers exercisable under the Constitutional jurisdiction by the Court need to be harmonized. 20. At the initial stage, the legislative policy needs to be appreciated and followed by the Courts. Keeping the statutory provisions in mind but with the passage of time the effect of that statutory provision would in fact have to be diluted giving way to the mandate of Part III of the Constitution where the accused as of now is not a convict and is facing the charges. Constitutional right of speedy trial in such circumstances will have precedence over the bar/strict provisions of the statute and cannot be made the sole reason for denial of bail. Therefore, the period of incarceration of an accused could also be a relevant factor to be considered by the constitutional courts not to be merely governed by the statutory provisions. 21. Reference can also be made to the s of this Court in Thwaha Fasal v. Union of India4 as also Javed Gulam Nabi Shaikh v. 3 [2021] 1 SCR 443 : (2021) 3 SCC 713 4 [2021] 8 SCR 797 : (2022) 14 SCC 766 1102 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports State of Maharashtra and Anr.5 where again, the Court was dealing with the provisions of UAPA, 1967 and had reiterated the abovesaid principles. Giving precedence to the protection of Fundamental Rights and emphasising upon their primacy over the statutory provisions in case of delayed trial. In the above s, this Court had even gone to the extent of asserting that the seriousness of the crime for which the accused is facing the trial would not be material as an accused is presumed to be innocent until proven guilty. 22. With these basic principles in mind, we now proceed to consider the position with regard to the present Appeal. The allegations against the Appellant as has been stated above primarily are that he is an active member of the PFI, which according to the prosecution is an organisation committed to bringing about Islamic rule in India. For the said purpose, disharmony and internal conflicts are sought to be brought about within the society so that there is discontentment and the peace and calm within the society gets disturbed. Resort to violence and violent means has also been alleged to be preached and practiced by the said organisation in which the Appellant had been taking an active role.