As noticed above, the Court has taken cognizance of the offence under the UAP Act and charge has also been framed for committing such offence. In our considered opinion, the Sanction Rules would have no application in the cases of this nature because a criminal prosecution cannot be frustrated on mere technicalities.” Though the Special Leave Petition against this was dismissed, however, it was clarified that the question of sanction under Section 45 of the UAPA was not considered. 28.5.3 Taking a diametrically opposite view, the Kerala High Court in Roopesh v. State of Kerala,33 held that the timeline stipulated cannot be taken to be directory, keeping in view the Legislature’s express inclusion of the same, departing from the practice adopted in other similarly placed laws such as TADA or Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002,34 it held as under: “12. The word ‘shall’ used in the Rules of 2008 has a well defined texture as available from the identical ‘shall’ employed in the text of sub-section (1) & (2) of S.45 of the UA(P)A; and the power conferred on the Central Government by S.52 to make rules for carrying out the provisions of the Act. The Rules of 2008 prescribed the time of seven days; as spoken of in the enactment. The Act itself is enacted, to prevent unlawful activities of individuals and associations as also dealing with terrorist activities, which terms are specifically defined under the enactment itself. 33 2022 SCC OnLine Ker 1372 34 ‘POTA’ for short. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 351 Fuleshwar Gope v. Union of India & Ors. The colour is perceivable from the context in which the enactment is saved from the challenge of having infringed the fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution, only on the ground of a reasonable restriction; which has to be construed very strictly. The Parliament, in bringing out the enactment and the Government, in promulgating the Rules had the prior experience of the TADA and POTA as also S.196 Cr.P.C; none of which had a time frame for issuance of sanction. UA(P)A as it was originally enacted, in its Statements of Objects and Reasons, declared it to be in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India, intended to bring in reasonable restrictions to (i) freedom of speech and expression, (ii) right to assemble peaceably and without arms; and (iii) right to form associations or unions. The original enactment by S.17 required a sanction from the Central Government or the authorised officer to initiate prosecution. … 14. The Parliament, in 2008, while enacting Amending Act 35 of 2008 had consciously incorporated the provision requiring a recommendation from an Authority and retained the requirement of sanction from the appropriate Government, as provided in sub-section (1). It was by sub- section (2) that an Authority was contemplated, to make recommendations after reviewing the evidence gathered and a specific time was permitted to be prescribed by rules. The Central Government having brought out the Rules of 2008 specifying the time, within which the recommendation and sanction has to be made, the time is sacrosanct and according to us, mandatory.