“Deduction in respect of contributions made by companies to political parties-In computing the total income of an assessee, being an Indian company, there shall be deducted any sum contributed by it, in the previous year to any political party or an electoral trust: Provided that no deduction shall be allowed under this section in respect of any sum contributed by way of cash.” 80 GGC. “Deduction in respect of contributions made by any person to political parties- In computing the total income of an assessee, being any person, except local authority and every artificial juridical person wholly or partly funded by the Government, there shall be deducted any amount of contribution made by him, in the previous year, to a political party [or an electoral trust] : [Provided that no deduction shall be allowed under this section in respect of any sum contributed by way of cash.] Explanation.Fo—r the purposes of sections 80GGB and 80GGC, “political party” means a political party registered under section 29A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951).” 18 IT Act, amendment to Proviso (b) to Section 13A 19 IT Act, Proviso (d) to Section 13A 458 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports other than Government companies in that financial year. The report prepared must be submitted to the Election Commission before the due date for furnishing a return of income of that financial year under the IT Act.”° A political party which fails to submit the report shall not be entitled to any tax relief as provided under the IT Act.?' 15. The provision was amended by the Finance Act 2017 to include a proviso by which the political party was not required to disclose details of contributions received by electoral bonds. Annexure | to this depicts in a tabular form the amendments to the provisions of the RP Act, the IT Act, the Companies Act, and the RBI Act by the Finance Act 2017. 16. The effect of the amendments introduced by the Finance Act to the above legislations is that: a. Anew scheme for financial contribution to political parties is introduced in the form of electoral bonds; b. The political parties need not disclose the contributions received through electoral bonds; c. Companies are not required to disclose the details of contributions made in any form; and d. Unlimited corporate funding is permissible. iv. Objections of RBI and ECI to the Electoral Bond Scheme 17. On 2 January 2017, the RBI wrote a letter to the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Finance on the proposal of the Government of India to enable Scheduled Banks to issue electoral bearer bonds for the purpose of donations to political parties before the Finance Act 2017 was enacted. The RBI objected to the proposal on the ground that: a. 16 amendment would enable multiple non-sovereign entities to issue bearer instruments. The proposal militated against RBI’s sole authority for issuing bearer instruments which has the potential of becoming currency. Electoral bonds can undermine the faith in banknotes issued by the Central Bank if the bonds are issued in sizable quantities; 20 RPA, Section 29C (3) 21 RPA, Section 29C (4) [2024] 2 S.C.R.