It was further alleged that R was forced to remove his clothes in front of the other officials and that both the appellant and R were taken to a Civil Hospital where they were forced to undergo a medical examination against their will. The medical examination of the appellant was also alleged to have been conducted by a male doctor. Furthermore, it was alleged that when the appellant and R filed a complaint against M, the respondent threatened them to withdraw the same. The Court stated that none of the acts alleged against the respondent, can by any stretch of imagination, be held to have been carried out in his capacity as an Executive Magistrate. Hence, the invocation of Section 197 CrPC was wholly uncalled for. While emphasizing that the test of direct and reasonable connection between the official duty of the accused and the acts allegedly committed by him is the true test, the Court stressed that public functionaries cannot, under the cloak of the purported discharge of official duties, resort to the harassment and humiliation of the citizens on the pretext of a complaint having been received by them. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: [2024] 12 S.C.R. 815 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. “63. The test of direct and reasonable connection between the official duty of the accused and the acts allegedly committed by them is, therefore, the true test to be applied while deciding whether the protection of Section 197 CrPC is available to a public servant accused of the commission of an offence. The High Court has not adverted to this test nor has it held that there existed a direct and reasonable connection between the official duty being discharged by the accused public servant and the acts committed by him. The High Court has on the contrary misdirected itself when it said that the accused had only committed an act of omission towards his official duties which entitled him to the protection of Section 197 of the Code. 65. It is difficult to appreciate what the High Court meant by saying that the acts of the accused were “at best acts of omission towards official duty”. It was not the case of the respondent before the High Court nor is it his case before us that the complaint filed by Maya Devi disclosed any offence which could be taken cognizance of by him as an Executive Magistrate or investigated by the police. Assuming that the complainant and R.C. Chopra were living together even when they were not married to each other, the complaint regarding any such relationship could be filed only by the wife of R.C. Chopra, or the husband of the complainant Urmila Devi. The complaint filed by Maya Devi could not provide a valid basis for the SDM, the Tahsildar or the Deputy Superintendent of Police concerned to barge into the house of the complainant, humiliate or harass her or drag her to the police station without the registration of any case or subject her to an uncalled for medical examination.