The word encumbrances means a burden or charge upon property or a claim or lien upon an estate or on the land. Encumber means burden of legal liability on property, and therefore, when there is encumbrance on a land, it constitutes a burden on the title which diminishes the value of the land. But where the land acquired by the State is free from all encumbrances, it vests [2024] 2 S.C.R. 895 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others absolutely and free from all encumbrances. In such a case, it would be an incidence of transfer of ownership from the owner of the land to the Government as there would be divesting of land from its true owner. 14.9 Amongst the distinct kinds of ownerships, a trust ownership and beneficial ownership is relevant to the case. A trust is a very important and curious instance of duplicate ownership. According to Salmond, the trust property is that which is owned by two persons at the same time, the relation between the two owners being such that one of them is under an obligation to use his ownership for the benefit of the other. The former is called the ‘trustee’ and his ownership is the ‘trust ownership’; the latter is called the ‘beneficiary’ and his is beneficial ownership. 14.10 The trustee’s ownership of any property is a matter of form rather than a substance and nominal rather than real. A trustee is not effectively an owner at all but in essence a mere agent, upon whom the law has conferred the power and imposed the duty of administering the property of another person. The trustee is a person to whom the property, substantially that of someone else is technically attributed by the law on the footing that the rights and powers that it vests under him are to be used by him on behalf of the real owner. As between the trustee and beneficiary, the law recognises that the property belongs to the latter and not to the former. But as between the trustee and the third persons, the fiction prevails, inasmuch as the trustee is clothed with the rights of his beneficiary and personate or represent him in dealings with the world at large. This principle is actuated under various provisions of the Act including Section 8 thereof vis-à-vis an enemy who is the owner of a property and the Custodian in whom the property vests under the provisions of the Act. This position becomes clear on a reading of the Rules under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 and 1971 as discussed above. 14.11 Thus, the trusteeship is to protect the rights and interests of persons, who, for any reason are unable effectively to protect them for themselves. The law vests those rights and interests for safe custody in a trustee, who is capable of guarding them 896 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and dealing with them and who is placed under an obligation to use it for the benefit of him to whom they in truth belong.