Digital Supreme Court Reports Commerce in favour of Appellant’s grandfather mentioning his caste as ‘Sikh-Chamar’; and (ii) the Indenture of Tenancy of year 1932 in favour of great grandfather of Appellant as his residence proof, proving his migration from Punjab to Maharashtra prior to issuance of Presidential in 1950. The Scrutiny Committee also extensively referred to pedigree table of Appellant tracing the genealogy of caste of Appellant’s forefathers as ‘Mochi’. The said fact was also affirmed by Vigilance squad which made a personal site visit in Punjab and confirmed the truthfulness/genuineness of the contents of the pedigree documents from the locals as well as authorities concerned. Although the said documents were not admitted by the Scrutiny Committee for them not being in ‘complete form’, however, notably these documents were neither objected nor debated by the complainant. Be that as it may, once the Scrutiny Committee after hearing the contesting parties and evaluating the documents on record reached on conclusion based on its satisfaction and application of mind, the question that arises for consideration of this Court in the particular facts of this case is that how far the High Court was justified in completely overturning the findings of Scrutiny Committee in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India by re-appraisal of the entire evidence on record? 14. The entire sum and substance of the Respondents’ arguments before this Court and High Court is that the Appellant has forged and fabricated the documents to obtain her caste validity certificate. In our view, it is a disputed question of facts and can only be sustained by leading evidence. Admittedly in the present case, on remand by High Court, the parties appeared before the Scrutiny Committee, filed objections and led evidence. They were heard and after due consideration of all the material brought on record, the Scrutiny Committee, delineated the objections and passed the detailed validating the caste certificate of the Appellant primarily on the anvil of report submitted by Vigilance Cell and report of home enquiry and also held that other documents produced by the contesting parties are inadmissible. So far as question of admissibility of bona-fide certificate dated 11.02.2014 issued in favour of Appellant’s grandfather is concerned, the Scrutiny Committee recorded its satisfaction and formed opinion that the said certificate is a competent evidence and held it as admissible after verification of the students’ original register which recorded the date of admission of Appellant’s grandfather as [2024] 4 S.C.R. 145 Navneet Kaur Harbhajansing Kundles @ Navneet Kaur Ravi Rana v. State of Maharashtra and Other 16.11.1946. The complainants have not raised any oral or written objection regarding this document before the Scrutiny Committee. The primary grievance of the complainants before the Scrutiny Committee was that they were not allowed to cross-examine the Vice-Principal of the said college who came to present the original record. However, the present case herein is not that the said grievance was not considered by the Committee or that it had a biased or favourable approach towards the applicant.