According to him, if the argument of the Appellant is accepted, the result would be that the Director (Discipline), who is merely a Secretary to the Board of Discipline, would have greater powers than the Board itself. This is because the Board would not be able to overrule the prima facie view taken by the Director (Discipline). The Board could, at best, direct the Director (Discipline) to conduct further investigation and nothing more. It is submitted that the legislature would not have intended such a consequence. There is nothing in the scheme of the Act to suggest that the Board cannot refer the matter to the Disciplinary Committee for further action. 11. Therefore, considering the arguments canvassed on behalf of both sides, the following question falls for our consideration: “Whether Rule 9(3)(b) of the Rules, 2007 is inconsistent with and beyond the rule-making power of the Central Government?” Relevant provisions in the Act and Rules: 12. It may be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the Act in to better understand the scheme of the applicable law pertaining to investigation of complaints alleging misconduct. The relevant provisions are extracted hereinbelow: “21. Disciplinary Directorate. - (1) The Council shall, by notification, establish a Disciplinary Directorate headed by an officer of the Institute designated as Director (Discipline) and such other employees for making investigations in respect of any information or complaint received by it. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 201 Naresh Chandra Agrawal v. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and Others (2) On receipt of any information or complaint along with the prescribed fee, the Director (Discipline) shall arrive at a prima facie opinion on the occurrence of the alleged misconduct. (3) Where the Director (Discipline) is of the opinion that a member is guilty of any professional or other misconduct mentioned in the First Schedule, he shall place the matter before the Board of Discipline and where the Director (Discipline) is of the opinion that a member is guilty of any professional or other misconduct mentioned in the Second Schedule or in both the Schedules, he shall place the matter before the Disciplinary Committee. (4) In to make investigations under the provisions of this Act, the Disciplinary Directorate shall follow such procedure as may be specified. (5) Where a complainant withdraws the complaint, the Director (Discipline) shall place such withdrawal before the Board of Discipline or, as the case may be, the Disciplinary Committee, and the said Board or Committee may, if it is of the view that the circumstances so warrant, permit the withdrawal at any stage. 21A. Board of Discipline. — (1) The Council shall constitute a Board of Discipline consisting of-- (a) a person with experience in law and having knowledge of disciplinary matters and the profession, to be its presiding officer. (b) two members one of whom shall be a member of the Council elected by the Council and the other member shall be nominated by the Central Government from amongst the persons of eminence having experience in the field of law, economics, business, finance or accountancy.