According to the submission, the above report also includes an extract from the post-mortem report which indicated that the cause of death was due to head injuries resulting from a “blunt force impact”. The estimated time of death was determined to be between forty-eight and seventy-two hours before the conduct of the post-mortem. 6. In support of the claim that compensation ought to be awarded to the appellant, Mr Hansaria submitted that: a. It is not necessary to produce a valid ticket to claim compensation under Section 124A of the Railways Act 1989,3 in view of the decision in Union of India v Rina Devi;4 b. The law laid down by this Court in successive decisions has clarified the test by which the amount of compensation under the Railways Act must be computed, including the entitlement of the claimant in case of an increase in the permissible amount; and c. The appellant should be awarded interest as admissible in law. 7. In response, the respondent argued that the appellant had not provided a reason for the delay in the discovery of the body of the deceased. It argued that other employees of the Railways were bound to have chanced upon the body in the days after the alleged 2 “IO” 3 “Railways Act” 4 [2018] 4 SCR 417 : (2019) 3 SCC 572 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 395 Doli Rani Saha v. Union of India date of death. It supported the s of the Tribunal and the High Court. 8. Written submissions have been submitted on behalf of the appellant as well as the respondent. B. Decisions of the Railway Claims Tribunal and the High Court 9. Before turning to the issue at hand, it is necessary to briefly advert to the s of the Tribunal and the High Court. The Tribunal framed the following issues for consideration: a. Whether the deceased was a bona fide passenger of the train in question on the date of incident; b. Whether the incident as alleged in the claim application took place and was covered within the definition of an untoward incident under Section 123(c) of the Railways Act; and c. Whether the appellant was entitled to compensation, and what the relief should be, if any. 10. The appellant (AW-1) deposed in support of the claim, together with her cousin, Deepak Saha (AW-2). Both witnesses were cross examined. The railways did not produce either oral or documentary evidence. After considering the material on record and hearing the parties, the Tribunal found as follows: a. No ticket was found with the deceased, whose body was found on 8 September 2003; b. Neither AW-1 nor AW-2 were eye witnesses to the death; c. There was nothing else on record to show that the deceased boarded the train; and d. The appellant was required to produce the best evidence but did not do so. The report of the IO was not sufficient to rebut the presumption under Section 191 of the Railways Act. The Tribunal concluded that there was no evidence to prove that the deceased died as a consequence of falling off the train.