It is neither advisable nor possible to enumerate all the grounds on which such a petition may be entertained. 51. Nevertheless, we think that a petitioner is entitled to relief ex debito justitiae if he establishes (1) violation of the principles of natural justice in that he was not a party to the lis but the adversely affected his interests or, if he was a party to the lis, he was not served with notice of the proceedings and the matter proceeded as if he had notice, and (2) where in the proceedings a learned Judge failed to disclose his connection with the subject-matter or the parties giving scope for an apprehension of bias and the adversely affects the petitioner. 52. The petitioner, in the curative petition, shall aver specifically that the grounds mentioned therein had been taken in the review petition and that it was dismissed by circulation. The curative petition shall contain a certification [2024] 2 S.C.R. 767 M/S Brahmaputra Concrete Pipe Industries Etc. Etc. v. The Assam State Electricity Board and Others by a Senior Advocate with regard to the fulfilment of the above requirements. 53. We are of the view that since the matter relates to re-examination of a final of this Court, though on limited ground, the curative petition has to be first circulated to a Bench of the three seniormost Judges and the Judges who passed the complained of, if available. It is only when a majority of the learned Judges on this Bench conclude that the matter needs hearing that it should be listed before the same Bench (as far as possible) which may pass appropriate s. It shall be open to the Bench at any stage of consideration of the curative petition to ask a Senior Counsel to assist it as amicus curiae. In the event of the Bench holding at any stage that the petition is without any merit and vexatious, it may impose exemplary costs on the petitioner. 54. Insofar as the present writ petitions are concerned, the Registry shall process them, notwithstanding that they do not contain the averment that the grounds urged were specifically taken in the review petitions and the petitions were dismissed in circulation.” 9. As would be evident from the aforesaid passages of the said , one of the pre-conditions for filing a curative petition is that the petitioner must specifically aver that the grounds mentioned in such petition had been taken in the review petition and that it was dismissed by circulation. This is contained in paragraph 52 of the said report. The grounds on which a curative petition could be founded have been specified in paragraph 51 of the report in the case Rupa Ashok Hurra (supra). The provision pertaining to filing of curative petitions have been incorporated in XLVIII of the 2013 Rules. The said Rules, along with its sub-clauses is reproduced below:- “ XLVIII CURATIVE PETITION 1. Curative Petitions shall be governed by of the Court dated 10’” April, 2002 delivered in the case of ‘Rupa Ashok Hurrah v. Ashok Hurrah and Ors.’ in Writ Petition (C) No.