106C, situated at Narikeldanga North Road, Kolkata – 7000111, belongs to Mr. Birinchi Bihari Shah2 having succeeded it through a deed of settlement executed by his father. As Birinchi Shah was minor at the time when his father passed away, his elder brother managed and administered the Property and, in that process, he also let out the premises admeasuring 2 bighas 18 kathas 6 chitaks and 40 square feet in favour of one M/s Arora Film Corporation. Upon attaining majority, the Property was mutated in the name of Birinchi Shah in the assessment book of the appellant-Corporation. It is affirmatively stated that all municipal dues including taxes with respect to the Property were paid regularly. It is also stated that the appellant-Corporation acknowledged the same and by its letter dated 07.04.2000 admitting that there are no outstanding dues with respect to property tax. 1 Hereinafter, referred to as the “Property”. 2 Hereinafter, referred to as “Birinchi Shah”. 840 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3. In the year 2009, when an attempt was made by the appellant- Corporation to forcefully enter and occupy the Property, Birinchi Shah filed a writ petition being W.P. No. 126 of 2009 before the High Court seeking a restraint against the appellant-Corporation. 4. As there was no real contest about the title in the Property and the appellant-Corporation having not filed any affidavit-in-opposition, the High Court disposed of the writ petition by an dated 17.09.2009 directing that the appellant-Corporation must hold an enquiry about the encroachments. The High Court further directed the appellant- Corporation not to make any construction over the Property. 5. In July 2010, Birinchi Shah received information that the appellant- Corporation had deleted his name from the category of owner and had inserted its own name in the official records. Aggrieved, he approached the High Court by filing a writ petition bearing W.P. No. 981 of 2010, not only for correction of the entries but also to restrain the appellant-Corporation from interfering with his peaceful possession over the Property. What happened in this writ petition is of seminal importance. The learned single Judge, by an dated 08.01.2015, recorded the statement of the appellant-Corporation that they are unable to controvert the averments made in the writ petition with respect to title and ownership of the Property. The writ petition was disposed of restraining the appellant-Corporation from interfering with the possession of Birinchi Shah and also injuncted them from giving effect to the wrongful recording of its name in the official records. The appellant-Corporation was also directed to remove its men and material from the Property within two weeks from the date of the said . The specific finding of the High Court that the appellant-Corporation could not establish its right and the title in the Property is significant. 6. Dissatisfied, the appellant-Corporation filed a writ appeal bearing A.P.O. No. 51 of 2015 against the of the single Judge and contended that their affidavit-in-opposition could not be filed before the Single Judge as the records were misplaced.