1’s account cannot be directly adjusted for the invoices raised by the respondent no. 2. It further stated that, the petitioner company should first make payment to the respondent no. 2 towards the invoices that have been raised, and thereafter, the respondent no. 1 company would remit the outstanding credit balance to the petitioner. The relevant portion of the respondent’s email dated 23.10.2012 is reproduced below: - “Dt. 23.10.2012 Subject: Account Statement Dear Sir, Kindly note that from Arif Azim we need to receive USD 109500 for sales made in MMX India and Need to pay USD 190625 in respect of advance received respect of sale to be made in FZE. Both these accounts are of separate Cos. Hence we should first receive payment of MMX India account; then let Micromax FZE pay to Arif. Regards, Anita” 11. On 15.01.2013, the petitioner made the requisite payment of $109,500/- (USD One hundred nine thousand five hundred), which was now payable directly to the respondent no. 2 towards the aforesaid invoices raised by it. Thereafter, it appears from the materials on record, that over a period of time many more transactions took place between the petitioner company and respondent no. 1 inter-alia for purchase and supply of various products whereby the credit balance lying in the respondent no.1’s account in favour of the petitioner company now came out to be $88,425/- (USD Eighty-Eight Thousand Four Hundred Twenty-Five). 12. On 09.09.2019, the petitioner vide an email again requested Shri Vikas Jain to confirm the credit balance lying in its favour with the respondent no. 1 and to undertake steps to transfer the same to the petitioner’s account. In response, Shri Vikas Jain directed the finance department of respondent no. 1 to confirm the credit balance lying 1154 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports with it in favour of the petitioner and further requested the petitioner to furnish its statement of account so that the two books of account may be reconciled for making the requisite payment. 13. Thereafter, several more correspondences took place between the petitioner and Shri Vikas Jain on behalf of the respondents through emails and texts inter-alia requesting for various documents and statements for the purpose of ascertaining the outstanding credit balance in favour of the petitioner. On 06.05.2022, the petitioner furnished the necessary statement of accounts to the respondents and requested for an update on the payment. 14. It appears from the material on record, that over the next 2-months several requests were made by the petitioner to the respondents for furnishing the outstanding credit balance in its favour and to make the requisite payment; however, the same were to no avail. Shri Vikas Jain, on behalf of the respondents’ time to time expressed his difficulty in ascertaining the exact figure for the outstanding credit balance, inter-alia citing that it was a very old running account and that the accountants responsible for maintaining the records had left the company, and thus requested for more time to do the needful.