b. Further, the said communication shows that the chargeable distance was a matter of “correction” made after “critically reviewing” the old distance tables, and thus, indicating that the chargeable distance of 444 km was illegal. c. The respondent, upon enquiry from the concerned railway office came to learn, that there been no change in either the physical tracks or the route to warrant a change in the chargeable distance from 444 km to 334 km. 123. The respondents have more than sufficiently showcased, how and why the chargeable distance of 444 km appears to be illegal. However, [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1135 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. in response to the same the appellants herein have stated that, the chargeable distance of 444 km was correct as per the old distance table and the old methodology as prevailing, but have not been in a position to explain nor provide any documents to substantiate how the same was correct. Thus, except for a bald assertion, no other foundation has been laid for offering such a claim. 124. Despite the aforesaid, we ourselves have undertaken the pains of examining the validity of the chargeable distance of 444 km. A close reading of the Ministry of Railway’s letter dated 07.04.2004 regarding the new rationalization methodology and a careful analysis of a small portion of the old distance table that was prevailing vis-à-vis the current distance table would give some insight and clarity over the old methodology that was being used to calculate the chargeable distance. For the purposes of explanation, the said distance tables are reproduced below: - Figure 1: Distance Table as per the Old Methodology In the above distance table: - ● “. .” indicates the Originating Point, i.e., the station of origin from which the goods are booked / loaded for carriage. ● Chargeable Distance from one station to another is calculated by the aggregate of the distance of all stations between the Originating Station and the Destination Station. 1136 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports ● For example, the chargeable distance from Baad to Mathura is calculated by the actual engineering distance between the two pair of stations. ● “(A)” to “(B)” indicates the actual engineering distance between Baad and Mathura. ● “(C)” indicates the chargeable distance which is calculated by adding the distance between (A) & (B) and thereafter rounding off the aggregate to the next kilometre. Figure 2: Distance Table as per the New Methodology xxx --- xxx --- xxx 125. The striking difference between the Old Distance Table in Figure 1 and the New Distance Table in Figure 2 is that under the old methodology the distance between each station is being rounded-off, whereas in the new methodology the distance between each station is not rounded-off, and rather is indicated up-to two decimal points. Thus, in the Old Distance Table the chargeable distance between (A) Baad and (B) Mathura comes out to be (C) 11 km whereas under the New Distance Table distance between (A1) Baad and (B1) Mathura distance is indicated as 10.22 and upon rounding it off, the chargeable distance would come out to (C1) 11Km.