[2024] 5 S.C.R. 87 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 5001 of 2024 From the and dated 19.03.2021 of the High Court for the state of Telangana at Hyderabad in IA No. 3 of 2019 Appearances for Parties Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, Neeraj Kishan Kaul, L. Narasimha Reddy, Sr. Advs., Sravan Kumar Karanam, Ms. Manisha Chava, Annirudh Singh, Ms. Pranali Tayade, Ms. Shireesh Tyagi, Mrs. Medha Singh, P. Santhosh Kumar, Dharmesh Dk Jaiswal, Ms. Ira Mahajan, Manoj C. Mishra, Advs. for the appearing parties. / of the Supreme Court M. M. Sundresh, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. The statement made by the Tribal Chief Seattle, way back in the year 1854, in his letter to the offer of George Washington, the former First President of the United States of America, to buy their land, is a pearl of wisdom not understood by the ignorant, educated modern mind. “Every part of the earth is sacred to my people. Every shining pine needle, every sandy shore, every mist in the dark woods, every meadow, every humming insect. All are holy in the memory and experience of my people. xxx xxx xxx This we know: the earth does not belong to man; man belongs to the earth. All things are connected like the blood that unites us all. Man did not weave the web of life; he is merely a strand in it. Whatever he does to the web, he does to himself.” 3. A well merited , passed in A.S. No. 145 of 1994 by the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad for the State of Telangana and the State of Andhra Pradesh, decided on a conscious consideration of the issues raised before it, confirming the one rendered by the Trial Court, was reviewed like an Appellate Court, based upon the materials that emanated after its filing, at the instance of a party defendant in 88 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports whose favour a decree was granted and that too by acting without the requisite jurisdiction, is under challenge in this appeal. 4. We are dealing with a case where an instrumentality of the State, despite a categorical finding of the suit property being a forest land, took different stands, but finally rectified by way of an affidavit before this Court. This act of taking different stands resulted in facilitating the impugned being passed in favour of the respondents, setting aside the concurrent s rendered by two courts below, on appreciation of fact and law. 5. Heard Learned Additional Solicitor General Ms. Aishwarya Bhati for Appellants and Learned Senior Counsel Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, Mr. L Narsimha Reddy for Respondents, perused the entire record, including the affidavits filed. THE ANDHRA PRADESH FOREST ACT, 1967 6. The Andhra Pradesh Forest Act, 1967 (hereinafter referred to as “the A.P. Forest Act”) has been enacted with a laudable objective of conserving, protecting and extending the forest cover, with a sound mechanism to deal with all the disputes arising thereunder while declaring land as reserved forest.