The respondent-tenant, in opposition thereto, filed an application seeking the rejection of the plaint, on the grounds of jurisdiction, and for the premises to be governed under the Tenancy Act alleging particularly that, possession has been sought in respect of a lease that is yet undetermined; the claim is bad in law, illegal and arbitrary; the suit has been misvalued and the plaint is insufficiently stamped, among others. The same came to be rejected by the concerned Court by dated 3rd February 20153. It was observed: – “…Without a full-fledged trial and evidence the court cannot come to conclusion that the averments made in the plaint are false and frivolous or that there is any suppression of material fact. Notice of determination of lease, if not at all served upon the defendant and if it is mandatory, then the suit may fill in future. But that cannot come under the ambit of the provision of O 7 R 11 CPC. This court cannot take the view for rejection of plaint without giving or affording opportunity to the parties to bring evidence justifying their plea. On the other hand, because of action of the suit has to be found out on the conjoint reading of all paragraphs of the plaint. Because of 3 Annexure P 11 of the paper book at page 132 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 863 Bijay Kumar Manish Kumar HUF v. Ashwin Bhanulal Desai action does not mean only a date. Above all, the Plaintiff has specifically mentioned cause of action in paragraph 15 of the plaint. The allegations or the averments made in the plaint has to be proved by the Plaintiff had the time of trial by producing evidence and it is the duty of the Plaintiff to prove that the lease has been determined properly or not.” Allowing the matter not to rest there, the respondent-tenant pursued the matter further. The High Court, in its Civil Revisional Jurisdiction under Article 227 of the Constitution of India, vide dated 31st March 20154 upheld the dismissal of the application under VII Rule 11. Eventually, this Court vide and dated 12th December 20185 directed the remand of the matter, observing thus: – “9. Taking into consideration the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, since the suit is still in the preliminary stage, we dispose of the appeal is directing the trial court to frame the issue, relating to the maintainability of the suit and applicability of enactments, as mentioned supra and decide the same in accordance with law as a preliminary issue as expeditiously as possible, preferably within a period of 6 months from the date of communication of this .” 4. The Trial Court thereafter framed the following issues:- "1. Is the suit triable under the provisions of the W.B.P.T Act, 1997 or the Transfer of Property Act 1882? 2. Whether the suit is maintainable as framed or at all?” 5. The Trial Court in all four suits, answered the issues in favour of the plaintiff, primarily on the ground that since the tenancy, subject matter of the suit, was created with w.e.f.