… The fact that no clear-cut guidelines or distinguishing features have been spelt out to ascertain whether it belongs to one or the other category makes the task of identification difficult. The semantics associated with interpretation play their role to a limited extent. Ultimately, it is a matter of probe into legislative intention and/or taking an insight into the working of the enactment if one or the other view is adopted. The doctrinaire approach to ascertain whether the legislation is by incorporation or reference is, on ultimate analysis, directed towards that end. The distinction often pales into insignificance with the exceptions enveloping the main rule.” 123. In the case in hand, it is clear that both these Acts are self-contained codes within themselves. The State Legislature while enacting the MRTP Act has referred to the specific sections of the Land Acquisition Act in the provisions of the State Act. None of the sections require application of the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act generally or mutatis mutandis. On 32 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the contrary, there is a specific reference to certain sections and/or content/language of the section of the Land Acquisition Act in the provisions of the MRTP Act.” [Emphasis supplied] 37. This Court has held that once a finding is recorded that an Act is a self-contained code, then the application of either of the doctrines i.e. “legislation by reference” or “legislation by incorporation” would lose their significance particularly when the two Acts can coexist and operate without conflict. 38. This Court further held that, in case of general reference in the Act in question to an earlier Act but there being no specific mention of the provisions of the former Act, then it would clearly be considered as ‘legislation by reference’. In such a case, the amending laws of the former Act would become applicable to the later Act. However, when the provisions of an Act are specifically referred and incorporated in the later statute, then those provisions alone are applicable and the amending provisions of the former Act would not become part of the later Act. 39. This Court in the case of Girnar Traders (supra) held that, if the legislature intended to apply the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act generally and wanted to make a general reference, it could have said that the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act would be applicable to the MRTP Act, 1966. This Court observed that such expression was conspicuous by its very absence. This Court held that both these Acts i.e. Land Acquisition Act and the MRTP Act, 1966 are self-contained codes within themselves. This Court observed that the State Legislature while enacting the MRTP Act, 1966 has referred to the specific sections of the Land Acquisition Act in the provisions of the State Act. This Court further observed that none of the sections require application of the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act generally or mutatis mutandis. On the contrary, there was a specific reference to certain sections and/or content/ language of the section of the Land Acquisition Act in the provisions of the MRTP Act, 1966.