681 Omkar Ramchandra Gond v. The Union of India & Ors. As is clear, it is the Constitutional goal of our nation that within the limits of its economic capacity and development, the State was to make effective provisions for securing the right to education including for the persons with disabilities. 17. The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 replaced the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation), Act 1995. The 2016 Act was a sequel to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Convention laid down principles to be followed by the States Parties for empowerment of persons with disabilities. The Convention laid down the following principles for empowerment of persons with disabilities, which the Act seeks to implement:- (i) respect for inherent dignity, individual autonomy including the freedom to make one’s own choices, and independence of persons; (ii) Non-discrimination; (iii) full and effective participation and inclusion in society; (iv) respect for difference and acceptance of persons with disabilities as part of human diversity and humanity; (v) equality of opportunity; (vi) accessibility; (vii) equality between men and women; (viii) respect for the evolving capacities of children with disabilities and respect for the right of children with disabilities to preserve their identities; (Emphasis supplied) 18. The RPwD Act has several salutary provisions. For the purpose of our case, special emphasis needs to be provided on Sections 2(m), 2(r), 2(y), 3, 15 and 32. They are extracted herein below. “2(m) “inclusive education” means a system of education wherein students with and without disability learn together and the system of teaching and learning is suitably adapted to meet the learning needs of different types of students with disabilities; 682 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2(r) “person with benchmark disability” means a person with not less than forty per cent of a specified disability where specified disability has not been defined in measurable terms and includes a person with disability where specified disability has been defined in measurable terms, as certified by the certifying authority; 2(y) “reasonable accommodation” means necessary and appropriate modification and adjustments, without imposing a disproportionate or undue burden in a particular case, to ensure to persons with disabilities the enjoyment or exercise of rights equally with others; 3. Equality and non-discrimination.- (1) The appropriate Government shall ensure that the persons with disabilities enjoy the right to equality, life with dignity and respect for his or her integrity equally with others. (2) The appropriate Government shall take steps to utilise the capacity of persons with disabilities by providing appropriate environment. (3) No person with disability shall be discriminated on the ground of disability, unless it is shown that the impugned act or omission is a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim. (4) No person shall be deprived of his or her personal liberty only on the ground of disability. (5) The appropriate Government shall take necessary steps to ensure reasonable accommodation for persons with disabilities. 15. Designation of authorities to support.- (1) The appropriate Government shall designate one or more authorities to mobilise the community and create social awareness to support persons with disabilities in exercise of their legal capacity.