The Appropriate Authority is not required to record reasons for concluding that it has reason to believe that an offence under the 1994 Act has been or is being committed. But, there has to be a rational basis to form that belief. However, the decision to take action under sub-section (1) of Section 30 must be of the Appropriate Authority and not of its individual members. 13. Under the notification dated 7th November 2013, the Appropriate Authority for the district consists of the Civil Surgeon, the District Program Officer of the Women and Child Development Department, and the District Attorney. The Civil Surgeon is the Chairman of the appropriate authority. Looking at the object of sub-section (1) of Section 30 and the express language used therein, only the Chairman or any other member acting alone cannot authorise search under sub-section (1) of Section 30. It must be a decision of the Appropriate Authority. If a single member of the Appropriate Authority authorises a search, it will be completely illegal being contrary to sub-section (1) of Section 30. If the law requires a particular thing to be done in a particular manner, the same shall be done in that manner only. In the present case, going by the affidavit filed by Dr Virender Yadav, the Chairman of the District Appropriate Authority cum-Civil Surgeon, Gurugram, the decision to conduct a search by appointing three officers by dated 27th April 2017 was only his decision purportedly taken in his capacity as the Chairman of the Appropriate Authority. Admittedly, the other two members of the appropriate authority are not parties to the said decision. The Civil Surgeon has given the excuse of urgency. The Appropriate authority doesn’t need to have a physical meeting. The Civil Surgeon could have held a video meeting with the other two members. However, when a video meeting is held, every member must be made aware of the complaint or the material on which a decision will be made. It was a matter of a few minutes. 14. Therefore, in the facts of the case, no legal decision was made by the Appropriate Authority in terms of sub-section (1) of Section 30 to search for the appellant’s clinic. As stated earlier, sub-section (1) [2024] 9 S.C.R. 407 Ravinder Kumar v. State of Haryana of Section 30 provides a safeguard by laying down that only if the Appropriate Authority has reason to believe that an offence under the 1994 Act has been committed or is being committed that a search can be authorized. In this case, there is no decision of the Appropriate Authority, and the decision to carry out the search is an individual decision of the Civil Surgeon, who was the Chairman of the concerned Appropriate Authority. Therefore, the action of search is itself vitiated. 15. There is another factual aspect of the case. The seizure Memo dated 27th April 2017 (Annexure P-4) contains the names of three persons. The Seizure Memo records that on 27th April 2017, the District Appropriate Authority constituted a team comprising three members whose names were stated in the seizure memo.