97. He submitted that the entire gamut of proceedings before this Court in the Main Appeals have emanated from an interlocutory application filed in S.A. No. 46 of 2022 and that the very substantive 1660 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports and procedural aspects relating to the Bank’s measures the under SARFAESI Act and Rules thereunder are still pending adjudication. 98. In the last, Mr. Sibal submitted that the Subsequent Transferee had to borrow significant amount for purchasing the Secured Asset from its financiers who now have the title deeds to the property as security against the loan taken by it. He submitted that if the reliefs sought by the petitioner are granted grave prejudice and hardship would be caused to the Subsequent Transferee. Accordingly he prayed that the present contempt petition and the miscellaneous applications be dismissed and the Subsequent Transferee be permitted to pursue the S.A. No. 46 of 2022 pending before the DRT. iv. Submissions of the Bank/the respondent no. 3. 99. Mr. Raju Ramachandran, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Bank submitted that this Court in its decision in the Main Appeals categorically held that under the amended Section 13(8) of SARFAESI Act, the right of the borrower to redeem a secured asset stands extinguished on the date of publication of public auction notice and overruled the impugned of the High Court that had allowed the Borrower to redeem the mortgage. 100. He submitted that in the said decision, this Court not only held the redemption of mortgage after auction notice as unlawful but also confirmed the right of the auction purchaser to the Secured Asset and directed the refund of the entire amount paid by the Borrower towards redemption, and further directed the Bank to issue the sale certificate in favour of the petitioner in accordance with Rule 9(6) of the SARFAESI Rules upon payment of an additional amount of Rs. 23.5 crore by it. 101. He submitted that the implied effect of this decision is that the Release Deed executed by the Bank and the Assignment Agreement executed by the Borrower had to be cancelled and the original title deeds to the Secured Asset were to be returned to the bank so that they may be handed over to the petitioner. 102. He submitted that the Bank in compliance of this Court’s decision in the Main Appeals, issued the Sale Certificate for the Secured Asset to the petitioner and on the same day addressed a letter to the Joint Sub-Registrar, Thane, requesting it to take immediate steps for cancellation of the aforesaid Release Deed. The Bank also [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1661 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. addressed a letter to the Borrower requesting it to take steps for cancellation of the aforesaid deed and provide the title document to the said property along with the bank details to refund its money. 103. The Bank on 06.10.2023 further took steps and got the Sale Certificate issued in favour of the petitioner registered before the Joint Sub- Registrar, Thane– 8 vide Registration No.