16. It is to observe that unresolved crimes tend to erode public trust in institutions which have been established for maintaining law and . Criminal investigation must be both fair and effective. We say nothing on the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 95 Mandakini Diwan and Anr. v. The High Court of Chhattisgarh & Ors. fairness of the investigation appears to us, but the fact that it has been ineffective is self evident. The kith and kin of the deceased who live far away in Manipur have a real logistical problem while approaching authorities in Delhi, yet they have their hope alive, and have shown trust and confidence in this system. We are therefore of the considered view that this case needs to be handed over to CBI, for a proper investigation and also to remove any doubts in the minds of the appellants, and to bring the real culprits to justice. 17. In view of the discussion made above, the of the Delhi High Court dated 18.05.2018, dismissing the prayer of the present appellants to transfer the investigation to CBI is hereby set aside. The appeal is hereby allowed and we direct that CBI to hold enquiry in the matter. The case shall be transferred from SIT to the CBI. The SIT, which has so far conducted the investigation in the matter, will hand over all the relevant papers and documents to CBI for investigation. After a thorough investigation, CBI will submit its complete investigation report or charge sheet before the concerned court as expeditiously as possible.”” 14. It is true that power to direct CBI to conduct investigation is to be exercised sparingly and such s should not be passed in routine manner. In the present case, the aggrieved party has raised allegations of bias and undue influence on the police machinery of the State of Chhattisgarh. Coupled with the fact that the thorough, fair and independent investigation needs to be carried out to find out the truth about the whole incident and in particular about the ante mortem injuries. We are of the view that such a direction needs to be issued in the present case. 15. We accordingly allow this appeal, set aside the impugned passed by the High Court and further direct the CBI-respondent no. 8 to carry out complete and fair investigation and proceed in accordance to law into the incident and that too expeditiously considering the fact that the incident is of 2016 and submit a report to this Court. If the CBI finds that an FIR needs to be registered, it may itself do so and proceed accordingly and bring such complaint to a logical conclusion. However, if the CBI comes to the conclusion that there 96 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is no material which it could collect which is not sufficient in ordinary course to submit a chargesheet, it would close the proceedings. The State of Chhattisgarh is directed to extend all cooperation to the CBI in conducting the investigation and provide all necessary papers and other strategic support to the CBI as may be required.