Rule 4 deals with retail price. It says that subject to such minimum and maximum price fixed by the Deputy Commissioner or by the Excise Commissioner, the licensee may vend arrack on such rates as he may deem fit. Heading of Rule 5 is, licensee to buy arrack only from warehouse, etc. As per sub-rule (1), the licensee to vend arrack by retail shall purchase the required quantity of arrack for sale only from the warehouse or depot authorized by the Excise Commissioner, on payment of issue price fixed by the Excise Commissioner from time to time. This provision, being relevant, is extracted hereunder: [2024] 7 S.C.R. 301 The Excise Commissioner Karnataka & Anr. v. Mysore Sales International Ltd. & Ors. 5. Licensee to buy arrack only from Warehouse, etc. : - (1) The licensee to vend arrack by retail shall purchase the required quantity of arrack for sale only from the warehouse or depot authorized by the Excise Commissioner, on payment of issue price fixed by the Excise Commissioner from time to time. 10.1. Rule 5(2) clarifies that no arrack except in sealed bottles of the approved sizes with the excise labels or in sealed polythene sachets obtained from the authorized warehouse or depot shall be sold in the licenced premises. 10.2. Rule 6 says that the consignment of arrack should be under seal. All the consignments of arrack issued from the warehouse or depot shall be sealed by the officer-in-charge of the warehouse or depot in such a manner that the letters of the seal are distinct. The licensees shall be responsible for any breakage of seal in transit. The arrack so transported may be packed by the licensee at his own cost for the purpose of sale in such containers as may be approved by the Excise Commissioner and under supervision of the officer-in-charge of the warehouse. 11. Government of Karnataka has also framed the Karnataka Excise (Lease of the Right of Retail Vend of Liquors) Rules, 1969 (already referred to as “the 1969 Rules” hereinabove) exercising powers under Section 71 of the Excise Act. As per Rule 2(c), the expression “right of retail vend of liquors” means the lease of the right of retail vend of liquors. Rule 3 deals with lease of retail vend. As per Rule 3(1), the right of retail vend of liquors may be disposed of either by tender or by auction or by tender-cum-auction or in any other manner as the state government may by specify. Rule 3(3) provides that the right of retail vend of arrack shall be the exclusive right but in such districts as may be specified by the government and only bottled arrack or arrack in polythene sachet shall be sold to consumers. Rule 3A deals with grant of lease to government companies etc. As per sub-rule (1), notwithstanding anything contained in the 1969 Rules, the state government may, if it is considered expedient in the interest of government revenue or for any other reasons to be recorded in writing, grant the lease of right of retail vend of liquor in favour of any 302 [2024] 7 S.C.R.