154. In the present case, the very issue of the validity of the measures taken by the Bank under the SARFAESI Act and by it the legality of the 9th auction proceedings was innately and inextricably linked to the proceedings before this Court in the Main Appeals. We say so, because: - (i) The very issue of the cut-off date for exercising the right of redemption under Section 13 sub-section (8) of the SARFAESI Act entailed as a natural corollary to it, the issue of validity of the SARFAESI proceedings, at least in respect of the 9th auction notice dated 12.06.2023. When the Main Appeals were being heard by this Court, the Borrower was well aware that the issue before this Court was whether the right of redemption extinguishes upon the publication of sale notice or upon the transfer of the secured asset, and as such if at all such right were to extinguish upon the publication of the sale notice, it by default involved the issue whether such notice was valid or non- est. Being so, the very issue of validity of the 9th auction notice and the proceedings thereto properly belonged to the subject of litigation in the Main Appeals before this Court and ought to have been brought forward as part of the subject in contest. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1705 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. (ii) Moreover, since there was virtually no difference between the prayer sought before the DRT and that before the High Court, once the Borrower had chosen to espouse the same matter already sub-judice in DRT before the High Court, it was the duty of the Borrower to bring within the fold of its case all issues and grounds in respect of the 9th auction proceedings in the proceedings arising from the writ petition, by virtue of the Doctrine of Merger and Election. Since the prayers that were sought before the DRT had been merged with the prayers before the High Court, the scope of proceedings of the Main Appeals encompassed the issue of validity of the Bank’s actions under the SARFAESI Act and by extension the 9th auction notice dated 12.06.2023 which the Borrower for reasons best known to it, and such now cannot be permitted to raise these issued when they ought to have been raised in the Main Appeals. In this regard we may refer to the decision of this Court in Vodafone Idea Cellular Ltd. v. Ajay Kumar Agarwal reported in (2022) 6 SCC 496 which held that as per the Doctrine of Election, once a party has elected to choose remedy under one forum, again the same cause of action cannot be challenged before another forum: - “25. The above position was reiterated in IREO Grace Realtech (P) Ltd. v. Abhishek Khanna13 by a three-Judge Bench of this Court, of which one of us (D.Y. Chandrachud, J.) was a part. Indu Malhotra, J., speaking for the Bench invoked the doctrine of election, which provides that when two remedies are available for the same relief, the party at whose disposal such remedies are available, can make the choice to elect either of the remedies as long as the ambit and scope of the two remedies is not essentially different.