[2024] 11 S.C.R. 1245 Suresh Chandra Tiwari & Anr. v. State of Uttarakhand (vi) PW-2’s narration about seeing accused-appellants walking on the path in front of Mohan Singh’s shop is inconsequential as anyone could walk on a public path. Moreover, testimony of PW-2 does not inspire confidence because, despite being present at the time of inquest on 3.2.1997, he remained silent till 9.2.1997. (vii) The recovery of a polythene bag containing meat from the spot, coupled with the testimony of meat vendor, is not an incriminating circumstance because, firstly, the meat vendor admitted that there are many other meat vendors in the area and, secondly, there is no evidence that the bag recovered was the one which he sold to the accused. (viii) Neither the trial court nor the High Court tested the evidence to ascertain (a) whether circumstances were proved beyond reasonable doubt; and (b) whether they constituted a chain so complete as to rule out all other hypotheses save the one consistent with the guilt of the accused. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE 16. Per contra, on behalf of the State, it was submitted that each of the incriminating circumstances were proved beyond doubt; the chain of circumstances stood complete; and it pointed towards the guilt of the appellants by ruling out all hypotheses consistent with their innocence. The matter is concluded by concurrent findings of fact, therefore, there is no merit in the appeal. ANALYSIS 17. We have considered the rival submissions and have perused the materials on record. 18. At the outset, we may put on record that if finding of guilt is returned without properly evaluating and testing the evidence by applying the requisite legal principles, it can always be corrected by this Court in exercise of its powers under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. LEGAL PRINCIPLES QUA CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE 19. Before we proceed to test the correctness of the findings returned by the trial court as well as the High Court, we must bear in mind that 1246 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the prosecution case rests on evidence circumstantial in nature. As to when on strength of such evidence an accused can be convicted, the legal principles, as propounded in a series of decisions7 of this Court, may be summarized thus: (i) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established; (ii) the circumstances should be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused; (iii) the circumstances taken cumulatively should form a chain so far complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused; (iv) the circumstances should be consistent only with the hypothesis regarding the guilt of the accused; and (v) they must exclude every possible hypothesis except the one which is sought to be proved. 20. Adding on to the aforesaid legal principles, in Devi Lal vs. State of Rajasthan,8 a three-judge bench of this Court held that in a case based on circumstantial evidence where two views are possible, one pointing to the guilt and the other to his innocence, the accused is entitled to the benefit of one which is favorable to him.