[Para 18] Civil Law – XXIII of Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Filing of Consent Terms – Court has jurisdiction to decline to pass a consent , if the same is tainted with illegality – Consent Terms not binding on persons who were not parties to the Consent Terms. Held: Even if parties file consent terms, while accepting the consent terms in terms of Rule 3 of XXIII of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, the Court is duty-bound to look into the legality of the compromise – The Court has the jurisdiction to decline to pass a consent if the same is tainted with illegality – An passed by the Court in terms of consent terms is a consent , which will not bind the persons who were not parties to the consent terms, unless they were claiming through any of the parties to the consent terms. [Para 19] Practice and Procedure – Summary of conclusions regarding the concept of “Minutes of ”. Held: This Hon’ble Court summarized its findings on the concept of “Minutes of ” as – (a) The practice of filing “Minutes of ” prevails in the Bombay High Court – As a courtesy to the Court, the advocates appearing for the parties to the proceedings tender “Minutes of ” containing what could be [2024] 5 S.C.R. 157 Ajay Ishwar Ghute & Ors. v. Meher K. Patel & Ors. recorded by the Court in its – The object is to assist the Court; (b) An passed in terms of the “Minutes of ” tendered on record by the advocates representing the parties to the proceedings is not a consent – It is an in invitum for all purposes; (c) Before tendering the “Minutes of ” to the Court, the advocates must consider whether an , if passed by the Court in terms of the “Minutes of ,” would be lawful – After “Minutes of ” is tendered before the Court, it is the duty of the Court to decide whether an passed in terms of the “Minutes of ” would be lawful – The Court must apply its mind whether the parties who are likely to be affected by an in terms of the “Minutes of ” have been impleaded to the proceedings; (d) If the Court is of the view that an made in terms of the “Minutes of ” tendered by the advocates will not be lawful, the Court should decline to pass an in terms of the “Minutes of ”; and (e) If the Court finds that all the parties likely to be affected by an in terms of the “Minutes of ” are not parties to the proceedings, the Court will be well advised to defer passing of the till all the necessary parties are impleaded to the proceedings. [Para 20] Case Law Cited Speed Ways Picture Pvt. Ltd. and Anr. v. Union of India and Anr. [1996] Supp. 7 SCR 636 : (1996) 6 SCC 705 : 1996 INSC 1202 – referred to.