60. Insofar as the third issue with regard to consumers’ interest is concerned, the learned APTEL held that the said issue cannot be raised again at that stage when the same had been dealt with in detail by the learned APTEL vide dated 2nd February 2018 and also considered by this Court before passing the dated 25th April, 2018. 61. Accordingly, the appeal was allowed by the learned APTEL vide dated 3rd February 2020 and the dated 26th February 2019 of the State Commission was set aside. The learned APTEL directed that the tariff of SKS Power, as offered in its bid, shall be adopted. The parties were directed to revive and implement the PPA dated 4th February 2019. This dated 3rd February 2020, passed by the learned APTEL has been challenged by the DISCOMS and RVPN before this Court by way of Civil Appeal No.1937 of 2020 and Civil Appeal No. 2721 of 2020 respectively. 62. The respondent No.1 in the present proceedings rests its claim on the aforesaid s passed by this Court and the dated 3rd February 2020, passed by the learned APTEL. 63. Basically, it is the contention of the respondent No.1-MB Power that after the s were passed by this Court, RVPN and the DISCOMS were bound to procure electricity/power from the bidders going down the ladder until the entire 906 MW power was exhausted. It is their contention that once it is certified that the bid evaluation process has been complied with as per the Bidding Guidelines issued by the Central Government, it is presumed that the process was transparent and it is not permissible for the State Commission to go into the question of market aligned tariff and also the consumer interest. It is their contention that without considering the question, as to whether the tariff was market aligned or not, the procurers were bound to accept supply from the bidders at the rates quoted by them. It is their submission that the power under Section 63 of the Electricity 944 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Act restricted the scrutiny only to two aspects, viz., (1) whether the Bidding Guidelines framed by the Union of India under Section 63 of the Electricity Act were followed; and (2) whether the bidding process was transparent or not. 64. The High Court in the impugned , relying on the observations of the learned APTEL and the earlier s of this Court has come to a conclusion that, applying the test of “filling the bucket”, the procurers were bound to take supply from the respondent No.1-MB Power at the rates quoted by it. On the basis of the of the learned APTEL, the High Court held that the respondent No.1-MB Power had a right to supply power since there was a gap of 300 MW between the power procured by the procurers and the ceiling of 906 MW determined by this Court. In these premises, the High Court issued a mandamus directing the appellants to take supply of 200 MW electricity/power from the respondent No.1-MB Power at the rates quoted by it.