to cuts or deductions.6 The reasoning behind this exercise is that smaller plots of land are typically valued at a higher price owing to their developed nature, contrasting with larger tracts that require substantial areas to be set aside towards setting up infrastructure such as roads, parks or other civic amenities.7 Therefore, adjusting these values through appropriate cuts would provide a more accurate approximation of the land’s value. 27. However, in this particular instance, the acquired land exceeds the land in the cited sale exemplar by more than 5000 times. The issue in this context is not restricted to the smaller size of the land in the sale exemplar but rather the fact that there is only a solitary instance of sale brought on record. Had there been multiple such sale instances, there could have been some basis for estimation that this Court could have deduced from. However, the sale deed dated 22.02.1989, which is the sole example relied upon, not only inadequately represents the values of the land being acquired but also introduces significant risk and imprecision, if relied upon as the sole foundation of our assessment. We are, therefore, extremely reluctant to rely on this sale deed as a direct piece of evidence for determining the fair and just market value of the acquired land. 28. Furthermore, a closer look at the lease deeds submitted by the landowners also reveals that they pertain to properties not comparable to the land under acquisition. For instance, the lease deeds dated 01.09.1988 and 09.12.1988 pertain to well-developed commercial spaces in a Shopping Complex. No such development or construction had taken place on the acquired lands. Commercialisation of the acquired land can only occur after it is fully developed, to attract similar lease offers that could exhibit comparable values. The lands as they stood as on the date of the Section 4 notification were not exactly analogous to the leased-out plots or commercial buildings relied upon by the landowners. These lease deeds hence cannot be mechanically relied upon either. 29. Finally, the landowners seek refuge in the circle rate of the area in which the subject lands are situated – contending that it was as much 6 Ravinder Kumar Goel v. State of Haryana and Others, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 147 7 Atma Singh v. State of Haryana and others (2008) 2 SCC 568 458 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports as INR 1500 per sq. yd. in the year 1991. We must note, however, at the outset that this claim is unsubstantiated by any reliable material on record. A document enumerating the circle rates of 37 villages, based upon notification issued by the State / NOIDA authorities, dated 30.11.1989, was, of course, produced by the landowners to demonstrate that the NOIDA authority itself determined the rate for lands in village Chhalera Bangar at INR 650 per sq. yd. (for lands adjoining the road) and INR 350 per sq. yd. (for the lands away from the road); but this too cannot be the sheet anchor as the said circular was apparently issued with the primary object of levying stamp-duty on an estimated price value of the land in the year 1989.