Such directions do not have the effect of retarding, interrupting, protracting or stalling the counting of votes, and is a course of action that seems to be perfectly permissible in the light of the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Election Commission of India v Ashok Kumar2. 2. Though His Lordship’s opinion has my whole-hearted concurrence, I have thought of penning a few words to express my own views, keeping in mind the customary challenges that are laid before this Court whenever an election is reasonably imminent, by way of emphasis. Hon’ble Khanna, J. and I are speaking through different s, but our voices are not too different. 3. I have heard senior counsel/counsel for the three petitioners suspect, without however attributing any malice to the Election Commission of India3 (in which vests the superintendence, direction and control of elections per Article 324 of the Constitution of India4), the efficacy of exercise of the right of franchise through the EVMs which, according to them, are not entirely reliable and open to manipulation, and that completely tallying the Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail5 slips with 1 EVMs 2 (2000) 8 SCC 216 3 ECI 4 Constitution 5 VVPAT [2024] 5 S.C.R. 451 Association For Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India And Another the votes cast on the ballot unit is the plausible solution to ensure a taint-free election. I have also heard counsel for the petitioning association in the lead matter rely on certain reports to persuade the Court hold that casting of votes through EVMs is not fool-proof and that voting through electronic means has been discontinued by a European nation in compliance with a judicial verdict. He was also heard to suggest, when called upon by the Court regarding the nature of relief the petitioning association seeks, that the electoral process in India should return to the “paper ballot system” upon discontinuance of voting through the EVMs. 4. I place on record that although such a suggestion was subsequently withdrawn by counsel in course of the proceedings that ensued following listing of the writ petitions “For Directions” on 24 April, 2024 to seek clarifications from the ECI on certain points, nothing much turns on it. The withdrawal was more of an attempt to erase the impression we, the Judges forming the Bench, were urged to form by senior counsel for the ECI while arguing that the petitioning association’s utter lack of bona fides (in invoking this Court’s writ jurisdiction under Article 32 of the Constitution) is completely exposed thereby. I have no hesitation to accept the submission of senior counsel for the ECI that reverting to the “paper ballot system” of the bygone era, as suggested, reveals the real intention of the petitioning association to discredit the system of voting through the EVMs and thereby derail the electoral process that is underway, by creating unnecessary doubts in the minds of the electorate. 5. It is of immediate relevance to note that in recent years, a trend has been fast developing of certain vested interest groups endeavouring to undermine the achievements and accomplishments of the nation, earned through the hard work and dedication of its sincere workforce.