[2024] 7 S.C.R. 1347 : 2024 INSC 533 P. Ravindranath & Anr. v. Sasikala & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 7792 of 2024) 15 July 2024 [Vikram Nath* and Prashant Kumar Mishra, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Parties entered into an agreement to sell for sale of a property. Defendant no.1 sent various notices to plaintiffs to execute the sale deed. However, plaintiffs did not execute the sale deed. Thereafter, defendants executed sale deeds in favour of another persons (defendant nos. 6, 7 and CN). The plaintiffs instituted suit for specific performance and permanent injunction. Whether plaintiffs were always ready and willing to get the sale deed executed and registered. Headnotes† Specific Relief Act, 1963 – s.16(c) – Parties entered into an agreement to sell for sale of a property – The stipulated period was fixed as three months – But, as there was a Government restricting registration of sale deeds – It was decided by the parties that the sale deed would be executed immediately after the cancellation of the said Government – Thereafter, defendant no.1 sent various notices at different intervals to the plaintiffs to come forward and get the sale deed executed – Plaintiffs did not execute the sale deed – After above correspondence, the defendants executed two sale deeds on 22.04.1983 and on 22.06.1983 in favour of defendant nos.6 &7 and third one in favour of CN – Plaintiffs instituted suit for specific performance and permanent injunction – Trial Court decreed the suit for specific performance and denied the relief of permanent injunction – Appeal against the of the trial Court was dismissed by the High Court – Correctness: Held: In the instant case, a perusal of the plaint reveals that the plaintiffs failed to plead specifically with details about the restriction said to have been imposed by the State on registration of sale * Author 1348 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports deeds relating to similar survey numbers and revenue sites – No details of the Government are mentioned – Neither the Government is placed on record as evidence to connect that such restriction was actually applicable to the land in question – It is recorded by the Trial Court as also the High Court, that these sale deeds (in favour of defendant nos.6 &7 and CN) were executed by the defendants 1 to 5 after depositing some betterment charges, getting the land converted and then effecting the transfer – The plaintiffs do not seem to have ever approached the defendants to get this kind of a status change and, thereafter, get the sale deeds executed – It has not come either in pleadings or in evidence of the plaintiffs that the alleged ban imposed by the State Government had been lifted but still the sale deeds were executed in favour of the appellants and other purchasers in 1983 – It is clear from the record that the defendant no.1 had given written notices requesting for payment of balance sale consideration and, thereafter communicating that advance amount had been forfeited and the agreement to sell had come to an end as the plaintiffs failed to get the sale deed executed within three months – The plaintiffs neither responded to the last communication of the defendant no.1 of December, 1981, nor did they take any steps to file the suit for specific performance of contract for more than one and a half years after the defendant no.1 had communicated forfeiture of the earnest money and the cancellation of the agreement to sell – There is not even a notice by the plaintiffs before filing the suit of showing their readiness and willingness by tendering the amount of balance sale consideration and sending a draft sale deed for approval and fixing a date for execution and registration of the sale deed – This Court is unable to agree with the findings of the courts below that the plaintiffs were always ready and willing to get the sale deed executed and registered – As a matter of fact, the conduct of the plaintiffs throughout gives credence and strength to the contention of the defendant nos.1 to 5 that the plaintiffs never had the funds available with them to clear the balance sale consideration and that they were middlemen only interested in blocking the property and, thereafter, selling it on a higher price to third parties and make profit thereof – Under such facts and circumstances, this Court is of the confirmed view that the decree of specific performance was not warranted in the present case and ought to have been denied and the suit was liable to be dismissed.