and significantly increased the Thereafter, the MoEF&CC should yield. bring out a comprehensive note on usages of pesticide details state wise after the increase in area cultivated under Bt cotton. 7. MoEF&CC should scientifically Gene flow from GM crops to evaluate the impact of GM crops wild relatives poses no risk to on sustainability, safety and the environment. The regulatory competitive advantage of Indian process has addressed each agriculture. and every concern pertaining to environmental safety. Genes i. It should specifically inform that make GM crops HT have the nation whether the very minimal quantity of Bt cultivation is not going to proteins. Studies on the impact have any negative impact on on non-target organisms and the microbes, soil and water. beneficial organisms are part ii. It should specially study the of the regulatory process. impact on beneficial organisms like bees, earthworms and monarch butterflies. 8. Assessment of threats and Similar to other regulatory adverse effects of GM crops processes, the developer/ in foreign countries should not applicant furnishes studies be mechanically transplanted about safety assessment of by agencies. The Government crops. In case of DMH-11, agencies conduct indigenous developed by Delhi University, studies to substantiate their claim all studies have been funded that there is no threat posed to our by DBT. environment on account of GM crops. Any study that conducts impact assessment should be funded by DBT for sheer credibility. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2091 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. S. Recommendation Action Taken Report No. 9. The hasty decision to There is no scientific evidence commercialise GM crops should to justify the need for such be reconsidered in light of lack of studies as there exists no scientific evidence about chronic biologically relevant difference and transgenerational impact of between GM crops and their such crops. non-GM counterparts. 36. I have perused and discussed the contents of the PSC Reports, their recommendations of critical import to the regulatory framework as well as the action taken and observe on the following aspects: I. Thorough Probe into Bt Brinjal Approval: Although the Report of the PSC, 2012, had recommended that the MoEF&CC should conduct a thorough probe into the concerns raised by Dr. P.M. Bhargava regarding the approval for commercialisation of Bt brinjal till the imposition of the moratorium on 09.02.2010, the Action Taken Report does not point to the particulars of any enquiry or investigation. It appears that the justification offered by the erstwhile Co-Chairman, GEAC, Prof. Reddy, has been accepted without a fair and comprehensive investigation. II. Institutional Architecture of GEAC: Although both the PSC Reports recommended reforms in the institutional architecture of GEAC, by way of having a full-time body with a leadership that is competent to conduct impartial and sound scrutiny of applications for approval under the 1989 Rules, the Action Taken Report denies the very need for such reforms. I infer that the Government is reluctant to reform the composition and criteria for appointment to GEAC. No response is forthcoming on the PSC’s recommendation that the conflict of interest in the composition, caused by the presence of a nominee of DBT, should be minimised.