The impugned itself would reveal that he was declared hostile and despite being cross-examined on behalf of the prosecution nothing relevant could be elicited. It is also to be noted that both the trial Court and the High Court failed to appreciate the evidence of PW-38, who was a superior officer of the accused and spoke about not only certain entries made in the case diary with respect to the escape of Kalya and a report on the said incident but also of the fact he came to know that one person by Shama was arrested at Raipur for travelling without ticket. These aspects also were not taken into account by the trial Court as also the High Court. 47. To sum up, it is not inappropriate to extract paragraph 110 of the impugned common which reveal the principle adopted by [2024] 9 S.C.R. 753 Manik & Ors. v. The State of Maharashtra the High Court in appreciating the evidence in the case on hand and it reads thus: - “110. In so far as the aspect of burden of the prosecution and duty of defence in regard to these points is concerned, the prosecution evidence rises to the level as expected for proof of facts, and as discussed earlier in this , the accused persons have failed in discharge of their duty of rebuttal which rests on them in an unqualified manner and the degree. 48. Thus, paragraphs 61, 62 and 110 of the impugned common would reveal that it is the wrong application of the principle of appreciating the evidence in criminal cases that ultimately resulted in the conclusions and findings compelling the High Court to confirm the of the trial Court except to the limit referred above. Therefore, the appeals except Crl. Appeal No. 1614/2012 which stood abated owing to the death of the sole appellant, must succeed to the following extent. 49. In the absence of evidence regarding homicidal death of Shama @ Kalya in Gondia City Police Station coupled with the defence evidence, which could stand the test of preponderance of probabilities and the other circumstances favourable to the accused emerging from the other circumstances and failure of the prosecution to establish the case put forth by it. Appellants in Crl. Appeal No.1617 of 2012 viz., Accused No. 2 (Ravindra) and Accused No. 4 (Hans Raj) are entitled to be acquitted for commission of offence under Section 304 Part II read with Section 34, IPC, granting the benefit of doubt. There is absolute absence of medical and oral evidence to find that the prosecution had succeeded in proving that Shama @ Kalya being in custody sustained any ‘grievous hurt’ or sustained a kind of hurt, falling in one or the other of the eight kinds of hurt (firstly to eighthly given under Section 320, IPC). This is because I have already declined the finding that Shama @ Kalya had sustained the injury of cutting of veins of his legs. In such circumstances, the conviction of accused Nos.