13.4.2 Learned Chief Justice Dr. Chandrachud in his proposed has observed that the Seventh Schedule differentiates between the industry and product of industry and, even further, Entry 8 – List II is special because such a distinction made in the general Entries is not adopted in Entry 8 – List II. As rightly pointed out, it is the potential overlap between Entry 52 – List I and Entry 8 – List II which must be resolved herein. 13.4.3 In this regard, reference to the dictum of this Court in Calcutta Gas Company is apposite, wherein the interpretation between Entries 24 and 25 – List II in relation to Entry 52 – List I was considered. It was observed that Entry 24 – List II in its widest amplitude 2134 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports takes in all industries, including that of “gas and gas- works”. So does Entry 25 – List II which comprehends gas industry. There is, therefore, an apparent conflict between the two Entries and they overlap with each other. It was observed that in such a contingency the doctrine of harmonious construction must be invoked. While Entry 24 – List II covers a very wide field, that is, the field of entire industry being within the legislative competence of the State, Entry 25 – List II dealing with “gas and gas-works”, can be confined to a specific industry, that is, the “gas industry”. This was possibly because only one or two States are concerned with “gas industry” and it was not considered to be of an all-India importance and therefore, was carved out of Entry 24 – List II and given a separate Entry as Entry 25 – List II, as otherwise if a declaration by law was made by Parliament within the meaning of Entry 7 or Entry 52 - List I, gas and “gas industries” would be taken out of the legislative power of States. Therefore, by the doctrine of harmonious construction, “gas and gas works” were found to be within the exclusive field allotted to the States and outside the legislative field of Parliament. It was further observed that the expression “industry” in Entry 52 - List I bears the same meaning as that in Entry 24 - List II, with the result that the said expression in Entry 52 - List I also does not take in the industry of “gas and gas works”. If so, it followed that the IDRA, in so far as it purported to deal with the “gas industry” is beyond the legislative competence of Parliament. 13.4.4 Keeping the aforesaid dictum in mind, it must be observed that Entry 8 – List II being a special Entry prevails over the general Entry 24 – List II. Therefore, while Entry 52 – List and Entry 8 – List II overlap on the aspect of “industry” of “intoxicating liquors”, Entry 52 – List I cannot takeover the “industry” of “intoxicating liquors”. 13.5 Therefore, the next question is whether Entry 8 – List II which deals with “intoxicating liquors”, that is to say, the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of [2024] 10 S.C.R.