This Court decided the question of whether a building used for running a hotel or cinema business could be held to be a plant. This Court considered British decisions on the point. Paragraphs 61 to 63 of the decision are material, which read thus: “61. Further, there are hotels of all kinds and hotel business can be carried on in all kinds of buildings, may be pucca or kuccha constructions. A building intended to be used or in fact used earlier either as a residential accommodation [2024] 10 S.C.R. 841 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. or business purpose can be converted for running hotel business. Section 32 itself contemplates a hotel business being carried on in a residential accommodation including an accommodation which is in the nature of guest house. On occasions hotel buildings may be constructed with a special design and features so as to attract and accommodate a certain class of tourist. Similarly with regard to cinema business, it can be carried on in a specially-designed and constructed building and also in other buildings. Still, however, it would be difficult to draw a distinction and differentiate by holding that a building which is specially designed and constructed for running a hotel or cinema would be covered by a “plant” and other buildings used for the same purpose would not get depreciation as “plant”, even though such business is carried on in such premises. In our view, the Delhi High Court has in the case of R.C. Chemical Industry [(1982) 134 ITR 330 (Del)] rightly observed that mere fact that manufacture of saccharine would be better carried on in a building having atmospheric controls would not convert the building from “the setting” to “the means” for carrying the business. Similarly, the Rajasthan High Court also in Lake Palace Hotels and Motels [(1997) 226 ITR 561 (Raj)] rightly observed that simply because some special fittings or controlling equipments are attached for the purpose of carrying on hotel business, it will not take it out of the category of building and make it a plant. In our view special fittings or equipments to control atmospheric effects would be plant, but not the building which houses such equipments. 62. Further for running almost all industries or for carrying on any trade or business building is required. On occasions building may be designed and constructed to suit the requirement of a particular industry, trade or business. But that would not make such building a plant. It only shelters running of such business. For each and every business, trade or industry, building is required to carry on such activity. That means building plays some role and in other words, its function is to shelter the business, but it has no 842 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports other function except in some rare cases such as dry dock where it plays an essential part in the operations which take place in getting a ship into the dock, holding it squarely and then returning it to the river.