157. No doubt that the CBI is investigating the issue as to who is responsible for the same. However, the investigation by the CBI 16 [1996] Supp. 9 SCR 848 : (1997) 2 SCC 87 : 1996 INSC 1466 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 289 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal would only lead to finding out the culprits who are responsible for such huge devastation. The law will take its own course. 158. We find that, bringing the culprits to face the proceedings is a different matter and restoration of the damage already done is a different matter. We are of the considered view that the State cannot run away from its responsibilities to restore the damage done to the forest. The State, apart from preventing such acts in the future, should take immediate steps for restoration of the damage already done; undertake an exercise for determining the valuation of the damage done and recover it from the persons found responsible for causing such a damage. VI. CONCLUSIONS 159. It is well known that the presence of a Tiger in the forest is an indicator of the well-being of the ecosystem. Unless steps are taken for the protection of the Tigers, the ecosystem revolving around Tigers cannot be protected. The figures which are placed before us to show that there has been a substantial reduction in tiger poaching and an increase in the tigers’ strength throughout the country. However, that should not be enough. The ground realities cannot be denied. The events like illegal constructions and illicit felling of trees on a rampant scale like the one that happened in the Corbett National Park cannot be ignored. Steps are required to prevent this. 160. We therefore requested Shri Chandra Prakash Goyal, former Director General of Forest, Shri Anup Malik, IFS, PCCF (HoFF), Uttarakhand, and Dr. Samir Sinha, IFS, PCCF (Wildlife) & Chief Wildlife Warden, Uttarakhand to give their suggestion for more effective management of the “Tiger Reserves” in India. Accordingly, they have given their suggestions. No doubt that on some issues there is no coherence in the suggestions given. They are conflicting and contradictory to each other. In any event, all three Officers have vast experience in the Forest Department. Dr. Samir Sinha is a person who has prepared the TCP for the Corbett Tiger Reserve. Similarly, Shri Goyal has worked as the Director General of Forest and has also worked as a Field Director of some of the Tiger Reserves. At the same time, we are not experts in the field. We therefore find that it will be appropriate that experts in the field come together and come out with a solution that would go a long way in the effective management and protection of the Tiger Reserves. 290 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 161. We therefore find that the following directions need to be issued in the interests of justice : A. The Safaris which are already existing and the one under construction at Pakhrau will not be disturbed.