Act XIX of 1882 incorporated the University at Punjab by which the college was converted into a University to confer degrees. The University at Punjab was, thus, the first teaching University in India. 92. On 12 January 1902, the Government of India issued a resolution to appoint a commission to “inquire into the condition and prospects of the Universities established in British India; to consider and report upon any proposals […] for improving their constitution and working […]”. The Report of the Commission discussed the necessity of establishing teaching Universities, where better provision for advanced courses of study could be made.89 In 1904, Act No. VIII of 1904 was enacted to amend the law relating to the Universities at Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and Allahabad. Section 3 of the Act provided that the University shall have the power to make provision for, inter alia, the instruction of students and the power to appoint University professors and Lecturers. Universities that were incorporated subsequent to Act No. VIII of 1904 had the power to instruct students in addition to conducting examinations to confer degrees.90 However, teaching universities also had to be incorporated 87 See Section XIII and XIV of the enactments; Also see Section 14 of Act No. XVIII of 1887 that established the University at Allahabad 88 Section XII of the enactments. 89 Report of the Indian Universities Commission 1902 [24, 25] 90 See Section 4 of Osmania University Act, preamble and Section 4(1) of the Lucknow University Act 1920; preamble to the Delhi University Act 1922 which states that it established and incorporates a teaching and affiliating University; Section 4(1) of the Delhi University Act 1922; Section 4(1) of the Nagpur University Act 1923 1730 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports through a legislative enactment because they would have the power to confer degrees recognised by the Government. 93. It is in this background that we should decide if Universities established before the enactment of the UGC Act could be covered by Article 30(1). It is true that the intervention of the imperial legislature was necessary to incorporate a university before the commencement of the Constitution. The intervention of the State legislature was necessary after the commencement of the Constitution until the enactment of the UGC Act.91 The intervention of the legislative body was required to ‘incorporate’ universities because the degrees conferred by them would be recognised by the Government. This was required even for the incorporation of teaching universities. However, could it be argued that no person had the power to ‘establish’ a university merely because the intervention of the legislative body was required for the incorporation of the institution? Could it be argued that a university was ‘established’ by the legislature merely because it enacted a legislation incorporating it? 94. The words ‘incorporation’ and ‘establishment’ cannot be used interchangeably. They connote different meanings. ‘Incorporation’ signifies the legal existence of the institution.92 In contrast, ‘establishment’ signifies the founding or bringing into existence of the institution.93 The possibility of distinguishing the establishment and incorporation of universities arose with the advent of teaching Universities.