Mr. Kumar underscored that in many of these SLPs in which Miscellaneous Applications have now been filed, Review and Curative Petitions had been filed and dismissed earlier by this Court. C. Contentions on behalf of the landowners 16. Per contra, Mr. Yatinder Singh and Mr. Vimlesh Kumar Shukla, Learned Senior Counsels representing the landowners, at the outset very fairly acknowledged that the decision in Bir Singh (supra) was founded on a bona fide factual error of misreading the sale exemplar relied upon therein. They however bounced back to claim compensation not less than the rate awarded in Bir Singh (supra). In this regard, they drew our attention to evidence establishing parity for awarding compensation at the rate determined by this Court in Bir Singh (supra). They banked upon the sale exemplar dated 22.02.1989, which, according to them, is similar to the sale [2024] 7 S.C.R. 453 New Okhla Industrial Development Authority v. Harnand Singh (Deceased) through LRs & Ors. instance relied upon in Bir Singh (supra), wherein a plot of 470 sq. yds. was sold at INR 446 per sq. yd. The sale deed dated 22.02.1989, being for a small piece of land, it was urged, ought not to undermine its relevance. They made a pointed reference to the Reference Court’s , which the NOIDA authorities relied upon, was also based on a sale deed of only 400 sq. yds. Learned Senior Counsels also disputed NOIDA’s claim that the said sale deed was within abadi land, and drew our attention to the map indicating it was an agricultural land only. 17. It was then argued that the factors necessary for evaluating the potentiality of land are the same as those used towards fixing the circle rate. The circle rate, therefore, is a crucial and relevant piece of evidence and ought to be employed in determining the market value of the land for which the said circle rate was affixed. The acquired land was claimed to be situated amidst developed areas and near the Amity Public School, a large Golf Course, a Film City, and with developed Residential Colonies and Shopping Areas on all three sides. The acquired land being in the heart of NOIDA, which has become one of the largest industrial and commercial cities in India, is in proximity to the DSC Shade, Okhla Barrage Highway and the MAT Public School of Business Management. Even parts of the national capital – Delhi, were shown as being no more than a few kilometres away, with important national landmarks such as Connaught Place, Nehru Place, the Supreme Court and the ITO all being within a 15-kilometre radius. They further highlighted that the lands in nearby Sector 18, were acquired in 1976 for between INR 7,200 to INR 10,200 per bigha. Further, a plot of 575 sq. yds. was leased by the NOIDA authorities on 28.08.1988 for INR 11,576 per sq. yd. and another similar plot was leased for INR 22,125 per sq. yd. on 09.12.1988. 18. Other Learned Counsel for some of the landowners also articulated that Bir Singh (supra) could not be revisited as the Review and Curative Petitions against it had already been dismissed.