6. On the contrary, learned counsel appearing for the respondent would support the case of the prosecution and would contend that both the courts on proper evaluation of evidence has arrived at a conclusion that the appellant had committed the offence and convicted her, which finding does not suffer from any infirmity either in law or on facts calling for interference. Hence, learned counsel appearing for the respondent has prayed for dismissal of the appeal. DISCUSSION AND FINDING 7. The case of the prosecution as noted herein above is that appellant had illegally facilitated the issuance of second passport in favour of accused No.1 or in other words accused No.1 who held an Indian Passport had deposited the same with his employer at Dubai and in search of better employment opportunities had clandestinely applied for second passport through the appellant and other accused persons had connived with the appellant in procuring second passport to Accused No.1. 8. The conviction of appellant is based on the deposition of three witnesses namely PW-3 (Selvi Sakila Begum), PW-15(Mr. Selvaraj), and PW-16 (Mr. Ravi). PW-3 is an employee of the proprietorship firm of appellant i.e. Kamatchi Travels and in her examination-in-chief she has deposed that she was working in the said travels which was offering various services including facilitating and obtaining the passports. She has further deposed that as the firm in which she was working could not render such services directly and the applications of their customers for issuance of passports were routed through Eagle 630 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Travels run by PW-15. She has also deposed that the application of accused No.1 was filled by her. However, she had turned hostile and nothing worthwhile was elicited in her cross-examination except to the extent of her admission that appellant was sitting next to her while she was filling the application form of accused No.1. She does not depose that appellant had any knowledge of Accused No.1 was already possessing a passport or appellant having informed her about the passport already held by Accused No.1. 9. PW-15 (Mr. Selvaraj) who is the proprietor of Eagle Travels has deposed that the application Ex.P-7 for issuance of passport in favour of accused No.1 was submitted through his firm and it was received from the appellant and appellant had paid the registration fee. PW-16 (Mr. Ravi), the Principal Scientific Advisor of Central Forensic Sciences Laboratory who has been examined by prosecution to drive home the fact that hand writing found on the returned postal cover is that of the appellant, though had deposed that there are similarities in the writings has also admitted that it is not possible for him to express any opinion in that regard on the basis of material on hand. It is pertinent to note at this juncture that prosecution had contended that accused No.3 who was in charge of safe custody of returned passports in the Passport Office had illegally removed the returned passport of accused No.1 from safe custody and had handed over the same to the appellant through accused No.4.