Whether the terms in which the declaration has been framed in Section 2 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act — a declaration not expressly limiting control of the specific industries to the extent provided by the Act — can be construed as being so limited is a matter which, we think, we should deal with in some more appropriate case.” 117 (2002) 9 SCC 232 [31] [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1999 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons to specific entries in List I, they are actually subject to the law made by Parliament under the entries. The entries are unique in the sense that the scope of an entry in the State List is not subjected to another entry in the Union List but rather by the law made by Parliament. The consequence of this is that when stretched to the extreme, Parliament may by law declare that all industries must be in the control of the Union. This would enable Parliament to render an entry in the State List otiose. As held in the preceding section of this , the entries must be interpreted to maintain the federal balance. When there are two possible interpretations of the entries, the Court must choose the one that maintains the federal balance. Entries 24 of List I and 52 of List II maintain the federal balance in a unique way. The members of the Constituent Assembly thought it fit to include ‘industries’ as a legislative field in the State List because it requires localized focus. If the draftspersons thought otherwise, they could have included the Entry in the Union List or even the Concurrent List. The unique placement of these entries must be considered and given due effect. The entries must not be interpreted in a manner that would, in effect for all purposes, place the entry in the Concurrent List. 65. The question is whether an implied limitation can be read into Entry 52 of List I in the absence of the expression “to the extent to which”. If an implied limitation is not read into the Entry, Parliament by a simple declaration may take over the complete industry and subject the power of the State Legislature to make any provision with respect to that industry to the power of Parliament. This interpretation diminishes the scope of competence of the State Legislature under Entry 24 of List II. Such an interpretation completely tilts the federal balance that entries 52 of List I and 24 of List II seek to maintain. The power of Parliament in Entry 52 of List I is defined by the phrase ‘control’. The Entry does not read as “industries, declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.” The Entry states “Industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.” The law enacted by Parliament must not be an abstract declaration but must specify the extent of control that is necessary to be taken in public interest.