45. The above provision continued to hold the field till the decision of this Court in Kesoram Rayon versus Collector of Customs, Calcutta, (1996) 5 SCC 576. The question for consideration in Kesoram was the rate at which customs duty was to be levied on goods that remained in a bonded warehouse beyond the permitted period. A two judge bench of this Court after referring to various provisions of the Customs Act held that Section 15(1)(b) would apply to the case of goods cleared under Section 68 from a warehouse upon presentation of a bill of entry for home consumption; payment of duty, interest, penalty, rent and other charges; and an for home clearance. This Court clarified that provisions of Section 68 and consequently Section 15(1)(b) would apply only when goods have been cleared from the warehouse within the permitted period or its permitted extension and not when by reason of their remaining in the warehouse beyond the permitted period or its permitted extension, the goods would be deemed to have been improperly removed from the warehouse under Section 72. In the facts of that case, it was found that there was nothing on record to suggest that clearance of the goods in question under Section 68 was ed and, therefore, Section 15(1)(b) had no application. Finally, this Court held that the consequence of non-removal of the warehoused goods within the permitted period or the permitted extension by virtue of Section 72 is certain. The date on which it comes to an end is the date relevant for determining the rate of duty; when the duty is in fact demanded is not relevant. 46. Following the decision of this Court in Kesoram, the Central Board of Excise and Customs issued Circular No.31/97-Cus. dated 14.08.1997. The Board held that in view of this Court’s , the date of payment of duty in the case of warehoused goods removed after expiry of the permissible or extended period would be the date of expiry of the warehousing period or such other extended period, [2024] 3 S.C.R. 907 M/s. Bisco Limited v. Commissioner of Customs and Central Excise as the case may be, and not the date of payment of duty. Goods not removed from a warehouse within the permissible period or the extended period are to be treated as goods improperly removed from the warehouse. 47. In Simplex Castings Ltd. versus Commissioner of Customs, Vishakhapatnam, (2003) 5 SCC 528, the appellant had questioned filing of appeal by the Commissioner before the CEGAT in view of the circular dated 12.07.1989 issued by the Central Board of Excise and Customs. It was argued that it was not open to the Commissioner to take the stand that non-removal of the goods from the warehouse after the period of warehousing was over would be deemed removal from the warehouse and that the rate of duty would be leviable from the date the period of warehousing was over. The Commissioner had appealed against the decision of the Collector of Customs (Appeals) in which the circular dated 12.07.1989 was followed.