(2) Where the Chief Executive Officer s resumption of any site or building under sub-section (1) the Collector may, on his own requisition, cause possession thereof to be delivered to him and may for that purpose use or causes to be used such force as may be necessary 13 Section 3 (30).- “secured creditor” means a creditor in favour of whom a security interest is created. 14 Section 3(31).- “security interest” means right, title or interest or a claim to a property, created in favour of, or provided for a secured creditor by a transaction which secures payment or performance of an obligation and includes mortgage, charge, hypothecation, assignment and encumbrance or any other agreement or arrangement securing payment or performance of any obligation of any person: Provided that security interest shall not include a performance guarantee. 15 Section 30. Submission of Resolution Plan. – (1)………………… (2) The resolution professional shall examine each resolution plan received by him to confirm that each resolution plan— (a) provides for the payment of insolvency resolution process costs in a manner specified by the Board in priority to the payment of other debts of the corporate debtor; (b) provides for the payment of debts of operational creditors in such manner as may be specified by the Board which shall not be less than— (i) the amount to be paid to search creditors in the event of a liquidation of the corporate debtor [2024] 2 S.C.R. 267 Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority v. Prabhjit Singh Soni & Anr. (iv) The NCLT failed to address and appreciate the grounds taken in the correct perspective. Findings of NCLAT 12. The appeal preferred by the appellant was dismissed by observing, inter alia, (i) the materials on record reflect that the RP had informed the appellant vide e-mail dated 04.02.2020 about its status as an Operational Creditor and to submit its claim in Form ‘B’, yet the appellant chose not to file its claim; (ii) in New Okhla Development Authority vs. Anand Sonbhadra16, it was held that disbursement is an indispensable requirement to constitute a financial debt within the meaning of Section 5(8)17 of the IBC and, that too, the disbursement must be from a under section 53; (ii) the amount that would have been paid to such creditors, if the amount to be distributed under the resolution plan had been distributed in accordance with the of priority in sub-section (1) of section 53; whichever is higher, and provides for the payment of debts of financial creditors, who do not vote in favour of the resolution plan, in such manner as may be specified by the Board, which shall not be less than the amount to be paid to such creditors in accordance with sub-section (1) of section 53 in the event of a liquidation of the corporate debtor. Explanation 1.-- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this clause shall be fair and equitable to such creditors.