The Bank also claimed deduction for broken period interest payments. However, the department did not accept the assessee’s method in the assessment year in question in view of the of the Karnataka High Court in the case of (Commissioner of Income-tax, [2024] 10 S.C.R. 871 Bank of Rajasthan Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax Mysore v. Vijaya Bank),5 reported in 1976 Tax Law Reporter page 524. This has been subsequently upheld by the Supreme Court in 187 I.T.R. page 541. In view of the of the Karnataka High Court, the department took the view that broken period interest payment cannot be allowed as a deduction because it came within the ambit of interest on securities under section 18 of the Income-tax Act. It is the contention of the department that the assessee-Bank received interest on Dated Government Securities from R.B.I. on half-yearly basis. That, the assessee Bank also traded in such securities. That the assessee Bank bought Dated Government Securities during the intervening period between two due dates. That, on purchase of the dated Government Security, the assessee became the holder of the security and accordingly, the assessee received half-yearly interest on the due dates from R.B.I. on purchase. Therefore, according to the department, the income which the assessee-Bank received came under section 18 of the Income-tax Act interest on securities. Under the circumstances, it was not open to the assessee Bank to claim deduction for broken period interest payment made to the selling/transferor Bank. That, it was not open to the assessee to claim deduction as revenue expenditure for broken period interest payment as no such deduction was permissible under sections 19 and 20 of the Income-tax Act. That, it was not a sum expended by the assessee for realizing interest under section 19 and, therefore, the assessee was not entitled to claim deduction for broken period interest payment as a revenue expenditure under section 28 of the Income-tax Act. In this connection, the department followed the of the Karnataka High Court in Vijaya Bank’s case. Therefore, the point which we are required to consider in this case is: Whether the of the Karnataka High Court in Vijaya Bank’s case was applicable to the facts of the present case. 19. Before going further we may mention at the very outset that the security in this case was of the face value of Rs. 5, 872 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports lakhs. It was bought for a lesser amount of Rs. 4,92,000.00. The difference was of Rs. 8,000.00. The assessee has revalued the security. The assessee offered the notional profit for taxation, as explained herein above, on accrual basis in the appropriate assessment year during which the assessee held the security. This difference could have been treated by the department as interest on securities under section 18. However, in the instant case, the department has assessed the said difference under, section 28 under the head “Business” and not under the head “interest on securities”. Having treated the difference under the head “Business”, the A.O.