When the other candidates were interviewed, he did not know the marks obtained either by his daughter or by any of the candidates. There was no occasion to suspect his bona fides even remotely. There was not even a suspicion of bias, leave alone a reasonable likelihood of bias. There was no violation of the principles of natural justice.” 67. It is also seen that Javid Rasool Bhatt (supra) finds express mention and approval in Ashok Kumar Yadav (supra) [Para 18]. “18……The procedure adopted by the Selection Committee and the member concerned was in accord with the quite well-known and generally accepted procedure adopted by the Public Service Commissions everywhere. It is not unusual for candidates related to members of the Service Commission or other Selection Committee to seek employment. Whenever such a situation arises, the practice generally is for the member concerned to excuse himself when the particular candidate is interviewed. We notice that such a situation had also been noticed by this Court in the case of Nagarajan v. State of Mysore where it was pointed out that in the absence of mala fides, it would not be right to set aside the selection merely because one of the candidates happened to be related to a member of the Selection Committee who had abstained from participating in the interview of that candidate. Nothing unusual was done by the present Selection Committee. The girl’s father was not present when she was interviewed. She was one among several hundred candidates. The marks obtained by her in the written test were not even known [2024] 4 S.C.R. 231 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. when she was interviewed…. In the case before us, the Principal of the Medical College, Srinagar, dissociated himself from the written test and did not participate in the proceedings when his daughter was interviewed. When the other candidates were interviewed, he did not know the marks obtained either by his daughter or by any of the candidates. There was no occasion to suspect his bona fides even remotely. There was not even a suspicion of bias, leave alone a reasonable likelihood of bias. There was no violation of the principles of natural justice. We wholly endorse these observations.” (emphasis supplied) 68. Equally so, in Jaswant Singh Nerwal vs. State of Punjab and Others, 1991 Supp (1) SCC 313 distinguishing A.K. Kraipak (supra), this Court reiterated the finding in Javid Rasool Bhatt (supra) and B.N. Nagarajan (supra). 69. Learned counsel for the appellants rightly argued that in Javid Rasool Bhatt (supra), while the Chairman of the J&K Public Service Commission was the Chairman of the Selection Committee, the other two members were the Principal of the two government medical colleges in Srinagar and Jammu, respectively. As contended by the learned counsel for the appellants, even to a case other than a Public Service Commission the principle of recusal has been recognized and that in Javid Rasool Bhatt (supra) has been endorsed in Ashok Kumar Yadav (supra).