At several places, M/s.Gammon had to carryout the jobs, supposed to have been carried out by M.s,Hyundai. Even in the affected location of P4, the construction of Pier P4 was the responsibility of M/s. Hyundai, whereas, it was carried out by M/s Gammon. 8). Lack of co-ordination and planning between proof checking consultant and design consultants could have been streamlined. 372 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports […] 11). The sequence of concreting carried out on the date of failure, as informed to us, was different from the versions of the Insured. […]” 23. It is important to note that the surveyor was examined as RW-1 and his evidence remained unrebutted. In National Insurance Company Ltd. v. Hareshwar Enterprises (P) Ltd.7 and National Insurance Company Ltd. v. Vedic Resorts and Hotels Pvt. Ltd.,8 this court has held that the surveyor’s report is a credible evidence and the court may rely on it until a more reliable evidence is brought on record. In the present case, the surveyor’s report was the evidence tendered by the insurance company, and it has not been treated as unreliable by the NCDRC. 24. Mr. Naidu, appearing on behalf of the respondents, commenced his submission by referring to certain portions of the of this court in Texco (supra) to emphasise that exclusionary clauses place extraordinary burden on the insurance company. We have already answered this question by referring to the evidence adduced by the appellant, which we consider to be a sufficient discharge of the burden. On the Expert Committee’s report, Mr. Naidu has re-iterated the finding of the NCDRC that it is inconclusive apart from being a mere opinion. Even this submission stands answered by extracting specific and categorical findings of the Committee as well as the surveyor’s report. 25. Mr. Naidu sought to draw support from the reports of independent experts on the issue of design to establish that the respondents are not at fault. Mr. Naidu sought to rely on reports by (i) Mr. Jacques Combault; (ii) M/s SETRA/CETE (French Ministry of Transportation Technical Department); (iii) M/s Halcrow Group Ltd.; and (iv) AECOM Asia Co. Ltd. 26. At the outset, the concerned experts were never examined before the NCDRC. Further, these reports were not based on site-inspection. They are all theoretical in nature. For example, the report Mr. Jacques Combault is based on: 7 [2021] 8 SCR 895 : (2021) SCC Online SC 628 8 [2023] 7 SCR 419 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 648 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 373 United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. M/s Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. Ltd. & Ors. “The analysis reported in the following pages is based on: - The description of Bridge Concept as proposed by Systra - The Main characteristics of the Structural Concept as proposed by Systra - The State of the Art in the field of prestressed concrete cable stayed bridges - Examples of similar bridges successfully achieved in the past” After a theoretical analysis, the following conclusion is drawn: “The structural concept of the Chambal Bridge as proposed by Systra is: - - perfectly fitting the site-conditions - conforming to the state of the art in the field of cable stayed bridges The construction methods, as proposed by Systra, are simple and proven processes well adapted to the structural concept.” 27.