It has been submitted that since the parties had agreed not to confer exclusive jurisdiction to courts in Dubai, neither of the parties to [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1221 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze the agreement construed the arbitration clause as designating courts in Dubai as the seat of arbitration. It was also contended that the non-exclusive jurisdiction clause had been specifically incorporated to confer jurisdiction on other courts too. 59. In Enercon (supra), this Court held that the ‘seat’ or the situs of arbitration is a crucial location as it determines the courts that will have exclusive jurisdiction to oversee the arbitration proceedings. The relevant observations read as under: - “97. This now clears the decks for the crucial question i.e. is the “seat” of arbitration in London or in India. This is necessarily so as the location of the seat will determine the courts that will have exclusive jurisdiction to oversee the arbitration proceedings. Therefore, understandably, much debate has been generated before us on the question whether the use of the phrase “venue shall be in London” actually refers to designation of the seat of arbitration in London.” (Emphasis supplied) 60. Similarly, in Indus Mobile Distribution (P) Ltd. v. Datawind Innovations (P) Ltd reported in (2017) 7 SCC 678, this Court held that in arbitration law, the moment ‘seat’ is determined, it would be akin to an exclusive jurisdiction clause whereby only the jurisdictional courts of that seat will have the jurisdiction to regulate the arbitral proceedings. It further held that where more than one court has jurisdiction, it is open for the parties to exclude all other courts and choose to submit to the jurisdiction of one court alone. The relevant observations read as under: - “19. A conspectus of all the aforesaid provisions shows that the moment the seat is designated, it is akin to an exclusive jurisdiction clause. On the facts of the present case, it is clear that the seat of arbitration is Mumbai and Clause 19 further makes it clear that jurisdiction exclusively vests in the Mumbai courts. Under the Law of Arbitration, unlike the Code of Civil Procedure which applies to suits filed in courts, a reference to “seat” is a 1222 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports concept by which a neutral venue can be chosen by the parties to an arbitration clause. The neutral venue may not in the classical sense have jurisdiction — that is, no part of the cause of action may have arisen at the neutral venue and neither would any of the provisions of Sections 16 to 21 CPC be attracted. In arbitration law however, as has been held above, the moment “seat” is determined, the fact that the seat is at Mumbai would vest Mumbai courts with exclusive jurisdiction for purposes of regulating arbitral proceedings arising out of the agreement between the parties. 20. It is well settled that where more than one court has jurisdiction, it is open for the parties to exclude all other courts.