In Dr. Haniraj L Chulani (supra), the issue before a three-Judge Bench was whether an SBC can refuse admission as an advocate to a medical practitioner who does not want to give up their medical practice. This Court held that the rule-making power conferred on the SBCs to lay down further conditions for controlling the entry to the legal profession is not unfettered.65 It was held that the rule-making power of the SBCs draws sustenance from the guidelines laid down by the Advocates Act. It was further observed that the “[r]ule-making power conferred on the SBCs is inherently hedged in with the obligation to frame only such rules regarding enrolment which would fructify the purpose of having efficient members of the Bar who can stand up to the expectation of the noble and learned profession to which they are to be given entry.” Given the above reasoning, it was held that the rule enacted by the SBC barring a medical practitioner from simultaneously practicing law was valid. 55. Section 24 lays down the eligibility qualifications for a person who seeks admission as an advocate on the State roll. Section 24(1)(e) provides that such a person must also fulfil “such other conditions as may be specified in the rules made by the State Bar Council under this Chapter.” The use of the expression “other conditions” indicates that the SBCs can prescribe conditions and qualifications in addition to what has already been prescribed statutorily under Section 24(1). Section 24(1) lays down requirements such as citizenship, age, and educational efficiency that make a person eligible to be admitted on a State roll. These minimum qualifications enable a person to effectively perform their responsibilities as legal professionals. In addition, the BCI can also prescribe “such other conditions” in addition to the qualifications already prescribed under Section 24(1). Generally, a condition is a qualification, restriction, or limitation.66 However, the “conditions” to be imposed by the SBCs should be consistent with 64 Indian Council of Legal Aid and Advice v. Bar Council of India (1995) 1 SCC 732 [11] 65 Dr. Haniraj L Chulani (supra) [18] 66 Union of India v. Rajdhani Grains & Jaggery Exchange Ltd (1975) 1 SCC 676 [13] 1526 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the qualifications already prescribed by the statute. The BCI cannot prescribe any conditions or qualifications that: (i) seek to modify what has already been prescribed by the statute; (ii) are contrary to the stipulated qualifications; and (iii) are inconsistent with the object and purpose of the Advocates Act. 56. Section 24(1)(e) has to be read conjointly with Section 28(1)(d) which empowers the SBCs to make rules prescribing “the conditions subject to which a person may be admitted as an advocate on any such roll.” Since Section 24(1) already prescribes the basic substantive qualifications, the SBCs are empowered under Section 24(1)(e) read with Section 28(1)(d) to make rules concerning other conditions not already prescribed under Section 24(1). 57. Section 49 pertains to the general power of the BCI to make rules.