The Houses of Parliament or Legislatures, and the committees are not islands which act as enclaves shielding those inside from the application of ordinary laws. The lawmakers are subject to the same law that the law-making body enacts for the people it governs and claims to represent. 91. We therefore hold that the assertion of a privilege by an individual member of Parliament or Legislature would be governed by a twofold test. First, the privilege claimed has to be tethered to the collective functioning of the House, and second, its necessity must bear a functional relationship to the discharge of the essential duties of a legislator. G. Bribery is not protected by parliamentary privilege I. Bribery is not in respect of anything said or any vote given 92. The question remains as to whether these privileges attract immunity to a member of Parliament or of the Legislatures who engages in bribery in connection with their speech or vote. The test of intrinsic relation to the functioning of the House and the necessity test evolved by this Court in the context of determining the remit of privileges under Articles 105(3) and 194(3) must weigh while delineating the privileges under Clauses (1) and (2) of the provisions as well. When this Court is called upon to answer a question of interpretation of a provision of the Constitution, it must interpret the text in a manner that does not do violence to the fabric of the Constitution. This Court’s opinion in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) hinged on two phrases in clause (2) of Article 105 of the Constitution. These phrases were “in respect of” and the following word “anything.” Clause (2) of the Article reads as follows “(2) No member of Parliament shall be liable to any proceedings in any court in respect of anything said or any vote given by him in Parliament or any committee thereof, and no person shall be so liable in respect of the 526 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports publication by or under the authority of either House of Parliament of any report, paper, votes or proceedings.” 93. In State (NCT of Delhi) v Union of India,56 Dipak Misra, CJ observed that the Court should interpret a constitutional provision and construe the meaning of specific words in the text in the context in which the words occur by referring to the other words of the said provision. This Court held in that case that the meaning of the word “any” can be varied depending on the context in which it appears and that the words “any matter” was not to be understood as “every matter”. 94. The decision in Tej Kiran Jain (supra) interpreted the word “anything” in Clause (1) of Article 105 to be of the widest amplitude and only subject to the words appearing after it which were “in Parliament.” The clause does give wide freedom of speech in Parliament. The word ‘anything’ cannot be interpreted to allow interference of the court in determining if the speech had relevance to the subject it was dealing with at the time the speech was made.