[See “Developments — Equal Protection”, 82 Harv LR 1165] 68. The idea of compensatory State action to make people who are really unequal in their wealth, education or social environment, equal, in specified areas, was developed by the Supreme Court of the United States. Rousseau has said: “It is precisely because the force of circumstances tends to destroy equality that force of legislation must always tend to maintain it. [Contract Social ii, 11]”” 76. His Lordship observed that if we want to give equality of opportunity for employment to the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, we will have to take note of their social, educational, and economic environment. His Lordship observed that the directive principle embodied in Article 46 is not only binding on the lawmaker, but it should equally inform and illuminate the approach of the court when it makes a decision. Referring to the exposition in the case of His Holiness Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalavaru vs. State of [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1491 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. Kerala,8 His Lordship states that the Court is also a ‘state’ when it makes a decision within the meaning of Article 12. 77. His Lordship observed that ‘equality of opportunity’ is not simply a matter of legal equality and that its existence depends, not merely on the absence of disabilities, but on the presence of abilities. It has been observed that the guarantee of equality is something more than what is required by ‘formal equality’. It implies differential treatment of persons who are unequal. It has been observed that egalitarian principle requires that the Government has an affirmative duty to eliminate inequalities and to provide opportunities for the exercise of human rights and claim Fundamental rights as enacted in Part III of the Constitution are, by and large, essentially negative in character. His Lordship observed that the emphasis in Article 16(1) is on the mandatory aspect that there shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State. It therefore implies that affirmative action by the Government would be consistent with the article if it is calculated to achieve it. 78. Referring to Article 14 of the Constitution, His Lordship observed that the State is under obligation to help the members of the weaker sections. His Lordship observed that under the constitutional law, the Government has affirmative responsibility for elimination of inequalities, social, economic or otherwise. Referring to the concept of proportional equality, His Lordship states that the State is required to frame legislation, to consider the private inequalities of wealth, of education and other circumstances. 79. Referring to the s of the Supreme Court of the United States, His Lordship opined that the idea of compensatory State action was to bring about the equality for the people who are really unequal in their wealth, education or social environment. 80. After referring to certain s of the United States Supreme Court, Mathew, J. observed thus: “73.