The practice of charging any interest on credit-cards dues is such that credit card generally carry an interest rate on an annualised basis (Annual Interest Rate-APR). The interest due is calculated only on unpaid balances. Any customer who pays in the entire amount being the value of the said transaction, within the due date of payment, is not charged any interest. The penalty or cost of such interest is incurred once, there is default, which takes into account costs to the bank of non-performing loans (bad debt), acquisition costs, and are not unreasonable. 19. It is submitted that the charging of interest by the Bank is in accordance with the circulars issued by the RBI and cannot an unfair trade practice as the interest is paid only by those who default in making payments of their credit-card bills, after having enjoyed free credit for periods ranging between 17-55 days, or those who do not make payment of the entirety of their dues on each bill, and then on the balance dues. Most pertinently, the terms and conditions for charging of rates of interest or charges applicable thereto, have been duly informed to all customers by way of the Most Important Terms and Conditions issued by the Banks, which are the standard set of conditions for the issuance and usage of credit cards, thereby defining the responsibilities of the card issuer and the cardholder, and contain information with regard to fee, charges applicable on credit cards, [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1497 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. Ltd. v. Awaz & Ors. finance charges and withdrawal limits, and are also provided at the time of the generation of each monthly bank/billing statement. The customer from day one is aware that in the event of there being a delayed payment, he would be liable to pay the interest. 20. A preliminary objection has also been raised by the Banks, that the Respondent nos. 1 & 2, do not qualify as a ‘consumer’ under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 and have no locus standi to approach the National Commission. The Respondent nos. 1 & 2, are registered trusts, that claim to fight for consumer rights, are not purchasers of any goods, nor have they availed any services. The Complainant trust does not meet the requirements under section 2(b) & 2(d)) read with Section 12(c) and 13(6) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 and cannot be considered a voluntary consumer association. Be that as it may, a trust, whether registered under the Indian Trust Act, or the State Trust Registration Act, is not a person ‘person’ as defined under Section 2(1)(m) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, and & therefore not a consumer and consequently cannot invoke provisions or file a consumer dispute under the provisions of this Act.5 21. It is further submitted by the Appellants that the Respondents had approached the National Commission at the behest of the Respondent no. 3, one Mr. Thakur a credit card holder with Citibank, purportedly claiming an amount of Rs.