7. Submissions of the Appellants: We heard Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, Mr. Harish Salve, Ms. Madhavi Divan, Mr. Sajan Poovayya, Sr. Advocates. Learned senior counsels for the appellants have argued that the allegedly offending portions of Season 1, Episode 5 of the web- series do not meet the threshold for obscenity and that the High Court has erred in characterising the material as obscene. Further, these portions do not contain any sexually explicit act and as such no offence under Sections 67 or 67A of the IT Act is made out. Elaborating their submissions, the appellants’ argued: 7.1 Section 67 of the IT Act, that criminalises the publication and transmission of obscene material in electronic form, covers material which is lascivious or appeals to the prurient interest or if its effect is such as to tend to deprave and corrupt persons who are likely, having regard to all relevant circumstances, to read, see or hear the matter contained or embodied in it. As per Aveek Sarkar (supra), the determination of whether some material is obscene must be made by the ‘community standard test’ by considering the work as a whole and then looking at the specific material that has been alleged to be obscene in 1156 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the context of the whole work. The web-series is a romantic comedy that traces the life of a group of friends who are in college. Its intention is to paint a relatable picture of college life in a cosmopolitan urban setting. There are two specific portions that have been alleged to be obscene. The first segment is where the male protagonist, named Bagga, indiscriminately uses expletives that are heard by the female protagonist, named Naira. Naira objects to the use of such language and points out that the literal meaning of the terms is absurd. Bagga states that these terms are not meant to be taken literally and are a part of common parlance. Naira reiterates her disapproval and threatens Bagga with consequences if he continues to speak in such a manner. Bagga ‘inadvertently’ uses another expletive, due to which Naira leaves from there. In the second segment, Naira and Bagga are with a wider group of friends where Naira is incensed by the statements of another friend and angrily uses the same expletives as Bagga, at which Bagga is delighted. Learned senior counsel has argued that when these scenes are considered individually and in the context of the web-series as a whole, they are not obscene. They only portray the absurdity of the literal meaning of these terms and show their inevitable presence in common language, including by those who disapprove of their use. 7.2 Relying on Samaresh Bose v. Amal Mitra12 and Bobby Art International v. Om Pal Singh Hoon13, learned senior counsel has argued that while the alleged portions are vulgar, vulgarity does not equate to obscenity. Mere words cannot amount to obscenity unless they involve lascivious elements that arouse sexual thoughts and feelings, which is not the effect of the scenes in the present case.