The possession was given to the mortgagee and it was never redeemed. 50. Learned Counsel for the petitioners also rely on partition deed No.6143/1981 executed by children of Padmanabhan and Parukutty Amma to hold that partition took place as putravaksham property but we find this argument misplaced. A relevant extract of the deed is reproduced below : “ Properties acquired in Survey 573 of Punnurunny Desom Poonithura Village by virtue of Document No. 1492/1950 of Thrippunithura SRO. (Book 1 Volume 600 Pages 389 onwards) and in Survey 691/2.690/1C of Vattekkunnam Kara Thrikkakara North Village by virtue of Document No. 3177/1096 of Alangad SRO. Were acquired by us along with our brother Late. Neelakandamenon alias Appu and 1038 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports mother Parukutty Amma and was in the joint possession and living together..….After the death of our mother Parukutty Amma, all her rights are vested on us and the said properties are in the joint possession of us and we decided to partition….” (Emphasis supplied) 51. A perusal of this deed shows that the said properties were acquired by them through different documents but nowhere it states that it devolved upon them after death of their father. 52. It is further pleaded that on the death of Padmanbhan, his wife and each of the children got an equal share by virtue of Section 22(1) of the Travancore Act as the said section deals with property acquired by gift or bequest from husband or father. No evidence is placed on record to show that the said property was gifted by Padmanbhan to his wife or children. 53. The Trial Court in regard to these properties (item No.2) held that: “19. The second item property allegedly belonged to the tavazih of Parukutty Amma, the plaintiff’s predecessor, as per document No.3181/1096. The contention is that property belonged to Parukutty Am ma’s husband, Sankaran Padmanabhan of Kadangat taravadu, and not to Andippillil taravadu and the plaintiffs have no right over it. Padmanabhan and Parukutty Amma were the parents of deceased Neelakanda Menon and defendants 1,7 and 8. It is contended that Neelakanda Menon and defendants 1, 7 and 8 became entitled to the property as the legal heirs of their parents. 20. Ext. A2 Mortgage Deed is the document relied on by the plaintiffs. It is seen from the recitals in the document that the plaint schedule second item property was allotted to the share of Parvathy and her son Padmanabhan, husband of Parukutty Amma, in a partition and on the death of Padmanabhan Parvathy became its exclusive owner. It means that the property belonged to the tavazhy of Parvathy. It is mentioned in the document that Parukutty Amma of Andippillil tarvadu had been given possession of this item of property even before the execution of [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1039 Ramachandran & Ors. v. Vijayan & Ors. Ext. A2 mortgage deed Parukutty Amma was the great grandmother of the plaintiffs. In 1116 M.E. Parukutty Amma’s son Neelakanda Menon executed a document in favour of his brother Karunakara Menon the 8th defendant in respect of this property.