8. The Deputy Commissioner, UT Chandigarh, shall comply with the above direction by handing over the entirety of the record to the Registrar General of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana for safe keeping and custody. 9. The ensuing meeting of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, which is to take place on 7 February 2024, shall stand deferred, pending further s of this Court. 10. List the Special Leave Petition on 19 February 2024.” 15. On 19 February 2024, when the proceedings were listed before this Court again, the following was passed: "1. Mr Gurminder Singh, senior counsel apprised the Court that in pursuance of the interim dated 05 February 2024, the ballot papers have been sequestered under the custody of the Registrar General of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana on 05 February 2024. 2. During the course of the hearing, the Returning Officer Mr Anil Masih is present before this Court. Responding to a query of the Court, Mr Masih stated that he had, besides signing the ballot papers, put his mark at eight ballot papers during the course of the counting of the votes. He states that he did so as he found that the ballot papers were defaced. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 703 Kuldeep Kumar v. U.T. Chandigarh and Others 3. We direct that the ballot papers which have been placed in the custody of the Registrar General be produced before this Court at 2.00 pm on 20 February 2024 by a judicial officer to be nominated by the Registrar General for the purpose of transporting the ballot papers to this Court. 4. Proper security arrangements shall be made to ensure the safe transit of the judicial officer nominated by the Registrar General in pursuance of this . Arrangements shall also be made to secure proper preservation and custody of the ballot papers with the judicial officer. 5. The judicial officer shall also produce the entire video of the counting of the votes before the Returning Officer which took place on 30 January 2024. 6. List the Special Leave Petition at 2.00 pm on 20 February 2024.” 16. In pursuance of the above directions, the entire record pertaining to the election of the Mayor was sequestered under the custody of the Registrar General of the High Court, including (i) the ballot papers; (ii) the video footage of the electoral process; and (iii) all material in the custody of the Returning Officer/Presiding Officer. Pursuant to the dated 19 February 2024, the entire record has been produced before this Court in sealed and secure custody by Shri Varun Nagpal, OSD (Litigation) of the High Court of Punjab & Haryana. 17. On 5 February 2024, during the course of the hearing, parts of the video footage recorded in pursuance of the of the High Court were played before this Court. The entire video footage has been produced before the Court pursuant to dated 19 February 2024 and played on the open screens during the hearing. 18. Elections to the post of Mayor are governed by the provisions of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (Procedure and Conduct of Business) Regulations 1996.