106 of the Act, 1989, and if the notice of claim is not made within the stipulated period, then the claim becomes time-barred. [Paras 34, 35, 36, 39] Railways Act, 1989 – s. 106 (3) – Meaning of Overcharge – Notice for Claim for Refund of Overcharge – Conditions: Held: The term “overcharge” has neither been defined in the Act, 1989 nor the erstwhile Act, 1890 – The term “overcharge” is derived from the word ‘charge’ prefixed by the word ‘over’ and means “something more than the correct amount or more than a certain limit” – The Supreme Court in Union of India & Ors. v. West Coast Paper Mills Ltd. & Anr. explained that an overcharge is something in excess of what is due according to law, an overcharge must be of the same genus or class as a charge, and it does not include a sum that was collected but was not due – The Supreme Court as-well as various High Courts have consistently held that the rigours of Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989 will only be applicable where the claim is for a refund of an ‘overcharge’ – Where the claim for refund is for anything but an ‘overcharge’, Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989 will not apply, and no notice of claim is required – When it comes to a Notice for Claim for Refund of Overcharge under Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989 the following conditions must be fulfilled: - a) Claim must be for refund of an ‘Overcharge’; b) Overcharge must have been paid to the Railway Administration in respect of the goods carried by the railway; c) Notice must be issued within 6-months from the date of payment or delivery of [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1053 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. goods for which overcharge was paid; d) Notice must be served to the concerned railway administration to whom the overcharge was paid – Thus, the rigours of Section 106 sub-section (3) i.e., the 6-month time period for making a notice of claim, is only attracted, when the refund is for an overcharge. [Paras 43, 44, 45, 53, 59] Railways Act, 1989 – What is the difference between an “Overcharge” and an “Illegal Charge”: Held: As to what would be an ‘overcharge’, the Supreme Court and the various High Courts have consistently held that an ‘overcharge’ is any sum charged in excess or more than what was payable as per law – Whereas an illegal charge is any sum which is impermissible in law – For an excess sum to be an “overcharge” the sum paid must partake the same character as the basic charge, or must belong to the same genus of charge which was payable or required to be paid by law – Whereas, for an illegal charge, the sum must not have been payable by law – Another very fine but pertinent distinction between an ‘overcharge’ and an ‘illegal charge’ is that, an ‘overcharge’ is generally inter-se the specific parties involved and in its peculiar facts – Whereas an ‘illegal charge’ is illegal for everyone irrespective of the parties or facts.