The possessor shall have to apply for licence in prescribed proforma. (5) Certain experiments for the purpose of education within the field of gene technology or microorganism may be carried out outside the laboratories and laboratory areas mentioned in subrule (2) and will be looked after by the Institutional Biosafety Committee.” (Emphasis supplied) 27.3. Rule 10 states that except with the approval GEAC, no substances and products containing genetically engineered organisms or cells or microorganisms shall be produced, sold, imported or used. 27.4. Rule 12 provides for guidelines wherein person who applies for approval under the Rules 8-11 is obligated to submit information and make examinations or cause examinations to be made to elucidate its case, including examinations according to specific directions and at specific laboratories. Before obtaining the approval, it is his responsibility to make [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1901 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. available an on-site emergency plan to the GEAC. Further, an obligation is imposed upon the person to whom an approval has been granted, to notify the GEAC of any change in or addition to the information already submitted. 27.5. Rule 13 provides for grant of approval and the same is reproduced herein: “(1) In connection with the granting of approval under rules 8 to 11 above, terms and conditions shall be stipulated, including terms and conditions as to the control to be excercised by the applicant, supervision, restriction on use, the layout of the enterprise and as to the submission of information to the State Biotechnology Co-ordination Committee or to the District Level Committee (2) All approvals of the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee shall be for a specified period not exceeding four years at the first instance renewable for 2 years at a time. The Genetic Engineering Approval Committee shall have powers to revoke such approval in the following situations: (a) If there is any new information as to the harmful effects of the genetically engineered organisms or cells. (b) If the genetically engineered organisms or cells cause such damage to the environment, nature or health as could not be envisaged when the approval was given, or (c) Non compliance of any condition stipulated by Genetic Engineering Approval Committee.” (Emphasis supplied) 27.6. Rule 14 deals with general supervision of GEAC in the implementation of the terms and conditions laid down in connection with the approvals accorded by it and such supervision could be carried out through the SBCC or the State Pollution Control Boards/DLC or through any person authorised in this behalf. 1902 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 27.7. Rule 15 deals with penalties which can be imposed. It reads as: “(1) If an is not complied with, the District Level Committee or State Biotechnology Coordination Committee may take measures at the expenses of the person who is responsible. (2) In cases where immediate interventions is required in to prevent any damage to the environment, nature or health, the District level Committee or State Biotechnology Coordination Committee may take the necessary steps without issuing any s or notice.