1415 of 1996, Mrs. Asha Khosa v. Chairman, Army Public School, decided on 17.2.1997, in which the Division Bench of that Court held that the writ petition was not maintainable as the Army Welfare Educational Society is not an instrumentality of the State under Article 12 of the Constitution. Against the of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court a Special Appeal No. 6482 of 1997 was filed 2194 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports before the Supreme Court which was dismissed on 31.3.1997. We fully agree with the view taken by the Jammu and Kashmir High Court in the aforesaid decision.” x x x x 25. During the discussions and negotiation before the transfer, the authorities with whom the management was to vest shortly have not made any definite commitment or given assurance to the teaching or the non teaching staff of the College regarding security of their tenure, or regarding status of their service. In fact the teaching and non teaching staff of the school were never taken into confidence either by the BEG & C or the St. Gabriel Society in their negotiations. When such agreement was executed and the baton was handed over to the new employer and management, the concern and interest of those who are under the employment ought to be addressed. These are the basic requirements when such change over takes place in a civil society, which is bound by the rule of law. The employees of the school have a legitimate expectation that their conditions of service which were applicable immediately before the change over will not be varied to their disadvantage. However, this is what the new employer intend to do, which is reflected in his letter dated 28.02.2012. The danger to their service is not a mere apprehension of the 14 petitioners. It is a “clear and present” danger. This Court consequently intends to issue its writ of mandamus to stop the respondents from doing this. 26. In the entire process of the change of management, the petitioners were never taken into confidence. Their point of view was never considered necessary. They were never given any opportunity of hearing. On the contrary BEG & C and respondent no. 7 AWES, have shown documents before this Court justifying their unilateral action. Mr. P.R. Mullick, counsel for the respondent nos. 2 & 3 has argued that the society i.e. Brothers of St. Gabriel Province of Delhi have made immense profit from the school and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2195 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. they have opened another school in Roorkee and if they are really concerned about the petitioners then they can adjust them in their new school. 27. This is not the correct way of dealing with the issue. What has happened is not a simple change over from one management to another, which can only be seen on the basis of “profit and loss accounts” and “balance sheets.” It is not a business commercial deal we are looking at.