Similarly, in Pioneer Urban Land & Infrastructure Ltd. & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. reported in (2019) 8 SCC 416, this Court reiterated that IBC is not a debt recovery mechanism. It observed that when CIRP is initiated the aspect of recovery of debt is completely outside the control of the creditor and there is no guarantee of recovery or refund of the entire amount in default. A creditor initiates insolvency under the Code not for the relief of recovery of debt but rather for rehabilitating the corporate debtor and for a new management to take over. The relevant observations read as under: “It is also important to remember that the Code is not meant to be a debt recovery mechanism (see para 28 of Swiss Ribbons). It is a proceeding in rem which, after being triggered, goes completely outside the control of the allottee who triggers it. Thus, any allottee/home buyer 188 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports who prefers an application under Section 7 of the Code takes the risk of his flat/apartment not being completed in the near future, in the event of there being a breach on the part of the developer. Under the Code, he may never get a refund of the entire principal, let alone interest. […]” (Emphasis supplied) 101. In yet another decision of this Court in Hindustan Construction Company Ltd. & Anr. v. Union of India reported in (2020) 17 SCC 324 it was held that IBC is not meant to be a recovery mechanism as it is an economic legislation meant for the resolution of stressed assets. The relevant observations read as under: - “79. Dr Singhvi then argued that under Section 5(9) of the Insolvency Code, “financial position” is defined, which is only taken into account after a resolution professional is appointed, and is not taken into account when adjudicating “default” under Section 3(12) of the Insolvency Code. This does not in any manner lead to the position that such provision is manifestly arbitrary. As has been held by our in Pioneer Urban Land & Infrastructure Ltd. v. Union of India, IBC is not meant to be a recovery mechanism (see para 41 thereof)—the idea of the Insolvency Code being a mechanism which is triggered in that resolution of stressed assets then takes place. For this purpose, the definitions of “dispute” under Section 5(6), “claim” under Section 3(6), “debt” under Section 3(11), and “default” under Section 3(12), have all to be read together. Also, IBC, belonging to the realm of economic legislation, raises a higher threshold of challenge, leaving Parliament a free play in the joints, as has been held in Swiss Ribbons (P) Ltd. v. Union of India [...]” (Emphasis supplied) 102. Similarly, in Jaypee Kensington Boulevard Apartments Welfare Assn. v. NBCC (India) Ltd., reported in (2022) 1 SCC 401 this Court held that the focus of IBC was more on ensuring the revival and continuation of the corporate debtor rather than mere recovery of the debt owed by the corporate debtor to its creditors.