Information furnished as aforesaid by the concerned Police Station with its English translation; b. Copy of the First Information Report with its English translation; c. Details, such as date of arrest of the convict, date of filing of chargesheet and actual period of incarceration undergone by the convict; d. A copy of the committal , if any, passed by the learned Judicial Magistrate; e. A copy of charge-sheet with its English translation; f. Report about the conduct of the convict in prison; g. Copies of the notes of evidence, all exhibited documents in the trial and copies of statements of convicts under Section 313 of the CrPC with its English translation; 614 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports h. Copies of the s of the Sessions Court (with its English translation, if it is in vernacular language), High Court and this Court; F. As soon as mercy petitions are received by the dedicated cell, copies of the mercy petitions shall be forwarded to the Secretariats of the Hon’ble Governor of the State or the Hon’ble President of India, as the case may be so that the Secretariat can initiate action at their end; G. All correspondence, as far as possible, be made by email, unless confidentiality is involved; and, H. The State Government shall issue office s/executive s containing guidelines for dealing with the mercy petitions in terms of this . iii. The Registry of this Court shall forward copies of this to the Secretaries of the Home Department of the respective State Governments/Union Territories for its implementation. The Secretaries shall report compliance within three months from today to the Registrar (Judicial) of this Court; iv. The Sessions Court shall endeavour to follow the following guidelines: a. As soon as the of the High Court confirming or imposing the death sentence is received by the Sessions Court, a note thereof must be taken, and the disposed of case shall be listed on the cause list. The proceedings can be numbered as Misc. Application depending upon the applicable Rules of the procedure. The Sessions Court shall immediately issue notice to the State Public Prosecutor or the investigating agency calling upon them to state whether any appeal or special leave petition has been preferred before this Court and what is the outcome of the said petition/appeal; b. If the State Public Prosecutor or the investigating agency reports that the appeal is pending, as soon as the of this Court confirming or restoring the death sentence is received by the Sessions Court, again, the disposed [2024] 12 S.C.R. 615 State of Maharashtra & Ors. v. Pradeep Yashwant Kokade & Anr. of case or miscellaneous applications should be listed on the cause list and notice be issued to the State Public Prosecutor or the investigating agency to ascertain whether any review/curative petitions or mercy petitions are pending. If information is received regarding the pendency of review/curative petitions or mercy petitions, the Sessions Court shall keep on listing the disposed of case after intervals of one month so that it gets the information about the status of the pending petitions.