Certain principles of policy to be followed by the State.— The State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing— … (e) that the health and strength of workers, men and women, and the tender age of children are not abused and that citizens are not forced by economic necessity to enter avocations unsuited to their age or strength; (f) that children are given opportunities and facilities to develop in a healthy manner and in conditions of freedom and dignity and that childhood and youth are protected against exploitation and against moral and material abandonment.” 117 “45. Provision for early childhood care and education to children below the age of six years.— The State shall endeavour to provide early childhood care and education for all children until they complete the age of six years.” 118 “47. Duty of the State to raise the level of nutrition and the standard of living and to improve public health.— The State shall regard the raising of the level of nutrition and the standard of living of its people and the improvement of public health as among its primary duties and, in particular, the State shall endeavour to bring about prohibition of the consumption except for medicinal purposes of intoxicating drinks and of drugs which are injurious to health.” 119 ‘CNCP’ 1568 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 84. The Act provides a comprehensive framework to deal with CNCP. Section 27120 of the JJ Act establishes the Child Welfare Committee121 to inter alia handle and resolve complaints in relation to children who are in need of care. The CWC’s role is to ensure the children’s basic needs are met and that they are protected, treated, developed, and rehabilitated. 85. Therefore, children who are married off are required to be produced before the CWC so that they may be rehabilitated and taken care of. The JJ Act further provides for the constitution of the State Child Protection Society and District Child Protection Unit. Section 106 of the JJ Act stipulates that the State shall constitute a State Child Protection Society and a Child Protection Unit in each district. The mandate of the Society and Unit may be prescribed by the State. The constitution of these societies and units is to take up matters related to children for the implementation of the Act including inter alia notification of competent authorities in relation to the children and their rehabilitation and co-ordination with various official and non-official agencies concerned. The society and units therefore have the responsibility to identify needs and engage with stakeholders, official and non-official, for the implementation of the JJ Act. As a beneficial social legislation aimed at children, the society and units constituted under the JJ Act are required to proactively identify remedies and strategies for the rehabilitation and protection of victims of child marriages. 120 “27. Child Welfare Committee.– (1) The State Government shall by notification in the Official Gazette constitute for every district, one or more Child Welfare Committees for exercising the powers and to discharge the duties conferred on such Committees in relation to children in need of care and protection under this Act and ensure that induction training and sensitisation of all members of the committee is provided within two months from the date of notification.