16. The Single Judge, after recording the submissions as adverted to above, entered a specific finding in paragraph 39 that “this court is therefore, of the opinion that there is willful disobedience” (emphasis supplied). The above finding follows immediately upon the previous paragraph of the which records the contention of the respondent herein that he was entitled to promotion to the rank of IG, in any event with effect from 2021. 17. Bearing in mind the above finding, the Single Judge gave an opportunity to the appellants “to issue a fresh granting promotion to the petitioner to the rank of IG” to bring him at par with his immediate junior. Reading the entirety of the of the Single Judge, it is clear that besides holding that the appellants (who we the respondents before the Single Judge) were guilty of contempt of court, there is a crystallized finding that the respondent herein was entitled to promotion as IG, in any event with effect from 2021. 18. The Division Bench has lost sight of this aspect. The Division Bench, in paragraph 52, noted the submission of the respondent that the of the Single Judge should not be construed as crystallizing any right in favour of the respondent and should only be confined to the question as to whether the appellants herein had committed a willful disobedience of the of the Division Bench dated 24 December 2019. The Division Bench accepted this submission and observed that “in view of our understanding of the impugned , as noted above, the learned Single Judge has not decided any dispute regarding the rights and obligations of the parties” other than adjudicating on the issue of contempt. The of the Division Bench lost sight of the fact that whether the appeal was maintainable would have to be construed on a plain reading of the of the Single Judge. Two aspects were covered by the of the Single Judge : Firstly, a finding that the appellants were guilty of contempt of the dated 24 December 2019; and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1053 Ajay Kumar Bhalla & Ors. v. Prakash Kumar Dixit Secondly, that the respondent was entitled to promotion to the rank of IG. The first aspect is not amenable to an appeal under Section 19 at the present stage. The finding that the respondent was entitled to promotion to the rank of IG would be amenable to an appeal in terms of the law laid down by this Court in Midnapore Peoples’ Coop. Bank Ltd. (supra), more particularly in paragraph 11(V) which has been extracted above. 19. For the above reasons, we set aside the impugned and of the Division Bench dated 10 May 2024 and restore Letters Patent Appeal 157 of 2024 in Contempt Case No 198 of 2020 together with the associated interlocutory applications to the file of the Division Bench for consideration on merits in terms of the above directions. 20. Mr Sanjay Ghosh, senior counsel appearing for the respondent states that no coercive steps would be taken against the appellants till the next date of listing before the High Court of Delhi.