[Paras 20-22 and 25] List of Acts Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. List of Keywords Corporate Debtor (Jet Airways Limited); Conditions Precedent; Director General of Civil Aviation; Effective Date; Successful Resolution Applicant; Consortium of lenders; Performance Bank Guarantee; Adjustment of Performance Bank Guarantee; Infusing funds; Employees payment obligations Case Arising From CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal Nos.3736-3737 of 2023. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1047 State Bank of India and Ors v. The Consortium of Mr Murari Lal Jalan and Mr Florian Fritsch and Anr From the and dated 03.03.2023 of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, Principal Bench at New Delhi in Company Appeal (AT) (Insolvency) Nos.129-130 of 2023. With Civil Appeal Nos.4131-4134 And 6427-6428 of 2023. Appearances for Parties R. Venkataramani, Attorney General for India, Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General, N. Venkataraman, A.S.G., Mukul Rohatgi, Krishnendu Datta, Saurabh Kripal, Amit Sibal, Sanjay Singhvi, Ritin Rai, Sr. Advs., Vikas Mehta, Mayan Prasad, Ms. Anshula Vijay Kumar Grover, Ms. Rashi Rampal, Ms. Nitika Grover, Sahil Khan, Sanjay Kapur, Devesh Dubey, Ms. Isha Virmani, Ms. Mahima Kapur, Ms. Mansi Kapur, Mrs. Shubhra Kapur, Aashish Vats, Harish Nadda, Kumar Shashank, Anant Singh, Ms. Srishty Kaul, Rajat Sinha, Ms. Pooja Mahajan, Ms. Arveena Sharma, Ms. Shruti Pandey, Avinash B. Amarnath, Raghav Shankar, Rajendra Barot, Dhirajkumar Totala, Suharsh Sinha, Ms. Liz Mathew, Nishant Upadhyay, Vinay Tripathi, Mayank Bhargava, Darpan Sachdeva, Mehul Bachhawat, Ankit Pal, Ms. Mallika Agarwal, Nisarg Bharadwaj, Ms. Rohini Thyagarajan, Shakti Vardhan, Ms. Amiy Shukla, Pawanshree Agrawal, Ms. Shubhangi Negi, Ms. Ekta Choudhary, Divyank Dutt Dwivedi, Ms. Aditi Sharma, Ms. Petrushka Dasgupta, Mridul Yadav, Ms. Tahira Kathpalia, Ms. Pallavi Pratap, Advs. for the appearing parties. / of the Supreme Court Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI 1. This batch of appeals arises from three s of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal1. A Resolution Plan was submitted under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 20162 by a consortium of Murari Lal Jalan and Florian Fristch in respect of the Corporate 1 “NCLAT” 2 “IBC” 1048 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Debtor (Jet Airways Limited). The Plan was voted upon and approved by the Committee of Creditors on 17 October 2020. The Resolution Professional then filed an application before the Adjudicating Authority to seek approval of the Resolution Plan. The Plan received the imprimatur of the Adjudicating Authority – the National Company Law Tribunal3 - on 22 June 20214. 2. Clause 7.6 of the Resolution Plan stipulates conditions for implementation. Clause 7.6.1 spells out the “conditions precedent”: “7.6.1. Conditions Precedent - The obligation of the Resolution Applicant to re-commence operations as an aviation company, being the business proposed to be acquired is subject to the fulfilment of the following conditions after the Approval Date (“Conditions Precedent”): (a) Validation of AOP of the Corporate Debtor by DGCA & MoCA - The AOP of the Corporate Debtor shall have been validated by the DGCA, the MoCA and any other relevant Government Authority and grant of all other mandatory approvals to the Corporate Debtor to enable it to re-commence flying operations (including commercial/ cargo operations) and related on-ground services.