Secondly, the corporate debtor is not an insolvent company undergoing liquidation process, but is undergoing the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process. 45. Similarly, the reliance placed by Airtel entities on Section 60(5)54 of the IBC, which confers jurisdiction on the Adjudicatory Authority to entertain and dispose of any application or proceeding by or against a corporate debtor, including claims against any of the subsidiaries or any question of priority or question of law and facts, arising out of or in relation to insolvency resolution or liquidation proceeds of the corporate debtor, does not come to the aid of the Airtel entities. These are enabling provisions which entitle the Adjudicating Authority 52 Career Institute Educational Society v. Om Shree Thakurji Educational Society, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 586. 53 (1981) 3 SCC 32. 54 Section 60 Adjudicating authority for corporate persons.— (5) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being in force, the National Company Law Tribunal shall have jurisdiction to entertain or dispose of— (a) any application or proceeding by or against the corporate debtor or corporate person; (b) any claim made by or against the corporate debtor or corporate person, including claims by or against any of its subsidiaries situated in India; and (c) any question of priorities or any question of law or facts, arising out of or in relation to the insolvency reso- lution or liquidation proceedings of the corporate debtor or corporate person under this Code. 168 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS to go into several aspects to aid and assist the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process. They cannot be read as allowing a creditor/debtor to claim set-off in the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process. 46. Relying upon several decisions under the United Kingdom Insolvency Act and Rules, it has been argued that insolvency set-off is self- executing. Reliance is placed on Innoventive Industries Ltd. (supra), wherein it is observed that the English Insolvency Act has served as a model for the IBC. We do not agree that insolvency set-off under the IBC is automatic and self-executing. We do not find any provision in the IBC which states so. In the context of the IBC, insolvency set-off is neither automatic, nor self-executing. 47. Airtel entities have also argued that the definitions of ‘claim’ and ‘debt’ in sub-sections (6) and (11) of Section 3 of the IBC buttress the argument that set-off under the IBC is self-executing.55 The argument is self-serving and evasive because neither clause uses the expression ‘set-off’, nor is it implied. We would not extend on and remodel the definitions on the basis of predisposed and self- serving suppositions. 48. Therefore, we would reject the argument that insolvency set-off is automatic and self-executing. Self-execution may be acceptable in cases of contractual set-off, as held above. 49. Reference is also made to the UNCITRAL Legislative Guide on Insolvency Law56 which states that right to set-off is essential to avoid misuse of insolvency proceedings by a corporate debtor. The said guide states that insolvency law of set-off of mutual obligations arising out of pre-commencement transactions or activities of the debtor leads to commercial predictability and availability of credit.