This procedure involves two [2024] 6 S.C.R. 31 Alauddin & Ors. v. The State of Assam & Anr. fallacies : one is it enables the accused to elicit by a process of cross-examination what the witness stated before the police officer. If a police officer did not make a record of a witness’s statement, his entire statement could not be used for any purpose, whereas if a police officer recorded a few sentences, by this process of cross-examination, the witness’s oral statement could be brought on record. This procedure, therefore, contravenes the express provision of Section 162 of the Code. The second fallacy is that by the illustration given by the learned counsel for the appellants there is no self-contradiction of the primary statement made in the witness box, for the witness has yet not made on the stand any assertion at all which can serve as the basis. The contradiction, under the section, should be between what a witness asserted in the witness box and what he stated before the police officer, and not between what he said he had stated before the police officer and what he actually made before him. In such a case the question could not be put at all : only questions to contradict can be put and the question here posed does not contradict; it leads to an answer which is contradicted by the police statement. This argument of the learned counsel based upon Section 145 of the Evidence Act is, therefore, not of any relevance in considering the express provisions of Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.” (emphasis added) This decision is a locus classicus, which will continue to guide our Trial Courts. In the facts of the case, the learned Trial Judge has not marked those parts of the witnesses’ prior statements based on which they were sought to be contradicted in the cross-examination. ANALYSIS OF EVIDENCE 11. PW-1 (a son of the deceased) claimed that accused no. 1 - appellant no. 2 picked up his father at 4.00 p.m. from his house on 3rd February 2013 and took him to Bhojkhowa Chapori Bazar. He stated that at 7.00 p.m., he returned home and around 8.00 to 8.30 p.m., he came to Bhojkhowa Chapori Bazar to make some purchases. He claimed that he was riding a motorbike, and in the flash of the headlight of the motorbike, he saw the accused no. 7 - appellant no. 4 (Md. Nur 32 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Islam), accused no. 3 – appellant no. 1 (Md. Alaluddin), acquitted accused no. 2 (Md. Tahiruddin), accused no. 6 – appellant no. 3 (Md. Nurul Islam), accused no. 1 – appellant no. 2 (Md. Abdul Kadir), acquitted accused no. 5 (Md. Abdul Kadir Jilani) leaving the place on a motorbike after hacking a person. PW-1 stated that he got down from the motorcycle and found his father lying there. Evidence of PW-1 need not detain us, as the Trial Court has already held that his claim that he witnessed the incident was fallacious.