The argument of the appellant aside, court fees finds mention in the Seventh Schedule in Entry 3 of List II (reproduced supra). However, as is obvious, there is no inconsistency between Central and State legislation here. The reason why it is difficult to accept the argument of the appellant is because court fees are explicitly governed by Entry 3 List II, reproduced supra. When that is the case, no argument pertaining to inconsistency between the two entries and the respective laws made thereunder can be entertained in law. Still further, the 886 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports law-making power given as delineated in the Seventh Schedule is not constricted, but wide. When the competence to legislate is called into question, it is permissible to demonstrate the same from a conjoint reading of multiple entries and it need not flow directly from one particular entry. M.N.Venkatachaliah J. (as his Lordship then was) writing for the majority in Ujagar Prints (II) v. Union of India22 held as under: “53. If a legislation purporting to be under a particular legislative entry is assailed for lack of legislative competence, the State can seek to support it on the basis of any other entry within the legislative competence of the legislature. It is not necessary for the State to show that the legislature, in enacting the law, consciously applied its mind to the source of its own competence. Competence to legislate flows from Articles 245, 246, and the other articles following, in Part XI of the Constitution. In defending the validity of a law questioned on ground of legislative incompetence, the State can always show that the law was supportable under any other entry within the competence of the legislature. Indeed in supporting a legislation sustenance could be drawn and had from a number of entries. The legislation could be a composite legislation drawing upon several entries….” 13. A natural conclusion that can be drawn is that if legislative competence can be demonstrated, drawing on multiple entries, the same can be taken to be beyond the pale of any doubt when there is a particular entry to that effect. Entry 3, List II specifically empowers the State to legislate in respect of fees taken in all courts, save this Court. Ergo, there is no reason to accept the appellant’s contention that simply because it involves settlement of the dispute per alternative dispute mechanisms, the matter pertaining to the court fee payable in such a case, would travel out of the purview of Entry 3, List II, and would instead fall within the amplitude of Entry 11-A, List III. 14. At this juncture, let us address the argument of the appellant that differentiation in the refund of fees applicable between the Central and State legislation would defeat the overall, salutary purpose of Section 89 CPC. 22 [1989] 1 SCR 344 : (1989) 3 SCC 488 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 887 Sanjeevkumar Harakchand Kankariya v. Union of India & Ors. 14.1 Reference may be made to the High Court of Judicature at Madras v. M.C.