This is precisely what Article 14 frowns upon. 23. We are constrained to hold that the Appendix H-1 in the notification of 13.05.2019, issued by the Medical Council of India cannot be interpreted to mean that merely because on the quantification of the disability percentage exceeding the prescribed limits, a person automatically becomes ineligible for the medical course. 24. Dealing with an absolute bar imposed on women in seeking criteria or command appointments, this Court, while finding that such prescription fell foul of Article 14 held that implicit in the guarantee of equality is the principle that where the action of the State does differentiate between two classes of person, it does not differentiate them in an unreasonable or irrational manner. This Court further held that the right to equality is a right to rationality and whether a particular candidate should or should not be granted, could be a matter for the competent authority to decide but a blanket non-consideration of women for criteria or command appointments absent an individuated justification was not sustainable in law (See Secretary, Ministry of Defence v. Babita Puniya and Others (2020) 7 SCC 469 (para 85) 25. A Constitutional Court examining the plea of discrimination is mandated to consider whether real equality exists. This Court is not to be carried away by a projection of facial equality. Viewed at first blush, the regulation providing that all persons with 40% or more disability are uniformly barred from pursuing the medical course in the category of speech and language disability, may appear non-discriminatory. But here too, appearances can be deceptive. The Court of law is obliged to probe as to whether beneath the veneer of equality there is any invidious breach of Article 14. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 685 Omkar Ramchandra Gond v. The Union of India & Ors. 26. This Court in Khandige Sham Bhat and Anr vs. Agricultural Income-tax Officer, Kasaragod, and Anr, AIR 1963 SC 591 observed as under: “7. Though a law ex facie appears to treat all that fall within a class alike, if in effect it operates unevenly on persons or property similarly situated, it may be said that the law offends the equality clause. It will then be the duty of the court to scrutinise the effect of the law carefully to ascertain its real impact on the persons or property similarly situated. Conversely, a law may treat persons who appear to be similarly situate differently; but on investigation they may be found not to be similarly situate. To state it differently, it is not the phraseology of a statute that governs the situation but the effect of the law that is decisive. If there is equality and uniformity within each group, the law will not be condemned as discriminative, though due to some fortuitous circumstance arising out of a peculiar situation some included in a class get an advantage over others, so long as they are not singled out for special treatment….” 27. Similarly, in Lieutenant Colonel Nitisha & Ors.