The counsel placed reliance on the decision of this Court in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra reported in (1984) 4 SCC 116 to fortify his submission [2024] 6 S.C.R. 185 Anees v. The State Govt. of NCT that the prosecution could be said to have failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt and could not have taken recourse to Section 106 of the Evidence Act in the absence of any foundational facts being laid for the same. 24. He further submitted that the sole eye-witness, Shaheena (PW-3), did not support the case of the prosecution and her oral evidence rather fortified the defence taken by the accused that some strangers entered the house in the night hours and caused injuries to the appellant and the deceased. 25. He submitted that Sayed Ali (PW-9), the panch witness examined by the prosecution to prove the discovery of the knife, also turned hostile and failed to prove the contents of the discovery panchnama. 26. One another submission canvassed was that the S.I. Mohkam Singh (PW-17), in his testimony before the trial court, admitted that he had questioned Shaheena (PW-3) before forwarding the written report/rukka to the police station. However, the said fact is missing in the written report/rukka prepared after completing the inquiry. This according to the learned counsel indicates that the testimony of S.I. Mohkam Singh (PW-17) is unworthy of reliance. 27. He submitted that the sole basis to convict the appellant was that the explanation offered by him was not sufficient to save him from the adverse inference drawn against him under Section 106 of the Evidence Act. However, the High Court failed to appreciate that the prosecution has to stand on its own legs and prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. Prosecution cannot throw the entire burden on the accused to prove his innocence. 28. He submitted that the courts below ought to have taken into consideration the conduct of the appellant at the time of the alleged incident. Had the appellant been the assailant, he would not have stayed back at the place of occurrence, but would have rather ran away after committing the alleged crime. 29. He also submitted that the prosecution could not establish any motive on the part of the appellant to commit the alleged crime. Both the trial court and the High Court proceeded on the assumption that as the deceased might have arrived at home late in the night, the same perhaps could have led to an altercation between the two leading to the incident. However, no witness has been examined in this regard. 186 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 30. In the last, the learned counsel submitted that even if the entire case of the prosecution is believed or accepted to be true, still the case would fall within the Exception 4 to Section 300 of the IPC. In other words, the submission is that the alleged crime could be said to have been committed without pre-meditation in a sudden fight upon a sudden quarrel.