(iv) Fourthly, it is important to note that the decision in J. Jayalalitha (supra) was in a matter involving a full-fledged trial and the Court was hearing an appeal against an of acquittal passed by the High Court. The Court also noted that income tax returns or s could at best be evidences which have to be evaluated along with the other materials on record. (v) This Court, in cases involving either discharge [State of Tamil Nadu v. N. Suresh Rajan & Ors. (2014) 11 SCC 709 Paragraph 32.3] or quash [CBI & Anr. v. Thommandru Hannah Vijayalakshmi & Anr. (2021) 18 SCC 135 Paragraph 63-64] has noted that Income Tax Returns are not conclusive proof which 700 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports can be relied upon either to quash the criminal proceeding or to discharge the accused persons. 32. Therefore, in the present case, the probative value of the s of the Income Tax Authorities, including the of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal and the subsequent Assessment s, are not conclusive proof which can be relied upon for discharge of the accused persons. These s, their findings, and their probative value, are a matter for a full-fledged trial. In view of the same, the High Court, in the present case, has rightly not discharged the appellants based on the s of the Income Tax Authorities. 33. Insofar as the submission that where there is exoneration in a civil adjudication, criminal prosecution on the same set of facts and circumstances cannot be allowed to continue is concerned, the same is also without merit as far as the present case is concerned. 34. The appellants herein have placed reliance on the decisions of this Court in Radheyshyam Kejriwal (supra), Ashoo Surendranath Tewari (supra) and J. Sekar (supra) to argue that once there is an exoneration on merits in a civil adjudication, a criminal prosecution on the same set of facts and circumstances cannot be allowed to continue. In our opinion, none of the above-referred decisions are applicable to the facts of the present case. 35. In Radheshyam Kejriwal (supra), this Court was concerned with a fact situation where the Petitioner therein was being prosecuted under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 for payments made by him in Indian currency in exchange for foreign currency without any general or specific exemption from the Reserve Bank of India. The Enforcement Directorate had commenced both an adjudication proceeding and a prosecution under the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973. It so transpired that the Adjudicating Officer found that no documentary evidence was available to prove the foundational factum of the Petitioner therein entering into the alleged transactions which fell foul of the Act and thereafter directed that the proceedings be dropped. The question which fell for the consideration before this Court was whether the result of this adjudication proceeding would lead to exoneration of the Petitioner in the criminal prosecution. 36. In this background, this Court noticed that the adjudication proceedings under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 involved an [2024] 3 S.C.R.