Thus, for a plea of ignorance of law, the ignorance or mistake of law must be such which legitimately gives rise to a bona-fide belief of the existence of a right or a claim, and the said person commits any act on the strength of such right or claim. This is fortified from the following observation “A claim of right in good faith, if reasonable saves the act [...] where such a plea is raised” in paragraph 7 of Chandi Kumar Das Karmarkar (supra). Thus, a plea of ignorance of law is only valid for the defence of a bona-fide claim of right and any acts done thereunder. As such, where a person [2024] 10 S.C.R. 283 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. commits any act on the assertion of a right, the existence of which was bona-fidely believed due to a mistaken notion of law, such person will not be liable due to the honest but mistaken factum of such right or claim stemming from or accompanied by ignorance of law. 213. Similarly, in Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills (supra) this Court only held that a plea of ignorance of law may be a valid defence for bona- fidely believing the existence of a wrong or incorrect right i.e., the right to only a partial concession of sale tax exemption. Accordingly, this Court held that where a person due to ignorance of law was not fully informed about a particular right, there can be no waiver of such right unless it is shown that such person was indeed aware of the said right. 214. Thus, the aforesaid decisions of this Court in Chandi Kumar Das Karmarkar (supra) Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills (supra) are distinguishable for the simple reason that storage or possession of child pornographic material cannot be equated or traced to any right or assertion even if it was a mistaken one. Even if a person is unaware that the possession or storage of such material is punishable, it by no stretch can be considered to give rise to any right or assertion as there exists no such right to either store or possess such material, and thus it is not a valid defence. We say so because, no person of an ordinary prudent mind with the same degree of oblivion or unawareness as to the law, more particularly Section 15 of POCSO could as a natural corollary be led to a belief of existence of a right to store or possess any child pornographic material. The ignorance or unawareness must have a reasonable nexus with the right or assertion claimed i.e., the ignorance or unawareness must be such which could legitimately and reasonably give rise to a corresponding right or claim the and the existence of which must be bona-fidely believed. Otherwise, anyone could make a bald or blanket claim of having a bonafide belief of any right to wriggle out of any liability arising out of its actions on the touchstone of unawareness of any particular law.