Explanation.—For the purposes of clause (c)— (i) where a contract involves the payment of money, it is not essential for the plaintiff to actually tender to the 2100 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports defendant or to deposit in court any money except when so directed by the court; (ii) the plaintiff must aver performance of, or readiness and willingness to perform, the contract according to its true construction.” (emphasis supplied) 11. From the aforesaid, it is evident that the protection of a prospective purchaser/transferee of his possession of the property involved, is available subject to the following prerequisites: (a) There is a contract in writing by the transferor for transfer for consideration of any immovable property signed by him or on his behalf, from which the terms necessary to constitute the transfer can be ascertained with reasonable certainty; (b) The transferee has, in part-performance of the contract, taken possession of the property or any part thereof, or the transferee, being already in possession, continues in possession in part- performance of the contract; (c) The transferee has done some act in furtherance of the contract and has performed or is willing to perform his part of the contract. 12. In terms of this provision, if the above preconditions stand complied with, the transferor or any person claiming under him shall be debarred from enforcing against the transferee and person(s) claiming under him, any right in respect of the property of which the transferee has taken or continue in possession, other than a right expressly provided by the terms of the contract, notwithstanding the fact, that the transfer, as contemplated, had not been completed in the manner prescribed therefor by the law for the time being in force. Noticeably, an exception to this restraint is carved out qua a transferee for consideration, who has no notice of the contract or of the part-performance thereof. 13. Section 53-A of the Transfer of Property Act was inserted partly to set at rest the conflict of views in this country, but principally for the protection of ignorant transferees who take possession or spend money in improvements relying on documents which are ineffective [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2101 Giriyappa & Anr. v. Kamalamma & Ors. as transfers or on contracts which cannot be proved for want of registration. The effect of this section, is to relax the strict provisions of the Transfer of Property Act and the Registration Act in favour of transferees in to allow the defence of part performance to be established. 14. Section 53-A is an exception to the provisions which require a contract to be in writing and registered and which bar proof of such contract by any other evidence. Consequently, the exception must be strictly construed. 15. In view of the aforesaid, this Special Leave Petition fails and is hereby dismissed. 16. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of. Result of the case: Special Leave Petition dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Adeeba Mujahid, Hony. Associate Editor (Verified by: Shibani Ghosh, Adv.)