The complainant, however, continued to seek more financial assistance from the appellant which he could not afford any longer and accordingly, helped her to find employment. 3.2 It is the case of the appellant that the complainant continued to seek more attention and financial help from the appellant, because of which the appellant tried to ignore her, to which she became aggressive and started issuing threats not only to the appellant but also to his family members to extort more money from the appellant which led to filing of several complaints against the complainant (Respondent no. 2) by the wife of the appellant. In all, five complaints were lodged with Nerul Police Station by the appellant, his wife and his office staff against the harassment tactics of the complainant for extorting money from the appellant. However, the complainant continued her aggressive, abusive behaviour towards the appellant and family members. 4. The appellant, to his shock, learnt later that a complaint was filed by Respondent no. 2 as a counter blast which was registered as FIR No. 302 of 2017 dated 15.08.2017 under Sections 376, 420, 504 and 506 of the IPC stating, inter alia, as follows:- (i) The complainant was married in 1994 by performing Christian rituals out of which two daughters were born. Her husband died in the year 2003. Thereafter, she came to reside at Sarsole in Navi Mumbai and was looking for a job as she had no means of livelihood. While looking for a job she was introduced to the appellant who was also in need of a helper to look after his ailing wife. 890 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (ii) Accordingly, she met the appellant in 2008. The appellant told the complainant that his wife had skin disease, thyroid problem and paralytic stroke and the complainant has to look after his wife at his own residence at Kharghar Sector 12, behind HDFC ATM. (iii) Accordingly, on the next day in the morning she went to the house of the appellant along with her daughter. It was alleged that the appellant was with his second wife Kalpana at home and the wife asked her daughter to sit with her and sent the complainant to the bedroom to massage the feet of the appellant and while massaging the appellant citing reasons of illness of both his wives, told her that he would marry her and thereafter, had sexual intercourse with her forcibly without her consent. Thereafter, the appellant continued to exploit her sexually many times again and again by giving false promises of marriage. (iv) According to the complainant, she worked in the house of the appellant for two months and thereafter, left the job since she got a private job at Belapur and as the wife of the appellant suspected a relationship between the appellant and the complainant. It was alleged that since the appellant did not want to lose her, the appellant arranged a rented room for the complainant at Sector 2, LIG Colony, Nerul and the appellant used to come every day to her house.