He, therefore, submits that Section 206C is not applicable to a public sector undertaking like Mysore Sales. Both Explanations (a)(ii) and (iii) clearly exclude retail vendors from the ambit and purview of “buyers” as defined under the Explanation. 6.2. Elaborating further, he submits that “buyers” falling in the above exception were exempted from paying income tax at source at the time of obtaining licence for retail vending of arrack in their respective assigned areas as per the price fixed by the state government. The auction is only regarding transferring the right or privilege which is vested in the state to the liquor contractors who would thereafter operate the retail business of vending in arrack. Therefore, there is no sale involved in the auction transaction. 6.3. Assessing officer had wrongly relied upon the decision of the Supreme Court in Union of India Vs. A. Sanyasi Rao1. In the said decision, the constitutional validity of Section 206C of the Income Tax Act was challenged and the same was negatived by this Court. However, the clarifies that there are just exceptions carved out in Section 206C in which cases, income tax is not required to be collected at source. 6.4. Learned counsel further submits that the objective behind introduction of Section 206C in the Income Tax Act was to ensure proper tax collection in matters relating to profits and gains from the business of trading in alcoholic liquor etc. However, a taxing statute has to be interpreted strictly. It cannot be interpreted in an overly expansive and wide manner so as 1 [1996] 2 SCR 570 : (1996) 3 SCC 465 296 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to bring persons within the tax net who are otherwise exempted from paying tax. Both the Single Bench and the Division Bench had erred in adopting such an interpretation and wrongly holding that Section 206C was applicable in respect of Mysore Sales and since it had not deducted TDS, the same was required to be recovered. Both the Benches had erred in taking the view that purchase of arrack was by way of public auction only and not in any other manner and that the “seller” (Mysore Sales) had an obligation to collect income tax at source from such “buyers” who would be further vending the same in retail. 6.5. Even if the view taken by the revenue and affirmed by the High Court is accepted, it cannot be said that there was sale of arrack by Mysore Sales to the licence holders. Such sale, if at all it can be said so, was at the price fixed by the state government under the Excise Act and the Rules framed thereunder. The sale was wholly for the purpose of retail vending and not a sale within the meaning of Section 206C of the Income Tax Act; moreover, under the aforesaid provision, a sale must be made to a “buyer” defined under the Explanation to Section 206C of the Income Tax Act. As a matter of fact, it is the contention of the appellant that there is no sale between Mysore Sales and the excise contractors.