On 27th June, 2015, the appellant was appointed to the post of Amin by the District Magistrate West Champaran, Bettiah. 6. Aggrieved by the said appointment, the respondent no.8 filed an intra-Court appeal before the Division Bench stating inter alia that he was not made a party by the appellant in the writ petition and assailing his appointment on the ground that the appellant was overaged in terms of the press communication dated 01st November, 2011. Agreeing with the stand of the respondent No.8, the Division Bench has passed the impugned judgement. The Division Bench was of the opinion that the entire selection process had been carried out on the basis of treating the cut off date as 01st November, 2011. It was observed that though the advertisement at the District level did officially fix the cut off date as 01st January, 2011, it was not considered sacrosanct since uniformity was required to be maintained across the State with regard to the cut off date fixed. 7. Learned counsel for the appellant assails the impugned on the ground that the Division Bench erred in ignoring the date of the public advertisement that mentioned the cut off date as 01st January, 2011, for reckoning the age of a candidate, which in the case of the appellant herein who belongs to the extremely backward category, was 40 years. He states that the subsequent communication issued by the respondents changing the cut off date from 01st January, 2011 to 01st November, 2011, was not placed in public domain through any advertisement, as had been done earlier. Instead, it was displayed only on the Notice Board in the office of the Collectorate, which was not the correct procedure to be adopted and could not have been treated as overwriting the initial advertisement issued on 01st January, 2011. 8. It is settled law that it is not open for an employer to change the qualifications prescribed in the advertisement midstream, during the course of the ongoing selection process. Any such action would be hit by the vice of arbitrariness as it would tantamount to denial of an opportunity to those candidates who are eligible in terms of 1200 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the advertisement but would stand disqualified on the basis of a change in the eligibility criteria after the same is announced by the employer. Having applied for appointment in accordance with the terms prescribed in the advertisement, a candidate acquires a vested right to be considered in accordance with the said advertisement. This consideration may not necessarily fructify into an appointment but certainly entitles the candidate to be considered for selection in accordance with the rules as they existed on the date of the advertisement. To put it differently, the right of a candidate for being considered in terms of the advertisement stands crystalized on the date of the publication of the advertisement. Any subsequent amendment to the advertisement during the course of the selection process unless retrospective, cannot be a ground to disqualify a candidate from the zone of consideration.