Thus, there is formidable evidence of the Medical Jurist(PW-9) which totally discredits the version of the so called eyewitnesses(PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3) that Jeeva(deceased) was inflicted the injuries leading to his death while being in police custody at the Amraiwadi Police Station. Their evidence is contradicted in material particulars by the medical evidence and other attending circumstances. 44. We are conscious of the proposition that where there are contradictions inter se between the opinion of the Medical Jurist and the ocular testimony, generally, the evidence of the eyewitnesses should be given precedence. However, where the contradiction is so prominent that it completely demolishes the version of the eyewitnesses who are interested and partisan, in such cases, the Court should be circumspect in admitting the evidence of the eyewitness while ignoring the convincing opinion of the Medical Expert. 45. Our view is fortified by the of this Court in the case of Bhajan Singh alias Harbhajan Singh and Others. v. State of Haryana8 wherein, it was held as below: - “38. Thus, the position of law in such a case of contradiction between medical and ocular evidence can be crystallised 8 [2011] 7 SCR 1 : (2011) 7 SCC 421 394 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to the effect that though the ocular testimony of a witness has greater evidentiary value vis-à-vis medical evidence, when medical evidence makes the ocular testimony improbable, that becomes a relevant factor in the process of the evaluation of evidence. However, where the medical evidence goes so far that it completely rules out all possibility of the ocular evidence being true, the ocular evidence may be disbelieved.” (emphasis supplied) 46. Considering the unimpeachable and strong opinion of the Medical Jurist(PW-9), the probability of the victim having been assaulted in Sabarmati Central jail leading to the fatal injuries noted in the postmortem report(Exhibit-50) is much higher as compared to the theory set up in the complaint and the evidence of the star prosecution witness that Jeeva(deceased) was fatally assaulted by A1 and A2 while he was detained at the Amraiwadi Police Station. 47. The witness Udesingh Himmatsinh Chauhan(PW-8) categorically stated in his evidence that at the time of inquest, he had seen the victim’s clothes thoroughly and there was red dust over the said clothes. He also stated to have seen Sabarmati Central jail from inside and deposed that soil of the jail is red. 48. We feel that since the victim was brought dead from the Sabarmati Central jail, it was imperative upon the Investigating Agency to have made extensive investigation from the prison authorities so as to rule out the possibility of injuries having been caused, while the victim was lodged in the prison. We are also of the view that if at all, Jeeva(deceased) was having the large number of injuries as noted in the postmortem report(Exhibit-50), the prison authorities would definitely have made a note thereof in the jail records at the time of his admission in the jail premises and the observations made at that time would be crucial for arriving at the truth of the matter.