1465 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. any Tribe or Tribal community but save as aforesaid a notification issued under the said clause shall not be varied by any subsequent notification.” 39. While moving the said new draft Articles, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar stated thus: “The object of these two articles, as I stated, was to eliminate the, necessity of burdening the Constitution with long lists of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. It is now proposed that the President, in consultation with the Governor or Ruler of a State should have, the power to issue a general notification in the Gazette specifying all the Castes and tribes or groups thereof deemed to be Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the purposes of the privileges which have been defined for them in the Constitution. The only limitation that has been imposed is this : that once a notification has been issued by the President, which, undoubtedly, he will be issuing in consultation with and on the advice of the Government of each State, thereafter, if any elimination was to be made from the List so notified or any addition was to be made, that must be made by Parliament and not by the President. The object is to eliminate any kind of political factors having a play in the matter of the disturbance in the Schedule so published by the President.” 40. It could thus be seen that the idea behind draft Articles 300A and 300B, which are now Articles 341 and 342, was to eliminate the necessity of burdening the Constitution with long lists of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. It was proposed that the President, in consultation with the Governor or Ruler of a State shall have the power to issue a general notification in the Gazette specifying all the Castes and tribes or groups thereof deemed to be Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the purposes of the privileges which have been defined for them in the Constitution. 41. It is thus clear that the purpose of draft Article 300A (now Article 341) and draft Article 300B (now Article 342) was for identifying the castes, races, or tribes, or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes, which were entitled to the privileges which had been defined for them in the Constitution. 1466 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 42. It is thus clear that the purpose of draft Articles 300A and 300B (now Articles 341 and 342) was not providing the privileges but only identifying the castes, races, or tribes, or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes, which would be entitled for the privileges which were elsewhere provided under the Constitution. 43. Dr. B.R. Ambedkar further observed that the only limitation that has been imposed was that once a notification has been issued by the President, which he would be issuing in consultation with and on the advice of the Government of the State, thereafter, if any elimination or addition was to be made in the List so notified, the same can be done only by Parliament and not by the President.