Explanation 2.-- For the avoidance of doubt, the test as to whether there is a contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law shall not entail a review on the merits of the dispute. 534 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to Section 48(2)(b); secondly, it limits the expanse of public policy of India to the three specified categories by using the words “only if”. Whereas, Explanation 2 lays down the standard for adjudging whether there is a contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law by providing that a review on merits of the dispute shall not be done. This limits the scope of the enquiry on an application under either Section 34(2)(b)(ii) or Section 48(2)(b) of the 1996 Act. 45. The Amendment, 2015 by inserting sub-section (2-A)41 in Section 34, carves out an additional ground for annulment of an arbitral award arising out of arbitrations other than international commercial arbitrations. Sub-section (2-A) provides that the Court may also set aside an award if that is vitiated by patent illegality appearing on the face of the award. This power of the Court is, however, circumscribed by the Proviso, which states that an award shall not be set aside merely on the ground of an erroneous application of the law or by re-appreciation of evidence. 46. Explanation 1 to Section 34(2)(b)(ii), specifies that an arbitral award is in conflict with the public policy of India, only if,- (i) the making of the award was induced or affected by fraud or corruption or was in violation of Section 75 or Section 81; or (ii) it is in contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law; or (iii) it is in conflict with the most basic notions of morality or justice. 47. In the instant case, there is no allegation that the making of the award was induced or affected by fraud or corruption, or was in violation of Section 75 or Section 81. Therefore, we shall confine our exercise in assessing as to whether the arbitral award is in contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law, and/ or whether it conflicts with the most basic notions of morality or justice. Additionally, in the light of the provisions of sub-section (2-A) of Section 34, we shall examine whether there is any patent illegality on the face of the award. 48. Before undertaking the aforesaid exercise, it would be apposite to consider as to how the expressions (a) “in contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law”; (b) “in conflict with the most basic notions of morality or justice”; and (c) “patent illegality” have been construed. 41 See Footnote 18 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 535 OPG Power Generation Private Limited v. Enexio Power Cooling Solutions India Private Limited & Anr. In contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law 49. As discussed above, till the Amendment, 2015 the expression “in contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law” was not found in the 1996 Act. Yet, in Renusagar (supra), in the context of enforcement of a foreign award, while construing the phrase “contrary to the public policy”, this Court held that for a foreign award to be contrary to public policy mere contravention of law would not be enough rather it should be contrary to: (a) the fundamental policy of Indian law; and /or (b) the interest of India; and/ or (c) justice or morality.