The appellants were also restrained from posting, circulating or publishing the article in respect of the respondent-plaintiff on any online or offline platform till the next date of hearing. 3. The of the trial Judge indicates that the discussion, after recording the submission of the respondent, commences at paragraph 7. The only reasoning which is found in the of the trial Judge is in paragraphs 8-9, which read as follows: “8. I have noticed that in Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi (Supra), Chandra Kochar (Supra), Swami Ramdev (Supra), ex-parte ad interim injunction was passed, considering that the contents of the material in question was per se defamatory. 9. In my view, the plaintiff has made out a prima facie case for passing ad interim ex-parte s of injunction, balance of convenience is also in favour of plaintiff and 1 “trial Judge” 998 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports against the defendant and irreparable loss and injury may be caused to the plaintiff, if the injunction as prayed for is not granted. In view thereof, defendant no.1 and defendant no.2 are directed to take down the article dated 21.02.2024 (page 84 to 86 of the plaintiff’s document) from online platform within one week of receipt of this . The defendants are further restrained from posting, circulating or publishing the aforesaid article in respect of the plaintiff on any online or offline platform till the next date of hearing.” 4. The of the trial Judge has been upheld by a Single Judge of the High Court of Delhi by dated 14 March 2024.2 The Single Judge of the High Court seems to have had doubts about the maintainability of the appeal, but that point need not be laboured any further having regard to the provisions of XLIII of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908. 5. The three-fold test of establishing (i) a prima facie case, (ii) balance of convenience and (iii) irreparable loss or harm, for the grant of interim relief, is well-established in the jurisprudence of this Court. This test is equally applicable to the grant of interim injunctions in defamation suits. However, this three-fold test must not be applied mechanically,3 to the detriment of the other party and in the case of injunctions against journalistic pieces, often to the detriment of the public. While granting interim relief, the court must provide detailed reasons and analyze how the three-fold test is satisfied. A cursory reproduction of the submissions and precedents before the court is not sufficient. The court must explain how the test is satisfied and how the precedents cited apply to the facts of the case. 6. In addition to this oft-repeated test, there are also additional factors, which must weigh with courts while granting an ex-parte ad interim injunction. Some of these factors were elucidated by a three-judge bench of this Court in Morgan Stanley Mutual Fund v. Kartick Das,4 in the following terms: 2 “Impugned ” 3 Delhi Development Authority v. Skipper Construction Co. (P) Ltd., [1996] Suppl.