(2) The existence of debt due to the financial creditor may be proved on the basis of— (a) the records available with an information utility, if any; or (b) other relevant documents, including— (i) a financial contract supported by financial statements as evidence of the debt; (ii) a record evidencing that the amounts committed by the financial creditor to the corporate debtor under a facility has been drawn by the corporate debtor; (iii) financial statements showing that the debt has not been paid; or (iv) an of a court or tribunal that has adjudicated upon the non-payment of a debt, if any. [2024] 2 S.C.R. 271 Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority v. Prabhjit Singh Soni & Anr. 19. Regulation 1221 mandates submission of proof of the claim by the date specified. Whereas, Regulation 1322 speaks of verification of claims by the interim resolution professional (IRP) or the RP, as the case may be. Regulation 1423 provides for determination of amount of claim where the amount claimed is not precise. 20. The use of the words “a person claiming to be an operational creditor” in the opening part of Regulation 7, and the words “a person claiming to be a financial creditor” in Regulation 8, indicate that the category in which the claim is submitted is based on the own understanding of the claimant. Thus, there could be a situation where the claimant, in good faith, may place itself in a category to which it does not belong. However, what is important is, the claim so submitted must be with proof. As to what could form proof of the debt/ claim is delineated in sub-regulation (2) of Regulations 7 and 8 of the CIRP Regulations, 2016. 21 12. Submission of proof of claims.—(1) Subject to sub-regulation (2), a creditor shall submit claim with proof on or before the last date mentioned in the public announcement. (2) A creditor, who fails to submit claim with proof within the time stipulated in the public announcement, may submit the claim with proof to the interim resolution professional or the resolution professional, as the case may be, on or before the ninetieth day of the insolvency commencement date. (3) Where the creditor in sub-regulation (2) is a financial creditor under Regulation 8, it shall be in- cluded in the committee from the date of admission of such claim: Provided that such inclusion shall not affect the validity of any decision taken by the committee prior to such inclusion. 22 13. Verification of claims.—(1) The interim resolution professional or the resolution professional, as the case may be, shall verify every claim, as on the insolvency commencement date, within seven days from the last date of the receipt of the claims, and thereupon maintain a list of creditors containing names of creditors along with the amount claimed by them, the amount of their claims admitted and the security interest, if any, in respect of such claims, and update it. (2) The list of creditors shall be— (a) available for inspection by the persons who submitted proofs of claim; (b) available for inspection by members, partners, directors and guarantors of the corporate debtor or their authorised representatives; (c) displayed on the website, if any, of the corporate debtor; (ca) filed on the electronic platform of the Board for dissemination on its website: Provided that this clause shall apply to every corporate insolvency resolution process ongoing and commencing on or after the date of commencement of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2020; (d) filed with the adjudicating authority; and (e) presented at the first meeting of the committee.