The Consolidation Officer further referring to the patta by which the said land was settled in favour of Makhan Singh and the adoption deed directed the name of the plaintiff-appellant to be recorded in the record of rights. 8 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 19. It is an admitted fact that after the closure of the consolidation proceedings when the possession of the plaintiff-appellant came to be interfered with by the State, he was forced to file a suit for declaration of his rights over the said land irrespective of the finality of the of the Consolidation Officer. The cause of action in the said suit was a fresh cause of action arising after the closure of consolidation proceedings. In the said suit no contest was made by the State of U.P., neither any written statement was filed nor any evidence was adduced on its behalf. The court of first instance on the basis of the evidence both documentary and oral adduced by the plaintiff-appellant decreed the suit and held him to be the owner in possession of the suit land. 20. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, the rights of the parties over the suit land stood crystalised with the passing of the dated 12.11.1979 by the Consolidation Officer which became final and conclusive. The State of Bihar never challenged the said . It is not its case that the aforesaid has been obtained by concealment of facts or by playing fraud upon the consolidation authorities. The State of Bihar at no point of time came forward to claim the right, title or interest of disputed land before any forum either the consolidation authorities or the Civil Court, rather forced the plaintiff-appellant to institute the civil suit despite recognition of his rights by the consolidation authorities. 21. In view of the above, when the rights of the plaintiff-appellant have been determined and recognised by the consolidation authorities, the of the Consolidation Officer to that effect in favour of the plaintiff-appellant could not have been ignored by the Civil Court. The jurisdiction of the Civil Court in respect of the rights determined by the Consolidation Officer stands impliedly excluded by the very scheme of the Consolidation Act. The appellate courts below completely fell in error in holding otherwise discarding the of the Consolidation Officer which was sacrosanct as to the rights in respect to the suit land. 22. Insofar as, the bar of Civil Court imposed by Section 37 of the Consolidation Act is concerned, a plain reading of the said provision would reveal that the Civil Court is prohibited from entertaining any suit to vary or set aside any decision or of the Consolidation Court passed under the Act in respect of the matter for which the [2024] 6 S.C.R. 9 Ram Balak Singh v. State of Bihar and Anr. proceedings could have or ought to have been taken under the Consolidation Act. 23. In the instant case, the plaintiff-appellant has not instituted any suit either to vary or set aside any decision or passed by the Consolidation Court under the Consolidation Act.