(b) Substitution of the original allottee/auction- purchasers shall be allowed on payment of 50% unearned increase of his shares in the value of the plot which will be calculated at the market rate. The market rate shall be the rate prevalent on the date of receipt of the application. It is irrespective of the fact whether the lease deed has been executed or not. (c) 50% unearned increase will be charged in respect of proportionate shares of the plot parted with by way of addition, deletion or substitution of partner/partners in case of single ownership or partnership firm and Director/Directors/ Shareholders/Subscribers in case of private 436 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports limited company. This is applicable where the incoming persons do not fall within the definition of family. Unearned increase would be charged on the basis of market rate prevalent on the date of intimation for each and every change in the constitution. This would be applicable in all cases where the lease deed has been executed or not. (d) In case where a private limited company/ public limited company separately floating a new company although Directors may be the same and the name of old company has not changed and it still exists as it was, 50% unearned increase will be chargeable in such cases. 3. Interest @ 18% p.a. on the unearned increase from the date of receipt of the application intimating the change till the payment by the company or individual or firm shall be charged on the amount of the unearned increase payable to the DDA. 4. The administrative conditions prescribed in the UO No. F.1(23)/78/C(L) Part II dated 8-5-1979 will remain unchanged. XXX XXX XXX” (emphasis added) In paragraphs 14 to 18, this Court held thus: 14. For answering the seminal question, we must first advert to the obligation of Respondent 1 springing from the stipulation in the perpetual lease deed. Clause 6(a), as extracted in para 2 above, envisages a bar to sell, transfer, assign or otherwise part with the possession of the whole or any part of the commercial plot, except with the previous consent in writing of the lessor (appellant), which the appellant would be entitled to refuse in its absolute discretion. While granting consent in terms of the proviso to Clause 6(a), it is open [2024] 4 S.C.R. 437 M/s. Jaiprakash Industries Ltd. (Presently known as M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Ltd.) v. Delhi Development Authority to the appellant to impose such terms and conditions as may be deemed appropriate and claim and recover a portion of the unearned increase in the value of the commercial plot, being 50% of the unearned increase. The decision of the appellant in this behalf is final and binding upon the original lessee (Respondent 1). The amount towards the unearned increase is computed on the basis of the difference between the premium paid and the market value of the commercial plot. In doing so, the fact that the transfer under consideration did not involve any consideration amount or the value paid by the transferee is below the market value, would not inhibit recovery of 50% of the prescribed unearned increase amount on actual or, in a given case, notional basis.