Any other interpretation may lead to an anomalous situation resulting into absurdity in as much as there could not be prior approval of the authorities as contemplated under Section 17A for the offences which have been deleted by the Amendment Act, 2018. If the submission of Mr. Salve that Section 17A is retroactive in operation is accepted, then all the pending proceedings of enquiry, inquiry and investigation as on 26.7.2018, carried out in respect of the offences which existed prior to the amendment would become infructuous, frustrating the very object of the Act. 22. As stated earlier, the very object of the PC Act is to combat the corruption, and the object of Section 17A is to protect the honest and innocent public servants from undergoing the harassment by the police for the recommendations made or decisions taken in discharge of official functions or duties. It cannot be the object of Section 17A to give benefit to the dishonest and corrupt public servants. If any enquiry or inquiry or investigation carried out by a police officer in respect of the offence committed by a public servant is held to [2024] 1 S.C.R. 599 Nara Chandrababu Naidu v. The State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr. be non est or infructuous by making Section 17A retrospectively or retroactively applicable, the same would not only frustrate the object of the PC Act but also would be counter-productive. It is axiomatic that no proceeding could stand vitiated or could become infructuous on account of the subsequent amendment in the Act. The well-known and well accepted rule of interpretation of statute is that the courts should take into consideration the other provisions of the Act also while interpreting a particular provision, and should avoid such interpretation as would lead to an anomalous situation or to frustration of the object of the Act. 23. As held in Subramanian Swamy vs. Manmohan Singh and Another18, in case of two possible constructions of a provision in the PC Act, it would be the duty of the court to accept the one that seeks to eradicate corruption to the one which seeks to perpetuate it. In Subramanian Swamy vs. Director, Central Bureau of Investigation and Another19, the Constitution Bench had observed while dealing with Section 19 of the P.C. Act that the protection against malicious prosecution which is extended in public interest, cannot become a shield to protect corrupt officials. 24. The in case of Yashwant Sinha and Others vs. Central Bureau of Investigation (supra), relied upon by Mr. Salve also would not be of any help to the appellant. Mr. Salve has relied upon the observations made by Hon’ble Justice Joseph in his concurring , which according to Mr. Rohtagi was a discordant note in variance with the main of two judges. Be that as it may, what has been observed by Justice Joseph is that Section 17A constitutes a bar of any enquiry, inquiry or investigation without the previous approval of the concerned authority. The said observation nowhere states that Section 17A shall operate retrospectively or retroactively.