11. Coming back to the Gujarat Prohibition Act, provisions with regard to the articles liable to be confiscated and the powers of the court to confiscate such articles have been incorporated in Section 98, whereas the powers of the authorised Prohibition Officer or police officer to arrest the offender and seize the contraband articles are contained in Section 123, followed by other provisions with regard to the procedure to be followed after the seizure of the articles as contained in Section 132 of the said act. 12. Section 132 reads as under: - “132. Article seized - [When anything has been seized, under the provisions of this Act by a Prohibition Officer exercising powers under section 129 or by an Officer in- charge of a Police Station], or has been sent to him in accordance with the provisions of this Act, such officer, after such inquiry as may be deemed necessary, — (a) if it appears that such thing is required as evidence in the case of any person arrested, shall forward it to 614 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Magistrate to whom such person is forwarded or for his appearance before whom bail has been taken, (b) if it appears that such thing is liable to confiscation but is not required as evidence as aforesaid, shall send it with a full report of the particulars of seizure to the Collector, (c) if no offence appears to have been committed shall return it to the person from whose possession it was taken.” 13. As could be seen from the bare reading of Section 132, the authorised Prohibition Officer or the officer in charge of Police Station may after such inquiry as may be necessary either (a) forward the article seized to the jurisdictional Magistrate where the person arrested is forwarded, if it appears to him that such seized article is required as an evidence; or (b) send the seized article to the collector with the full report, if it appears to him that such seized article is liable to confiscation but is not required as an evidence; or (c) return such seized article to the person from whose possession it was taken, if no offence appears to have been committed. 14. Thus, on the conjoint reading of the provisions contained in Section 98 and 132 of the said Act and of Section 451 Cr.PC, it is discernible that all these provisions operate in different fields. Section 98 deals with the Confiscation of the Articles whenever any offence punishable under the Act has been committed. The second part of sub-section (2) thereof would come into play when the Prohibition Officer or Police Officer sends the seized article liable to be confiscated but not required as an evidence, to the Collector as per Clause (b) of Section 132. However, Section 451 of the Cr.P.C. would come into play when the article property seized during the course of inquiry or investigation is produced before the jurisdictional Court as per Clause (a) of Section 132 and the Court is called upon to pass appropriate s for the proper custody of such article/property pending the conclusion of the inquiry or the trial.