5. Respondents no.1 and 2 are the office-bearers of Nachimuthu Nagar Resident Welfare Association (hereinafter referred to as the “Society”), which is registered with the District Registrar, Mayiladuthurai. They are the original plaintiffs in the suit, which was originally filed against Appellant No.1 (later on, Appellants no.2-10 were impleaded1 in the suit). The suit sought the grant of “relief of permanent injunction, restraining the defendants, their men, from in any manner, encroaching upon the suit property and put up any construction or disturbing in any manner.” (sic). 6. The Trial Court, after hearing the parties and perusing the evidence on record, noted that permission should have been obtained from the Joint Director for changing the public purpose site and to sell the same, in the manner in which approval was obtained for Nachimuthu Nagar layout. In the absence of such permission, the legal heirs of Nachimuthu Mudaliar did not have a right to change the character of the suit property. Further, it was noted that the Family Partition Deed dated 31.07.1980, on the basis of which Sale Deed dated 20.04.2009 was created, was not produced before the court. The Trial Court opined, hence, that the Sale Deed 20.04.2009 was not legally proved. Consequently, the subsequent Sale Deed and Exchange Deed (mentioned supra) made in favour of the appellants was also held not to have been proved. On this basis, the Trial Court decreed 1 Appellant nos.2-5 were impleaded vide of the Trial Court dated 21.02.2014. Appellant nos.6-10 were impleaded vide of the Trial Court dated 17.12.2014. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1677 Pradhan Babu and Others v. Nachimuthu Nagar Kudiyiruppor Nala Sangam and Others the suit and granted permanent injunction against the appellants, as was sought. 7. Aggrieved by the decision of the Trial Court, the appellants filed an appeal viz. A.S. No.71 of 2017 before the First Appellate Court. On consideration of the issues that fell before it, the First Appellate Court allowed the appeal and dismissed the suit of the respondents. While doing so, it was noted that though the suit property was reserved for public purpose, since it was neither in the possession of the respondents or the Municipal Authority nor was it seized, the character of the suit property was not maintained as such. Further, on perusal of the documentary evidence produced before it, the First Appellate Court took the view that transfer of title had taken place in favour of the appellants and the suit was bad for non-joinder of necessary parties and in the absence of a prayer for declaration. 8. Against the decision rendered by the First Appellate Court, the respondents preferred a second appeal, namely S.A. No.794 of 2019 before the High Court, which was allowed vide the Impugned and the and Decree of the Trial Court dated 13.09.2017 was restored. SUBMISSIONS BY THE APPELLANTS: 9. At the outset, learned senior counsel for the Appellants submitted that the High Court fell in error in reversing the well-reasoned of the First Appellate Court and holding that, in the absence of permission under Section 38 of the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1972 (hereinafter referred to as the “Act”), the Sale Deed made by the legal heirs of Nachimuthu Mudaliar would be illegal, without correct appreciation of the provision in its true sense.