The courts which are empowered to issue prerogative writs have, therefore, to be extremely cautious in examining the manner in which a detention is passed in respect of an individual so that his right to personal liberty and individual freedom is not arbitrarily taken away from him even temporarily without following the procedure prescribed by law. 26. We have indicated hereinbefore that the consistent view expressed by this Court in matters relating to preventive detention is that while issuing an of detention, the detaining authority must be provided with all the materials available against the individual concerned, both against him and in his favour, to enable it to reach a just conclusion that the detention of such individual is necessary in the interest of the State and the general public. 27. It has also been the consistent view that when a detention is passed all the material relied upon by the detaining authority in making such an , must be supplied to the detenu to enable him to make an effective representation against the detention in compliance with Article 22(5) of the Constitution, irrespective of whether he had knowledge of the same or not. These have been recognised by this Court as the minimum safeguards to ensure that preventive detention laws, which are an evil necessity, do not become instruments of oppression in the hands of the authorities concerned or to avoid criminal proceedings which would entail a proper investigation.” [emphasis supplied] 330 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 32. A perusal of the aforesaid would reveal that for emphasizing the importance of personal liberty and individual freedom, this Court has reproduced Joy Adamson’s memorable classic Born Free. This Court observed that though the concept of personal liberty and individual freedom can be curtailed by preventive detention laws, the Courts have to ensure that the right to personal liberty and individual freedom is not arbitrarily taken away even temporarily without following the procedure prescribed by law. It has been held that when a detention is passed all the material relied upon by the detaining authority in making such an must be supplied to the detenu to enable him to make an effective representation. This Court held that this is required in to comply with the mandate of Article 22 (5) of the Constitution, irrespective of whether the detenu had knowledge of such material or not. 33. It is thus a settled position that though it may not be necessary to furnish copies of each and every document to which a casual or passing reference has been made, it is imperative that every such document which has been relied on by the Detaining Authority and which affects the right of the detenu to make an effective representation under Article 22(5) of the Constitution has to be supplied to the detenu. 34. In the light of this legal position, let us examine the impugned . 35. The grounds on which the detention dated 31st August 2023 has been made read thus: “The following facts have been brought to my attention by the Sponsoring Authority of this COFEPOSA proposal i.e.