Reference was made to the fact that his vendor (defendant No.3-Bhupinder Singh) has contested litigation with the tenant (defendant No.10-M/s. H.M. Traders) and spent huge amount thereon. But the fact remains that the defendant No.3(a)-S.C. Bhalla has purchased the property from defendant no.3-Bhupinder Singh after it had already been vacated by the tenant and he was handed over vacant physical possession thereof. 22. As far as defendant Nos.15 to 19 are concerned, there is no dispute that the portion in their possession has not been rented out to any third party. But it is also a fact admitted by them that they are carrying their own business in the portion in their possession. They have been absolved from rendering account on the ground that the portion in their possession is to the extent of their share in the property. However, this issue has not been determined by any authority. The fact remains that the defendant Nos.15 to 19 are carrying on their own business in the property in question in their possession and earning therefrom. Had their business been carried on in a rented premises, they would have certainly paid some rent. In case, during the course of proceedings for passing of final decree, the Court determines that the defendant Nos.15 to 19 were in actual physical possession of the property in question to the extent of their share, they may not be liable to contribute any amount in the kitty and subsequently will not be entitled to any share from the total amount in the kitty coming out of the amount collected from other portion of the property i.e. 85%. However, in case it was found that they are in possession of portion more than their share, there can be two options; either they contribute to the common kitty for the entire portion of the property in their possession and then get share therefrom or they may be held liable to contribute to the common kitty for the property in their possession beyond their share and subsequently they will not be 1432 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports entitled to any share from the common kitty. However, such an option will have to be exercised by the defendant Nos.15 to 19 before assessment of the rent, to be paid by the aforesaid defendants and not after the rent has been assessed by the Trial Court. 23. The appeals are accordingly allowed. The impugned s passed by the High Court are set aside. There shall be no as to costs. It is directed that the defendant No.3(a)-S.C. Bhalla and defendant Nos.15 to 19, namely, Kailash Chand Gupta, Indu Bala, Sahil Gupta, Pratik Gupta and Ankita Gupta, respectively shall be liable to render accounts and/or liable to contribute rent as assessed by the Trial Court during the course of passing of final decree for the portions in their respective possession. This Court has already elaborated the course which needs to be adopted in para ‘22’ hereinabove insofar as defendant Nos.15 to 19 are concerned.