However, her testimony establishing the presence of Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1), Mahanth Ashwani Das (PW-25), and Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10) is direct evidence and cannot be discarded. Rama Devi (PW-24) was at the hospital for a considerable time before and after the incident. Her version is factually accurate and fosters confidence. Thus, the testimony of Rama Devi (PW-24) can be used to partly corroborate and affirm the testimonies of Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1), Mahanth Ashwani Das (PW-25), and Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10). 25. The testimony of Rama Devi (PW-24) is also relevant from the point of view of motive, a question which is not contentious, as is clear from the questions posed to her in her cross-examination. She has affirmed having contested the Lok Sabha elections against Devendra Nath Dubey, who was murdered. Brij Bihari Prasad, her husband, was implicated in the said case as an accused. Her husband was also arrested in MEDHA scam by the CBI. He was subsequently lodged in Beur Jail. Due to his ill health, he was taken to Patna Medical College from where he was referred to IGIMS hospital. 26. Mantu Tiwari (A-4) is the nephew of the late Bhupendra Nath Dubey (since deceased), who was the brother of Devendra Nath Dubey, a political rival of Rama Devi (PW-24). Devendra Nath Dubey was killed a day before the re-poll for the Motihari Lok Sabha Constituency. Brij Bihari Prasad was named as an accused in the case. The longstanding animosity is further highlighted by the fact that Vijay Kumar Shukla @ Munna Shukla (A-8) is the brother of Chottan Shukla and Bhutkun Shukla, who were allegedly killed by the henchmen of Brij Bihari Prasad. Further, Rama Devi (PW-24) testified that in 1987, there was an assassination attempt on her husband, Brij Bihari Prasad, statedly orchestrated at the behest of Raghunath Pandey (chargesheeted in the present case but since deceased), with Vijay Kumar Shukla @ Munna Shukla (A-8), Chottan Shukla and Bhutkun Shukla involved in the attack. 1336 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Identification and non-recovery of vehicles and weapons 27. Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1) and Mahanth Ashwani Das (PW-25) have identified the vehicles used by the accused on 13.06.1998. They have specifically deposed about a Sumo bearing registration no. BR-1P-1818. The Sumo and the Ambassador cars, which they have referred to in their depositions, were not recovered. The weapons used in the offence, including the carbine belonging to the deceased Lakshmeshwar Sahu, also could not be recovered. However, given the facts and circumstances of the case, the failure of the police to recover the vehicles and the weapons is not sufficient to undermine the credibility of the eyewitness accounts or the corroborative evidence regarding the cause of the homicidal deaths of Brij Bihari Prasad and Lakshmeshwar Sahu. The ocular version of the witnesses should not be disregarded solely because the weapon used in the crime and the vehicles allegedly used by the accused were not located or seized by the police.20 28. It is significant to note that the vehicle No.