11. Learned Counsel submitted that the appellants satisfy all the characteristics of regular government servants, considering the fact that they were appointed in a regular pay scale and received increments and promotions at par with those being admitted to other government employees, along with leave and other benefits and emoluments. Additionally, they were granted the benefits of Assured Career Progression (ACP). 12. Learned counsel further contended that the nature of the work assigned to the appellants was similar to the work of the regular employees of the Accounts Section of SFF HQ Estt. No.22. Moreover, permanent employees of the SFF Accounts are also working with the SSD Staff for maintaining the SSD Fund, performing the same duties. Learned counsel submitted that following the transfer of the SSD Funds Accounts to HQ SFF w.e.f. 1st April 2003, the SSD Funds are being managed by the Deputy Director (AG) at HQ SFF, under the overall control of the Inspector General of SFF. Consequently, the appellants’ services have been brought within the jurisdiction of HQ SFF and fall under the aegis of the Inspector General of SFF. It was further contended that for all other purposes, the appellants have been treated at par with regular employees of the Accounts Section, which places them at same level with government employees. Therefore, the appellants are entitled to receive the same benefits as the regular employees of the Accounts Section and also to receive the pensionary as well as consequential benefits flowing from the 6th CPC. 13. Learned counsel also submitted that the denial of pensionary benefits to the SSD Fund staff, while granting the same to the SFF personnel and other SFF Accounts staff, constitutes an arbitrary and discriminatory decision, violating Article 14 of the Constitution of India. The pensionary benefits were extended to SFF personnel from 1st January, 2009 and to other SFF Accounts staff employed through the same procedure at SSF HQ Estt. No. 22, under the Commandant’s authority, from the onset of their employment (initially temporary [2024] 8 S.C.R. 523 Rajkaran Singh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. for six months). Despite being part of the same establishment and governed by the same Commandant, the appellants working at the SSD Fund were unjustly excluded from these benefits. This differential treatment lacks a reasonable basis and is discriminatory. Learned counsel highlighted the comparative statement of benefits and allowances granted to SSD Fund and SFF permanent employees as per the following table: Particulars SSD Staff SFF Permanent employees Basic Pay Yes Yes Dearness allowance Yes Yes TA/DA (on deputation) Yes Yes House Rent Allowance Yes Yes Transport Allowance Yes Yes Children Education Allowance No Yes High Altitude Allowance Yes Yes Winter Allowance Yes Yes Ration Allowance Yes Yes Special Security Allowance Yes Yes Gratuity Yes Yes Leave Encashment (Not paid at No Yes the time of retirement after 6th CPC) Yearly Bonus Yes Yes Yearly increments Yes Yes LTC Yes Yes ACR (till 6th CPC) Yes Yes Maintenance of Service Book (till 6th Yes Yes CPC) ACP for higher pay scale Yes Yes Promotions Yes Yes Member of SSD Provident Fund Yes Yes Member of Group Insurance Policy Yes Yes CGHS facility (at New Delhi) No Yes Medical facility at Military Hospital Yes Yes 524 [2024] 8 S.C.R.