If it is, the community must be regarded as a more backward community. If it is not, then the community must be regarded as the backward community. 142 AIR 1963 SC 649 [25] 143 AIR 1963 SC 649 [29] This observation must be read along with the observation in Paragraph 21 where this Court held that the test of relativity must not be used to determine the backward class: “21. In considering the scope and extent of the expression “Backward Classes” under Article 15(4), it is necessary to remember that the concept of backwardness is not intended to be relative in the sense that any classes who are backward in relation to the most advanced classes of the society should be included in it. If such relative tests were to be applied by reason of the most advanced classes, there would be several layers or strata of backward classes and each one of them may claim to be included under Article 15(4).” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1387 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 92. This view was critiqued by Justice O Chinnappa Reddy in Vasanth Kumar (supra). In Vasanth Kumar (supra), this Court was invited to deliver its opinion on reservations which may serve as a guideline to the Commission that the Government of Karnataka proposed to appoint for examining the question of reservation in education and employment sectors. In his concurring opinion, Justice Chinnappa Reddy observed that as a matter of principle, sub-classification within a reserved class is valid provided that both the classes are far behind the advanced class and that one of the classes is ahead of the most backward class.144 The learned Judge observed that the validity of the classification of the Backward Class into Backward and More Backward Classes may be open to adjudication on the facts of each case. 93. In Indra Sawhney (supra), an Office Memorandum which introduced a criterion giving preference for the poorer of the Socially and Educationally Backward Class was under challenge. The learned Judges diverged on the interpretation of the phrase “poorer”. Justice Pandian construed the phrase “poorer” in the Memorandum to mean economically weaker sections. Justice B P Jeevan Reddy, authoring the plurality opinion, construed the phrase “poorer” not in the economic sense but in the socio-economic sense. The learned Judges adopted a different approach while dealing with the issue of sub-classification owing to this divergence. Justice Pandian observed that preference for a section of the socially and educationally backward section would eliminate or exclude the other section of the class.145 This observation of the learned Judge must be read along with a previous observation that the socially and educationally backward class shares a common characteristic of social backwardness which cannot then be further divided solely based on economic criteria. Thus, the learned Judge did not find the sub-classification of the socially and educationally backward classes unconstitutional per se but the sub-classification of the class based on economic criteria which is alien to the determination of the beneficiary class.