She contends that training and meeting was conducted in the rented premises of the Appellant in furtherance and establishment of the Islamic rule in India. In these meetings, the participants who were from different States joined and directions were given in the said meeting to kill and attack those who make derogatory statements about Prophet Mohammad and Islam. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1099 Athar Parwez v. Union of India 14. It is further submitted that the Appellant had been working to create a secret group of ex-Student Islamic Movement of India (hereinafter referred to as the “SIMI”) members, which is the banned organisation, in to take revenge against the persons who made or make derogatory statements against Islam. The Appellant and other co-accused had participated in protest and videos were recovered where communal sloganeering was recorded and circulated which not only was intended to create disturbance but religious disharmony and discord within the society. The CDR records established that the Appellant was in touch with other co-accused and had conspired to expand the unlawful ideology of the PFI. About the participation of the Appellant and the other co-accused named in the First Information Report, she states that CCTV footage of 6th and 7th July installed at the Ahmad Palace depicts the same which establishes the involvement of the Appellant in conspiracy for carrying out unlawful activities with an intention to disturb the security, integrity and sovereignty of the country and promote feeling of enmity and hatred between different groups. The Courts below and especially the Special Judge, NIA Patna has taken cognizance of the chargesheet on 28.04.2023. 15. Learned Additional Solicitor General, however could not dispute the stage of the trial as no charges have been framed. Emphasis has been laid by the Learned Additional Solicitor General upon the statements of the protected witnesses, with special emphasis upon that of Z, Y & X. Reliance has also been placed upon the statement of witness Murtuj Ali. Reference has also been made to the chargesheet paragraph 15.2 with regard to the protest march and sloganeering on 09.06.2022 in the area of Police Station, Pirbahor, Patna. Paragraph 15.5 relating to electronic evidence where the hard disk/DVR of the CCTV installed in Ahmad Palace were recovered showing the presence of the Appellant in meeting held on 6th and 7th of July 2022. Paragraph 17.2 again refers to the details with regard to the training conducted in the rented premises as also the Appellant’s connection with the SIMI. Paragraphs 17.3 and 17.4 are with regard to the document titled ‘India 2047 towards rule of Islam in India, internal document, not for circulation’, the contents thereof have been mentioned therein. Paragraph 17.13 highlights the call data records of the mobile numbers used by the accused persons revealing their location and connection with each other in the meeting dated 6th and 7th of July 2022. Paragraphs 17.15 and 1100 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 17.16 - statement of protected witness ‘Z’. Paragraph 17.33 relates to the collection of funds for Zakat and donations by the Appellant and others on directions of the senior members of the PFI.