The joint General Recommendation and Comment proposed a detailed regime of laws to address forced and early marriage, including raising awareness, addressing root causes, ensuring proper registration of births and marriages, protection s, and ensuring access to remedies and reparations, including the use of criminal law.206 142. This issue has been dealt with in international case laws as well. In Prosecutor v. Dominic Ongwen,207 the International Criminal Court’s Appeals Chamber focused on a former commander of the Lord’s Resistance Army who was charged with war crimes and crimes against humanity. The court had to adjudicate whether the legal characterization of ‘forced marriage’ could be classified as an ‘other inhumane act’ under Article 7(1) of the Rome Statute.208 The Trial Chamber noted that forced marriage is similar in nature and gravity to the acts listed in Article 7(1).209 205 Joint general recommendation No. 31 of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women /General comment No. 18 of the Committee on the Rights of the Child on harmful practices”, UN DocCEDAW/C/GC/31-CRC/C/GC18 (2014), para 20. 206 Ibid. 207 No. ICC-02/04-01/15 A A2 (Ongwen Trial ). 208 The Rome Statute, Article 7(1); “Other inhumane Act” is defined as (k) Other inhumane acts of a similar character intentionally causing great suffering, or serious injury to body or to mental or physical health” 209 Ongwen Trial , para. 2751. 1590 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 143. The violation of relational autonomy has been characterized in various ways under international law. Within the framework of international human rights law, forced marriage fundamentally denies individuals the right to freely and consensually enter into a conjugal union. This denial not only infringes upon personal liberty but also undermines the essential dignity and agency of individuals, particularly women, who are disproportionately affected by such practices. The Court noted: “The first type of harm caused by forced marriage, the violation of relational autonomy, has been described in various ways under international law. Under international human rights law, the crux of forced marriage is the denial of the right to freely and consensually enter into marriage. In other words, the focus is on consent to marriage. For example, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (“ICCPR”) states that “No marriage shall be entered into without the free and full consent of the intending spouses”. Similarly, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (“CEDAW”). The same right freely to choose a spouse and to enter into marriage only with their free and full consent”. International human rights law bodies have recognized that forced marriage, as defined under international human rights law, can take place both in peacetime and in armed conflict. International criminal law similarly recognizes the deprivation of relational autonomy through the imposition of a “conjugal union” on a victim. This union need not be marriage as recognized under domestic law, as it also includes relationships in which the victim is forcibly attached to a particular person outside of the context of domestic marriage law.