[Para 169(f)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – The present applies prospectively and to three-member tribunals: Held: [Per Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI for himself and J.B. Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.] The law laid down in the present reference will apply prospectively to arbitrator appointments to be made after the date of this – This direction applies to three-member tribunals. [Para 169(g)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Two independent yet interdependent principles: Held: [Per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.] Dispute resolution through arbitration encompasses two independent yet interdependent principles: contractual freedom as party autonomy and statutory obligation as duty to constitute an independent arbitral tribunal. [Para 56(I)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Arbitration agreement – Party Autonomy: Held: [Per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.] Party autonomy in making of an arbitration agreement is an essential feature of arbitration – It commences with choosing the members of the arbitral tribunal, extends to the procedure that would apply for its conduct, and concludes with the method by which an award could be challenged before a court – It is thus a brooding and guiding spirit of arbitration – Party autonomy is sufficiently incorporated in the Arbitration Act, along with a restraint on judicial intervention. [Para 56(II)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Contract Act, 1872 – s.23 – Statutory incorporation of duties of the parties to the arbitration agreement: Held: [Per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.] The moment parties choose arbitration over ordinary civil proceedings for dispute 2178 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports resolution, their duty to establish an independent and impartial tribunal arises – The substitution of arbitration in place of civil courts as an exception under Section 28 of the Contract Act is only for a forum and not for contracting out of the most essential feature of a dispute resolution, i.e., independence and impartiality must exist in every forum – This essential feature is the inviolable public policy consideration under Section 23 of the Contract Act from which the parties cannot opt out – Arbitration agreements which are not compliant of this public policy consideration are void under Section 23 of the Contract Act – Thus, there is a statutory incorporation of duties of the parties to the arbitration agreement. [Para 56(III)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – When an arbitration agreement is not enabling constitution of an independent and impartial tribunal: Held: [Per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.] If an arbitration agreement is considered by the court as not enabling constitution of an independent and impartial tribunal, any submission that the said agreement is a binding contract, or it is in exercise of party autonomy is not tenable as such an agreement will be against public policy and as such not an enforceable contract. [Para 56(IV)] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Contract Act, 1872 – Statutory incorporation of duties – Necessity to apply public law principles: Held: [Per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.] In view of the statutory incorporation of these duties, it is not necessary to apply public law principles evolved in constitutional and administrative laws – Sourcing these duty obligations from Contract Act and Arbitration Act is important to maintain the integrity of the party autonomy and restraint of judicial institutions.