While 28 [2006] Supp. 2 SCR 790 : (2006) 6 SCC 395 [2024] 12 S.C.R. 57 Tej Prakash Pathak & Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court & Ors. dismissing the appeals upon interpretation of Rule 7 of the Kerala Judicial Service Rules, 1991,29 this Court held: "50. What the High Court has done by the notification dated 26.3.2001 is to evolve a procedure to choose the best available talent. It cannot for a moment be stated that prescription of minimum pass marks for the written examination or for the oral examination is in any manner irrelevant or not having any nexus to the object sought to be achieved. The merit of a candidate and his suitability are always assessed with reference to his performance at the examination and it is a well-accepted norm to adjudge the merit and suitability of any candidate for any service, whether it be the Public Service Commission (IAS, IFS, etc) or any other. Therefore, the powers conferred by Rule 7 fully justified the prescription of the minimum eligibility condition in Rule 10 of the notification dated 26.3.2001. The very concept of examination envisaged by Rule 7 is a concept justifying prescription of a minimum as benchmark for passing the same. In addition, further requirements are necessary for assessment of suitability of the candidate and that is why power is vested in a high-powered body like the High Court to evolve its own procedure as it is the best judge in the matter….. xxx xxx xxx 62. Thus it is seen that apart from the amplitude of the power under rule 7 it is clearly open for the High Court to prescribe benchmarks for the written test and oral test in to achieve the purpose of getting the best available talent. There is nothing in the rules barring such a procedure from being adopted. It may also be mentioned 29 Rule 7.- Preparation of lists of approved candidates and reservation of appointments. – (1) The High Court of Kerala shall, from time to time, hold examinations, written and oral, after notifying the probable number of vacancies likely to be filled up and prepare a list of candidates considered suitable for appointment to category 2. The list shall be prepared after following such procedure as the High Court deems fit and by following the rules relating to reservation of appointments contained in Rules 14 to 17 of part 2 of the Kerala State and Subordinate Services Rules, 1958. (2) The list consisting of not more than double the number of probable vacancies notified shall be forwarded for the approval of the Governor. The list approved by the Governor shall come into force from the date of the approval and shall remain in force for a period of two years or until a fresh approved list is prepared, whichever is earlier. 58 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports that executive instructions can always supplement the rules which may not deal with every aspect of a matter. Even assuming that Rule 7 did not prescribe any particular minimum, it was open to the High Court to supplement the rule with a view to implement them by prescribing relevant standards in the advertisement for selection.” After observing as above, in K.H.