A plain reading of the SARFAESI. Act/Rules casts a duty upon the, Bank/Financial Institution to furnish those encumbrances which are known to them on the property which are sold by them. As stated above, despite having fully known about the encumbrances of 1670 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports property tax, Authorized Officer at clause 4 of the impugned sale notice has falsely and misleadingly recorded that ‘’NOT KNOWN”. On this ground alone, impugned sale notice dated 25 March, 2022 fails in its entirety; w. that, sale notice dated 25th March, 2022 is bad in law and not issued in accordance with the provisions of SARFAESI Rules thereunder. Impugned Sale Notice is perverse for following reasons; x. that there is no 30 days gap between service of notice and auction; y. that known encumbrance has not disclosed as per Rule 8; z. that sale process is in blatant violation of Rule 8 & 9; aa. that sale notice has not been pasted at the secured assets and the same is not in statutory format provided at Appendix IV-A; cc. that Rule 8(5) has not been followed in its true spirit as it seems that ·reserve· price is being fixed based· on desktop valuation;” (Emphasis supplied) 116. Even before the High Court, as evident from the impugned , the Borrower had not canvassed any submissions on the illegality or invalidity of the measures taken by the Bank under the SARFAESI Act including the validity of the 9th auction notice dated 30.06.2023. The specific plea which the Borrower had taken in the present contempt petition, namely the lack of a 30/15 days gap between the sale notice and auction is conspicuously absent. On the contrary it appears that the Borrower in the aforesaid writ petition had abandoned its right to challenge the validity of all measures taken by the Bank under the SARFAESI Act. We say so because of the following reasons: - (i) First, before the High Court the Borrower had submitted that if they are unable to pay the entire dues for redemption of mortgage by 31.08.2023, then the possession of the Secured Asset would be voluntarily handed over to the petitioner. The relevant observations read as under: - [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1671 Celir LLP v. Mr. Sumati Prasad Bafna & Ors. “5. Today, Mr. Shinde, the learned Advocate appearing for the Respondent Bank, on instructions, has stated that if the Petitioners are willing to pay the entire amount of Rs. 129 crores on or before 31st August 2023 and subject to them paying over to the Bank a sum of Rs. 25 crores today [by Demand Drafts], they have no difficulty in allowing the Petitioners to redeem the mortgage. The further condition that Mr. Shinde put forth for accepting this offer was that the Securitization Application filed before the DRT would stand dismissed on the passing of this , and if the payment is not made by 31st August 2023, possession of the secured asset would be handed over by the Petitioners to the Auction Purchaser on 5th September 2023.