On perusal of the findings as recorded by the three fora, it is spelt out that relying upon the of the House of Lords in the case of Rev. Oswald (supra), appeal, writ petition and the further appeal to Division Bench have been dismissed. Therefore, we first need to analyze in detail the said . In the said case, the controversy arose from the conduct of the ‘Vicar’ who was informed by the Bishop that he must either submit to an inquiry or cease to hold his benefice. On such proposal being made by the Bishop, the Vicar executed an unconditional deed of resignation before the witnesses and sent it to the Bishop’s Secretary on which the Bishop postponed the formal acceptance of Vicar’s resignation until first of October. However, on tenth of June, the Vicar by another document revoked the earlier deed of resignation and communicated the same to the Bishop’s Secretary on sixteenth of July. The Bishop in spite of the revocation by Vicar, signed the document and accepted the resignation from the first of October and declared the vicarage void. Aggrieved by the same, the Vicar brought an action against the Bishop and others seeking a declaration that he was a Vicar and the acceptance of the resignation by the Bishop was void. He also sought an injunction to restrain the defendants from treating the benefice as vacant. The matter reached the House of Lords in appeal, which affirmed the decision of the Court of Appeal and held that the resignation was voluntary, absolute, validly executed and irrevocable. Hence, the action brought by the Vicar was not successful. 10. The of Rev. Oswald (supra) was placed before the Constitution Bench of this Court for consideration in the case of [2024] 2 S.C.R. 625 Dr. Mrs. Suman V. Jain v. Marwadi Sammelan through its Secretary and Others Gopal Chandra Misra (supra) and in para 69, it was distinguished on facts and observed as thus – "69. Reichal is no authority for the proposition that an unconditional prospective resignation, without more, normally becomes absolute and operative the moment it is conveyed to the appropriate authority. The special feature of the case was that Reichal had, of his own free will, entered into a “perfectly binding agreement” with the Bishop, according to which, the Bishop had agreed to abstain from commencing an inquiry into the serious charges against Reichal if the latter tendered his resignation. In pursuance of that lawful agreement, Reichal tendered his resignation and did all to complete it, and the Bishop also at the other end, abstained from instituting proceedings against him in the Ecclesiastical Court. The agreement was thus not a nudum pactum but one for good consideration and had been acted upon and “consummated before the supposed withdrawal of the resignation of Mr. Reichal”, who could not, therefore, be permitted “to upset the agreement” at his unilateral option and withdraw the resignation “without the consent of the Bishop”. It was in view of these exceptional circumstances, Their Lordships held Reichal’s resignation had become absolute and irrevocable.