when a harmonious interpretation is not possible – Even if the two laws overlap, if they are complimentary to each other, in such a case, there would be no application of the principle of Parliamentary supremacy – Thus, when there is absolute inconsistency between the two sets of laws, and they are not reconcilable then, the principle of Parliamentary supremacy would apply in the context of repugnancy. [Para 16.2] 1944 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Principles/Doctrines – Doctrine of occupied field: Held: [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J.] The application of the doctrine of occupied field is a technique adopted by the constitutional courts in to ensure that there is no potential conflict that could arise between the State laws and the existing Parliamentary law having regard to the nature of the legislative powers, their importance in the socio-economic sphere of governance in the country and such other considerations. [Para 16.6] Constitution of India – Entry 8-List II and Art.254 – Industries (Development and Regulation) Act – s.18G, Item 26 of First Schedule – Whether Item 26 which speaks of “Fermentation Industries” to include “industrial alcohol” or non-potable alcohol as a product of such industry which has been taken control of by the Union under the provisions of IDRA (and which is excluded from the scope and ambit of Entry 8-List II), falls within the scope and ambit of a scheduled industry, and thereby Section 18G would apply on the said aspects: Held: [Per B.V. Nagarathna, J.] The answer is in the affirmative for the following reasons: firstly, insofar as the potable or “intoxicating liquors” is concerned, the legislative field is exclusively with the State Legislature – However, in respect of the scheduled industry which is “Fermentation Industries” (which does not take within its scope and ambit potable alcohol) vide Item 26 of the First Schedule, all other types of alcohol including “industrial alcohol” can be regulated only by the Parliamentary law and the Central Government – Any other interpretation would imply that even in the face of Section 18G being incorporated into the IDRA and in the absence of any notified being issued, the States Legislatures and the State Governments would have the legislative competence to make laws on what is the subject matter of Section 18G of IDRA under Entry 33(a)-List III – Then, each State could make its own law on the said subject matter covered under Section 18G of IDRA pertaining to a scheduled industry – If in respect of the products of a scheduled industry, the States make laws and there are a variety of laws made by the individual States which are in force in respect of the subject under Section 18G of IDRA then when a notified is issued, the Central Government’s notified would apply if there is a direct conflict between the State laws or [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1945 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons legal regime in place and the notified that is issued – This would result in a legal quagmire vis-à-vis a scheduled industry – It cannot then be said that it is necessary to ascertain whether there is a direct conflict between the State law and the notified made by the Central Government at every instance such an is issued and if there is such a direct conflict then, the Parliamentary law would apply on the strength of Article 254 of the Constitution.