simultaneously along with the prayer for specific performance. 30. Even otherwise, we are of the view that the decision in Adcon Electronics (supra), is of no avail to the plaintiff. It was expressly held by this Court therein that to determine whether a suit is a “suit for land” or not has to be determined on the basis of the averments made in the plaint with reference to the reliefs claimed therein. In yet another decision Excel Dealcomm (P) Ltd. v. Asset Reconstruction Co. (India) Ltd. reported in (2015) 8 SCC 219 dealing with the meaning of the expression “suit for land” appearing in Clause 12 of the Letters Patent of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta, this Court observed thus: “13. A suit for land is a suit in which the relief claimed relates to the title or delivery of possession of land or immovable property [see Adcon Electronics (P) Ltd. v. Daulat [Adcon Electronics (P) Ltd. v. Daulat] ]. Further, it is an established rule that to determine whether it is a suit for land, the court will look into barely the plaint and no other evidence (Indian Mineral & Chemicals Co. v. Deutsche Bank [(2004) 12 SCC 376]). If by the averments in the plaint and prayers therein, it appears that the suit is one for land, it shall be so held and if it does not so appear, then the suit shall continue under leave granted under Clause 12. … xxx xxx xxx 1310 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. It may be noted that the sale certificate sought under the prayer requires the delivery of possession of the suit property. Thus, we find that the prayer for delivery of possession was an implicit one in the present case. The prayer as sought in the plaint could not have been granted without the delivery of possession of the suit property as the sale certificate itself contemplates the delivery of the immovable property. Thus, in view of this we find that Adcon Electronics [Adcon Electronics (P) Ltd. v. Daulat] would not apply as there was a prayer for delivery of possession in the present case. Therefore, we hold that the present suit was indeed a suit for land.” (Emphasis supplied) 31. Similarly, in Moolji Jaitha (supra), His Lordship Kania, C.J. held that a Suit as a whole should be taken into consideration to find out whether it is for the purpose of obtaining a direction for possession or a decision on title to land, or the object of the Suit is something different but involves the consideration of the question of title to land indirectly. His Lordship further held that the nature of the Suit and its purpose have to be determined by reading the Plaint as a whole and it is not proper to dissect the prayers and consider whether the Court has jurisdiction on the limited points. It was further held that the inclusion or absence of a prayer is not decisive of the true nature of the Suit, nor is the in which the prayers are arrayed in the Plaint.