It can be seen that all the aforesaid regulations that fall under Chapter VI, are primarily concerned with realization of assets and the Liquidator has been tasked with several duties related to the said realization. 33.2 Regulation 33 stipulates that a Liquidator shall ordinarily sell the assets of the Corporate Debtor through an auction in the manner specified in Schedule I. Regulation 35 permits the Liquidator to appoint two Registered valuers to determine the realizable value of the assets or businesses listed in Regulation 32. On the Registered Valuers conducting a physical verification of the assets of the Corporate Debtor and submitting the estimate of the realizable value of the asset/ business, the average of the two estimates received are to be taken as the value of the asset/business. It was in the light of the said Regulations that the Liquidator herein had engaged two Registered Valuers to give an estimate of the valuation of the subject property and the average of the two estimates was fixed by him at ₹39,41,28,500/- (Rupees Thirty nine crore forty one lakh twenty eight thousand five hundred only) for purposes of conducting the e-auction. 33.3 The objection taken by the appellant to the Liquidator slashing the reserve price by 25 per cent and bringing it down to ₹29,55,96,375/- (Rupees Twenty nine crore, fifty five lakhs ninety six thousand three hundred seventy five only), is answered in Rule 4A of Schedule I under Regulation 33 of the IBBI Regulations, 2016, that states as follows: “(4A) Where an auction fails at the reserve price, the liquidator may reduce the reserve price by up to twenty- five percent of such value to conduct subsequent auction.” 32.4 Admittedly, in the first round of the Notice for sale through e-auction published by the Liquidator on 25th November, 2019, [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1295 V.S. Palanivel v. P. Sriram, CS, Liquidator, Etc. he did not receive any bid. As a result, the Liquidator reduced the reserve price of the subject property by 25 per cent to conduct a second auction on 23rd December, 2019 wherein the Auction Purchaser was declared as the successful bidder. In our view, the Liquidator cannot be faulted for having exercised the discretion vested in him under Rule 4A of Schedule I when the auction scheduled earlier, did not bear any positive result. In fact, Rule 4B empowers the Liquidator to reduce the reserve price fixed under Rule 4A for subsequent auctions with a rider that the price shall not be reduced to more than 10 per cent at a time. The said eventuality did not arise in the present case since the Auction Purchaser was declared as the successful bidder in the second round of auction. 32.5 If the appellant was so confident that the subject property would have fetched a much higher price, nothing precluded him from identifying a bidder who was willing to offer a better price. In fact, such a suggestion was made by the Liquidator in his reply dated 15th November, 2019 to the objection taken by the appellant to the estimated value of the subject property in his letter dated 8th November, 2019.