The offence of bribery is complete on the acceptance of the money or on the agreement to accept money being concluded. The offence is not contingent on the performance of the promise for which money is given or is agreed to be given. The minority opinion in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) based its view on another perspective which was not dealt with by the majority. The minority opinion stated that the act of bribery was the receipt of illegal gratification prior to the making of the speech or vote inside the House. Interpreting the phrase “in respect of” to mean “arising out of”, the minority concluded that the offence of bribery is not contingent on the performance of the illegal promise. The minority observed that: “50. … the expression “in respect of” in Article 105(2) raises the question: Is the liability to be prosecuted arising from acceptance of bribe by a Member of Parliament for the purpose of speaking or giving his vote in Parliament in a particular manner on a matter pending consideration before the House an independent liability which cannot be said to arise out of anything said or any vote given by the Member in Parliament? In our opinion, this question must be answered in the affirmative. The offence of bribery is made out against the receiver if he takes or agrees to take money for promise to act in a certain way. The offence is complete with the acceptance of the money or on the agreement to accept the money being concluded and is not dependent on the performance of the illegal promise by the receiver. The receiver of the money will be treated to have committed the offence even when he defaults in the illegal bargain. For proving the offence of bribery all that is required to be established is that the offender has received or agreed to receive money for a promise to act in a certain way and it is not necessary to go further and prove that he actually acted in that way.” 108. A Constitution bench of this Court in Kihoto Hollohan v. Zachillhu,57 while deciding on the validity of the Constitution (Fifty Second Amendment) Act 1985 which introduced the Tenth schedule to the Indian Constitution opined that the freedom of speech in Parliament 57 [1992] 1 SCR 686 : 1992 Supp (2) SCC 651 534 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under clause (2) of Article 105 is not violated. This Court understood the provision to necessarily mean that the politically sinful act of floor crossing is neither permissible nor immunized under the Constitution. This Court held that: “40. The freedom of speech of a Member is not an absolute freedom. That apart, the provisions of the Tenth Schedule do not purport to make a Member of a House liable in any ‘Court’ for anything said or any vote given by him in Parliament. It is difficult to conceive how Article 105(2) is a source of immunity from the consequences of unprincipled floor-crossing.