Acadia had taken conflicting and inconsistent stands regarding the person to whom the goods were released. The original documents, including the Bills of Lading were returned to Bhushan Steel and were in their possession. Thus, the goods could not have been released by Arcadia without the production of the original Bill of Ladings which were with Bhushan Steel. ο Therefore, the goods were released by Arcadia unauthorisedly and have not been accounted for by them. Accordingly, Arcadia is liable to Bhushan Steel for the loss suffered.9 Arcadia should pay Bhushan Steel the value of the goods, without any interest. 9 The records that Arcadia had not disclosed who was the ‘Principal’, who was an undisclosed foreign party. Arcadia had not produced document to show if the freight charges were received on behalf of the ‘Principal’ etc. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 411 Arcadia Shipping Ltd. v. Tata Steel Limited and Others Despite these findings, the Single Judge directed the return of the plaint on the question of territorial jurisdiction, as reproduced below: “Issue No. 1 27. This Court agrees with defendant No.3’s contention that this Court lacks territorial jurisdiction to entertain and decide the present suit. Apparently, no cause of action arose against defendant No.3 within the jurisdiction of the Court to grant the relief prayed for. Defendant No. 3 carries on its business at Mumbai. It is not at controversy that the goods in question were shipped / loaded at Mumbai, the freight charges were paid there. The goods were to be delivered at Djibouti Port, Ethiopia Apparently, no cause of action whatsoever qua defendant No. 3 arose at Delhi to attract the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. This Court has no jurisdiction to entertain and decide the present suit qua the defendant No. 3. This issue is decided in favour of the defendant No.3 and against the plaintiff. Relief 28. Since this Court has no territorial jurisdiction to entertain and decide the present suit qua defendant No. 3, the relief claimed by the plaintiff against defendant No. 3 cannot be granted. 29. Plaint be returned to the plaintiff to be presented before the Court of Competent Jurisdiction, as per law.” 5. A Division Bench of the High Court at Delhi, vide / 09.01.2024, allowed an appeal against the judgement/ passed by the Single Judge dated 20.12.2017, in an appeal preferred by Tata Steel Limited. 6. The present appeal has been preferred by the appellant – Arcadia against the / of the Division Bench of the High Court at Delhi, dated 08.01.2024. 7. Arcadia submits that two distinct transactions occurred: first, the sale of goods and second, a shipment of goods from Mumbai to Djibouti. Arcadia emphasizes that their involvement was restricted to the second transaction. Notably, the supply s, integral to the first transaction, were placed in Delhi. Thus, Arcadia submits that a suit 412 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cannot be brought against them in Delhi, as they were not a part of the first transaction and their businesses were located out of Mumbai.