Being a responsible officer of the court and an important adjunct of the administration of justice, an Advocate owes his duty not only to his client but also to the court as well as to the opposite side. 30. The legal profession is different from the other professions also for the reason that what the Advocates do, affects not only an individual but the entire administration of justice, which is the foundation of the civilized society. It must be remembered that the legal profession is a solemn and serious profession. It has always been held in very high esteem because of the stellar role played by the stalwarts in the profession to strengthen the judicial system in the country. Their services in making the judicial system efficient, effective and credible, and in creating a strong and impartial Judiciary, which is one of the three pillars of the Democracy, could not be compared with the services rendered by other professionals. Therefore, having regard to the role, status and duties of the Advocates as the professionals, we are of the opinion that the legal profession is sui generis i.e unique in nature and cannot be compared with any other profession. 31. The next question that falls for our consideration is whether a service hired or availed of an Advocate could be said to be the service under a “contract of personal service?” 32. At the outset, it may be stated that in the Indian Courts, various sobriquets or epithets like pleaders, advocates, lawyers, vakils, counsels, attorneys etc. are being used interchangeably to describe the Legal Practitioners, may be because various Acts like Legal Practitioners Act, 1879, Bombay Pleaders Act, 1920, Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926 were in force during pre-independence era. However, on the Advocates Act, 1961 having come into force, the provisions of the said Acts stood repealed as per Section 50 of the Advocates Act. The Advocates Act 1961 was enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to legal practitioners and to provide for the constitution of Bar Councils and an All-India Bar. 514 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 33. The Advocates Act defines “Advocate” separately from “Legal Practitioner” - “2(1)(a) - “advocate” means an advocate entered in any roll under the provision of this Act;” Section 2(1)(i) defines “legal practitioner’ as under: - “2(1)(i) - “Legal Practitioner” means an advocate or vakil of any High Court, a pleader, mukhtar or revenue agent;” 34. Advocate is included in the definition of “Legal Practitioner” but legal practitioner is not included in the definition of “Advocate.” Advocate is one who has been entered in any roll under the provisions of the Advocates Act. If we glean over the provisions of the Advocates Act, 1961, it appears that the said Act was enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to legal practitioners and to provide for the constitution of Bar Councils and an All-India Bar. As per Section 16 thereof, there are only two classes of Advocates, namely Senior Advocates and other Advocates.