This [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1027 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another is because a situation where the High Courts are divested of all other judicial functions apart from that of constitutional interpretation, is equally to be avoided.” 102. It could thus be clearly seen that this Court, even when a provision in the Constitution enabled the Parliament to make a law thereby excluding the powers of judicial review except under Article 136 of the Constitution, held that the power of judicial review vested in the High Courts under Articles 226 and in this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution, is an integral and essential feature of the Constitution, constituting part of its basic structure and, therefore, the power of High Courts and this Court to test the constitutional validity of legislations can never be ousted or excluded. This Court further goes on to observe that the power vested in the High Courts to exercise judicial superintendence over the decisions of all Courts and Tribunals within their respective jurisdictions is also part of the basic structure of the Constitution. 103. It will be further relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court in paragraph nos. 90 to 92 in the said case which read thus: - “90. We may first address the issue of exclusion of the power of judicial review of the High Courts. We have already held that in respect of the power of judicial review, the jurisdiction of the High Courts under Article 226/227 cannot wholly be excluded. It has been contended before us that the Tribunals should not be allowed to adjudicate upon matters where the vires of legislations is questioned, and that they should restrict themselves to handling matters where constitutional issues are not raised. We cannot bring ourselves to agree to this proposition as that may result in splitting up proceedings and may cause avoidable delay. If such a view were to be adopted, it would be open for litigants to raise constitutional issues, many of which may be quite frivolous, to directly approach the High Courts and thus subvert the jurisdiction of the Tribunals. Moreover, even in these special branches of law, some areas do involve the consideration of constitutional questions on a regular basis; for instance, in service law matters, a large majority of cases involve an interpretation of Articles 14, 1028 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15 and 16 of the Constitution. To hold that the Tribunals have no power to handle matters involving constitutional issues would not serve the purpose for which they were constituted. On the other hand, to hold that all such decisions will be subject to the jurisdiction of the High Courts under Articles 226/227 of the Constitution before a Division Bench of the High Court within whose territorial jurisdiction the Tribunal concerned falls will serve two purposes. While saving the power of judicial review of legislative action vested in the High Courts under Article 226/227 of the Constitution, it will ensure that frivolous claims are filtered out through the process of adjudication in the Tribunal.