Enslaved Daughters: Colonialism, Law and Women’s Rights. Oxford University Press, 2nd ed (2008), Ch. 1. 51 Jaya Sagade. Child Marriage in India: Socio-legal and human Rights Dimensions. Oxford University Press, 2nd ed. (2012) 39. 52 Sudhir Chandra. Enslaved Daughters: Colonialism, Law and Women’s Rights. Oxford University Press, 2nd ed (2008), Ch. 1. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1541 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. go to a man whom she dislikes, in that he may cohabit with her against her will; and I am of opinion that neither the law nor the practice of our Courts either justified my malting such an , or even justifies the plaintiff in maintaining the present suit.” (emphasis supplied) 24. The decision of Justice Pinhey was much ahead of its time. At a time when child marriage was the norm and the legal standard of consent was inapplicable to marital laws, Justice Pinhey’s was a bold declaration of the rights of Indian women to make their own life choices. Unfortunately, the success was short-lived. The judgement had caused an uproar in the public and Dadaji filed an appeal before the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court. The Division Bench set aside the of Justice Pinhey and directed Rukhmabai to join Dadaji within a month at the pain of penalty to undergo six months’ imprisonment. The court reasoned that incompatibility was no defence under Hindu law against a petition for restitution of conjugal rights. Firm as she was, Rukhmabai refused to join Dadaji and declared that she would subject herself to the maximum penalty admissible under the law, rather than to live with her husband. The sight of a Hindu woman being imprisoned shocked the public conscience. Dadaji entered a compromise and did not press for the execution of the decree for restitution of conjugal rights against an amount of Rs 2000/-. Rukhmabai went on to study medicine in the UK and became one of India’s earliest women doctors. 25. Rukhmabai’s defiance was uncharacteristic for her time and threatened, not only child marriage but also the indomitable idea of a woman’s inferiority. Her assertion of womanhood and agency in refusing to go with a wayward husband whom she was given to in marriage opened up new ways for women to imagine their autonomy. Writing to the editor of the Times of India on 26 June 1885, under the pseudo name ‘A Hindu Lady’, Rukhmabai eloquently drew the differential plains on which the experiences of boys and girls in a child marriage are placed. She wrote: “The general apathy towards social improvements which characterizes our people has been telling upon the whole community, but tells most heavily upon the female 1542 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports sex. Hindu social customs do not entail on men half the difficulties which they entail upon women. Excepting the two principal difficulties resulting from infant marriage, they enjoy full mental and physical freedom. Religion or social custom does not, in any way, interfere with their liberty.