In Hamilton v. Al Fayed (supra), another case emanating from the same facts against another member of Parliament, a question arose as to whether parliamentary privileges may be waived. The Court 65 [1998] 1 WLR 669 66 [2001] 1 A.C. 395 550 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports while returning specific findings on facts, also held that “courts are precluded from entertaining in any proceedings (whatever the issue which may be at stake in those proceedings) evidence, questioning or submissions designed to show that a witness in parliamentary proceedings deliberately misled Parliament.” In arriving at such a conclusion the court relied on the in Prebble v. Television New Zealand.67 140. In the above case, the respondent had transmitted a programme making allegations against the government that a minister had conspired with a businessman and public officials to promote and implement state asset sales with the object of allowing the businessman to obtain assets at unduly favourable terms. The minister sued the channel for defamation. The channel sought to make a defence of truth and place reliance on things said and acts done in Parliament. It argued that the protection under Article IX of the Bill of Rights would only protect a member from being held liable for his speech in either House. However, they could be placed on record as a defence if it is not being used to inflict liability upon a speech made in either House. The Privy Council held that parties to a litigation cannot bring into question anything said or done in the House or impute any motive to those actions. The Court allowed reliance on the official publication of the House proceedings to the extent that they are not used to suggest that the words were improperly spoken, or any statute was passed for improper use. 141. The question of reliance on legislative material was further weighed in favour of the legislature in 2009. In Office of Government Commerce v. Information Commissioner (Attorney General intervening),68 the Queen’s Bench Division held that opinions of parliamentary committees would be irrelevant before a court given the nature of their work. This holding was influenced by the words and associated history of Article IX of the Bill of Rights, which is worded more broadly than Clause (2) of Articles 105 and 194 of the Constitution of India. The minority opinion in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) throws light on the issue as follows: 67 (1994) 3 ALL ER 407 68 [2009] 3 WLR 627 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 551 Sita Soren v. Union of India “41. […] The protection given under clause (2) of Article 105 is narrower than that conferred under Article 9 of the Bill of Rights in the sense that the immunity conferred by that clause is personal in nature and is available to the Member in respect of anything said or in any vote given by him in the House or any committee thereof. The said clause does not confer an immunity for challenge in the court on the speech or vote given by a Member of Parliament.