At this stage, probative value of the materials has not to be gone into and the court is not expected to go deep into the matter and hold that the materials would not warrant a conviction. In our opinion, what needs to be considered is whether there is a ground for presuming that the offence has been committed and not whether a ground for convicting the accused has been made out.To put it differently, if the court thinks that the accused might have committed the offence on the basis of the materials on record on its probative value, it can frame the charge; though for conviction, the court has to come to the conclusion that the accused has committed the offence. The law does not permit a mini trial at this stage.” [emphasis added] 20.5 The aforesaid parameters had to be kept in mind by the learned Special Judge, CBI at the time of considering the records/ documents submitted by the respondent-CBI and the material [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1257 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation produced by the appellants. In our view, the said consideration is lacking in the impugned s for the reasons noticed above. 21. CONCLUSION 21.1 Though multiple arguments have been advanced by learned counsel for the appellants to assail the impugned s passed by the learned Special Judge, CBI, including a plea that no offence is made out under Section 13(1)(d) of the P.C. Act for various reasons, this Court has consciously elected to confine itself only to those aspects that in our opinion, would be sufficient to arrive at a prima facie view that the allegations levelled against the appellants have pre-dominant contours of a dispute of a civil nature, does not have the makings of a criminal offence and on an overall conspectus of the case, would persuade any reasonable person to dismiss the accusations levelled. Therefore, this court declines to go into the nitty gritties of the documents/evidence, or the contrasting data produced by the parties to test their probative value. 21.2 The prima facie findings of this Court, based on the documents and material placed before us are as follows: (a) The plea of the respondent-CBI that it conducted an investigation in the present case during the course of the inquiry in respect of PE-5 registered by it in the year 2012 is belied as the SIR was on a completely different aspect. CBI only got activated only on stumbling upon the Audit Report of the CAG submitted in 2013. There is nothing brought on record to show to the contrary. (b) The CAG Report had not attained finality inasmuch as its recommendations have not been tabled before the Parliament or accepted so far. The said report at best, has a persuasive value but no more. (c) The Sanctioning Authority namely, the Board of Directors of KPCL in respect of Mr. R Nagarajan, the then Finance Director of KPCL and nominee Director of the Board of KECML had the occasion to thoroughly scrutinize all the relevant documents including the MoU dated 20th December, 2008 executed between KECML and GCWL as also the depositions of 67 witnesses submitted by 1258 [2024] 8 S.C.R.