27. We cannot also issue a mandamus to Respondents 1 and 2 on the ground that the conditions of provisional affiliation of schools prescribed by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations stipulate in Clause (5)(b) that the salary and allowances and other benefits of the staff of the affiliated school must be comparable to that prescribed by the State Department of Education because such conditions for provisional affiliation are not statutory provisions or executive instructions, which are enforceable in law. Similarly, we cannot issue a mandamus to give effect to the recommendations of the Report of Education Commission 1964-1966 that the scales of pay of school teachers belonging to the same category but working under different managements such as Government, local bodies or private managements should be the same, unless the recommendations are incorporated in an executive instruction or a statutory provision. We, therefore, affirm the impugned of the Division Bench of the High Court. 28. We, however, find that the 2009 Act has provisions in Section 23 regarding the qualifications for appointment and terms and conditions of service of teachers and sub- section (3) of Section 23 of the 2009 Act provides that the salary and allowances payable to, and the terms and conditions of service of, teachers shall be such as may be prescribed. Section 38 of the 2009 Act empowers the appropriate Government to make rules and Section 38(2)(l) of the 2009 Act provides that the appropriate Government, in particular, may make rules prescribing the salary and allowances payable to, and the terms and conditions of service of teachers, under sub-section (3) of Section 23. Section 2(a) defines “appropriate Government” as the State Government within whose territory the school is established. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2211 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. 29. The State of Himachal Pradesh, Respondent 3 in this appeal, is thus empowered to make rules under sub- section (3) of Section 23 read with Section 38(2)(l) of the 2009 Act prescribing the salary and allowances payable to, and the terms and conditions of service of, teachers. Article 39(d) of the Constitution provides that the State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing that there is equal pay for equal work for both men and women. Respondent 3 should therefore consider making rules under Section 23 read with Section 38(2)(l) of the 2009 Act prescribing the salary and allowances of teachers keeping in mind Article 39(d) of the Constitution as early as possible.” (Emphasis supplied) 37. Thus, the dictum as laid in Satimbla Sharma (supra) is clear. In the absence of any statutory provisions requiring a private unaided school to pay to its teachers the same salary and allowances as payable to the teachers of the Government schools, a mandamus cannot be issued to pay to the teachers of private recognised unaided schools the same salary and allowances as payable to the teachers of Government institutions. In the case at hand, the respondents are being paid the same salary and allowances as being paid to the teachers and non-teaching staff appointed by the appellant society.