The High Court had allowed the petition of the respondents therein by observing that the Orissa Act had been rendered ineffective or suppressed by a Central Act, namely, MMDR Act, 1957, w.e.f. 01.06.1958. Considering Entry 23 - List II and Entry 54 - List I, the High Court held that the Orissa Act ceased to be operative by reason of the withdrawal of legislative [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1779 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. competence by force of the Entry in the State List being subject to the Parliamentary declaration and the law enacted by Parliament. Therefore, w.e.f. 01.06.1958 the Orissa Act was deemed to be non-existent as there was lack of power to enforce and realise the demands for the payment of the fee at the time when the demands were issued and were sought to be enforced. The correctness of this was considered by a Constitution Bench of this Court. 12.1 It was observed that to the extent to which the Union Government had taken under “its control” “the regulation and development of minerals” so much was withdrawn from the ambit of the power of the State legislature under Entry 23 - List II and the legislation of the State which had rested on the existence of power under that Entry would, to the extent of that “control”, be superseded or be rendered ineffective. This was because there was a denudation of State legislative power by the declaration which Parliament was empowered to make and had made (vide Section 2 of MMDR Act, 1957). It was observed that the States would lose legislative competence only to the “extent to which regulation and development under the control of the Union had been declared by Parliament to be expedient in the public interest”. The crucial enquiry had therefore to be directed to ascertain this “extent” for, beyond it, the legislative power of the State remained unimpaired. 12.2 Thus, the scheme of Orissa Act, which was a 1952 Act, was considered in juxtaposition of the MMDR Act, 1957, also called as ‘Central Act’. The question considered was “whether the extent of control and regulation” provided by the Central Act took within its fold the area or the subject covered by the Orissa Act. The test was if the entire field of mineral development was taken over by the Central Act that would include the provision of amenities to workmen employed in the mines which was necessary in to stimulate or maintain the working of mines. The test was, therefore, if under power confirmed by Section 18(1) of the Central Government had made rules providing for the amenities for which provision was made by the Orissa Act and if the Central Government had imposed a fee to defray the expenses of the provision of these amenities, would such rules be held to be ultra vires the Central Act, particularly, when taken in conjunction with the matters for which rules could be made under Section 13 to which reference has been made.