Subramaniyam [A. Nawab John v. V.N. Subramaniyam (2012) 7 SCC 738 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 324] ).” 16. The difference between the rights of a decree holder qua a third party to the suit and the right of a third party after being dispossessed has been laid down by this Court in Sriram Housing Finance & Investment (India) Ltd. v. Omesh Mishra Memorial Charitable Trust (2022) 15 SCC 176 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 794, wherein it was held as follows: “24. On conjoint reading of the aforesaid provisions, it can be observed that under Rule 97, it is only the “decree-holder” who is entitled to make an application in case where he is offered resistance or obstruction by “any person”. In the present case, as admitted by the appellant itself, it is a bona fide purchaser of the property and not the “decree-holder”. As available from the material placed on record, it is the respondent Trust along with legal heirs of late N.D. Mishra who are the decree-holders and not the appellant. Therefore, it is obvious that the appellant cannot take shelter of Rule 97 as stated above to raise objections against execution of decree passed in favour of the respondent. Further, Rule 99 pertains to making a complaint to the Court against “dispossession” of the immovable property by the person in “possession” of the property by the holder of a decree or purchaser thereof. “25. It is factually not in dispute that the appellant purchased the said property from Mr Yogesh Mishra vide [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1367 Renjith K.G. & Others v. Sheeba sale deed dated 12-4-2004 and has been in vacant and physical possession of the property since then. Had it been the case that the appellant was dispossessed by the respondent Trust in execution of decree dated 2-9- 2003, the appellant would have been well within the ambit of Rule 99 to make an application seeking appropriate relief to be put back in possession. On the contrary, the appellant in the instant case was never dispossessed from the property in question and till date, as contended and unrefuted, the possession of same rests with the appellant. Considering the aforesaid, the appellant cannot be said to be entitled to make an application under Rule 99 raising objections in execution proceedings since he has never been dispossessed as required under Rule 99. 26. Now, as stated above, applications under Rule 97 and Rule 99 are subject to Rule 101 which provides for determination of questions relating to disputes as to right, title or interest in the property arising between the parties to the proceedings or their representatives on an application made under Rule 97 or Rule 99. Effectively, the said Rule does away with the requirement of filing of fresh suit for adjudication of disputes as mentioned above. Now, in the present case, 21 Rule 101 has no applicability as the appellant is neither entitled to make an application under Rule 97 nor Rule 99 for the reasons stated above.