[Paras 26, 29, 32] Notaries Act 1952 – Notaries Rules 1956 – r.11 – Acts or omissions on the part of the Notary in violation thereof – Affidavit of the petitioner was notarized by the Notary in his absence and the said affidavit was submitted with the SLP memo – Notary did not make the entry of the said attestation in the Notarial Register – Petitioner denied filing any SLP stating that the same was falsely filed in his name: Held: Any acts or omissions on the part of the Notary in violation of r.11, would amount to misconduct and the Notary complained against would be unfit to be a Notary – Registry to send a copy of the to the Bar Council of India and the Government of India for perusal and action as deemed necessary. [Paras 37, 38] Justice Delivery System – Role of advocates – Ethics – Degradation of the professional ethics on rise – Filing of false false and fabricated documents in Court: Held: Legal professionals are not immune from being prosecuted for their criminal misdeeds – There is a great sanctity attached to the proceedings conducted in the court – Advocates putting their signatures on the Vakalatnamas and on the documents to be filed 776 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the Courts are presumed to have filed the proceedings and put their appearance with all sense of responsibility and seriousness. [Para 31] Practice and Procedure – Appearances given by Advocates-on- Record (AoRs) – Names of Advocates shown in the Sheets though, they neither appeared as an AOR nor as arguing/Senior Counsel – The said issue came up as the Respondent No.2 contended that being a star witness in the Nitish Katara case, he was being falsely implicated in number of cases including the present case filed in the name of the petitioner without his knowledge, consent or authority and some of the advocates shown as appearing in the present SLP are the same advocates who appeared in the SLP filed by the accused in the Nitish Katara case – Plea of the AR-cum-PS/Court Masters relying on Circular/Notice dated 30.12.2022 that AoRs are authorized to put in appearance of the Advocates appearing with or on his/ her behalf on the portal for filing online appearance slips and as they cannot recognize every Advocate appearing so they have to rely upon the appearances put in by the AoRs: Held: AoRs can mark the appearances of only those Advocates who are actually appearing and arguing in the case on a particular day of hearing – The Notice does not permit the AoRs to mark appearances of the Advocates who are not authorized either to appear and argue the case. [Para 40] Case Law Cited Mahendra Chawla v. Union of India (2019) 14 SCC 615; V. Chandrasekaran & Anr. v. Administrative Officer & Ors. [2012] 10 SCR 603 : 2012 (12) SCC 133; Saumya Chaurasia v. Directorate of Enforcement [2023] 15 SCR 848 : (2024) 6 SCC 401 – referred to.