i. Scope of jurisdiction of the referral court under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 52. A plethora of decisions have deliberated upon the scope of the Court’s jurisdiction and the role to be played by the referral court in the appointment of an arbitrator. The position on this question was starkly different prior to and post the 2015 Amendment to the 1996, Act. 53. A seven-Judge Bench of this Court in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd. reported in (2005) 8 SCC 618, held that the power under Section 11 of the Act, 1996 was not an administrative but a judicial power. Therefore, it was opined that the Chief Justice or his designate under Section 11(6) had the right to decide preliminary issues including his own jurisdiction, to entertain the request, the existence of a valid [2024] 9 S.C.R. 925 Ajay Madhusudan Patel & Ors. v. Jyotrindra S. Patel & Ors. arbitration agreement, the existence or otherwise of a live claim, the existence of the condition for the exercise of his power and on the qualifications of the arbitrator or arbitrators. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: “47. We, therefore, sum up our conclusions as follows: (i) The power exercised by the Chief Justice of the High Court or the Chief Justice of India under Section 11(6) of the Act is not an administrative power. It is a judicial power. xxx xxx xxx (iv) The Chief Justice or the designated Judge will have the right to decide the preliminary aspects as indicated in the earlier part of this . These will be his own jurisdiction to entertain the request, the existence of a valid arbitration agreement, the existence or otherwise of a live claim, the existence of the condition for the exercise of his power and on the qualifications of the arbitrator or arbitrators. The Chief Justice or the designated Judge would be entitled to seek the opinion of an institution in the matter of nominating an arbitrator qualified in terms of Section 11(8) of the Act if the need arises but the appointing the arbitrator could only be that of the Chief Justice or the designated Judge. xxx xxx xxx (ix) In a case where an Arbitral Tribunal has been constituted by the parties without having recourse to Section 11(6) of the Act, the Arbitral Tribunal will have the jurisdiction to decide all matters as contemplated by Section 16 of the Act. xxx xxx xxx (xii) … The decision in Konkan Rly. Corpn. Ltd. v. Rani Construction (P) Ltd. [(2002) 2 SCC 388] is overruled. (Emphasis supplied) 54. While further reinforcing the view taken in SBP & Co. (supra), this Court in National Insurance Company Limited v. Boghara 926 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Polyfab Private Ltd reported in (2009) 1 SCC 267 identified and segregated the three categories of preliminary issues that may arise for consideration in an application under Section 11 as follows: “22. Where the intervention of the court is sought for appointment of an Arbitral Tribunal under Section 11, the duty of the Chief Justice or his designate is defined in SBP & Co. [(2005) 8 SCC 618] This Court identified and segregated the preliminary issues that may arise for consideration in an application under Section 11 of the Act into three categories, that is, (i) issues which the Chief Justice or his designate is bound to decide; (ii) issues which he can also decide, that is, issues which he may choose to decide; and (iii) issues which should be left to the Arbitral Tribunal to decide.