v. Union of India & Anr. manifestly violates fundamental rights, the statutory provision cannot be stultified by granting an interim .17 Stay is not ipso facto granted for mere examination or even when some cogent contention is raised. Suspension of legislation pending consideration is an exception and not the rule. The said principle keeps in mind the presumption regarding constitutionality of legislation as well as the fact that the constitutional challenge when made may or may not result in success. The courts do not, unless eminently necessary to deal with the crises situation and quell disquiet, keep the statutory provision in abeyance or direct that the same be not made operational. However, it would not be appropriate to pen down all situations as sometimes even gross or egregious violation of individual Fundamental Rights may on balance of convenience warrant an interim . The Courts strike a delicate balance to step-in in rare and exceptional cases, being mindful of the immediate need, and the consequences as to not cause confusion and disarray. 11. The applicant-petitioners urge that this court may by an interim direct fresh selection with the CJI as a member of the Selection Committee. This would be plainly impermissible, without declaring Section 7(1) as unconstitutional. Further, we would be enacting or writing a new law replacing or modifying Section 7(1) of the Act, as enacted by the Parliament, if such a contention were accepted. 12. Moreover, any interjection or stay by this Court will be highly inappropriate and improper as it would disturb the 18th General Election for the Lok Sabha which has been scheduled and is now fixed to take place from 19.04.2024 till 01.06.2024. Balance of convenience, apart from prima facie case and irreparable injury, is one of the considerations which the court must keep in mind while considering any application for grant of stay or injunction. Interlocutory remedy is normally intended to preserve status quo unless there are exceptional circumstances which tilt the scales and balance of convenience on account of any resultant injury. In our opinion, grant of stay would lead to uncertainty and confusion, if not chaos. That apart, even when the matter had come up earlier and the applications for stay were pressed, we had refused to grant stay. 17 Health for Millions v. Union of India, (2014) 14 SCC 496. 888 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. Given the importance and humongous task undertaken by the Election Commission of India, presence of two more ECs brings about a balance and check. The concept of plurality in Article 324 of the Constitution, which has been noticed and approved by this Court in T.N. Seshan v. Union of India18, is necessary and desirable. 14. We must, however express our concern on the procedure adopted for selection of the incumbents to the two vacant posts of ECs, a significant constitutional post. Such selections should be made with full details and particulars of the candidates being circulated to all members of the Selection Committee.