Thus, for a period of time the courts recognized that there was a clear brightline distinction between when a State or its instrumentalities could be said to be acting in its executive capacity and when it could be said to be acting in its private capacity, with the existence of a ‘contractual relation’ inter-se the parties being the determinative factor. Wherever, there was a contract, the State’s relations and all its actions were said to be within the field of a contract i.e., within the realm of private law, and the courts would resile from interfering with the same under their writ jurisdiction or embarking upon a judicial review of such actions. 560 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 40. Such reluctance on the part of the courts stemmed from its understanding that State or any of its instrumentalities must have the flexibility or the discretion to take decisions that are in the best interest of the public and efficient governance. Government being the decision-maker of the State is said to be the best judge of when a contract or an agreement is in its interest and by its extension in the interest of the public, and as such the courts should not interfere in the State’s discretion to award or terminate contracts. One another reason why contractual disputes were precluded from being espoused under the writ jurisdiction of the courts was due to the summary nature of such proceedings, which do not allow for an exhaustive review unlike civil suits. [See: Radhakrishna Agarwal (supra) at para 11] 41. This simplistic approach of the courts in deeming every act and action of the State which was complained of as nothing more than a ‘contractual dispute’ or a case of ‘breach of contract’ often led to the State abusing its position and acting unfairly under the misconceived notion, that all its actions such as award of contracts or tenders were nothing but a ‘largess’ – a generosity bestowed upon its citizens, which it can at its own whims choose to deny, alter, modify, or take away without any consequences. This often led to a conflation of power with duty, and resulted in every arbitrary exercise of power by the State under the guise of a ‘contractual dispute’ to remain unchecked and undisputable before the courts and out of the reach of judicial review, undermining the rights of the citizen to have their interests safeguarded and protected. We may in this regard refer to M/s Indian Medicines Pharmaceuticals Corp Ltd. v. Kerala Ayurvedic Co- operative Society Ltd. reported in (2023) SCC OnLine SC 5 wherein this Court speaking eruditely through one of us, Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI made the following pertinent observations: - “11 The welfare State plays a crucial role in aiding the realisation of the socioeconomic rights which are recognised by the Constitution. Social welfare benefits provided by the State under the rubric of its constitutional obligations are commonly understood in the language of ‘largesse’, a term used to describe a generous donation.