Later on, it was registered on 14.06.2011. 29. The Trial Court and the High Court had proceeded on the premise that the defendant No.1 - the vendor (respondent no.2 herein) had denied the execution of the sale deed and had also denied that he had not received any consideration. This premise taken by both the Courts i.e. Trial Court and the High Court are contrary to the pleadings on record and the evidence led during the Trial. There is clear misreading of the evidence. In his written statement in paragraph 7 defendant no.1 (vendor) has stated that he does not recollect having executed the sale deed. He has not specifically denied anywhere in the written statement that he had not executed the sale deed or that the signatures on the sale deed were not his signatures. Thus, the very premise on the basis of which the Trial Court and the High Court proceeded are perverse being contrary to the material on record. Both the said courts also failed to take into consideration that defendant no.1 the vendor (respondent no.2 herein) neither entered the witness box in support of his pleadings and to prove them, nor did lead any evidence, either oral or documentary, in support of his pleadings. There was no justification to treat a vague statement in the written statement of not recollecting about execution of sale deed, to be taken as a denial of the execution. The defendant no.1 - the vendor was deliberately and mischievously avoiding to make specific statement either denying his signatures on the sale deed or his presentation before the Sub-Registrar or had not received any sale consideration. The Trial Court and the High Court fell into the trap of clever drafting and a vague statement of defendant no.1. 30. The Trial Court and the High Court also committed a manifest error in recording that the defendant no.1- vendor (respondent no.2 herein) had denied having received any sale consideration with respect to the sale deed dated 02.12.1985. In the written statement filed by the defendant no.1, there is no such statement made. In case he had made such a statement then he would be admitting the execution but without consideration. Both the Courts again misread the deposition of appellant no.1 (PW-1) wherein he said that he does not have any proof of payment of the consideration to hold that no sale consideration was paid. A registered document carries with it presumption of correctness unless proved otherwise as per [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2321 Kaushik Premkumar Mishra & Anr. v. Kanji Ravaria @ Kanji & Anr. Section 114 of the Evidence Act read with Section 17 of the Act, 1908. In the present case there is no such evidence. 31. The defendant no.1 having not entered the witness box and not having led any evidence, it was a mere presumption of the Trial Court and the High Court to have recorded that defendant no.1 denied receiving any sale consideration. 32. Based upon the aforesaid two factual errors, the Trial Court and the High Court wrongly shifted the burden on the plaintiff to prove execution of the sale deed and also payment of the sale consideration.