We will deal with this aspect in detail a little later in the . 8. Special Case No. 20 of 2005 was registered against the appellant and his wife for the offences mentioned hereinabove. The appellant and his wife denied the charges and claimed trial. Prosecution examined thirteen witnesses and the defence examined three witnesses. 9. By the of 05.09.2007, the learned Special Judge, Sagar while acquitting the appellant for offences under Sections 7, 13(1)(d) read with 13(2) of the Act and Section 201 of the IPC, convicted him for the offence under Section 353 of IPC and sentenced him to undergo simple imprisonment for six months. Additionally, a fine of Rs. 1000/- was imposed and the appellant’s wife was acquitted of all the charges. 10. Aggrieved, the appellant preferred an appeal to the High Court which has since been dismissed. 11. Insofar as the charge under Section 353 of the IPC was concerned, the allegation was that the appellant in collusion with his wife with an intention to obstruct the members of the trap team in performing their public duty during the trap proceeding, attacked them or exercised criminal force on them. It is this part of the case which has been believed by the courts below. 12. We have heard Mr. Siddharth Aggarwal, learned senior counsel for the appellant and Mr. Arjun Garg, learned counsel for the respondent State. CONTENTIONS: 13. Mr. Siddharth Aggarwal, learned senior counsel contended that the courts below were not justified in recording the conviction under Section 353 of IPC; that on the same evidence the wife of the appellant, Mamta has been acquitted; that the evidence of PW-1 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 939 Mahendra Kumar Sonker v. The State of Madhya Pradesh Babulal Ahirwar, PW-4 O.P. Tiwari, PW-8 N.K. Parihar, PW-9 Niranjan Singh read with the evidence of PW-13 Dr. H.L. Bhuria, do not make out a case for conviction under Section 353 of IPC against the appellant and that none of the ingredients required to maintain a conviction under Section 353 of IPC have been established. Mr. Arjun Garg, learned counsel for the State defended the conviction and prayed that no case for interference with the concurrent conviction is made out. 14. We have carefully considered the arguments of the parties and have perused the records of the case, including the original records. 15. At the outset, we extract hereinbelow Section 353 of the IPC: “353.-Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty. - Whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any person being a public servant in the execution of his duty as such public servant, or with intent to prevent or deter that person from discharging his duty as such public servant, or in consequence of anything done or attempted to be done by such person in the lawful discharge of his duty as such public servant, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.” A perusal of Section 353 indicates that whoever assaults or uses criminal force (a) to any person being a public servant in the execution of his duty as such public servant, or (b) with intent to prevent or deter that person from discharging his duty as such public servant, or (c) in consequence of anything done or attempted to be done by such person in the lawful discharge of his duty as such public servant, shall be punished with the imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.