This is an important procedural safeguard which is necessary in to provide adequate guarantees in respect of both objective and subjective impartiality.”] [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2251 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company circumstances disclosed by the arbitrator, while partiality will more likely surface during the arbitration proceedings.” 113. The fundamental premise of arbitration is the impartial resolution of disputes between parties according to the arbitration agreement.217 Unlike a judge, an arbitrator is generally engaged in occupations and professions before, during, and after the arbitral proceedings. The arbitrators may also have had prior commercial or professional contacts and relationships with either of the parties to the dispute. In such circumstances, arbitration law has evolved safeguards and mechanisms to ensure the independence and impartiality of the arbitral procedure. The independence of an arbitrator is generally considered with respect to the relationships or links between the arbitrator and one of the parties, whether financial, professional, employment or personal.218 The independence of an arbitrator can be deduced objectively because the dependence arises from the relationship between an arbitrator and one of the parties, or somebody closely connected with one of the parties.219 In comparison, the existence of impartiality is inferred from facts and circumstances surrounding an arbitrator’s exercise of quasi-judicial functions.220 114. An arbitrator will not be automatically disqualified in situations where the relationship of an arbitrator with parties does not fall under the categories mentioned under the Seventh Schedule. Yet, either of the parties may have “justifiable doubts” about the independence or impartiality of the arbitrator. The party challenging the appointment of an arbitrator does not need to demonstrate that the arbitrator lacks independence or impartiality. It only needs to show that there are possible “doubts” as to an arbitrator’s independence or impartiality.221 The purpose behind incorporating the word “justifiable” under Section 12 was to establish an objective standard for impartiality and independence.222 Resultantly, the possibility of “doubts” must 217 Jivraj v. Hashwani, [2011] UKSC 40 [45] 218 Redfern and Hunter (supra) 226 219 Article 3, IBA Rules of Ethics for International Arbitrator 1987 220 Peter Binder (supra) 117 221 Gary Born (supra) 1911, 1912. [Gary Born suggests that: “Statutory (and judicial) references to the “risks” or “possibility” of partiality are preferable to formulations including “doubt” or “suspicion.” The latter phrases connote a subjective inquiry, as well as a flavor of speculation, which are misleading. The better approach is instead to consider what objective risk (or possibility) of unacceptable partiality exists.”] 222 David Caron and Lee Caplan, The UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules: A Commentary (2nd edn, Oxford University Press, 2013) 208 2252 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports be “real” in the sense that they should be derived from the objective circumstances disclosed by an arbitrator. 115. The consideration of possible “doubts” must be undertaken from the perspective of a “fair-minded and informed person” rather than the subjective views of the parties or the arbitrators. According to Gary Born, the standard of proof adopted under Article 12 of the Model Law is relatively low to ensure “the integrity of the arbitral tribunal and arbitral process, particularly given the extremely limited review available for substantive or procedural errors by the arbitrators.”223 The issue of arbitrator bias is to be resolved by applying the test of the real likelihood of bias in the given facts and circumstances.