Digital Supreme Court Reports He submitted that the High Court’s decision to quash one of the scheduled offences based on an alleged compromise between bribe givers and bribe recipients was under scrutiny in the case. He pointed out that this Court heavily came down on such compromises in the said decision. He relied upon various paragraphs of the said decision. He submitted that the argument of learned senior counsel for the appellant in the said case that one Shri Shanmugam, who is allegedly involved, was not his personal assistant, has been expressly rejected. This Court found that he was working as a personal assistant of the appellant. 10. Learned SG relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Y. Balaji v. Karthik Desari and Another.4 He pointed out observations made from paragraph 17 onwards of the said decision. He pointed out that this Court objected strongly to not registering offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. He pointed out the observations of this Court regarding the compromise entered in the scheduled offence. It was observed that two teams were created just for the record, and an investigation was carried out as if it were a friendly match between the complainants and the accused. This Court further observed that it was only because of the position of the appellant as a Minister that the complainants purported to enter into a compromise. He submitted that there is very strong material on record to show the appellant’s involvement in the offence punishable under Section 4 of the PMLA and the predicate offences. He submitted that the appellant brought about such an illegal settlement between bribe givers and bribe receivers. Therefore, there is no manner of doubt that once he comes out, he will influence the witnesses proposed to be examined by the prosecution, as he wields considerable influence in the State due to his political clout. 11. He submitted that though there are a large number of accused and witnesses in the scheduled offences, if a competent special public prosecutor is appointed, perhaps the prosecution may be in a position to drop a large number of witnesses. He submitted that in Misc. Application no.1381 of 2024 arising out of the decision of this Court in Criminal Appeal no.1677 of 2023, there is already a prayer made for the appointment of a special public prosecutor. 4 [2023] 8 SCR 1026 : (2023) SCC OnLine SC 645 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 401 V. Senthil Balaji v. The Deputy Director, Directorate of Enforcement 12. We have also heard learned senior counsel for the intervenors who supported the ED. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 13. We have carefully considered the submissions. The main document relied upon by the ED showing incriminatory material against the appellant is a part of the pen drive seized by the State police from the appellant’s premises in connection with scheduled offences. The concerned Court dealing with the scheduled offences has provided the printed version of the soft files in the seized pen drive.