(4) Parliament has power to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List.” With regard to the allocation of subjects under the three Lists, it may be useful to refer to the Devolution rules drawn under the Government of India Act, 1919 and thereafter, to the Government of India Act, 1935 which are the precursors to the distribution of legislative powers between the Union and the States as per the three Lists of the Seventh Schedule. Some of the salient aspects concerning the distribution of the legislative powers between Parliament and State Legislature as per the three Lists in the backdrop of provisions could be alluded to. Article 246 of the Constitution deals with the distribution of [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1755 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. legislative powers between the Union and the States. The said Article has to be read along with the three Lists, namely, the Union List, the State List and the Concurrent List. The taxing powers of the Union as well as the States are also demarcated as separate Entries in the Union List as well as the State List i.e. List I and List II respectively. The Entries in the Lists are fields of legislative powers conferred under Article 246 of the Constitution. In other words, the Entries define the areas of legislative competence of the Union and the State Legislature. (vide: State of Karnataka vs. State of Meghalaya, (2023) 4 SCC 416 para 56), (“State of Karnataka”). 8.2 The legislative power to impose a tax or impost can be traced to either List I - Union List or List II - State List. List III - Concurrent List which gives powers to both Union as well as the States to legislate does not contain any taxation Entry. Entry 47 - List III states that fees in respect of any of the matters in that List but not including fees taken in any Court could be levied and collected by an authority of law either by the Union or the State Legislature. Similarly, Entry 66 - List II states that fees in respect of any of the matters in List II but not including fees taken in any Court could be collected by the State Legislature. In a similar vein, Entry 96 - List I gives power to levy fee in respect of subjects enumerated in List I but not including fees taken in any Court. It is nobody’s case that royalty is a fee and therefore no further discussion on that aspect is necessary. However, the conundrum to be unravelled by this nine-judge Bench is, whether royalty is a tax or a levy akin to a tax or an exaction in the context of exercise of mineral rights. 8.3 In to understand the foundation of this controversy, it is necessary to consider Article 246 of the Constitution and the relevant Entries of the two Lists vis-à-vis regulation of mines and mineral development, as the controversy has arisen in this particular context, which can be usefully extracted as under: “List I – Union List Entry 54 : Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation and development under the control 1756 [2024] 7 S.C.R.