It stipulates that all service providers – both Government and private – shall provide services in accordance with the rules on accessibility within a period of two years from the date of notification of such rules. The proviso to the provision states that the Central Government, in consultation with the Chief Commissioner may grant an extension of time for providing certain categories of services in accordance with the accessibility rules. 59. Section 89 prescribes punishment for contravention of provisions of the RPWD Act or its allied rules. It states that any person who contravenes any of the provisions of the RPWD Act or rules made thereunder shall be liable to pay a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees for the first contravention, and a fine which shall not be less than fifty thousand rupees but which may extend to five lakh rupees, for subsequent contraventions. b. Chapter VI the RPWD Rules 60. The RPWD Rules, issued by the Central Government, came into force on 15 June 2017.58 At the heart of the issue before this Court 58 Notification No. G.S.R. 591 (E). 1002 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports lies Chapter VI of the RPWD Rules, which is titled “Accessibility”. Rule 15, in its original form, read as follows: “15. Rules for Accessibility. - (1) Every establishment shall comply with the following standards relating to physical environment, transport and information and communication technology, namely:- (a) standard for public buildings as specified in the Harmonised Guidelines and Space Standards for Barrier Free Built Environment for Persons With Disabilities and Elderly Persons as issued by the Government of India, Ministry of Urban Development in March, 2016; (b) standard for Bus Body Code for transportation system as specified in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, vide number G.S.R. 895(E), dated the 20th September, 2016; (c) Information and Communication Technology- (i) website standard as specified in the guidelines for Indian Government websites, as adopted by Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, Government of India; (ii) documents to be placed on websites shall be in Electronic Publication (ePUB) or Optical Character Reader (OCR) based pdf format: Provided that the standard of accessibility in respect of other services and facilities shall be specified by the Central Government within a period of six months from the date of notification of these rules. (2) The respective Ministries and Departments shall ensure compliance of the standards of accessibility specified under this rule through the concerned domain regulators or otherwise.” 61. Rule 15(1) provides that every establishment shall comply with the standards relating to the physical environment, transport and information and communication technology, prescribed in the subsequent clauses of the provision. Barring the requirement in Rule 15(1)(c)(ii) which requires that the documents on websites be in [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1003 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. ePUB or OCR-based pdf format, all the other clauses in Rule 15(1) refer to documents/guidelines issued by various Ministries of the Union Government.