(viii) Mantu Tiwari (A-4) was not present in the court when Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10) was being examined. However, he identified Ram Niranjan Chaudhary (A-6) who was present in the court. (ix) As he did not recognize the other accused, he was declared hostile and was allowed to be cross-examined by the prosecution. (x) In his cross-examination, he denied that Mantu Tiwari (A-4) fired from his sten gun. (xi) He also denied the presence of Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1), claiming that he had not seen him in the hospital. (xii) However, he accepts in the cross-examination that he had put his signatures on the fardbeyan. (xiii) He was not cross-examined at length by the defence. 1334 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 22. We have already referred to s of this Court while examining the doctrine of falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus. The same principles equally apply when the court examines the statement of a witness who has been declared hostile by the prosecution. In a catena of s, this Court has observed that the evidence of a hostile witness is not to be completely rejected, so as to exclude versions that support the prosecution. Rather, the testimony of the hostile witness is to be subjected to close scrutiny, thus enabling the court to separate truth from falsehood, exaggerations and improvements. Only reliable evidence should be taken into consideration. The court is not denuded of its power to make an appropriate assessment. The entire testimony of a hostile witness is discarded only when the judge, as a matter of prudence, finds the witness wholly discredited, warranting the exclusion of the evidence in toto.19 The creditworthy portions of the testimony should be considered for the purpose of evidence in the case. It is in this context that we have to examine the testimony of Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10), the complainant/ informant, who gave the fardbeyan (Exhibit P-50) on which basis the FIR (Exhibit P-50/51) was registered. Testimony of Rama Devi (PW-24) 23. Rama Devi (PW-24) confirmed the presence of the witnesses – Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1), Mahanth Ashwani Das (PW-25), and Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10) at the IGIMS hospital. On 13.06.1998, Rama Devi (PW-24) had taken food to the hospital at about 2:50 p.m. and stayed there till about 7:00 p.m. From the hospital, she went to Maurya Lok to purchase some items for her sons and remained there for about one and a half hours. Whilst leaving Maurya Lok, she learnt about the attack on her husband, Brij Bihari Prasad. She immediately reached IGIMS hospital where she saw Brij Bihari Prasad and Lakshmeshwar Sahu lying dead in a pool of blood. Several people had gathered there. She established the presence of Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1), Mahanth Ashwani Das (PW-25), and Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10) at the hospital. 19 See C. Muniappan and Others v. State of Tamil Nadu (2010) 9 SCC 567 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1335 Rama Devi v. The State of Bihar and Others 24. We will exclude the testimony of Rama Devi (PW-24) regarding the individuals who arrived in the two vehicles and the detailed version about the occurrence which she heard from the people present there, including Paras Nath Chaudhury (PW-1), Mahanth Ashwani Das (PW-25), and Amarendra Kumar Sinha (PW-10), which is hearsay.