Reading Article 46 together with Article 16(4) the luscent intent of the Constitution-framers emerges that the exploited lot of the harijan-girijan groups in the past shall be extirpated with special care by the State. The inference is obvious that administrative participation by SC & ST shall be promoted with special care by the State. Of course, reservations under Article 16(4) and promotional strategies envisaged by Article 46 may be important but shall not run berserk 1508 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and imperil administrative efficiency in the name of concessions to backward classes. Article 335 enters a caveat in this behalf: “335. The claims of the members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall be taken into consideration, consistently with the maintenance of efficiency of administration, in the making of appointments to services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of a State.” The positive accent of this article is that the claims of SC & ST to equalisation of representation in services under the State, having regard to their sunken social status and impotence in the power system, shall be taken into consideration. The negative element, which is part of the article, is that measures taken by the State, pursuant to the mandate of Articles 16(4), 46 and 335, shall be consistent with and not subversive of “the maintenance of efficiency of administration”. xxx xxx xxx 39. Article 341 makes it clear that a “scheduled Caste” need not be a “caste” in the conventional sense and, therefore, may not be a caste within the meaning of Article 15(2) or 16(2). Scheduled Castes become such only if the President specifies any castes, races or tribes or parts or groups within castes, races or tribes for the purpose of the Constitution. So, a group or a section of a group, which need not be a caste and may even be a hotchpotch of many castes or tribes or even races, may still be a Scheduled Caste under Article 341. Likewise, races or tribal communities or parts thereof or part or parts of groups within them may still be Scheduled Tribes (Article 342) for the purpose of the Constitution. Under this definition, one group in a caste may be a Scheduled Caste and another from the same caste may not be. It is the socio-economic backwardness of a social bracket, not mere birth in a caste, that is decisive. Conceptual errors creep in when traditional obsessions obfuscate the vision.” [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1509 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 107. The Learned Judge refers to the pre-Constitution history wherein special provisions for depressed classes and even other castes were made. He stated that after the Constitution was enacted the legality of old rules based on caste became moot and the Central Government revised its policy. He stated that the post-Constitution reincarnation of the communal G.O. concentrated not on caste orientation but on elimination of socio-economic suppression and the diverse ways to achieve this objective.