2 for that reason. PW-1 has also deposed regarding the presence of an injury on the body of the deceased when she once visited her parental house soon after her wedding. Their versions have largely remained unrebutted despite elaborate cross-examination. The appellants have raised questions regarding [2024] 11 S.C.R. 917 Vijaya Singh & Anr. v. State of Uttarakhand their versions stating that they are contradictory. We are unable to find any material contradiction in their versions and the Trial Court and the High Court have correctly appreciated their evidence in light of their background. For, the witnesses were essentially villagers and their testimonies cannot be subjected to mathematical precision. The evidence of every witness cannot be subject to the same level of scrutiny and the Court must be alive to the social position of the witness. Further, it is trite law that mere presence of minor variations is not fatal to the case of the prosecution. It is so because a natural testimony is bound to have variations. The question is whether the variations or contradictions could be termed as fatal to the case of the prosecution. The said question needs to be answered in light of the other evidence on record by examining whether the oral testimonies have found corroboration from other evidence or have remained isolated testimonies. 26. In the present case, the testimonies of PW-1 and PW-6 are supported by the testimonies of PW-3 and PW-4, who are the sisters of appellant no. 1 and daughters of appellant no. 2. They are not interested witnesses and their testimonies must be given due credence. The statements of PW-3 and PW-4 were recorded before the Judicial Magistrate under Section 164 of CrPC in the aftermath of the incident. However, the issue with respect to their evidence is that they have sought to retract from their statements recorded under Section 164 CrPC and have denied a material part of their statements before the Sessions Court. The reason for retraction is that the statements were recorded under threat of the concerned Patwari who was present before the Judicial Magistrate along with the witnesses. The weight to be attached to such a statement during appreciation of evidence is the question that arises before us at this juncture. 27. The jurisprudence concerning a statement under Section 164 CrPC is fairly clear. Such a statement is not considered as a substantive piece of evidence, as substantive oral evidence is one which is deposed before the Court and is subjected to cross-examination. However, Section 157 of Indian Evidence Act, 18725 makes it clear that a statement under Section 164 CrPC could be used for both corroboration and contradiction. It could be used to corroborate the 5 Hereinafter referred as “Evidence Act” 918 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports testimonies of other witnesses. In R. Shaji v. State of Kerala,6 this Court discussed the two-fold objective of a statement under Section 164 CrPC as: “15. So far as the statement of witnesses recorded under Section 164 is concerned, the object is two fold; in the first place, to deter the witness from changing his stand by denying the contents of his previously recorded statement, and secondly, to tide over immunity from prosecution by the witness under Section 164.