164 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 192. The next decision of this Court which discussed the meaning and content of Article 39(b) and has been referred to in the underlying reference s is Abu Kavur Bai. Akin to Ranganatha Reddy, this is another case which dealt with the nationalisation of transport services. In that case, the constitutionality of the Tamil Nadu State Carriages and Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Act 1973, which sought to nationalise the transport industry in stages, was under challenge. The transport service and part of the assets of the operators were acquired by the State under the legislation. The Madras High Court declared the Act as being violative of Article 31(2) and outside the protective umbrella contained in Article 31C. 193. The Constitution Bench of this Court (speaking through Justice Fazal Ali) upheld the constitutionality of the legislation. This Court held that the legislation gave effect to the principles in Articles 39(b) and (c) and was thus saved from a challenge under Article 31(2), due to the application of Article 31-C. The relied on the decisions in Ranganatha Reddy and Sanjeev Coke to arrive at this conclusion. This Court held that the reason for the inclusion of Article 31-C was based on the theoretical aspiration that means of production, key industries, mines, minerals, public utilities, and services may be taken gradually under public ownership, management and control. Nationalisation, it was held, was necessary to achieve the goal of building an egalitarian society.134 194. It was argued before this Court that the nationalisation of the entire transport services along with the vehicles and workshops does not serve “any public good” and does not prevent the concentration of wealth in the hands of a few. Moreover, it was argued that the taking over of vehicles, tools, implements and workshops was not contemplated by Article 39(b) as they constituted movable properties and not “material resources”. This Court rejected these arguments. Relying on the decision in Ranganatha Reddy, where a similar legislation in the State of Karnataka was upheld by this Court, it was held that the state has nationalised the carriages to provide expeditious transport at reasonable rates to the members of the public and prevent misuse by private operators, which constitutes 134 Abu Kavur Bai [29-31]. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 165 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. an important public purpose.135 This Court relied on the definition in various dictionaries and the observations of this Court in Sanjeev Coke and held that the term “material resources” used by Article 39(b) is wide enough to cover both movable and immovable properties.136 195. Finally, this Court addressed the argument that the nationalisation policy codified in the legislation does not envisage ‘distribution’, because the property that is taken over is not distributed to various members of the community for their benefit. This Court, in line with its earlier observations, rejected this argument. Referring to definitions of the term ‘distribution’, it was held that ‘distribution’ must not be given a narrow construction which will defeat the purpose of Article 39(b).This Court held that the nationalisation of transport services fell within the ambit of ‘distribution’ and observed: “92.