Therefore, there can be no justification whatsoever to launch criminal prosecution on that basis afresh. The inherent power of the court in dealing with an extraordinary situation is in the larger interest of administration of justice and for preventing manifest injustice being done. Thus, it is a judicial obligation on the court to undo a wrong in course of administration of justice and to prevent continuation of unnecessary judicial process. It may be so necessary to curb the menace of criminal prosecution as an instrument of operation of needless harassment. A person cannot be permitted to unleash vendetta to harass any person needlessly. Ex debito justitiae is inbuilt in the inherent power of the court and the whole idea is to do real, complete and substantial justice for which the courts exist. Thus, it becomes the paramount duty of the court to protect an apparently innocent person, not to be subjected to prosecution on the basis of wholly untenable complaint.” 25. After referring to the aforesaid decisions in Samta Naidu’s case (supra) this Court further, held in Paragraph 13 thus: - 22 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “13. The application of the principles laid down in Talukdar in Jatinder Singh shows that “a second complaint is permissible depending upon how the complaint happened to be dismissed at the first instance”. It was further laid down that: (Jatinder Singh case, SCC p. 573, para 12) “12. If the dismissal of the complaint was not on merit but on default of the complainant to be present there is no bar in the complainant moving the Magistrate again with a second complaint on the same facts. But if the dismissal of the complaint under Section 203 of the Code was on merits the position could be different.” “To similar effect are the conclusions in Ranvir Singh and Poonam Chand Jain. Para 16 of Poonam Chand Jain also considered the effect of para 50 of the majority in Talukdar. These cases, therefore, show that if the earlier disposal of the complaint was on merits and in a manner known to law, the second complaint on “almost identical facts” which were raised in the first complaint would not be maintainable. What has been laid down is that “if the core of both the complaints is same”, the second complaint ought not to be entertained.” (underline supplied) 26. It was further held in paragraph 16 of the decision in Samta Naidu’s case (supra) thus: - “16. As against the facts in Shivshankar, the present case stands on a different footing. There was no legal infirmity in the first complaint filed in the present matter. The complaint was filed more than a year after the sale of the vehicle which meant the complainant had reasonable time at his disposal. The earlier complaint was dismissed after the Judicial Magistrate found that no prima facie case was made out; the earlier complaint was not disposed of on any technical ground; the material adverted to in the second complaint was only in the nature of supporting material; and the material relied upon in the second complaint was not such which could not have been procured earlier.