[2024] 8 S.C.R. 451 : 2024 INSC 610 Gautam Kumar Das v. NCT of Delhi and Others (Criminal Appeal No. 3447 of 2024) 20 August 2024 [B.R. Gavai* and K.V. Viswanathan, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Matter pertains to the grant of custody of the minor child to the father, the only natural guardian. Headnotes† Custody – Claim of – Appellant-father, only surviving biological parent seeking custody of the minor daughter from the alleged unlawful custody of his sister-in-laws – Husband lost his wife just ten days after the birth of their daughter and thereafter, his father due to Covid-19 – Due to the loss, the father handed over the custody of his minor daughter to his sister-in-law as an interim arrangement, however, his son who was relatively older was with him – Subsequently, on his remarriage, he sought custody of his minor daughter, but was refused – Father filed petition under the 1890 Act, seeking custody of his minor daughter but the case was withdrawn – Father then filed habeas corpus petition seeking custody – High Court disposed of the petition granting liberty to the parties to approach the family court – Correctness: Held: In matters of the custody of minor children, the paramount welfare of the child is seen – There cannot be any straight- jacket formula – Also, no hard and fast rule can be laid down as regards the maintainability of the habeas corpus petition in the custody matters of minor child – Exercise of jurisdiction by the writ court u/Art. 226 or not would depend on the facts and circumstances of each case – Merely because of the unfortunate circumstances, sister-in-laws were given the temporary custody of the minor child to nurture the infant and only because they looked after her for few years, the same cannot be a ground to deny the custody of the minor child to the appellant-her only natural guardian – Subsequently, the appellant remarried – Now, * Author 452 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports he and his wife can very well look after the minor girl – Perusal of the photographs reveal that the minor child has gelled well with the family – Appellant is well educated and employed as Government Official in Delhi, having residence in Delhi whereas the sister-in-law to whom the custody of the child was handed over is residing at a remote village – Appellant apart from taking care of his children, can very well provide the best of the education facilities to his children – Child, who lost her mother at tender age, cannot be deprived of the company of her father and natural brother – Even in to ensure the welfare of the minor child, she should live with her natural family – Minor child would get adapted to her natural family very well in a short period – Thus, impugned and of the High Court quashed and set aside – Sister-in-laws to handover the custody of the minor child, however, permitted to meet her at the residence of the appellant at the given time – Constitution of India – Guardians and Wards Act, 1890.