This is especially possible in instances, including but not limited to, where the claimant canvasses either ex facie time-barred claims or claims which have been discharged through “accord and satisfaction”, or cases where the impleadment of a non-signatory to the arbitration agreement is sought etc. In to balance such a limited scope of judicial interference with the interests of the parties who might be constrained to participate in the arbitration proceedings, the arbitral tribunal may direct that the costs of the arbitration shall be borne by the party which the Tribunal ultimately finds to have abused the process of law and caused unnecessary harassment to the other party to the arbitration. V. CONCLUSION 45. The existence of the arbitration agreement as contained in Clause 13.10 of the Shareholders Agreement is not disputed by either of the parties. The submissions as regard the claim of the petitioner being ex-facie time barred may be adjudicated upon by the arbitral tribunal as a preliminary issue. 46. In view of the aforesaid, the present petitions are allowed. Taking into consideration the fact that an arbitral tribunal comprising of a sole arbitrator, Mr. Mayur Khandeparkar (Advocate, High Court of Judicature at Bombay) has already been constituted for the adjudication of disputes between the same parties in relation to 132 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Service Agreement dated 18.10.2011, it would be desirable to constitute an arbitral tribunal comprising of the same sole arbitrator for adjudication of the present disputes pertaining to the Shareholders Agreement dated 25.07.2011. The fees of the arbitrator including other modalities shall be fixed in consultation with the parties. 47. In the facts of the present case, it would be apposite to observe that, in the event the arbitral tribunal ultimately finds the present claims of the petitioner to be time-barred, it may direct that the costs of the arbitration pertaining to these claims be borne solely by the petitioner herein. 48. It is made clear that all the other rights and contentions of the parties are left open for adjudication by the learned arbitrator. 49. Pending applications(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Petitions allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey