[25.57] 2340-2341. 85 United Province v. Atiqa Begum (1940) FCR 110; Constitution of India, Article 13 1990 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 49. With respect to category (a) above, where an Entry in List II is subject to an entry or entries in List I or List III, the extent of the legislative field covered by the entry in List II is circumscribed by the domain covered by the entries in Lists I or III to which the entry in List II is subject. For example, Entry 22 of the State List deals with “courts of wards subject to the provisions of Entry 34 of List I”. Entry 34 of List I provides for “Courts of wards for the estates of Rulers of Indian States”. The legislative field in Entry 22 of List II is wider than the field of Entry 34 of List I. Hence the subjection of Entry 22 of List II to Entry 34 of List I indicates that that the field assigned to the States is circumscribed to the extent of the field assigned to Parliament in Entry 34 of List I. Barring the express legislative device of subordination, the States have complete power to enact laws over the fields specified in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. The authority of the State Legislature to enact laws on those entries of List II which are not expressly made subject to other entries has maintained the federal balance of legislatures under the Constitution.86 50. The devices of language used in the Seventh Schedule prevent the overlap between entries in various Lists. Now, what of the instances where there is an overlap between provisions in different entries but the Constitution does not use a device to resolve it? It must be recalled that the federal supremacy of Parliament on legislative competence can only be resorted to when there is an ‘irreconcilable direct conflict’ between entries in different lists. It is crucial to note the difference between ‘overlap’ and ‘conflict’. An overlap occurs when two or more things or fields partially intersect. However, a conflict occurs when two or more entries operate in the exactly same field. Courts while dealing with an overlap of legislative entries must endeavour to diminish the overlap and not enhance it by including it in the field of conflict. The federal supremacy accorded to Parliament ticks in at the stage of ‘conflict’. 51. The legislative entries must be given a wide meaning. All incidental and ancillary matters which can be fairly and reasonably comprehended must be brought within them.87 However, if there is an overlap 86 ibid 87 United Provinces v. Atiqa Begum (1940) FCR 110; Western India Theatres Ltd. V. Cantonment Board, Elel Hotels & Investments Ltd. V. Union of India; Godfrey Phillips India Ltd. V. State of UP (2005) 2 SCC 515 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1991 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons between two entries the Court must endeavour to interpret the entries harmoniously.