It was contended that this amendment does not in any way clear the confusion created in the aforesaid case and hence, Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) may be overruled. It was also contended that in Tika Ramji, this Court has devised a three-fold classification as pre-production, production and post-production and it was only in the second category i.e. production which would be covered by the word “industry”. 4.2 Taking a different stance, Sri V. Giri submitted that denatured alcohol is excluded from the scope of the term “intoxicating liquors” in Entry 8 – List II and is covered under Entry 24 – List II. Further, unless a notified under Section 18G of the IDRA is issued, the Parliament cannot occupy the field under Entry 33 – List III merely on the strength of the said provision being brought on the statute book. 4.3 On the other hand, Sri R. Venkataramani, learned Attorney General, leading the arguments for the Union of India and other respondents contended that Entry 52 – List I and Entry 33 – List III are interrelated as they touch upon matters relating to a scheduled industry under the provisions of the IDRA, whose control is with the Union. It was contended that Entry 52 – List I is provided in to ensure a uniform control and development of an industry throughout the length and breadth of the country. This is not only in the interest of the scheduled industry but also to achieve equitable distribution of the products of such 2052 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports industry and as an economic measure. As a result, in respect of a scheduled industry, the powers of the State under Entries 26 and 27 - List II are denuded. Also, if the field is occupied by the Parliament (Union) and the States are denuded of their powers under Entry 33 – List III. Therefore, the in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) would not call for a reconsideration as it was correctly decided. It was further contended that all liquids containing alcohol would fall under two categories, namely, those meant for human consumption (potable alcohol) and non-potable alcohol. Entry 8 – List II deals with only potable alcohol meant for human consumption as a beverage. Thus, non-potable alcohol is outside the scope of Entry 8 – List II. The amendment to Item 26 of First Schedule of IDRA has clarified this position. Further, the use of the expression “that is to say” in Entry 8 – List II refers to the various activities concerning potable alcohol and does not refer to any other class of liquor. 4.4 Learned Solicitor General of India submitted that the controversy in this case must be tread carefully as it would have a bearing on other legislation. That having regard to national interest, there is a requirement for a uniform development throughout the country in respect of the products of an industry that are sought to be equally distributed, and, therefore, the control of such industries is taken over by the Union exercising powers in relation to Entry 52 – List I.