A decision is only an authority for what it actually decides. What is of the essence in a decision is its ratio and not every observation found therein nor what logically follows from the various observations made in the . Every must be read as applicable to the particular facts proved, or assumed to be proved, since the generality of the expressions which may be found there is not intended to be exposition of the whole law, but governed and qualified by the particular facts of the case in which such expressions are to be found. It would, therefore, be not profitable to extract a sentence here and there from the and to build upon it because the essence of the decision is its ratio and not every observation found therein. The enunciation of the reason or principle on which a question before a court has been decided is alone binding as a precedent. The concrete decision alone is binding between the parties to it, but it is the abstract ratio decidendi, ascertained on a consideration of the in relation to the subject- matter of the decision, which alone has the force of law and which, when it is clear what it was, is binding. It is only the principle laid down in the that is binding law under Article 141 of the Constitution. A deliberate judicial decision arrived at after hearing an argument on a question which arises in the case or is put in issue may constitute a precedent, no matter for what reason, and the precedent by long recognition may mature into rule of stare decisis. It is the rule deductible from the application of law to the facts and circumstances of the case which constitutes its ratio decidendi.” [2024] 1 S.C.R. 1017 The State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Yogendera Mohan Sengupta and Another 75. This Court, in the case of Dhanwanti Devi (supra) in paragraph 9, has held that it is not profitable to extract a sentence here and there from the and to build upon it. It has been held that the essence of the decision is its ratio and not every observation found therein. It has been held that a deliberate judicial decision arrived at after hearing an argument on a question which arises in the case or is put in issue would constitute a precedent. 76. Though at a first blush, the observations made in para 47 of the in the case of Mantri Techzone Private Limited (supra), would appear to support the case of the respondents, but if the entire in the said case is perused, it is not so. It can clearly be seen that the learned Advocate General of the State has specifically argued that the Revised Master Plan is statutory in nature and the NGT has no power, competence or jurisdiction to consider the validity or vires of any statutory provision/regulation. It was therefore argued that the of the NGT to that extent was liable to be set aside.