If there are intelligible differentia which separates a group within that class from the rest and that differentia have nexus with the object of classification, I see no objection to a further classification within the class. It is no doubt a paradox that though in one sense classification brings about inequality, it is promotive of equality if its object is to bring those who share a common characteristic under a class for differential treatment for sufficient and justifiable reasons. In this view, I have no doubt that the principle laid down in All India Station Masters and Assistant Station Masters Association v. General Manager, Central Railway [(1960) 2 SCR 311 : AIR 1960 SC 384. ]; S.G. Jaisinghani v. Union of India and State of J&K. v. Triloki Nath Khosa [(1974) 1 SCC 19 : 1974 SCC (L&S) 49 : (1974) 1 SCR 771.] has no application here.” 87. It has been observed that a classification is reasonable if it includes all persons who are similarly situated with respect to the purpose of the law. It has been observed that the classification must be founded on some reasonable ground which distinguishes persons who are grouped together and the ground of distinction must have rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the rule. It specifically observed that it is a mistake to assume a priori that there can be no classification within a class. He held that if there are intelligible differentia which separates a group within that class from the rest and that differentia have nexus with the object of classification, such a further classification within the class would be permissible in law. He observed that though in one sense classification brings about inequality it is promotive of equality if its object is to bring those who share a common characteristic under a class, for differential treatment for sufficient and justifiable reasons. 88. V.R. Krishna Iyer, J. in his concurring observed thus: “124. A word of sociological caution. In the light of experience, here and elsewhere, the danger of “reservation”, it seems to me, is threefold. Its benefits, by and large, are snatched away by the top creamy layer of the “backward” caste or class, thus keeping the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1497 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. weakest among the weak always weak and leaving the fortunate layers to consume the whole cake. Secondly, this claim is overplayed extravagantly in democracy by large and vocal groups whose burden of backwardness has been substantially lightened by the march of time and measures of better education and more opportunities of employment, but wish to wear the “weaker section” label as a means to score over their near-equals formally categorised as the upper brackets. Lastly, a lasting solution to the problem comes only from improvement of social environment, added educational facilities and cross-fertilisation of castes by inter-caste and inter-class marriages sponsored as a massive State programme, and this solution is calculatedly hidden from view by the higher “backward” groups with a vested interest in the plums of backwardism.