Thus, Parliament has covered the subject-matter of statutory levies relating to mineral rights and the state legislature has no power to impose a levy in the form of taxes on mineral rights under Entry 50 of List II; b. M A Tulloch (supra) held that a Parliamentary legislation enacted under Entry 54 of List I also impacts the independent legislative powers of States with respect to Entry 66 of List II. 215 Baijnath Kedia (supra) [21] 1666 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports This reasoning will be applicable to Entry 50 of List II with greater force, more so, because this entry is expressly subject to any law made by Parliament relating to mineral development; and c. In Baijnath Kedia (supra) there were no express provisions under the MMDR Act limiting the state legislature from enacting legislation relating to leases of minor minerals, but this Court held that such a limitation was implied. Similarly, the Parliamentary law, the MMDR Act, impliedly excludes the legislative competence of the state with respect to Entry 50 of List II. 153. The above arguments will be dealt with in the ensuing segment relating to the interpretation of Entry 50 of List II. iii. Examination of the “extent” of the MMDR Act 154. The respondents submit that the MMDR Act is a complete code and occupies the entire field relating to regulation of mines and mineral development, leaving nothing for the state legislature under Entry 23 of List II. It was also submitted that the scope of the MMDR Act and the rules made under it has to be given an exhaustive interpretation because they were enacted in the “public interest.” The Solicitor General recounted the following public interest considerations underpinning the MMDR Act: (i) provision of national legal landscape for protection, exploration, and extraction of minerals; (ii) ushering a uniform structure of regulation and development of minerals; and (iii) ensuring sustained development of the mineral sector at the national level to ensure availability of domestic minerals to industries. 155. The MMDR Act and the Mineral Concession Rules 1960 comprise of a complete code, containing exhaustive provisions in respect of the grant and renewal of prospecting licenses and mining leases in lands belonging to government as well as lands belonging to private persons.216 Section 2 of the MMDR Act declares that the Union is acting in public interest to take under its control the regulation of mines and development of minerals to the extent provided. In State of Tamil Nadu v. Hindu Stone,217 the Court observed that “[t]he public interest which induced Parliament to make the declaration 216 State of Assam v. Om Prakash Mehta (1973) 1 SCC 584 [12]; 217 [1981] 2 SCR 742 : (1981) 2 SCC 205 [6] [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1667 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. contained in Section 2 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957, has naturally to be the paramount consideration in all matters concerning the regulation of mines and the development of minerals.” 156.