207 Naresh Chandra Agrawal v. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and Others 18. Having discussed the scheme of relevant provisions in the parent Act, we may now peruse the contents of Rule 9. 19. Rule 9 is titled ‘Examination of Complaint’. Sub-clause (1) provides for the procedure to be followed on receipt of complaint. The Director (Discipline) is required to form his prima facie opinion as to whether the member is guilty or not of the alleged misconduct. Sub-clause (2) sets out the procedure to be followed in the event where the Director (Discipline) reaches a prima facie opinion that the member is guilty of professional misconduct. What is of utmost significance for us is to see the procedure to be followed when the Director (Discipline) comes to a prima facie opinion that the member is not guilty of alleged misconduct, as has been examined in the instant case. This can be found in sub-clause (3) of Rule 9. It provides that the Board can accept the opinion of the Director (Discipline) and pass an for closure (Rule 9(3)(a)). Where the Board disagrees with the opinion of the Director (Discipline), it may proceed under Chapter IV of the Rules, 2007 if the matter pertains to the First Schedule or it may advise the Director to further investigate the matter. Similarly, the Board could refer the matter to the Disciplinary Committee for action under Chapter V if the matter pertains to the Second Schedule or it could advise the Director (Discipline) to conduct further investigation. Analysis and Findings: 20. Now, let us contrast Section 21A (4) with Rule 9(3) to examine if there is any substance in the argument that Rule 9(3) is ultra vires Section 21A (4). In the event the Board disagrees with the opinion of the Director (Discipline), Section 21A(4) provides that the Board may advise the Director to further investigate the matter. However, Rule 9(3) does not limit itself to just this option. It also enables the Board to straightaway proceed to act by itself or refer the matter to the Disciplinary Committee, depending on whether the alleged misconduct relates to the First Schedule or Second Schedule. It is in this background that the learned counsel for the Appellant has strenuously submitted that the Rule goes beyond the enabling power set out in the parent Act. 21. In State of Tamil Nadu and Anr. v. P. Krishnamurthy and Ors. (2006) 4 SCC 517, this Court recollected the following principles while adjudging the validity of subordinate legislation, including regulations: 208 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. There is a presumption in favour of constitutionality or validity of a subordinate legislation and the burden is upon him who attacks it to show that it is invalid. It is also well recognized that a subordinate legislation can be challenged under any of the following grounds: (a) Lack of legislative competence to make the subordinate legislation. (b) Violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution of India.