It is also contended that no circumstances which irresistibly pointing to the guilt of the appellant-convict were established by the prosecution though the conviction was based on circumstantial evidence. 6. Per contra, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent-State would submit that the circumstances that led to the finding of guilt against the appellant were discussed in detail by the trial Court and the High Court as the Appellate Court reappreciated and concurred with them besides adding additional reasons for confirming the conviction as also the sentence. In short, it is submitted that the cumulative effect of such circumstances relied on by the Courts do not brook any hypothesis other than the one irresistibly leading to the guilt of the appellant-convict, no interference with the concurrent conviction as also sentence, is invited in this case. 7. In view of the rival contentions, we have bestowed careful consideration of the said contentions with reference to the materials on record. As noted earlier, the incident which led to the death of Smt. 748 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Pushpa, the wife of the appellant-convict, had occurred admittedly in her matrimonial home. The case of the appellant-convict is that a careful scanning of the evidence on record would reveal that the prosecution had failed to establish that it is a case of homicide and in fact, it is a case of suicide. Adding to the above contentions, the learned counsel for the appellant would submit that the appellant was implicated in this case and was convicted without any satisfactory evidence much less any clinching evidence and also disregarding the fact that it was he who attempted to save her life and in that regard after cutting the noose of the ligature he took her to the hospital. While considering the contention, we shall not lose sight of the fact that more often criminals would try to dub a murder as suicidal or accidental death. The identification of the nature of the death is, therefore, always an important medico-legal problem. In that regard, the Courts concerned have to study the total evidence to discern whether death is a case of homicide or suicide or accidental. The concurrent finding in the case on hand with reference to the evidence on record is that it is a case of homicide. Presumption is only a rule in the realm of burden of proof and the trial Court and the High Court concurrently weighed the circumstances and gave sturdy reasons to conclude that death of Pushpa is homicidal in nature and not suicidal. In such circumstances, we are not persuaded to entertain the concurrently repelled contention of the appellant that the death of Pushpa was not homicidal. 8. Now, the question is about the sustainability of the concurrent finding on the culpability of the appellant. Of course, various contentions have been raised by the appellant to assail the finding of guilt against him concurrently referred to in the s of the trial Court and the High Court.