If freedom, justice and equal opportunity to unfold one’s own personality belong alike to bhangi and brahmin, prince and pauper, if the panchama proletariat is to feel the social [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1505 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. transformation Article 16(4) promises, the State must apply equalising techniques which will enlarge their opportunities and thereby progressively diminish the need for props. The success of State action under Article 16(4) consists in the speed with which result-oriented reservation withers away as no longer a need, not in the everwidening and everlasting operation of an exception [Article 16(4)] as if it were a super-fundamental right to continue backward all the time. To lend immortality to the reservation policy is to defeat its raison d’etre, to politicise this provision for communal support and Party ends is to subvert the solemn undertaking of Article 16(1), to casteify “reservation” even beyond the dismal groups of backwardmost people, euphemistically described as SC & ST, is to run a grave constitutional risk. Caste, ipso facto, is not class in a secular State. 23. The authentic voice of our culture, voiced by all the great builders of modern India, stood for abolition of the hardships of the pariah, the mlecha, the bonded labour, the hungry, hard-working half-slave, whose liberation was integral to our independence. To interpret the Constitution rightly we must understand the people for whom it is made — the finer ethos, the frustrations, the aspirations, the parameters set by the Constitution for the principled solution of social disabilities. This synthesis of ends and means, of life’s maladies and law’s remedies is a part of the know-how of constitutional interpretation if alienation from the people were not to afflict the justicing process: [J. Landis : Note on Statutory Interpretation, 43 Harv L Rev 886, 891 (1930)] A statute rarely stands alone. Back of Minerva was the brain of Jove, and behind Venus was the spume of the ocean.” 104. The Learned Judge observed that the guarantee of equal opportunity provided under Article 16 for all citizens in matters of State service inherently implies equalization as a process towards equality. However, he also emphasizes the need to harmonize the realistic need to jack up “depressed” classes to overcome initial handicaps 1506 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and join the national race towards progress on an equal footing. He states that Article 16(4) has been devoted for this very specific purpose. He observed that the guarantee of equality to the large social categories being submerged for long, with the rest, would be myth and not reality, unless it is combined with affirmative State action for equalization geared to promotion of eventual equality. He observed that Article 16(4) is not a jarring note but auxiliary to fair fulfilment of Article 16(1). He observed that the prescription of Article 16(1) needs the concrete sanction of Article 16(4) so that those wallowing in the social quagmire are enabled to rise to levels of equality with the rest and march together with their brethren whom history had not so harshly hamstrung.