[2024] 12 S.C.R. 637 : 2024 INSC 968 Arjun S/o Ratan Gaikwad v. The State of Maharashtra and Others (Criminal Appeal No. 5204 of 2024) 11 December 2024 [B.R. Gavai* and K.V. Viswanathan, JJ.] Issue for Consideration Appellant was detained under s.3(2) of the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug Offenders, Dangerous Persons, Video Pirates, Sand Smugglers and Persons Engaged in Black-Marketing of Essential Commodities Act, 1981 to prevent him from indulging in the activities of bootlegging thereby preventing the maintenance of peace. High Court dismissed the writ petition filed by the appellant. Headnotes† Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug Offenders, Dangerous Persons, Video Pirates, Sand Smugglers and Persons Engaged in Black- Marketing of Essential Commodities Act, 1981 (MPDA Act) – Appellant was detained to prevent him from indulging in the activities of bootlegging thereby preventing the maintenance of peace – Subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority that the activities of the appellant were prejudicial to the maintenance of public , if were substantiated: Held: No – None of the activities which form the basis of the detention can be said to be affecting public – All the six cases on the basis of which the proposal for detention was passed were with regard to selling of illicit liquor – Though six cases were registered, the Excise Authority did not find it necessary to arrest the appellant even on a single occasion – Every breach of peace does not lead to public dis – When a person can be dealt with in exercise of powers to maintain the law and , unless the acts of the proposed detainee are the ones which have the tendency of disturbing the public a resort to preventive detention which is a harsh measure would not be permissible – As to whether a case would amount to threat to the public * Author 638 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports or as to whether it would be such which can be dealt with by the ordinary machinery in exercise of its powers of maintaining law and would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case – Impugned of the High Court as also the of detention passed by the detaining authority and the of confirmation, quashed and set aside. [Paras 6, 13, 15, 20] Case Law Cited Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar and Another [1966] 1 SCR 709 : 1965 INSC 175; Ameena Begum v. State of Telangana and Others [2023] 11 SCR 958 : (2023) 9 SCC 587 – relied on. List of Acts Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug Offenders, Dangerous Persons, Video Pirates, Sand Smugglers and Persons Engaged in Black-Marketing of Essential Commodities Act, 1981. List of Keywords Preventive detention; Detention ; Detained; Detaining authority; Bootlegging; Preventing the maintenance of peace; Selling of illicit liquor; Excise Authority; Breach of peace; Public dis; Proposed detainee; Harsh measure; Public ; Law and ; Threat to the public ; Ordinary machinery; Powers of maintaining law and ; Subjective satisfaction; Activities prejudicial to the maintenance of public .