9. We have heard learned senior Counsel for both the parties at length and have perused the material on record. 10. The only purpose of substitution is the continuation of the case. The substitution as LR in a case by itself will not give any title in favour of the person so substituted. It only confers the right to represent the estate of the deceased in the pending proceedings. In Jaladi Suguna v. Satya Sai Central Trust, (2008) 8 SCC 521 this limited right was explained as follows: “15. Filing an application to bring the legal representatives on record, does not amount to bringing the legal representatives on record. When an LR application is filed, the court should consider it and decide whether the persons named therein as the legal representatives, should be brought on record to represent the estate of the deceased. Until such decision by the court, the persons claiming to be the legal representatives have no right to represent the estate of the deceased, nor prosecute or defend the case. If there is a dispute as to who is the legal representative, a decision should be rendered on such dispute. Only when the question of legal representative is determined by the court and such legal representative is brought on record, can it be said that the estate of the deceased is represented. The determination as to who is the legal representative under 22 Rule 5 will of course be for the limited purpose of representation [2024] 5 S.C.R. 467 Swami Vedvyasanand Ji Maharaj (D) Thr LRs v. Shyam Lal Chauhan & Ors. of the estate of the deceased, for adjudication of that case. Such determination for such limited purpose will not confer on the person held to be the legal representative, any right to the property which is the subject-matter of the suit, vis-à-vis other rival claimants to the estate of the deceased.” 11. Despite the limited purpose of substitution of legal representatives, it has its significance in as much as it gives the right to the substituted legal representatives to contest the claim of the deceased. 12. In the present case, when parties had come before this Court earlier, this Court vide dated 08.02.2018 had remitted the matter to the High Court to decide the question of legal representatives by taking the report of the Trial Court and the objections into consideration, after hearing both the sides. After the of this Court, the High Court vide dated 30.01.2019 had upheld the findings of the Trial Court by concluding that Swami Satyanand is the disciple of Swami Shivdharmanand, while rejecting the claims of the Swami Triyoganand including the appellant, who claimed their right through the deceased Swami Triyoganand. Further, the application to recall the dated 30.01.2019 moved by the appellant was dismissed vide impugned on the ground that the appellant claimed himself to be the disciple of Swami Triyoganand and the High Court has already decided to reject the claim of Swami Triyoganand. The High Court ignored the fact that the dated 30.01.2019 was passed after the death of Swami Triyoganand and without considering the pending substitution application.