Per the medical categorisation of the Army, “P5” referred to those persons who were suffering from “gross limitations in physical capacity and stamina”. (v) As a consequence of the report dated 14th September, 2001, the appellant was referred to the Invaliding Medical Board (“IMB” hereafter), which confirmed his diagnosis of suffering from AIDS. (vi) On 26th December, 2001, after 8 years and 58 days of service, at the young age of 27, the appellant was discharged from service 870 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports under Rule 13 (3), Item III(iii) of the Army Rules, 19541 (“Rules” hereafter) on the ground of having been found medically unfit for further service. (vii) On 23rd May 2003, the “Guidelines for Management and Prevention of HIV/AIDS Infection in the Armed Forces” (“2003 Guidelines” hereafter) came into force. In a shift from the Notice, the said policy included into its consideration the CD4 cell count of the personnel, and that the condition for invalidment would be, inter alia, a CD4 cell count below 200 cells/mm3. (viii) The appellant approached the Madhya Pradesh High Court, seeking quashing of the discharge dated 26th December, 2001 and reinstatement with all consequential benefits. A learned Judge of the High Court, vide dated 20th April, 2006, allowed the appellant’s writ petition. (ix) However, in exercise of intra-court appeal jurisdiction, an Hon’ble Division Bench of the High Court vide its dated 28th March, 2007 reversed the under appeal. The Division Bench observed that in accordance with Para 355 (f)2 of the Regulations for the Army, 1987 (“Regulations”, hereafter), the appellant was not discharged solely on the ground of having contracted a sexually transmitted disease. The appellant’s discharge from service was held to be valid on the ground that AIDS would incapacitate his physical capacity, thus coming within the ambit of Rule 13 of the Rules. An application for review of the said was also dismissed vide dated 27th August, 2007. (x) The appellant challenged both the s before the Supreme Court. A 3-Judge Bench of this Court vide dated 01st April, 2009 allowed the appellant to withdraw his appeal, 1 An enrolled person under the Army Act who has been attested on the ground of being found medically unfit for further service could be discharged by the Commanding Officer, to be carried out only on the recommendation of an invaliding Board. 2 “355. Contraction of sexually transmitted disease - The following principles will be observed in dealing with OR including reservists and non - combatants, who contracts sexually transmitted disease: f) An OR is not to be discharged from service solely on account of his having contracted sexually transmitted disease. If, however, he has been absent from duty on account of sexually transmitted disease for a total period of four months, whether continuous or not, his case may be brought to the notice of the authority empowered to his discharge from the service, for consideration as to whether he should be discharged from the service under the table annexed to Army Rule 13 item III if attested, and under item IV if not attested.