Constituent Assembly Debates: 12.8 I might also take persuasive strength from the use of the expression “intoxicating liquors” in Constituent Assembly Debates in the context of Article 47. Sri B.G. Kher speaking on the ruin caused by the consumption of alcohol noted the use of “intoxicating liquors” and drugs as a vice. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2119 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons 12.9 The aforesaid discussion points to the fact that there was a consumption-oriented meaning attached to “intoxicating liquors” that was used for legal and administrative purposes. To ascertain the breadth of the phrase “intoxicating liquors” as it was used by the draftsmen of the Constitution and the Government of India Act, 1935 one cannot be bound by only the definitions provided in legislative enactments, or lack thereof. 12.10 The Constitution of India clearly employs three distinct expressions relevant to the present controversy: (a) Entry 51 - List II refers to duties on ‘alcoholic liquors for human consumption’; (b) Article 47 uses the words “consumption of ‘intoxicating drinks’”; and (c) Entry 8 – List II uses the words in question – “intoxicating liquors” 12.11 I may observe that the expression “alcoholic liquors for human consumption” as it appears in Entry 51 – List II and intoxicating drinks as it appears in Article 47 have been categorically used in the context of human consumption as a beverage, as rightly observed by the learned Chief Justice in his opinion. Herein, I might note that appellants have sought to contend that the expression “intoxicating liquors” as it appears in Entry 8 – List II has no explicit neighboring context which would indicate that it is restricted to mean only potable liquor. 12.12 The first interpretive question therefore is, whether the absence of the context of consumption expands “intoxicating liquors” to also include “industrial alcohol”. In my opinion, the words “intoxicating liquors” itself explains that Entry 8 – List II does not seek to travel beyond “intoxicating liquors” meant for human consumption i.e., potable alcohol. This was also the view of Jeevan Reddy, J. in Bihar Distillery. 12.13 Another distinguishing consideration is the use of “intoxicating” as an adjective to liquor i.e., as a qualifier whereas elsewhere in the Constitution the word “alcoholic” accompanies the word liquor. Learned Chief Justice has carefully found following three inferences which are summarized as under: 2120 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a) Ingredient vs. Effect: “Alcoholic liquor” defines the scope of the provision based on the ingredient, that is, alcohol whereas “intoxicating liquors” defines the scope based on effect i.e. intoxication. Therefore, liquor which is not colloquially considered alcoholic liquor may be covered by the phrase “intoxicating liquors”. b) Broader intent: ‘Intoxicate’ means either the ability of someone to lose control of their behavior or poison. Thus, the purpose of substituting the adjective which indicates the impact with the ingredient seems to have enhanced the scope of the Entry to cover all liquor which has an impact on health; and c) Public interest purpose: There is a discernible public interest in covering the entire stage from production to sale of “intoxicating liquors”.