10. This challenge is on three grounds: first, the manner in which the Guideline was brought about was not in accordance with law; second, that the Guideline is violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India and not protected by Article 19(6) thereof and third, the Guideline which constitutes a misconduct within Clause (c) of Part II of the Second Schedule to the 1949 Act has not at all been enforced until very recently and it has been enforced only selectively, and therefore, there is non-compliance of the equality clause envisaged under Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 11. During the course of submissions, learned senior counsel Sri Datar submitted that although a little over ten thousand Chartered Accountants had violated the Guideline in question, notices for [2024] 6 S.C.R. 837 Shaji Poulose v. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Others initiation of disciplinary proceedings were at first issued only in respect of a few of them, including writ petitioners herein and those who had undertaken more than two hundred tax audits. In regard to others, who had exceeded the specified number of tax audits, no disciplinary proceedings have been initiated as yet. 12. At the outset, we consider it useful to examine the privilege conferred under the 1949 Act to practise the profession of a Chartered Accountant. Reference to the observation of this Court in All-India Federation of Tax Practitioners vs. Union of India, (2007) 7 SCC 527, (“All-India Federation of Tax Practitioners”), is helpful in this regard. In answering the question of whether the Parliament was competent to levy service tax on services rendered by Chartered Accountants, this Court observed at para 34 that a Chartered Accountant or a Cost Accountant obtains a license or a privilege from the competent body to practise. We find ourselves in agreement with this observation. Reading along with Section 2(1)(b) of the 1949 Act which defines a Chartered Accountant as a person who is a member of the respondent-Institute, we find it right to infer that a member of the respondent-Institute is conferred with the privilege of being able to practise as a Chartered Accountant. 12.1 As held by this Court in Kerala Ayurveda Paramparya Vaidya Forum vs. State of Kerala, (2018) 6 SCC 648, (“Kerala Ayurveda Paramparya Vaidya Forum”) a right to practice a profession is indeed an acknowledged fundamental right, but not unrestricted and is subject to any law imposing regulatory measures aiming to ensure standards of the profession and nature of public interest involved in the practice of the profession. Re: Point No.1: Whether the Council of the respondent-Institute, under the 1949 Act, was competent to impose, by way of Guidelines, a numerical restriction on the maximum number of tax audits that could be accepted by a Chartered Accountant, under Section 44AB of the IT Act, 1961, in a Financial Year by way of a Guideline? 13. We have perused the impugned Guideline dated 08.08.2008 which is extracted above. The same has to be read in the context of the respondent-Institute functioning under the overall control, guidance and supervision of the Council which means the Council of the Institute has to carry out the duties so as to achieve the objects of 838 [2024] 6 S.C.R.