23. It is, therefore, evident on a conjoint reading of Sections 403, 390 and 394 of the KMC Act that it is the obligation of the person intending to erect a building or to execute works to apply for completion certificate in terms of the Rules framed thereunder. It is no part of the flat owner’s duty to apply for a completion certificate. When the respondents had applied for permission/sanction to erect, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation Buildings Rules, 1990 (hereafter “the 1990 Rules” for short) were in force. Rule 26 of the 1990 Rules happens to be the relevant Rule. In terms of sub-rules (1) to (3) of Rule 26 thereof, the obligation as cast was required to be discharged by the respondents. Evidently, the respondents observed the statutory provisions in the breach.” This position is supported by other decisions, including Pioneer Urban Land and Infrastructure Ltd. (supra) and Treaty Construction (supra), where the absence of these certificates was found to constitute a deficiency in service. In the present case, the ADA’s failure to provide the required certificates justifies the appellant’s refusal to take possession. This strengthens the appellant’s claim for additional compensation to compensate for the delay caused by ADA’s breach of its statutory obligations. 22. This Court is of the considered view that both parties have exhibited lapses in their respective obligations. On the one hand, the appellant, despite having paid the tentative price of Rs. 56,54,000/- in 2012, failed to remit the additional amount of Rs. 3,43,178/-, as demanded by the ADA, even after being repeatedly reminded. Instead, the appellant persistently sought a waiver of the penal interest on the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 109 Dharmendra Sharma v. Agra Development Authority delayed payment, eventually settling the amount only on 04.06.2019, a significant delay that cannot be overlooked and that too without the interest component which had further accrued over a period of about five years. On the other hand, the ADA, despite making an offer of possession in 2014, did not fulfil its statutory obligations by providing the requisite completion certificate and firefighting clearance certificate, both of which are essential for a valid and lawful offer of possession. The absence of these documents, which were also not furnished before the NCDRC, unquestionably vitiates the offer of possession made by the ADA. 23. In light of the aforementioned observations and taking into account the shortcomings on the part of both the appellant and the ADA, this Court deems it appropriate to provide a compensation of Rs. 15,00,000/- (Fifteen Lakhs only) apart from what was awarded by the NCDRC. Therefore, apart from the refund of the entire amount deposited by the appellant @ 9% interest per annum from 11.07.2020 till the date of refund, the ADA is directed to pay an additional amount of Rs. 15,00,000/- (Fifteen Lakhs only) to the appellant. The entire amount should be rendered to the appellant within three months of this . We also the ADA to return the non-judicial stamp worth Rs. 3,99,100/- back to the appellant.