If the position is the latter, the same would have a significant bearing on the adjudication of the question at hand. 166. At this juncture, it is necessary to understand the meaning of the term “administration” in Article 30. Further, it is important for the Court to delineate the distinction between administrative and academic setup in the concerned institution. The administrative and academic authorities within an educational institution are functionally distinct. The of this Court in Ahmedabad St. Xavier’s College 1992 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Society [supra], provides some assistance in this regard. The relevant portion of the said judgement is quoted as under : “19. The entire controversy centres round the extent of the right of the religious and linguistic minorities to administer their educational institutions. The right to administer is said to consist of four principal matters. First is the right to choose its managing or governing body. It is said that the founders of the minority institution have faith and confidence in their own committee or body consisting of persons elected by them. Second is the right to choose its teachers. It is said that minority institutions want teachers to have compatibility with the ideals, aims and aspirations of the institution. Third is the right not to be compelled to refuse admission to students. In other words, the minority institutions want to have the right to admit students of their choice subject to reasonable regulations about academic qualifications. Fourth is the right to use its properties and assets for the benefit of its own institution. 40. ….. The right to administer is the right to conduct and manage the affairs of the institution. This right is exercised through a body of persons in whom the founders of the institution have faith and confidence and who have full autonomy in that sphere. The right to administer is subject to permissible regulatory measures. Permissible regulatory measures are those which do not restrict the right of administration but facilitate it and ensure better and more effective exercise of the right for the benefit of the institution and through the instrumentality of the management of the educational institutions and without displacing the management. If the administration has to be improved it should be done through the agency or instrumentality of the existing management and not by displacing it. Restrictions on the right of administration imposed in the interest of the general public alone and not in the interests of and for the benefit of minority educational institutions concerned will affect the autonomy in administration. 41. Autonomy in administration means right to administer effectively and to manage and conduct the affairs of the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1993 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. institutions. The distinction is between a restriction on the right of administration and a regulation prescribing the manner of administration. The right of administration is day to day administration. The choice in the personnel of management is a part of the administration.” 167. Similarly, TMA Pai [supra] considered the essential elements of the ‘right to administer’ [although under the heading “Private unaided non-minority educational institutions”] as follows: “50.