Nothing prevented the appellant to have disclosed about the incident immediately when the 182 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports police reached the spot that the injuries were inflicted on his deceased wife by two unknown intruders. There was no indication or giveaway to show the presence of third parties who intentionally targeted the deceased. All these facts taken together, i.e. nondisclosure of the information about the incident to the police, not giving the details of the two intruders even in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. etc. would really show that the explanation given by the appellant was false which would become an additional link in the chain of circumstantial evidence in view of Manu Sao v. State of Bihar, (2010) 12 SCC 310. 19.In Munna Kumar Upadhyay @ Munna Upadhyaya v. State of Andhra Pradesh, (2012) 6 SCC 174, it was reiterated that if the accused gave incorrect or false answers during the course of his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C., the Court can draw an adverse inference against him. In para 76 of the report, the Supreme Court observed as under:- “76. If the accused gave incorrect or false answers during the course of his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C., the court can draw an adverse inference against him. In the present case, we are of the considered opinion that the accused has not only failed to explain his conduct, in the manner in which every person of normal prudence would be expected to explain but had even given incorrect and false answers. In the present case, the Court not only draws an adverse inference, but such conduct of the accused would also tilt the case in favour of the prosecution.” 20. We are conscious of the fact that Shaheena (PW-3) the appellant’s daughter has not supported the prosecution version that the appellant was the perpetrator of the crime. She, in fact, came out with the story which is in line with the explanation given by the appellant in his examination under Section 313 Cr.P.C. But at the same time, as stated above, no such explanation was given by the appellant to the I.O. when he reached the spot immediately on [2024] 6 S.C.R. 183 Anees v. The State Govt. of NCT getting information of the incident. No such question was even put to the I.O. when he entered the witness box as PW-17. The appellant did not choose himself to enter the witness box under Section 315 Cr.P.C. and subject himself for cross-examination in to explain the peculiar circumstances in which his wife was murdered within his small house. What is more intriguing is why the intruders would keep their hands off in inflicting injuries on the appellant’s person who as per his own showing tried to save his wife when she was being inflicted injuries by the two intruders. Therefore, we totally reject the so-called explanation given for the first time by the appellant in his examination under Section 313 Cr.P.C. The fact that the deceased’s murder was committed within the four corners of the small house in the appellant’s presence and the fact that the appellant even failed to disclose to the I.O.