[2024] 7 S.C.R. 634 : 2024 INSC 499 Muthyala Sunil Kumar v. Union of India & Ors. (Writ petition (Civil) No. 864 of 2022) 09 July 2024 [Vikram Nath* and Satish Chandra Sharma, JJ.] Issue for Consideration In the instant writ petitions, Petitioners-transporters and tour operators assailed the legality of different State Governments levying and collecting Authorization Fee/B Tax, allegedly, in violation of All India Tourist Vehicles (Permit) Rules, 2023. Petitioners also prayed for refund of the B Tax/Authorization Fee already realized by the State Authorities at the time of their vehicles entering the State. Headnotes† Inter-State transportation – All India Tourist Vehicles (Permit) Rules, 2023 – All-India Tourists Vehicles (Authorisation of Permit) Rules, 2021 – Levy and collection of Authorization Fee/B Tax by State Governments – Petitioners are transporters and tour operators – Complaint that the State of Tamil Nadu and several other States were realizing B Tax/Authorization Fee despite the transporters or the vehicles entering the State having already paid the requisite tax/fee under the Rules, 2023 – Tenability of: Held: The submission advanced by the States is that the demand being raised by them is primarily under the rules framed by the respective State Governments under Entries 56 & 57 of List II of Schedule VII of the Constitution – This Court is not inclined to go into the merits of the matter at this stage, as apparently, the fundamental question to be decided would be whether levy and realization of taxes by the respective States is covered by the Act and Rules framed by the respective States under Entries 56 & 57 of List II of Schedule VII of the Constitution or not – The State enactments, rules and regulations being not under challenge, it cannot be said that the demand of B Tax/Authorization Fee at the bs by the respective State Governments is bad under law – The petitioners, in to succeed, have to consider * Author [2024] 7 S.C.R. 635 Muthyala Sunil Kumar v. Union of India & Ors. challenging the State provision contained in the Act – Also, the petitioners ought to have first approached their jurisdictional High Courts to challenge their respective State enactments – Accordingly, the petitions disposed of, without interference with demands raised by the State Governments while giving liberty to the petitioners to approach the jurisdictional High Courts for their reliefs – It is made clear that this Court neither entered into the merits of the matter nor examined the same. [Paras 7, 9, 10, 11] All India Tourist Vehicles (Permit) Rules, 2023 – Demand of B Tax/Authorization Fee despite the transporters or the vehicles entering the State having already paid the requisite tax/ fee under the Rules, 2023 – Challenge to – Writ petitions before Supreme Court – Prayer for refund of B Tax/Authorization Fee already realized by the State Authorities – Tenability of: Held: In the instant case, the petitions are disposed of, without interference with demands raised by the State Governments while giving liberty to the petitioners to approach the jurisdictional High Courts for their reliefs – The tax already recovered would be subject to the final outcome of the petitions that may be filed before the High Courts.