In paragraph 13, the plaint avers that the plaintiff is challenging the act of the defendant in registering suo moto cases for offences that have occurred within the territory of the plaintiff without any direction from the competent court or prior consent granted by the plaintiff. Then, in paragraph 14, averments are made with regard to the approval to be made by the Central Government, a rule which is required to be followed by the Central Government in extending powers and 716 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports jurisdiction of the CBI. Thereafter, it refers to the of this Court which requires the fulfillment of the three conditions under Sections 3, 5 and 6 of the DSPE Act prior to the CBI exercises powers in any State, which read thus: i) A notification must be issued by the Central Government specifying the offences to be investigated by CBI (Section 3); ii) An must be passed by the Central Government extending power and jurisdiction of CBI to any area (including railway area) in a State not being an Union Territory in respect of offences specified under Section 3 (Section 5); and iii) Consent of the State Government must be obtained for the exercise of power by CBI in the concerned State (Section 6). 47. Thereafter, the plaint refers to the consent granted by the plaintiff under Section 6 of the DSPE Act on 2nd August 1989 vide notification issued by it. Then, it refers to the withdrawal of the said consent on 16th November 2018. 48. Paragraph 21 of the plaint avers regarding the powers of the CBI. It avers that despite withdrawal of the consent given by the plaintiff under Section 6 of the DSPE Act, the CBI has registered cases and has been exercising its powers under the DSPE Act in an unconstitutional manner. The plaint thereafter gives a list of the cases and states that the CBI exercised its powers under the DSPE Act without the requisite consent of the State and as such, not only violated Section 6 of the DSPE Act but also usurped and ousted the State police’s statutory jurisdiction. 49. In paragraph 24 of the plaint, the averments with regard to principles of federalism are reiterated. 50. Paragraph 27 of the plaint states that the present lis involves substantial question of law as to the interpretation of Articles 245 and 246 of the Constitution and various Entries in the Seventh Schedule as well as corresponding provisions of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and the DSPE Act. 51. In paragraph 29 of the plaint, it is averred that, in case the defendant is allowed to operate its own police force within the State of West Bengal in the absence of previous approval of the plaintiff State, the plaintiff will suffer grave constitutional prejudice. It is therefore [2024] 7 S.C.R. 717 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India averred that there exists a dispute involving question of law and fact between the plaintiff and the defendant – Union of India regarding the encroachment of jurisdiction and legal rights.