The rule of law has also been described as “an umbrella concept for a number of legal and institutional instruments to protect citizens against the power of the state”.8 Moreover, “Rule of law is integral to and necessary for democracy and good governance”, because “attempts to democratize without a functional legal system in place have resulted in social dis”.9 3 Tamanaha, Brian Z. “The history and elements of the rule of law.” Singapore Journal of Legal Studies (2012): 232-247. 4 Fallon Jr, Richard H. “The rule of law as a concept in constitutional discourse.” Colum. L. Rev. 97 (1997): 1. 5 Stein, Robert. “Rule of law: what does it mean.” Minn. J. Int’l L. 18 (2009): 293. 6 Raitio, Juha. “The Concept of the Rule of Law - Just a Political Ideal, or a Binding Principle?.” Giornale di Storia Costituzionale, 45, 2023, pp. 37-46. HeinOnline. 7 Bingham, Tom. The Rule of Law, p.60. 8 Bedner, Adriaan. “An elementary approach to the rule of law.” Hague Journal on the rule of law 2.1 (2010): 48-74. 9 Peerenboom, Randall. “Human rights and rule of law: What’s the relationship.” Geo. J. Int’l L. 36 (2004): 809. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 753 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures 19. It can thus be seen that the law must be just and fair, and also protect the human rights and dignity of all members of society. At the same time, the essential purpose of the rule of law is to prevent the abuse of power. The rule of law is an umbrella concept to protect citizens against the power of the State. It is integral to and necessary for democracy and good governance. 20. While we consider this aspect, we are of the view that the concept of rule of law needs to be considered broadly. The legal sanctity of practices in the past such as slavery in the United States, apartheid in South Africa, or untouchability in India would have to be considered as antitheses to the rule of law apart from being a serious affront to human dignity. 21. In this respect, we may refer to the work of various scholars in the field. Thus, “for the rule of law to measure up to the requirements of a legitimate constitutional democracy, it must be more than the rule of law in the narrow sense”.10 In the modern constitutional framework, “the rule of law would seem to need democratic accountability, procedural fairness, and even perhaps substantive grounding”,11 such as in the provisions of the Constitution. In other words, “the rule of law means the regulative role of certain institutions and their associated legal and judicial practices”.12 It has been beautifully observed: “That is the law. And no Spartan, subject or citizen, man or woman, slave or king, is above the law. Where-ever law ends, tyranny begins”.13 22. This Court in the case of Smt. Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Shri Raj Narain,14 has held the rule of law to be part of the basic structure of the Constitution.