Exemption Policies of life-insurance granted by the Director-General of Post Offices in accordance with rules for Postal Life- Insurance issued under the authority of the Central Government [2024] 5 S.C.R. 263 Life Insurance Corporation of India v. The State of Rajasthan and Ors. 24. From reading the above provisions, rules, and the Schedule together, it can be seen that Section 2 of the 1952 Act provides that the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 will apply in the state of Rajasthan subject to certain adaptations. The relevant adaptations for our purpose are that ‘government’ shall refer to state government (as per Section 3(v) of the 1952 Act) and that reference to Schedule I of the central Act shall be construed as reference to the Second Schedule of the 1952 Act (as per Section 3(vi) of the 1952 Act). The Second Schedule of the 1952 Act prescribes the rates of stamp duty on certain instruments. However, since policies of insurance are specified in Entry 91 of List I, only the Parliament has the legislative competence to prescribe the rate of stamp duty to be imposed on them. Consequently, the Second Schedule to the 1952 Act does not contain any entry on rates of duty for policies of insurance, and rightly so. Rather, when we read Entry 47(D) of Schedule I of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 as adapted to the state of Rajasthan, we see that the rate that has been prescribed under the central law has been adopted within the state as well. 25. The power to levy and collect stamp duty is relatable to the legislative competence of the state, followed by clear authority of law through statutory prescription. Having recognised the legislative competence of the state of Rajasthan, the state has the power to collect stamp duty under Section 3 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 as adapted to the state of Rajasthan that provides that an instrument shall be chargeable with the duty of the amount indicated in the Schedule if it is executed within the state of Rajasthan. 26. The mandate of Section 3 is also found in Rule 3 of the Rajasthan Stamp Rules, 1955 that provides for “mode of payment”. Rule 3, read with Rule 2(d), provides that the duty with which any instrument is chargeable shall be paid by means of a stamp issued by the state government. The relevant event flowing from Section 3 and Rule 3 authorising the levy and imposition of stamp duty is the execution of the policy of insurance within the state. The liability to purchase the stamps from the state of Rajasthan is therefore clear and unambiguous. Consequently, for instruments executed within the state, the purchase of stamps from outside the state will equate to evasion of stamp duty and the instrument will not be ‘duly stamped’. 264 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 27. Differentiating VVS Rama Sharma (supra): The learned ASG has placed reliance on the following portions of VVS Rama Sharma (supra) to contend that the state government cannot demand that insurance stamps must only be purchased from it for policies issued within the state: “29.