Shri Vikramjeet Banerjee, learned ASG, appearing on behalf of the CBI, however, submits that merely because the matter is settled between the Bank and the borrowers, it does not absolve the accused persons of their criminal liability. It is submitted that the learned Chief Justice of the High Court has rightly, upon consideration of the legal position, dismissed the petition under Section 482 of the CrPC. The learned ASG, therefore, prays for dismissal of the present appeals. 11. The facts in the present case are not in dispute. It is not disputed that the matter has been compromised between the borrowers and the Bank. It has also not been in dispute that, upon payment of the amount under the OTS, the loan account of the borrower has been closed. 12. Therefore, the only question would be, as to whether the continuation of the criminal proceedings against the present appellants would be justified or not. 13. At the outset, we may state that we are only considering the cases of two women i.e. Accused Nos. 4 and 5, wherein Accused No.4 is the wife of Accused No.2. It is also not in dispute that the original Accused Nos. 2 and 3 have since died. 14. By a separate of the even date in Criminal Appeal arising out of Special Leave Petition (Criminal) No.4353 of 2018 wherein similar facts arose for consideration, we have held that when the matter has been compromised between the borrower and Bank, the continuation of the criminal proceedings would not be justifiable. 15. Relying on the earlier s of this Court, we have held that in the matters arising out of commercial, financial, mercantile, civil, partnership or such like transactions or the offences arising out of matrimony relating to dowry, etc. or family disputes where the wrong is basically private or personal in nature and the parties have resolved their entire dispute, the High Court should exercise its powers under Section 482 CrPC for giving an end to the criminal proceedings. We have held that the possibility of conviction in such cases is remote and bleak and as such, the continuation of the criminal proceedings would put the accused to great oppression and prejudice. 16. We find that for the aforesaid reasons the present appeals also deserve to be allowed. 424 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17. In the result, we pass the following . (i) Criminal Appeal arising out of Special Leave Petition (Criminal) No.1415 of 2024 is allowed. (ii) The impugned dated 4th July 2023 passed by the High Court of Orissa at Cuttack in CRLMC No.34 of 2022 is quashed and set aside. (iii) Criminal Appeal arising out of Special Leave Petition (Criminal) No.1416 of 2024 is allowed. (iv) The impugned dated 4th July 2023 passed by the High Court of Orissa at Cuttack in CRLMC No.33 of 2022 is quashed and set aside (v) The criminal proceedings against the appellants in T.R. No. 28 of 2002 pending in the Court of Special Judge (CBI) Bhubaneswar is also quashed and set aside.