1240 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 17.2 We do not see why the aforesaid decision would not have any persuasive value when the clauses in the agreement between KPCL and KECML for disposing off the coal rejects are identical. On going through the agreements executed between KPCL and Aryan Energy, the High Court had shot down the plea of KPCL that it was entitled to the coal rejects. Though KPCL assailed the said decision before this Court, it settled its dispute with Aryan Energy and the appeals preferred by it were disposed of as compromised. The contention of the respondent-CBI that the of the High Court of Karnataka is not relevant for the present case since there was no criminal case registered therein, cannot be a distinguishing feature when the terms and conditions of the contract between KPCL and Aryan Energy on the aspect of disposal of the coal rejects is pari materia. We are of the opinion that the in the case of Aryan Energy does have persuasive value. 18. INHERENT JURISDICTION OF THE HIGH COURT UNDER SECTION 482, Cr.P.C 18.1. For seeking quashing of the chargesheet and the framing charges, learned counsel for the appellants has cited decisions of this court that lay down the proposition of law relating to quashing of criminal proceedings by a High Court under Section 482, Cr.P.C. In Rajiv Thapar and Others v. Madan Lal Kapoor,89 this court held as under: “29. The issue being examined in the instant case is the jurisdiction of the High Court under Section 482 CrPC, if it chooses to quash the initiation of the prosecution against an accused at the stage of issuing process, or at the stage of committal, or even at the stage of framing of charges. These are all stages before the commencement of the actual trial. The same parameters would naturally be available for later stages as well. The power vested in the High Court under Section 482 CrPC, at the stages referred to hereinabove, would have far- reaching consequences inasmuch as it would negate the prosecution’s/complainant’s case without allowing 89 [2013] 3 SCR 52 : (2013) 3 SCC 330 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1241 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation the prosecution/complainant to lead evidence. Such a determination must always be rendered with caution, care and circumspection. To invoke its inherent jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC the High Court has to be fully satisfied that the material produced by the accused is such that would lead to the conclusion that his/their defence is based on sound, reasonable, and indubitable facts; the material produced is such as would rule out and displace the assertions contained in the charges levelled against the accused; and the material produced is such as would clearly reject and overrule the veracity of the allegations contained in the accusations levelled by the prosecution/complainant. It should be sufficient to rule out, reject and discard the accusations levelled by the prosecution/complainant, without the necessity of recording any evidence.