18. Relying on this Court’s decisions in Govind Saran Ganga Saran (supra) and Mathuram Agarwal (supra), the learned ASG has argued that the rate of taxation is an essential component for a valid imposition of tax. Since the state legislature cannot prescribe the rate of stamp duty on insurance policies, he has argued that there can be no valid imposition of stamp duty on these instruments by way of a state enactment. This argument must be rejected in view of the above conclusion that even if the state legislature cannot prescribe the rate of stamp duty, it can levy such duty at the rate as provided by the Parliament. Both the decisions relied on by the learned ASG pertain to cases where the charging provision was ambiguous in defining an essential component of a valid tax law, i.e., the subject of the tax, the person who is liable to pay the tax, and the rate at which the tax is to be paid28. In the present case, while it is certainly true that the state cannot prescribe the rate of duty on insurance policies, that by itself does not mean that there is ambiguity or lack of clarity regarding the rate of such duty. Rather, the rate of duty is unambiguous, clear, and defined by the Parliament and is adopted by the state to levy and collect stamp duty. Hence, this submission must be rejected. 19. The other submission by the learned ASG that there is no taxation entry in the Concurrent List is based on this Court’s decisions in Kesoram Industries (supra) and State of Karnataka v. State of Meghalaya (supra). The learned ASG has pointed us to relevant portions of these s. However, it must be noted that these s pertain to taxation entries, rather than to entries on stamp duty. While stamp 28 Mathuram Agarwal (supra), para 6 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 259 Life Insurance Corporation of India v. The State of Rajasthan and Ors. duty is certainly in the nature of a tax,29 it has not been specifically considered by this Court in these s. A three-judge bench of this Court in Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh v. State of UP (supra) held that payment of stamp duty pertains to the domain of taxation and the imposition of such duty falls in pith and substance under Entry 44 of List III.30 This came prior to the decisions relied on by the learned ASG but has not been considered by the Court in those cases as they did not pertain to stamp duty. Hence, it is clear that Entry 44 of List III is a taxation entry that falls under the Concurrent List and this submission must also be rejected. We hold that the state legislature has the legislative competence to impose and collect stamp duty on policies of insurance under Entry 44 of List III, as per the rate prescribed by the Parliament under Entry 91 of List I. III. Liability to Pay Stamp Duty Under the 1952 Act: 20.