4 Article 342A. Socially and educationally backward classes.—(1) The President may with respect to any State or Union territory, and where it is a State, after consultation with the Governor thereof, by public notification, specify 6 [the socially and educationally backward classes in the Central List which shall for the purposes of the Central Government] be deemed to be socially and educationally backward classes in relation to that State or Union territory, as the case may be. (2) Parliament may by law include in or exclude from the Central List of socially and educationally backward classes specified in a notification issued under clause (1) any socially and educationally backward class, but save as aforesaid a notification issued under the said clause shall not be varied by any subsequent notification. 5 “Punjab Act” 1346 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The long title stipulates that it is a statute to provide for reservation in services for the members of the Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes and for matters incidental thereto. Section 2(f) defines “Scheduled Castes” as Scheduled Castes notified by the President under Article 341 of the Constitution by the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) 1950, as amended from time to time. Section 4(2) provides that reservation of twenty-five percent shall be made for the members of the Scheduled Castes and twelve percent for Backward Classes while filing up vacancies by direct recruitment in services. Section 4(5) stipulates that fifty percent of the vacancies of the quota reserved for the Scheduled Castes in direct recruitment shall be offered to Balmikis and Mazhabi Sikhs, if available, as a first preference from amongst the Scheduled Castes. 7. Proceedings were instituted under Article 226 of the Constitution for challenging the validity of Section 4(5) of the Punjab Act. By a dated 29 March 2010, the High Court of Punjab and Haryana declared Section 4(5) unconstitutional, relying on the of the Constitution Bench of this Court in EV Chinniah v. State of Andhra Pradesh.6 8. Opposing the State’s appeal against the of the High Court, the respondents relied upon the of the Constitution Bench in Chinnaiah (supra). The State submitted that Chinnaiah (supra) does not apply to the controversy in hand and that the decision is in any event, not consistent with the of the nine-Judge Bench in Indra Sawhney v. Union of India.7 On 20 August 2014, a three-Judge Bench referred the correctness of Chinnaiah (supra) for consideration by a larger Bench. The three-Judge Bench observed that the needs to be revisited, considering Article 338, the of this Court in Indra Sawhney (supra) and the interplay between Article 16 and Articles 338 and 341 of the Constitution. 9. On 9 November 1994, the Government of Haryana issued a notification8 by which the Scheduled Castes in the State were classified into two categories - Blocks A and B - for the purposes of reservation. Block B consisted of Chamars, Jatia Chamars, Rahgars, Raigars, Ramdasias or Ravidasias. Block A consisted of 6 [2004] Supp. 5 SCR 972 : (2005) 1 SCC 394 7 (1992) Supp.