(2) Where an inquiry is directed under clause (b) or clause (c), a final decree in respect of the rent or mesne profits shall be passed in accordance with the result of such inquiry.” It is in the light of the aforesaid provision that the Court of first instance while passing the and dated 12.07.1973 had specifically stated as under: - “An inquiry be held regarding future mesne profits of the said suit lands from the date of the suit, that is 24-9-1963 under 20 Rule 12(a) C.P.C.” Now, such an inquiry is nothing but a continuation of the suit and is in the nature of preparation of the final decree and as such, it cannot be said that any application moved as a reminder for completing the inquiry is barred by limitation or is liable to be dismissed on the ground of delay or laches. Learned counsel for the petitioners has placed reliance upon a recent decision of this Court in M/s. North Eastern Chemicals Industries (P) Ltd. & Anr. Vs. M/s. Ashok Paper Mill (Assam) Ltd. & Anr. passed in 234 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Civil Appeal No. 2669 of 2013 on 11th December, 2023 to contend that where no limitation is provided, steps ought to be taken for initiation of proceedings within a reasonable time and not decades later. In the aforesaid relied upon decision, the Court has clearly stated that in a situation where no limitation stands provided either by specific applicability of the Limitation Act or by the special statute governing the dispute, the Trial Court must undertake a holistic assessment of the facts and circumstances of the case to examine the possibility of delay. When no limitation stands prescribed, it would be inappropriate for a Court to supplement the legislature’s wisdom by its own and provide a limitation. In view of the aforesaid decision also, no limitation as an absolute rule could be provided in such matters and it depends upon the facts and circumstances of each case whether the proceedings have been initiated in a fairly reasonable time. The two Courts below having held that the proceedings are not barred by limitation and that actually the proceedings are not in the nature of a fresh proceedings, rather than a continuation of the old suit in the form of a preparation of the final decree, we cannot find fault with the said decisions. We are not inclined to grant any indulgence in the matter. The present petition is, accordingly, dismissed. The petitioners are set at liberty to participate in the inquiry before the Trial Court in so far as the determination of mesne profits are concerned. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Petition dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan