We have attempted to compose for this purpose a diverse body of persons with experience in healthcare institutions. A National Task Force (NTF) with the following members of the medical profession is constituted: a. Surgeon Vice Admiral Arti Sarin, AVSM, VSM, Director General, Medical Services (Navy); b. Dr D Nageshwar Reddy, Chairman and Managing Director, Asian Institute of Gastroenterology and AIG Hospitals, Hyderabad; c. Dr M Srinivas, Director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi; d. Dr Pratima Murthy, Director, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru; [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1055 In Re: Alleged Rape and Murder Incident of A Trainee Doctor In R.G. Kar Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata and Related Issues Versus e. Dr Goverdhan Dutt Puri, Executive Director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur; f. Dr Saumitra Rawat, Chairperson, Institute of Surgical Gastroenterology, GI and HPB Onco-Surgery and Liver Transplantation and Member, Board of Management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi ; Member, Court of Examiners, Royal College of Surgeons, England; g. Professor Anita Saxena, Vice-Chancellor, Pandit B D Sharma Medical University, Rohtak. Formerly Dean of Academics, Chief- Cardiothoracic Centre and Head Cardiology Department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi; h. Dr Pallavi Saple, Dean, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Group of Hospitals, Mumbai; and i. Dr Padma Srivastava, formerly Professor at the Department of Neurology, AIIMS Delhi. Currently serving as the Chairperson of Neurology at Paras Health Gurugram. 11. The following shall be the ex-officio members of the NTF: a. Cabinet Secretary, Government of India; b. Home Secretary, Government of India; c. Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India; d. Chairperson, National Medical Commission; and e. President, National Board of Examinations. 12. The NTF shall formulate effective recommendations to remedy the issues of concern pertaining to safety, working conditions and well- being of medical professionals and other cognate matters highlighted in the above segments of this . The NTF shall while doing so, consider the following aspects to prepare an action-plan. The action plan may be categorized under two heads (I) Preventing violence, including gender-based violence against medical professionals; and (II) Providing an enforceable national protocol for dignified and safe working conditions for interns, residents, senior residents, doctors, nurses and all medical professionals. 1056 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports I. Prevention of violence against medical professionals and providing safe working conditions a. Ensuring due security in medical establishments: i. Triaging departments and places within the hospital based on the degree of volatility and the possibility of violence. Areas such as the emergency rooms and the Intensive Care Units are prone to a greater degree of violence and may possibly need additional security in place to deal with any untoward incident; ii. A baggage and person screening system at every entrance of the hospital to ensure that arms are not carried inside the medical establishment; iii. Preventing intoxicated persons from entering the premises of the medical establishment, unless they are patients; and iv. Training security personnel employed at Hospitals to manage crowds and grieving persons.