Scheduled Castes.- (1) The President may with respect to any State or Union territory, and where it is a State after consultation with the Governor thereof, by public notification, specify the castes, races or tribes or parts of or group within castes, races or tribes which shall for the purposes of this Constitution be deemed to be Scheduled Castes in relation to that State or Union territory, as the case may be. (2) Parliament may by law include in or exclude from the list of Scheduled Castes specified in a notification issued under clause (1) any caste, race or tribe or part of or group within any caste, race or tribe, but save as aforesaid a notification issued under the said clause shall not be varied by any subsequent notification. 342. Scheduled Tribes. – (1) The President may with respect to any State or Union territory, and where it is a State after consultation with the Governor thereof, by public notification, specify the tribes or tribal communities or parts of or groups within tribes or tribal communities which shall for the purposes of this Constitution be deemed to be Scheduled Tribes in relation to that State or Union territory, as the case may be. (2) Parliament may by law include in or exclude from the list of Scheduled Tribes specified in a notification issued under clause (1) any tribe or tribal community or part of or group within any tribe or tribal community, but save as aforesaid a notification issued under the said clause shall not be varied by any subsequent notification.” 15. Thus, the public notification of ‘tribes or tribal communities’ by the President of India, upon consultation with the Governor, is a sine qua [2024] 2 S.C.R. 379 Chandigarh Housing Board v. Tarsem Lal non for deeming such tribes or tribal communities to be ‘Scheduled Tribes’ in relation to that State or Union Territory for the purposes of the Constitution. 16. With respect to the Union Territory of Chandigarh, we find that the Parliament, vide the Punjab Reorganization Act, 1966 had created the Union Territory of Chandigarh and made provision for amendment of the Scheduled Castes and Schedules Tribes s. Section 27(2) of the said Act provided for amendment of the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) (Union Territories) , 1951, to include, with respect to Chandigarh, 36 castes enlisted in Part V of the Ninth Schedule of the said Act. A similar provision is also made for amendment of the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) (Union Territories) , 1951, as directed in the Eleventh Schedule but the said Schedule does not include any part or entry with respect the Union Territory of Chandigarh. In this context, it is apposite to refer to what the Constitution Bench of this Court, speaking through Chief Justice Gajendragadkar, in Bhaiya Lal v. Harikishan Singh, AIR 1965 SC 1557, held as it expounded on the object of issuance of public notification under Article 341 of the Constitution. “10. … The object of Article 341(1) plainly is to provide additional protection to the members of the Scheduled Castes having regard to the economic and educational backwardness from which they suffer.