IRREGULARITIES OUTSIDE THE TIGER SAFARI a) improvement to Kandi Road over a length of 1.2 KM by way of raising the level of the road and construction of culverts without the approval/ sanction of the competent authority and without any provision in the budget. b) construction of four buildings each with 4 rooms at Forest Rest House (FRH) complex, Pakhrau. c) construction of four buildings, each with 4 rooms at Forest Rest House Complex, Morghatti. d) construction of a water body each near Pakhrau FRH and Morghatti FRH after clearing the tree growth e) construction of four buildings outside the Kugadda Forest CAMP in Palean Range, Kalagarh Forest Division falling with in the Corbett Tiger Reserve. These four buildings had identical building plans similar to those seen in Morghatti and Pakhrau, FRH Complex. f) construction by DFO, Kalagarh of Saneh Forest Rest House falling in Lansdowne Forest Division pursuant to the directions of CCF, Garhwal vide letter dated 15.09.2021. g) laying of underground 11 KV electrical cables between Saneh and Pakhrau. The noted works at (a) to (g) above were being carried out without requisite administrative and financial approvals of the competent authority. The works 260 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports were being executed solely under the s of the DFO, Kalagarh and DFO Kalagarh is not competent to sanction these works. B. IRREGULARITIES IN PAKHRAU TIGER SAFARI a) Illegal felling of estimated 6053 trees at the proposed Tiger Safari construction sites in place of 163 permitted to be cut in the FC clearance granted by MoEF&CC b) Commencement of construction work of Pakhrau Tiger Safari even before getting stage II clearance under FC Act 1980 and final approval of the Layout Plans by the Central Zoo Authority c) Concrete buildings are being constructed instead of using bamboo which has been approved by MoEF&CC. d) Additional civil structures are planned and being built without approval of the revised plan and accordingly the estimate has escalated from Rs.26.81 crores to Rs.102.11 crores” 123. The aforesaid list of irregularities would reveal that a vast number of illegal construction activities have been carried out. Such constructions cannot be completed overnight. Though an action has been taken in respect of certain officers of the Forest Department, we are of the prima facie view that many other persons must have been involved in the commission of the said irregularities. However, since the CBI is conducting the investigation as per the s passed by the High Court, we do not propose to make any comments thereto. 124. It has been categorically stated in the report that CEC was informed about all the civil structures being constructed in respect of works at “A” except one building at Kuggada which has been demolished. It has been stated that one building which has not been demolished has been used by the Forest Staff as their camping place because of lack of alternative accommodation. We are also informed during the hearing that, except for the works executed at the Pakhrau Tiger Safari site, the contractors who executed the works without the approval of competent authorities have not been made any payments and that the contractors have also not made any claims in this regard.