[2024] 7 S.C.R. 287 : 2024 INSC 484 The Excise Commissioner Karnataka & Anr. v. Mysore Sales International Ltd. & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 2168 of 2007) 08 July 2024 [B.V. Nagarathna and Ujjal Bhuyan,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Whether provisions of Section 206C of the Income Tax Act is applicable in respect of the appellant and whether the liquor vendors (contractors) who bought the vending rights from the appellant on auction, can be termed as “buyer” within the meaning of Explanation(a) to Section 206C of the Income Tax Act or excluded from the said definition of “buyer” as per clause (iii) of Explanation (a) to Section 206C of the said Act. Relatable to the above core issue is the question as to, whether, the High Court was justified in rejecting the challenge to the said s made by the appellant. Headnotes† Income Tax Act, 1961 – Explanation(a)(iii) to section 206C – Karnataka Excise Act, 1965 – Karnataka Excise (Arrack Vend Special Conditions of Licenses) Rules, 1967 – Rule 4 – Karnataka Excise (Lease of the Right of Retail Vend of Liquors) Rules, 1969 – Karnataka Excise (Manufacture and Bottling of Arrack) Rules, 1987 – By the dated 17.01.2001, the assessing officer held that the appellant is a “seller” and the liquor vendors are “buyers” in terms of Section 206C of the Income Tax Act and hence the appellant was under a legal obligation to collect income tax at source from the liquor vendors (contractors) – The challenge to the said dated 17.01.2001 was negatived first by the Single Judge and then by the Division Bench of the High Court – Justified or not: Held: Explanation(a)(iii) to section 206C of the Income Tax Act, 1961 visualizes two conditions for a person to be excluded from the meaning of “buyer” as per the definition in Explanation(a) – The first condition is that the goods are not obtained by him by way of auction – The second condition is that the sale price of such goods to be sold by the buyer is fixed under a state enactment – These two * Author 288 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports conditions are joined by the word ‘and’ – The word ‘and’ is conjunctive to mean that both the conditions must be fulfilled; it is not either of the two – Therefore, to be excluded from the ambit of the definition of “buyer” as per Explanation(a)(iii), both the conditions must be satisfied – In the instant case, Mysore Sales is the licensee for the manufacture and bottling of arrack for specified area(s) – By a process of auction or tender or auction-cum-tender etc., excise contractors are shortlisted who are thereafter granted permits to vend arrack by retail in their respective area(s) – These retail vendors i.e. excise contractors have to procure the arrack from the warehouse or depot maintained by Mysore Sales on payment of the issue price fixed by the Excise Commissioner – The arrack is procured in sealed bottles or in sealed polythene sachets – So, there are two transactions, each distinct – The first transaction is shortlisting of excise contractors by a process of auction etc.