The Electricity Act provides for the forum for adjudication of all disputes between a generator and the procurer/licensee. As such, the respondent No.1-MB Power, if had any grievance, ought to have filed an application before the State Commission or the learned APTEL and it could not have approached the High Court directly in its writ jurisdiction. 11. Shri Chidambaram further submitted that though L-1 to L-5 bidders have continuously been litigating their grievances from 2013 onwards, the respondent No.1-MB Power, since it was not short- listed, had taken no steps from 2013 onwards. It is submitted that, as a matter of fact, the bid of L-7 bidder was returned and on 6th January 2015, the Bid Bond bank guarantee was also directed to be not extended. Still, it kept silent for about 6 years. He further submits that even after the and was passed by this Court on 25th April 2018, respondent No.1-MB Power did not take any steps for about two years, and for the first time, on 14th December 2020, it filed a writ petition before the High Court. As such, it is clear that the respondent No.1-MB Power had acquiesced the direction by the appellants dated 6th January 2015 not to renew the Bid Bond bank guarantee. Shri Chidambaram, therefore, submits that the writ petition was liable to be dismissed on the ground of delay and laches itself. 1 [2010] 3 SCR 609 : (2010) 4 SCC 603=2010 INSC 146 [2024] 1 S.C.R. 927 Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. & Ors. v. MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited & Ors. 12. Shri Chidambaram further submits that the term “successful bidder” has been defined in the RFP. It is submitted that the bidder(s) selected by the procurer/authorized representative, pursuant to the RFP for supply of power by itself or through the project company as per the terms of the RFP, and to whom a LoI has been issued, can only be termed as the “successful bidder”. Since no LoI was issued to the respondent No.1-MB Power, it could not be construed as a “successful bidder”. 13. Shri Chidambaram submits that the theory of “filling the bucket”, as put forth by the respondent No.1-MB Power, has no basis either in the RFP or in the Bidding Guidelines. It is further submitted that the said theory is a dangerous proposition inasmuch as, it is expected that the procurer would be obliged to accept the bids of lower ranked financial bids, irrespective of the exorbitant tariff quoted by them. Shri Chidambaram has given an illustration to that effect that, if in a bid to procure 1000 MW, 2 bidders can be put forward as stalking horses who would bid lower tariffs and are ranked as L-1 and L-2. Thereafter, L-3 onwards can quote exorbitant tariffs which are not aligned to market prices. He submits that this specious theory of “filling the bucket”, which would oblige the procurer to go to the last bidder, irrespective of their tariffs being completely exorbitant, is very dangerous.