I have taken, the samples.” “As per the panchnama one sample was given to the accused. I have taken 3 samples and out of them I have given one sample to both the accused and two samples I handed over in police station.” (d) PW-4 “PW1 seized 3 ganja bundles weighing around 80 kgs and collected samples of 50 grams from the bundles.” (e) PW-5 “Originally three bundles of ganja was seized from the accused and as the Ganja was becoming dry and turning into dust, and due to the holes of the bags it is coming out, and therefore we transferred the Ganja into 7 new bags, which was already marked as M.O.1.” “Three samples of Ganja have been taken by LW 10 and handed over the samples to me. We have forwarded the three samples to FSL through A.C.P., and submitted FSL report Ex. P.11.” [2024] 3 S.C.R. 33 Mohammed Khalid and Another v. The State of Telangana “The samples were taken on 8.5.2009 and they were forwarded to FSL on 7.7.2009 i.e. after two months of taking of samples. The samples were not deposited in the court.” “I did not file any document to show that where the property was kept in Maalkhana. I did not produce any Maalkhana register in this case. The property was sent to FSL after two months of its seizure. The FSL report, does not disclose about the panch chits and seals and quantity of samples. The property deposited in court is not having any official seals.” “I did not report to the court till today that the ganja was getting dried up and becoming dust, I converted them from three bundles to 7 bags for safe custody.” 19. A perusal of the evidence of the Seizure Officer (Inspector PW-1) and the confession-cum-seizure panchnama (Exhibit P-3) would reveal that the prosecution claims to have recovered the contraband from three bags wherein the ganja as well as green chillies were present. Seizure Officer(Inspector PW-1) made no effort whatsoever to conduct a separate weighment of the contraband by segregating the chillies. Rather, the panchnama is totally silent about presence of chillies with the bundles of ganja. Thus, it cannot be said with any degree of certainty that the recovered ganja actually weighed 80 kgs. Seizure Officer(Inspector PW-1) also stated that he collected three samples of ganja at the spot and handed over one sample to accused. If this was true, apparently only two sample packets remained for being sent to the FSL. Contrary to the evidence of PW-1, PW-5 stated that three samples of ganja were taken by LW-10 who handed the same over to him. Thereafter, these samples were forwarded to the FSL through the ACP and a FSL report (Exhibit P-11) was received. When PW-5 appeared for deposition, he produced the muddamal ganja in the Court and it was seen that the same was packed in seven new bags as against the three bags referred to in the seizure memo (Exhibit P-3).