On its terms, section 114 of the CPC read with XLVII thereof does not conceive of a suo motu power of review being exercised by the court. The words “court on its own motion” are absent in the statutory provision. However, once the court is satisfied that a mistake committed by it needs to be rectified, it is always open to exercise the inherent powers to achieve the desired result. As has been held by the Constitution Bench in A.R. Antulay v. R.S. Nayak,45 an of court – be it judicial or administrative – which is made per incuriam or in violation of certain Constitutional limitations or in derogation of principles of natural justice can always be remedied by the court ex debito justitiae. It can do so in exercise of its inherent jurisdiction in any proceeding pending before it without insisting on the formalities of a review application. After all, “to err is human” is the oft-quoted saying and courts including the apex court are no exception. To own up the mistake when judicial satisfaction is reached does not 45 [1988] Supp. 1 SCR 1 : (1988) 2 SCC 602 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 997 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others militate against its status or authority; perhaps, it would enhance both. On the other hand, when it involves invocation of the power of review and such power is traceable in a statute, which also has provisions regulating the exercise of the review power, it has to be held that the power of review is not an inherent power. That power of review is not an inherent power has been held in Patel Narshi Thakershi v. Pradyumansinghji Arjunsinghji.46 If a power of review is statutorily conferred, it would be inappropriate, nay incompetent, for the court exercising review power to travel beyond the contours of the provision conferring the very power. A statutorily conferred power to review is not to be confused with the inherent power of the court to recall any . The said power inheres in every court to prevent miscarriage of justice or when a fraud has been committed on court or to correct grave and palpable errors. 95. In any event, in the present case, we have not found exercise of inherent power under section 151, CPC or under Article 142 by the Hon’ble presiding Judge of the said Division Bench. 96. It was urged that a court may recall or review any exercising its inherent power saved by section 151, CPC to meet the ends of justice or to prevent abuse of the process of the Court. This argument, however, need not detain us for long in the light of the law, which stands well-settled by this Court. It is no longer res integra that inherent powers of the court under section 151, CPC cannot be invoked if there exists a remedy made available by the CPC itself. 97. A three-Judge Bench of this Court in Padam Sen v. State of Uttar Pradesh 47 laid down the law in the following words: “8.