Thus, the Tribunal was justified in giving its award on the reference made by the central government. This answers the objection raised by the appellant about the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. 18. We are also conscious of the fact that the jurisdiction that we exercise is under Article 136 of the Constitution. The findings of fact arrived at by the Tribunal are unassailable. We are also of the opinion that the High Court has correctly rejected the writ petition filed against the award. Apart from the concurrent findings of fact, we see no substantial question of law in these appeals. 19. Even otherwise, the present case is not one where this court would exercise its discretion. What appeals to us is that the 32 workers who entered the service of the appellant in 1984, continued uninterruptedly till 1994, when the respondent-union sought their permanence. In the settlement arrived in 1997, the stand of the appellant with respect to the 13 workers is as follows: [2024] 3 S.C.R. 635 Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd. v. Brajrajnagar Coal Mines Workers’ Union “In respect of other persons, it was contended that they are engaged in purely casual nature of jobs which are not prohibited under Contract Labour (R&A) Act, 1970 and accordingly, they are not eligible for regularisation.” 20. It is proved that the remaining workers stand on the same footing as the regularized employees, and they were wrongly not made part of the settlement. This is established by the Tribunal, by examining the nature of work undertaken by the first set of 19 workmen and that of the other 13 workmen. It also examined Shri Arun Ch. Hota (WW3), the Deputy General Manager (MW2), Mr. Udayshankar Gonelal, the Personal Manager (MW3) and Shri S. Agarwal, the Project Officer (MW4). The Tribunal finally came to the conclusion that the nature of the duties performed by the 13 workmen are perennial in nature. The appellant has failed to establish any distinction between the two sets of workers. The Tribunal was, therefore, justified in answering the reference and returning the finding that they hold the same status as the regularized employees. 21. We are also not impressed with the artificial distinction which the appellant sought to bring about between the 19 workers who were regularized and the 13 workers who were left out. The evidence on record discloses that, of the total 32 workmen, 19 workers worked in the bunker, 6 worked in the Coal Handling Plant, and 7 worked on the railway siding. However, of the 19 workers who were regularized, 16 worked in the bunker, and 3 worked in the Coal Handling Plant. However, 3 workers from the same bunker, 3 workers from the same Coal Handling Plant and again 7 workers from the same railway siding were not regularized. A tabulated representation of the above description is as follows: Site of work No. of No. of No. of workers who workers workers not executed who were regularized works regularized Bunker 19 16 3 Coal Handling Plant 6 3 3 Railway Siding 7 - 7 Total: 32 19 13 636 [2024] 3 S.C.R.