7. Having considered the relevant provisions of the law and the submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the appellant, we find that the conversion of the debt into additional shares had taken place with the agreement of the appellant company and RARE, and it is on the basis of such an agreement between the parties that a resolution was passed on 02.05.2018 by the Board of Directors of the appellant company accepting the proposal to convert the debt into shares and to allot them in favor of RARE, thus, resulting in increase of the equity capital of the appellant company. Even the application for listing of the aforesaid additional shares was made by the appellant company to the BSE meaning thereby that the proposal for increasing the subscribed capital of the company by converting part of the debt into equity shares, as aforesaid, was initiated by the appellant company itself and not actually by RARE. Therefore, the proposal was that of the company only. Accordingly, as contemplated by Section 62(1)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013, the approval of the shareholders would be mandatory before the shares are accepted for listing on the BSE. 8. Insofar as the other ground for rejection of the application is concerned, that is to say, for want of approval of the BSE, the Securities Appellate Tribunal has returned a clear finding that the approval of the BSE is necessary in view of Regulation 28 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and we do not have different opinion on it rather we accept the said finding which is not perverse in any manner. 9. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, we are of the opinion that no error or illegality has been committed either by the BSE or the Securities Appellate Tribunal in refusing to accept the request of the appellant company for the listing of the shares at the Stock Exchange inasmuch as Section 62 of the Companies [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1121 Jyoti Limited v. BSE Limited & Anr Act stands duly attracted and in the light of sub-clause (c) of sub- section (1) of Section 62 of the Companies Act, special resolution of the shareholders is necessary which is lacking in the instant case. 10. The aforesaid has been passed by us in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case where the appellant company itself has passed the resolution and applied for the listing of shares and as such is deemed to be the proposer for increasing the share capital. 11. Accordingly, this statutory appeal under Section 22 F of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 is devoid of merit and is dismissed. 12. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the case: Appeal dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Divya Pandey