Digital Supreme Court Reports PW-9 (i.e., the first investigating officer) and were later identified by PW-10 (i.e., the second investigating officer). 33. Exb. Ka-21 is the site plan prepared by the investigating officer (PW-10) on 9.2.1997 showing the place from where that seizure was made. A perusal thereof would reveal that the place from where recovery of stone, etc. was shown was an open pathway. 34. Exb. Ka-6 reveals that after arrest while the two accused were being brought to the police station, in the presence of Jeevan Upreti (PW-8) and Mahesh Upreti, they pointed out the place where the deceased was assaulted by them with the help of a stone and thereafter dragged to a field at Madhkhetla where he was again assaulted and killed. Exb. Ka-6, however, does not record that any of the accused had specifically pointed out a particular stone or spot. Rather, it records that on way to the police station the accused had showed the place of assault, therefore the police stopped the vehicle to look for clues, and then the stone, etc. mentioned therein were collected. 35. Importantly, PW-9 who investigated the case on 3.2.1997 (i.e., the first investigating officer) produced these stones, etc. (i.e., one big stone, three small stones, wooden plank, blood-stained and plain earth) as material exhibits 1 to 5 respectively. During cross-examination, PW-9 admitted that the large stone produced as material exhibit no.1 bore no blood stain. PW-9 also stated, during cross-examination, that in the night of 2.2.1997 it had rained, and that rain shower converted into a drizzle on 3.2.1997. He went on to state that the entire land terrain from Lohaghat to Madhkhetla had turned slippery due to rain. Notably, the seizure memorandum (Exb. Ka-6) records that blood on the stone appeared to have been washed away due to rain. In these circumstances there was no chance of blood being found on the stone etc., which was lying in open, on 6.2.1997 (i.e., 4 days after the incident). The forensic report Exb. Ka-22 seems to confirm that there was no blood found on the stone. In fact, as per forensic report (Exb. Ka-22), three items were received by the laboratory for chemical examination, namely, (1) stone/ blood-stained/ plain earth, (2) cement plaster (blood-stained) and plain earth and (3) blood- stained earth and plain earth. However, the chemical examination report clearly discloses that in respect of items (1) and (2) above no blood was found. Though human blood was found on item (3), it is [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1253 Suresh Chandra Tiwari & Anr. v. State of Uttarakhand not clear from the oral testimony of the witnesses as to from where item (3) was lifted. However, from the seizure memorandum (Exb. Ka-4) it appears that item (3) was lifted on 3.2.1997 from that spot where body of the deceased was found in the morning of 3.2.1997. In these circumstances, we are of the view that even if we accept the recovery of stone(s) at the instance of the accused-appellants on 6.2.1997, the same is inconsequential because it could not be connected to the crime.