He thus implored the Court to dismiss the appeal and affirm the passed by the High Court of Delhi. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 681 Prabir Purkayastha v. State (NCT of Delhi) Rejoinder on behalf of learned counsel for the appellant: - 11. Shri Sibal, learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that the argument advanced by learned ASG that the provisions contained in Section 19 of the PMLA and Section 43A and 43B of the UAPA operate in different spheres, is misconceived. He urged that language of both the provisions is pari materia and hence, the law laid down in Pankaj Bansal (supra) fully covers the controversy at hand. 12. Shri Sibal emphasised that on a plain viewing of the dated 4th October, 2023, it is clear that the lines indicating the sending of the copy of the remand application to the learned counsel for the appellant and the opportunity of hearing provided to the Advocate through telephone call have been subsequently inserted in the . He thus urged that the plea advanced by Shri Raju, learned ASG that there is a presumption regarding the correctness of judicial proceedings cannot be accepted as a gospel truth in the peculiar facts of the case at hand. He contended that applying the same principle to the remand dated 4th October, 2023 is counter productive to the stand taken by learned ASG inasmuch as, the records the time of passing as 6:00 a.m. whereas the Advocate was admittedly informed after 7:00 a.m. Thus, there was no possibility of the remand application being sent to the Advocate or he being heard before passing of the remand . He, thus, reiterated his submissions and sought acceptance of the appeal. Discussion and conclusion: - 13. We have given our thoughtful considerations to the submissions advanced at bar and have gone through the material placed on record. 14. Since, learned ASG has advanced a fervent contention regarding application of ratio of Pankaj Bansal (supra) urging that there is an inherent difference between the provisions contained in Section 19 of the PMLA and Section 43A and 43B of the UAPA, it would first be apposite for us to address the said submission. 15. In the case of Pankaj Bansal (supra), this Court after an elaborate consideration of the provisions contained in PMLA, CrPC and the constitutional mandate as provided under Article 22 held as below: - “32. In this regard, we may note that Article 22(1) of the Constitution provides, inter alia, that no person who is arrested shall be detained in custody without 682 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports being informed, as soon as may be, of the grounds for such arrest. This being the fundamental right guaranteed to the arrested person, the mode of conveying information of the grounds of arrest must necessarily be meaningful so as to serve the intended purpose. It may be noted that Section 45 of the Act of 2002 enables the person arrested under Section 19 thereof to seek release on bail but it postulates that unless the twin conditions prescribed thereunder are satisfied, such a person would not be entitled to grant of bail.