The s of this Hon’ble Court have settled the law with regard to the effect of the application of Article 29 and 30, specifically the larger bench in case T.M.A. Pai Foundation v. State of Karnataka, (2002) 8 SCC 481, which is the locus classicus on the subject, rendered by a bench of eleven Hon’ble Judges. A co-ordinate bench of seven judges has thereafter distilled the position of law in P.A. Inamdar v. State of Maharashtra, (2005) 6 SCC 537. The said s are a guiding light on the subject and assist the Court in course of the present . 4. While the said s amongst others, have cleared the air on the broader interpretation of Article 29 and 30, the question which concerns the present bench is of an atypical nuance, which requires further elaboration and jurisprudential extraction. Considering the unique position that the Aligarh Muslim University [hereinafter referred to as “the AMU”] has in the history, the constitutional text and the facts surrounding the birthing of the University itself, this Court was required to interrogate certain aspects of Article 29 and specifically Article 30, which have not necessarily arisen before this Court in any previous case. The specific occasion on which issues of the like arose was in the case concerning the AMU itself in S. Azeez Basha v. Union of India, (1968) 1 SCR 833 (hereinafter referred to as “Azeez Basha”), the correctness of which is a subject matter of intense and rigorous debate before this Court in the present proceedings. 5. Article 29 and 30, forming a part of the fundamental rights chapter of the Constitution, represent an important constitutional guarantee 1 Article 29. Protection of interests of minorities— (1) Any section of the citizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script or culture of its own shall have the right to conserve the same. (2) No citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the State or receiving aid out of State funds on grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any of them. 2 Article 30. Right of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions.— (1) All minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice. (1A) In making any law providing for the compulsory acquisition of any property of an educational institution established and administered by a minority, referred to in clause (1), the State shall ensure that the amount fixed by or determined under such law for the acquisition of such property is such as would not restrict or abrogate the right guaranteed under that clause. (2) The State shall not, in granting aid to educational institutions, discriminate against any educational institution on the ground that it is under the management of a minority, whether based on religion or language. 1922 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports available to the citizens of the country. It is a guarantee that embeds cultural diversity, secularism and fairness on the canvas of the Constitution.