He further submitted that the High Court was perfectly justified in affirming the decision of the Tribunal and implored the Court to dismiss the instant appeal filed by appellant-Corporation. 15. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced on behalf of the appellant and the respondent appearing- 1180 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in-person and have gone through the impugned s and so also the contentious Resolution dated 29th April, 2009. Discussion and Conclusions:- 16. We find that firstly, there is a serious question mark on ex post facto approval by the Board to the show cause notice dated 15th April, 2009 issued by the CMD to the charged officer. It is a settled principle of administrative law that the Disciplinary Authority must indicate an independent application of mind to the findings in the enquiry report followed by opportunity of hearing to the charged officer and only thereafter, the imposing a major penalty can be passed against the charged officer. Law is also well settled that the Disciplinary Authority must afford an opportunity of hearing to the charged officer before proceeding to impose the major penalty like dismissal from service. Neither of these two mandatory compliances were admittedly made by the Board. 17. Furthermore, the agenda item which was circulated by the CMD for consideration of the Board (reproduced supra) clearly indicates that the Board was to take a decision in the matter while considering the facts of the case and the reply submitted by the charged officer in response to the show cause notice dated 15th April, 2009. However, other than giving a blind approval to the show cause notice and the agenda item albeit referring to the reply of the charged officer, the Board’s Resolution dated 29th April, 2009 does not reflect any independent or objective application of mind by the members of the Board to the enquiry report either individually or collectively. In this regard, reference may be made to the rendered by this Court in the case of A.L. Kalra v. Project & Equipment Corporation of India Ltd.1 the relevant paragraph thereof is reproduced hereinbelow for the sake of ready reference:- “29. The situation is further compounded by the fact that the disciplinary authority which is none other than Committee of Management of the Corporation while accepting the report of the inquiry officer which itself was defective did not assign any reasons for accepting the report of the inquiry officer. After reproducing the findings 1 [1984] 3 SCR 646 : (1984) 3 SCC 316 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1181 Delhi Transport Corporation v. Ashok Kumar Sharma of the inquiry officer, it is stated that the Committee of Management agrees with the same. It is even difficult to make out how the Committee of Management agreed with the observations of the inquiry officer because at one stage while recapitulating the evidence the inquiry officer unmistakably observed that appellant was subjected to double punishment and at other place, it was observed that granting extension of time and acceptance of documents and balance advance would tantamount to extending the time which would make the affair look wholly innocuous.