(2) The conditions subject to which sub-section (1) shall not apply to a person receiving instructions in driving a motor vehicle shall be such as may be prescribed by the Central Government.” [emphasis supplied] 39. To deal with the above submission, let us take the hypothetical example of Sri - who let us say is desirous of driving an auto in the year 1990. The following option(s) of classes of vehicles would be available to Sri, as per unamended Section 10: (a) motor cycle without gear; (b) motor cycle with gear; (c) invalid carriage; (d) light motor vehicle; (e) medium goods vehicle (f) medium passenger vehicle; (g) heavy goods vehicle; (h) heavy passenger vehicle. 40. The applicant Sri would be required to fill the Form 4, prescribed under Rule 14 of MV Rules which was prevalent before 28.3.2001. The Form 4 is extracted below:- 584 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “FORM 4 [See Rule 14] Form of application for licence to drive a motor vehicle To, The licensing authority, …………………………………. [Passport size photograph] I apply for a licence to enable me to drive vehicles of the following description— (a) Motorcycle without gear (b) Motorcycle with gear (c) Invalid carriage (d) Light motor vehicle (e) Medium goods vehicle (f) Medium passenger motor vehicle (g) Heavy goods vehicle (h) Heavy passenger motor vehicle (i) Roadroller (j) Motor vehicle of the following description: *** Certificate of test of competence to drive The applicant has passed the test prescribed under Rule 15 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989. The test was conducted on (here enter the registration mark and description of the vehicle) ……………………… on (date)………. The applicant has failed in the test. (The details of deficiency to be listed out) Date:………… Signature of Testing Authority ………………. Full name and designation Two specimen signatures of applicant: Strike out whichever is inapplicable.” [2024] 11 S.C.R. 585 M/s Bajaj Alliance General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Rambha Devi & Ors. 41. Form 4 above indicates that there is no mention of ‘Transport Vehicle’ for the purpose of obtaining a driving license. Moreover, there is no mention of a ‘light goods vehicle’ or a ‘light passenger vehicle’. Therefore, if Sri applies for a ‘Light Motor Vehicle’ license, which already means a ‘Transport Vehicle’ as per the definition of LMV contained in 2(21), can it be said that Sri cannot drive a ‘Transport Vehicle’ because ‘his driving license specifically’ does not ‘entitle him so to do’ as provided in the second part of Section 3? We think not. The specific authorization should not be understood to mean that Sri holding an LMV license which covers ‘Transport vehicle’, would be disentitled to drive a ‘Transport Vehicle’. A question would then arise about the purpose of explicitly mentioning ‘Transport Vehicle’ in Section 3 (and other provisions as we will discuss later)? We may notice that there is no mention of the term ‘light goods vehicle’ or a ‘light passenger vehicle’ in Section 10 or in the definition section.