The committee was tasked with enquiring into the difficulties or defects in the 1919 Act and exploring remedies for securing them. The Reforms Committee of 1924 made reference to the privileges of Indian legislative bodies and opined that: “…at present such action would be premature. At the same time we feel that the legislatures and the members thereof have not been given by the Government of India Act all the protection that they need. Under the statute there is 34 SK Nag, Evolution of Parliamentary Privileges in India till 1947, Sterling Publication, (1978), 322 506 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports freedom of speech in all the legislatures and immunity from the jurisdiction of the Courts in respect of speeches or votes. Under the rules the Presidents have been given considerable powers for the maintenance of , but there the matter ends.”35 56. Interestingly, the committee suggested that certain additional privileges be granted to Indian Legislatures. The committee further recommended introducing a penal provision for influencing votes within the legislature through inter alia bribery. The report stated: “We are given to understand that there are at present no means, of dealing with the corrupt influence of votes within the legislature. We are unanimously of opinion that the influencing of votes of members by bribery, intimidation and the like should be legislated against. Here again we do not recommend that the matter should be dealt with as a breach of privilege. We advocate that these offences should be made penal under the ordinary law.” 57. The government introduced a Legislative Bodies Corrupt Practices Bill which proposed to penalise (i) the offering of bribe to a member of a legislature in connection with his functions; and (ii) the receipt on demand by a member of the legislature of a bribe in connection with his functions.36 The Bill ultimately lapsed and was not reintroduced. 58. The provisions of the 1919 Act were substantially retained in Section 28(1) of the Government of India Act 1935. Section 28(1) read thus: “(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules and standing s regulating the procedure of the Federal Legislature, there shall be freedom of speech in the Legislature, and no member of the Legislature shall be liable to any proceedings in any court in respect of anything said or any vote given by him in the Legislature or any committee thereof, and no person shall be so liable in respect of the publication by or under the authority of either Chamber of the Legislature of any report, paper, votes or proceedings.” 35 Report of the Reforms Enquiry Committee (1924), 75 36 SK Nag, Evolution of Parliamentary Privileges in India till 1947, Sterling Publication, (1978), 213-214 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 507 Sita Soren v. Union of India A corresponding provision was made in Section 71(1) of the 1935 Act with respect to Provincial Legislatures. The House was empowered to make rules for the conduct of proceedings. However, they were always to give way to the rules framed by the Governor-General for the House.