Reference may be made to Kanai Lal Sur vs. Paramnidhi Sadhukhan2, wherein this Court observed that the words used in a statute must be interpreted in their plain grammatical meaning and it is only when they are capable of two constructions that the question of giving effect to the policy or object of the legislation can legitimately arise. 18. Further, reading down the meaning of the definition would have unintended consequences, fully divorced from the unambiguous words used therein, whereby ‘Reviewing Authority’ is defined to mean that such an authority must be one who supervises the performance of the ‘Reporting Authority’ in all respects and not in relation to one function alone. 19. Pertinently, there is no discernible conflict or contradiction between the definitions of ‘Reporting Authority’ and ‘Reviewing Authority’ in the 1970 Rules, post 1987, and in the 2007 Rules. The clear import of these definitions is that such authorities must be from within the same service or department. Invocation of the doctrine of harmonious construction vis-à-vis these definitions, therefore, does not arise. Given the clear intent of the 1970 Rules/2007 Rules that the reporting, reviewing and accepting authorities should be from within the same service or department, the question is whether breach of such requirement can be permitted in the State of Assam under Rule 63(iii) of the Manual. 20. In this milieu, Section 14(2) of the Act of 2007 assumes relevance. Section 14(1) of the Act of 2007 states that administration of the police within the local jurisdiction of the Deputy Commissioner is vested in the SP, under the general control and direction of such Deputy Commissioner, but Section 14(2) makes it clear that the Deputy Commissioner has no authority to interfere with the internal organization and discipline of the police force. This sub-section further states that it would be within the power and duty of the Deputy Commissioner to bring to the notice of the SP all such cases in which the conduct of and/or qualification of a police officer 2 AIR 1957 SC 907 484 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports affects the general administration within the district and no more. On a plain reading, Section 14(1) and Section 14(2) of the Act of 2007 appear to be in derogation of each other, inasmuch as Section 14(1) vests the Deputy Commissioner with control over the SP but Section 14(2) makes it clear that such control would not extend to the Deputy Commissioner interfering with the internal organization or discipline within the police force in the district. These provisions must be harmoniously construed by restricting the power vesting in the Deputy Commissioner under Section 14(1), by duly carving out what has been excepted under Section 14(2). Such harmonious construction would be necessary to give effect to both provisions, so that they operate without conflict and a head-on collision (See S. Gopal Reddy vs. State of A.P.3 and Sultana Begum vs. Prem Chand Jain4). 21. We may note that even as per the Manual, a SP is not made subservient to a Deputy Commissioner.