It was contended that they would ordinarily have had to undergo a further period of six years of imprisonment. That non-consideration of this fact further proves the non-application of mind and a mechanical exercise of power by the State of Gujarat and Union of India in granting remission. 16.7. Learned counsel went on to submit that in Writ Petition (Crl.) No.135 of 2022 filed by respondent No.3, there was no mention of material particulars, such as, the name of the petitioner-victim and the nature of the crimes in question, i.e., gang rape and mass murder in the petition. Also the fact that his application for grant of remission before the State of Maharashtra had been negatively opined by all the concerned authorities. That respondent No.3 did not place on record the judgements and s of the Trial Court, High Court, and this Court that had upheld his conviction. That he made “incorrect and misleading” statements with reference to the s of the Bombay High Court dated 05.08.2013 and Gujarat High Court dated 17.07.2019, namely, that the two courts had given differing opinions, and this fact played a role in this Court’s decision- making while passing the dated 13.05.2022. Respondent No.3 made it seem like both High Courts were sending him to the other State and that there was a contradiction. However, the aforesaid of the Bombay High Court was dealing with the transfer of convicts to another jail in their parent State and did not discuss the issue of remission, which could not have arisen in the year 2013. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 815 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others 16.8. It was reiterated that the investigating agency of the State of Gujarat had filed a closure report stating that the accused persons were not traceable. That the FIR contained erroneous recording of facts merely to hinder the investigative process. That the case was transferred by this Court to the State of Maharashtra as a consequence of the tainted nature of investigation. That the only reason the petitioner could get justice was because the investigation was conducted by the CBI. That this demonstrates the highly biased and partisan treatment of the petitioner by the State of Gujarat. That the State has been granting parole and furlough to the respondents in a liberal manner once they were transferred to the Godhra Jail. That in light of the highly diabolical and gruesome nature of the crimes, the treatment awarded to the respondents by the State indicates favouritism and leniency. 16.9. Learned counsel reiterated that the nature of the crimes committed by the respondent Nos.3 to 13 were unusual and egregious. That these crimes were very shocking to the society as a whole and the treatment of the respondents upon being granted remission invoked a common sense of pain in the nation. That in fact the Bombay High Court had described the brutal treatment of the victims by the respondent Nos.3 to 13, which was reflected in the condition of the dead bodies.