Therefore, the merit of the candidates was to be assessed on the cumulative score of 50. These aforesaid criteria, however, were not specified in any rules or instructions. In fact, the said criteria came to be adopted only when the interviews were to be held. 16. It must be noted that despite the fact that records were called for by the Single Judge, the PSEB was unable to produce any material to show that the criteria for selection had been decided upon, prior to the onset of the entire selection process. Therefore, the learned Single Judge concluded, on the basis of file notings that were produced before him, that the selection criteria had been fixed only on the date when interviews were to commence, i.e., after the result of the written test had already been declared. 17. In fact, it is also equally important to note that no deliberations in the form of minutes of the meeting by the Selection Committee have been made available either, to prove that the PSEB fixed a criterion of selection before the entire process had commenced. On the contrary, it is apparent that the criteria decided upon i.e., a benchmark eligibility cut-off of 33%, to call candidates for the interview stage was made after the entire process had begun, tailor-made and did not have any nexus with the object sought to be achieved i.e., shortlisting candidates on the basis of merit either. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 105 Sukhmander Singh and Ors Etc. v. The State of Punjab and Ors Etc. 18. We must bear in mind that the marks secured by candidates in the written test were not considered or given any weightage for such selection either. Additionally, in a recruitment process where there are only 31 posts up for grabs, subjecting an excessively large number of candidates (in this case, 63 times the number of vacancies) to the interview stage, would inevitably lead to a situation where even those candidates, who may have performed very poorly in the written test, are granted an unfair shot at appointment and many more qualified candidates are potentially overlooked. 19. In such a scenario, therefore, limiting the number of candidates for the viva voce segment becomes essential for several reasons. Firstly, it enhances the efficiency of the selection process by providing for a more thorough and fair evaluation of each candidate. Secondly, by restricting the number of candidates, the process becomes more transparent and less susceptible to allegations of favouritism or bias. Consequently, it ensures that the only the most qualified candidates, based on an objective criterion, proceed to the stage of an interview, helping maintain the integrity of the process, upholding principles of meritocracy and reducing chances of oversight. 20. In light of these considerations, the impugned (dated 20.07.2016) can be sustained only to the limited extent of eliminating marks awarded for the rural area criteria. Therefore, we are of the view that the direction given by the learned Single Judge to commence the selection from the stage of written test, deserves our approval.