It is not disputed that the matter has been compromised between the borrowers and the Bank. It is also not in dispute that, upon payment of the amount under the OTS, the loan account of the borrower has been closed. 12. Therefore, the only question would be, as to whether the continuation of the criminal proceedings against the present appellants would be justified or not. 13. At the outset, we may state that we are only considering the cases only of two women i.e. Accused Nos. 3 and 4, who are wives of original Accused Nos. 2 and 1 respectively. 14. A perusal of the chargesheet would reveal that the specific role is attributed to Accused No.1-K. Suresh Kumar. The allegations against the present appellants are that they were involved in criminal conspiracy with Accused No.1. 15. We may gainfully refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Duncans Agro Industries Ltd., Calcutta (supra): “26. After giving our careful consideration to the facts and circumstances of the case and the submissions made by the respective counsel for the parties, it appears to us that for the purpose of quashing the complaint, it is necessary to consider whether the allegations in the complaint prima facie make out an offence or not. It is not necessary to scrutinise the allegations for the purpose of deciding whether such allegations are likely to be upheld in the trial. Any action by way of quashing the complaint is an action to be taken at the threshold before evidences are led in support of the complaint. For quashing the complaint by way of action at the threshold, it is, therefore, necessary to consider whether on the face of the allegations, a criminal offence is constituted or not. In recent decisions of this Court, in the case of Bhajan Lal [1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 1992 SCC (Cri) 426], P.P. Sharma [1992 Supp (1) SCC 222 : 1992 SCC (Cri) 192] and Janata Dal [(1992) 4 SCC 305 : 1993 SCC (Cri) 36], since relied on by Mr [2024] 10 S.C.R. 657 K. Bharthi Devi and Anr. v. State of Telangana and Anr. Tulsi, the guiding principles in quashing a criminal case have been indicated. 27. ……………………………………………... 28. ……………………………………………... 29. In the facts of the case, it appears to us that there is enough justification for the High Court to hold that the case was basically a matter of civil dispute. The Banks had already filed suits for recovery of the dues of the Banks on account of credit facility and the said suits have been compromised on receiving the payments from the companies concerned. Even if an offence of cheating is prima facie constituted, such offence is a compoundable offence and compromise decrees passed in the suits instituted by the Banks, for all intents and purposes, amount to compounding of the offence of cheating. It is also to be noted that a long time has elapsed since the complaint was filed in 1987.