12.6 The acquisition could be for the purpose of the State utilizing the said land or other immovable property for public purpose in to subserve the common good or the acquired land could be allotted to deserving and eligible persons in the form of house-sites or houses being constructed by the State. This is an instance of private resources (land or other immovable property) becoming a property of the community and then being distributed to subserve the common good. However, acquisition of land has to be in terms of the rigour that is prescribed under the provisions of the LA Act, 1894 (now repealed) or in accordance with the 2013 Act, which is in force, such as the time frames which have been prescribed for the issuance of preliminary and final notifications (declaration) under Sections 4 226 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and 6 of the 1894 Act and hearing of objections under Section 5A of the said Act; holding an enquiry and passing of an award in terms of Sections 11 and 11A and taking of possession after making of the award, in which case the land shall vest absolutely in the Government free from all encumbrances; the computation of the payment of compensation and the payment of interest etc. to the land losers. Under the LA Act, 1894, there could not be acquisition of any land unless it was for a public purpose. Section 3(f) defined a “public purpose” as under: “Section 3. In this Act, unless there is something repugnant in the subject or context, x xx (f) the expression public purpose includes- (i) the provision of village-sites, or the extension, planned development or improvement of existing village-sites; (ii) the provision of land for town or rural planning; (iii) the provision of land for planned development of land from public funds in pursuance of any scheme or policy of Government and subsequent disposal thereof in whole or in part by lease, assignment or outright sale with the object of securing further development as planned; (iv) the provision of land for a corporation owned or controlled by the State; (v) the provision of land for residential purposes to the poor or landless or to persons residing in areas affected by natural calamities, or to persons displaced or affected by reason of the implementation of any scheme undertaken by Government, any local authority or a corporation owned or controlled by the State; (vi) the provision of land for carrying out any educational, housing, health or slum clearance scheme sponsored by Government or by [2024] 11 S.C.R. 227 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. any authority established by Government for carrying out any such scheme, or, with the prior approval of the appropriate Government, by a local authority, or a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860), or under any corresponding law for the time being in force in a State, or a co-operative society within the meaning of any law relating to co-operative societies for the time being in force in any State; (vii) the provision of land for any other scheme of development sponsored by Government, or, with the prior approval of the appropriate Government, by a local authority; (viii) the provision of any premises or building for locating a public office, but does not include acquisition of land for companies.” A reading of the said definition would clearly indicate as to for what public purpose immovable property could be acquired.