Digital Supreme Court Reports or machinery” in only one place, and the legislative intention has to be adhered to. 18. It was submitted that in certain cases, CENVAT credit was allowed for the construction of buildings. That is the view taken by the Tribunals/High Courts. 19. Concerning the apprehension of misusing GST expressed by the learned ASG, it was submitted that even if the argument of the assessees is accepted, the ITC on goods or services used to construct a warehouse or mall is only to a limited extent of GST payable on rental activity. It was, therefore, submitted that the definition of “plant or machinery” will not apply to “plant and machinery”. 20. The learned counsel submitted that there is no conflict between Section 17(5)(d) and Section 16(3). He submitted that Section 16(3) applies to “plant and machinery” and not to “plant or machinery”. He submitted that even assuming that Section 16(3) applies to plant or machinery, the effect of the provision is that if the registered person claims depreciation on the tax component of the cost of capital goods and plant and machinery under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961, he cannot avail of the ITC on the said tax component. He submitted that there is no conflict between the provisions of Section 17(5)(d) and Section 29(5) of the CGST Act. Inviting our attention to Section 18(6), he submitted that the provision can be pressed into service only in case of supply of capital goods or plant and machinery on which ITC has been taken. He submitted that in the facts of the case, it is nobody’s case that the registered persons are supplying capital goods, plant or machinery. 21. It was argued that the constitutional bar in Entry 49 of List II exists only against the levy of GST on land and buildings and not against the grant of ITC on movable goods and services used for the construction of buildings. In its wisdom, the legislature has allowed ITC on immovable property provided it meets the criteria of functionality or essentiality of a plant. It is submitted that GST is leviable on the activity of renting and the activity of selling buildings before the grant of completion certificate. The disallowance of ITC on goods and services used in the construction of buildings could be a logical corollary only if the buildings were intended to be sold as stock by the developer instead of being further used for providing taxable goods or services. There [2024] 10 S.C.R. 817 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. is no contradiction in promoting ITC on goods and services used for the construction of buildings when such buildings are deployed to provide taxable supplies on which GST is being discharged. Not permitting ITC in such a situation would lead to absurdness and the unintended consequence of breaking the ITC chain, which will amount to thwarting the seamless flow of tax credits.