Exercise of power within the meaning of the Act 12 [2001] 2 SCR 471 : (2001) 3 SCC 739 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 429 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others of 1971 shall thus be a rarity and that too in a matter on which there exists no doubt as regards the initiation of the action being bona fide.” (emphasis added) 28. In Ram Kishan v. Tarun Bajaj and Others,13 highlighting the significance of contempt jurisdiction, it has been observed that : “11. The contempt jurisdiction conferred on to the law courts power to punish an offender for his wilful disobedience/ contumacious conduct or obstruction to the majesty of law, for the reason that respect and authority commanded by the courts of law are the greatest guarantee to an ordinary citizen that his rights shall be protected and the entire democratic fabric of the society will crumble down if the respect of the judiciary is undermined. Undoubtedly, the contempt jurisdiction is a powerful weapon in the hands of the courts of law but that by itself operates as a string of caution and unless, thus, otherwise satisfied beyond reasonable doubt, it would neither be fair nor reasonable for the law courts to exercise jurisdiction under the Act. The proceedings are quasi- criminal in nature, and therefore, standard of proof required in these proceedings is beyond all reasonable doubt. It would rather be hazardous to impose sentence for contempt on the authorities in exercise of the contempt jurisdiction on mere probabilities.” (emphasis added) 29. A judicious use of the power of contempt has been underscored in Hon’ble Shri Justice C.S. Karnan, in Re,14 where a Constitution Bench of 7 Judges cited several decisions of foreign jurisdictions and observed thus : “63. The authority to punish for contempt of court has always been exercised by the judiciary from times immemorial [ In one of the earliest legal pronouncements 13 [2014] 1 SCR 538 : (2014) 16 SCC 204 14 (2017) 7 SCC 1 430 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports dealing with the subject, Justice Wilmot in R. v. Almon, 1765 Wilmot’s Notes 243 : 97 ER 94 explained the philosophy behind the power to punish for contempt of court. The passage now a classis exposition runs as follows : (ER p. 100) “… and whenever men’s allegiance to the laws is so fundamentally shaken, it is the most fatal and most dangerous obstruction of justice, and, in my opinion, calls out for a more rapid and immediate redress than any other obstruction whatsoever; not for the sake of the Judges, as private individuals, but because they are the channels by which the King’s justice is conveyed to the people.”} the justification for the existence of that is not to afford protection to individual Judges [ “14. … the law of contempt is not made for the protection of Judges who may be sensitive to the winds of public opinion.