After the final was passed by the High Court on 16.12.2019, three Recall Applications came to be filed one after the other, almost four years after the said in the name of Bhagwan Singh and Rinki. The concerned advocates also appeared on behalf of the Bhagwan Singh without his authority, knowledge or consent. 25. From the aforesaid state of affairs, we are of the opinion that the Respondent No.3 Mr. Sukhpal, son of Rishipal and Respondent No.4 Ms. Rinki, wife of Sukhpal, with the able assistance of a battery of advocates in the Supreme Court namely AOR Mr. Anubhav Yashwant Yadav, Mr. R.P.S Yadav, Mr. Karan Singh Yadav along with the Advocate and notary Mr. A.N. Singh, and a battery of Advocates in the High Court namely Santosh Kumar Yadav, Jai Singh Yadav, Alok Kumar Yadav and Karan Singh Yadav and many other unknown persons had made brazen attempts to falsely implicate the Respondent No.2 Ajay Katara by filing false proceedings in the name of Bhagwan Singh in the High Court and Supreme Court, by filing false and fabricated documents. Though, the said Bhagwan Singh had never met any of the said Advocates nor had instructed any advocates to file the proceedings in the High Court or the Supreme Court and, though he had never met his daughter Rinki and son- in-law, Sukh Pal since the 802 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports time they had eloped and married with each other in 2013, they with the help and assistance of the said Advocates had tried to misuse and abuse the process of law and malign the stream of justice. 26. It is also very pertinent to note that as stated earlier, the said Respondent no.2-Ajay Katara was the star witness in the famous Nitish Katara Murder Case and on the basis of his evidence along with the other evidence the accused in the said case namely Vikas Yadav and Vishal Yadav, (who happened to be the son and nephew of D.P. Yadav, Ex-Minister and Member of Parliament) were convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for life by the trial court. In the appeal, the High Court had confirmed the conviction and further ed that the said two accused shall not be entitled to any remission till they have completed 25 years of actual sentence. The said was also confirmed by the Supreme Court. Mr. Katara is made to suffer for being witness in the said case. As stated by him in the affidavit, he was subjected to continuous threats and still continues to be under pressure for having appeared as the witness. He has stated that before the said case, he had no case civil or criminal filed against him, and after the said case, he has been continuously targeted with a campaign of false and frivolous cases and named in around thirty-seven cases, including the present one at the behest of Yadav family and their associates. However, he has been cleared in 35 out of 37 cases. 27.