93. We are of the opinion that though the Arbitral Tribunal may have jurisdiction and authority to decide the disputes including the question of jurisdiction and non-arbitrability, the same can also be considered by the Court at the stage of deciding Section 11 application if the facts are very clear and glaring and in view of the specific clauses in the agreement binding between the parties, whether the dispute is non-arbitrable and/or it falls within the excepted clause. Even at the stage of deciding Section 11 application, the Court may prima facie consider even the aspect with regard to “accord and satisfaction” of the claims. 94. Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the respective parties on the decision of the General Manager on notified claims in Civil Appeal No. 341 of 2022 arising out of SLP (C) No. 13161 of 2019 is concerned, the General Manager has decided/ declared that the claims are not arbitrable since they had been settled and the arbitration agreement has [2024] 7 S.C.R. 891 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning been discharged under Clause 6.7.2.0 of GCC and no longer existed/subsisted. As observed hereinabove, the claims had been settled or not is a debatable and disputable question, which is to be left to be decided by the Arbitral Tribunal. Therefore, matters related to the notified claims in the facts and circumstances of the case also shall have to be left to be decided by the Arbitral Tribunal as in the fact situation the aspect of “accord and satisfaction” and “notified claims” both are interconnected and interlinked.” (Emphasis supplied) 89. We find it difficult to agree with the dictum of law as laid in Indian Oil (supra). While the dictum in Vidya Drolia (supra) allows for interference by the referral court, it only allows so as an exception in cases where ex-facie meritless claims are sought to be referred to arbitration. However, the view taken in Indian Oil (supra) takes a position which was taken by this Court in Boghara Polyfab (supra), wherein it was held that the issue of accord and satisfaction could either be decided by the referring authority or be left for the arbitrator to decide. This pre-2015 position, as was also pointed in Mayavati Trading (supra), was legislatively overruled by the 2015 amendment to the Act, 1996 and the introduction of Section 11(6-A). Thus, in our view, the intention of this Court in Vidya Drolia (supra) was not to hold that despite the 2015 amendment, the position regarding “accord and satisfaction” would continue to be one which was taken in Boghara Polyfab (supra). Vidya Drolia (supra) only went a step ahead from the position in Mayavati Trading (supra) to create an exception that although the rule is to refer all questions of “accord and satisfaction” to the arbitral tribunal, yet in exceptional cases and in the interest of expediency, ex facie meritless claims could be struck down. 90. In NTPC Ltd. v. SPML Infra Ltd. reported in (2023) 9 SCC 385, a two-Judge Bench of this Court was again faced with the issue of “accord and satisfaction” in the context of a Section 11 petition for appointment of arbitrator.