The expressions “enemy” or “enemy subject” or “enemy firm” are defined in clause (b) of Section 2; The use of the words “for the time being”, “belonging to” and “held” or “managed on behalf of an enemy, an enemy subject or an enemy firm” in clause (b) of Section 2 of the Act are significant. The said provision clearly recognizes ownership of the enemy property by the enemy or property held by an enemy or managed on behalf of an enemy, an enemy subject or an enemy firm. The proviso states that where an individual subject dies in the territories to which the Act extends, any property which immediately before his death belonged to or was held by him or managed on his behalf, may, notwithstanding his death, continue to be recorded as enemy property for the purposes of this Act. This proviso clearly recognizes that the death of an enemy would not result in the enemy property ceasing to be so. Explanation (1) to Section 2(c) also states that enemy property shall continue to remain as enemy property even on the death of the enemy or extinction, winding up of business or change of nationality to continue to remain an enemy property. This is even if the legal heir and successor is a citizen of India or a citizen of a country which is not an enemy country. Explanation (2) thereof states that enemy property shall mean and include and shall be deemed to have always meant and included all rights, titles and interests in, or any benefit arising out of such property. This Explanation gives meaning to the scope of the expressions belonging to, held or managed on behalf of an enemy, an enemy subject or enemy firm. 15.4 If a certificate is issued by the Custodian that the enemy property has vested in him under the Act, the same shall be evidence of the facts stated therein vide Section 5-A of the Act. Section 5-B of the Act begins with a non obstante clause 902 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which states that nothing contained in any law for the time being in force relating to succession or any custom or usage governing succession of property shall apply in relation to the enemy property under this Act and no person (including his legal heir and successor) shall have any right and shall be deemed not to have any right (including all rights, titles, and interests or any benefit arising out of such property) in relation to such enemy property. This provision regarding extinction of rights, titles or interests or any benefit arising out of the enemy property is deemed to have been lost is by operation of law and by a legal fiction only in so far as a heir or successor is concerned. If any property is vested in the Custodian as enemy property, then no enemy or enemy subject or enemy firm shall have any right to transfer any such property and any such transfer shall always be deemed to have been void.