A. BACKDROP 2. Indian Medication Association,2 the petitioner in the writ petition3 has invoked Article 32 of the Constitution of India for raising a grievance against Patanjali, its Managing Director – Acharya Balkrishna and its primary proponent, Baba Ramdev stating that they have been 1 For short ‘Patanjali’ 2 In short “IMA” 3 Writ Petition (Civil) No. 645 of 2022 406 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports indulging in a campaign of misinformation and disparagement against the modern system of medicine in an orchestrated and systematic manner resulting in misleading the common man. IMA has claimed that despite lodging multiple complaints and submitting several representations to the Union of India and the State Authorities, they have declined to take any concrete action, thus compelling them to approach this Court for relief. B. PROCEEDINGS DATED 21ST NOVEMBER, 2023 3. Notice was issued on the writ petition on 23rd August, 2022. On 21st November, 2023, this Court passed the following : “2. After some arguments were canvassed by counsel afore-noted, on the serious points emanating herein, at the request of the Court, Mr. K.M. Nataraj, learned ASG has very fairly submitted that he may be permitted to obtain instructions, after full and effective consultation with the authorities concerned insofar as checking of incorrect assertions/misrepresentation for various products with regard to their purported medicinal efficacy is concerned, as also the measures which may be put in place for statements released through the media, both electronic and print, presently confined to the Respondent No.5. 3. Mr. Poovayya, learned senior counsel for the Respondent No.5, on instructions, assures this Court that henceforth there shall not be any violation of any law(s), especially relating to advertising or branding of products manufactured and marketed by it and, further, that no casual statements claiming medicinal efficacy or against any system of medicine will be released to the media in any form. The Respondent No.5 is bound down to such assurance. 4. It is made clear that the suit(s) pending on issues pertaining inter-se, that is, between the petitioners/other persons and the Respondent No.5 have not been stayed, and shall not be hindered only by reason of the pendency of the present writ petition.” (emphasis added) [2024] 8 S.C.R. 407 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others C. PROCEEDINGS DATED 27TH FEBRUARY, 2024 4. On 27th February, 2024, learned counsel appearing for IMA drew the attention of this Court to some advertisements published by Patanjali in a newspaper and the transcription of a Press Conference conducted by Baba Ramdev and Acharya Balkrishna on 22nd November, 2023, i.e., on the very next day to passing of the by this Court on 21st November, 2023 and submitted that despite an assurance given on behalf of Patanjali and recorded in the passed on 21st November, 2023, the aforesaid parties were continuing to make incorrect assertions and misrepresentations in respect of various products marketed by them by describing the said products as a permanent solution to particular ailments that have been specifically listed in the Schedules appended to the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisement) Act, 19544 and the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisement) Rules, 1955.5 5.