(c) Insofar as clemency power of a Governor of a State under Article 161 of the Constitution to grant remission to prisoners convicted by courts outside the State but undergoing sentences in jails in the State is concerned, this Court in M.T. Khan observed that the appropriate government on whose advice the Governor has to act 844 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports while granting remission to such a prisoner was to be decided on the basis of the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers of the State which had convicted the accused and not the State where the accused/convict is transferred to be lodged in the jail. In this case it was held that since the of conviction had been passed in the States of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and the convict was lodged in the State of Andhra Pradesh, the appropriate Governments were the States of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra even under Article 161 of the Constitution. Hence, the appeals filed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh were allowed. (d) V. Sriharan is a of a Constitution Bench of this Court wherein the Government of Tamil Nadu had proposed to remit the sentence of life imprisonment to release seven convicts who were convicted in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case –State, through Superintendent of Police, CBI vs. Nalini, (1999) 5 SCC 253 (“Nalini”). While discussing the phrase “appropriate Government”, it was observed that barring cases falling under Section 432(7) (a), in all other cases where the offender is sentenced or the sentence or is passed within the territorial jurisdiction of the State concerned, that State Government would be the appropriate Government. Following the earlier decisions it was observed that even if an offence is committed in State-A, but, the trial takes place and the sentence is passed in State-B, it is the latter State which shall be the appropriate Government. 33.8. In our view, on a plain reading of sub-section (7) of Section 432 of the CrPC and considering the s of this Court, it is the State of Maharashtra, which had the jurisdiction to consider the application for remission vis-à-vis respondent Nos.3 to 13 herein as they were sentenced by the Special Court, Mumbai. Hence the applications filed by respondent Nos.4 to 13 seeking remission had to be simply rejected by the State of Gujarat owing to lack of jurisdiction to consider them. This is because Government of Gujarat is not the appropriate Government within the meaning of the aforesaid provision. The High Court of Gujarat was therefore right in its dated 17.07.2019. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 845 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others 33.9. When an authority does not have the jurisdiction to deal with a matter or it is not within the powers of the authority i.e. the State of Gujarat in the instant case, to be the appropriate Government to pass s of remission under Section 432 of the CrPC, the s of remission would have no legs to stand.