If the State is so advised, it is equally competent to prohibit the use, diversion or supply of rectified spirit for potable purposes. (4) It is advisable and necessary that the Union Government makes necessary rules/regulations under the IDR Act directing that no rectified spirit shall be supplied to industries except after denaturing it save those few industries (other than those industries which are engaged in obtaining or manufacturing potable liquors) where denatured spirit cannot be used for manufacturing purposes. (5) So far as rectified spirit meant for being supplied to or utilised for potable purposes is concerned, it shall be under the exclusive control of the States from the moment it is cleared/removed for that purpose from the distillery — apart from other powers referred to above. (6) The power to permit the establishment of any industry engaged in the manufacture of potable liquors including IMFLs, beer, country liquor and other intoxicating drinks is exclusively vested in the States. The power to prohibit and/or regulate the manufacture, production, sale, transport or consumption of such intoxicating liquors is equally that of the States. 9.8.12 The aforesaid decision in Bihar Distillery was doubted in Deccan Sugar and Abkari Co. Ltd. vs. 2100 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Commissioner of Excise (1998) 3 SCC 272 (“Deccan Sugar and Abkari Co. Ltd.”), and the appeals were referred to a larger Bench which followed Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) and Modi Distillery without expressly overruling the decision in Bihar Distillery. Opining that Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) continued to hold the field, it was noted that the State’s power was limited to regulation of non-potable alcohol for the limited purpose of preventing its use as alcoholic liquors. Ultimately, the appeal filed by the state was dismissed as the levies could not be treated as a regulatory measure. McDowell: 9.9 In McDowell, the State of Andhra Pradesh had prohibited the manufacture of liquor by an amendment in the Andhra Pradesh Prohibition Act, 1995. The appellants therein who were manufactures of “intoxicating liquors” challenged the constitutional validity of the Act by which the Prohibition Act was amended to include Section 7-A by which the manufacture of liquor came to be prohibited. This was owing to the lack of legislative competence in view of Item 26 in the First Schedule of the IDRA, which according to the writ petitioners therein, vested the control of alcohol industries exclusively in the Union and denuded the State Legislature of its power to licence or regulate the manufacture of liquor. This argument was further based on the fact that “Fermentation Industries” were included in the Schedule of the IDRA and hence the State was denuded of its power to licence and regulate manufacture of liquor which industry and its product were within the exclusive province of the Union and hence the State lost its competence to grant, refuse or renew the licences The position of law was reiterated as under: - “It follows from the above discussion that the power to make a law with respect to manufacture and production and its prohibition (among other matters mentioned in Entry 8 in List-II) belongs exclusively to the State Legislatures.