It would not be out of place to reiterate that the witnesses play a vital role in facilitating the court to arrive at a correct findings, particularly in criminal trials. As rightly said by Jeremy Bentham, an English Philosopher and jurist, “the witnesses are the eyes and ears of justice.” They are the backbone in the decision making process in the adversial system prevalent in India. In the words of Whittaker Chambers, a witness is - “a man whose life and faith are so completely one that when the challenge comes to step out and testify for his faith, he does so, disregarding all risks, accepting all consequences.”1 1 Whittaker Chambers, WITNESS QUOTES (Washington DC, Regnery Gateway, 1952) p. 5 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 803 Bhagwan Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors. As very aptly said in a book on Witness Protection- “In search of truth, he plays that sacred role of the sun, which eliminates the darkness of ignorance and illuminates the face of justice, encircled by devils of humanity and compassion.2 28. However, the condition of witnesses in the Indian Legal System is very pathetic. The witnesses are threatened, coerced by using force and lured by monetary considerations, at the instances of those who are in power, their henchmen and hirelings, with a view to smother and stifle truth, and to make mockery of justice. Though the “Witness Protection Scheme, 2018” has been framed by the Central Government and approved by this Court in Mahendra Chawla vs. Union of India3 there is hardly any effective implementation of the same. 29. To create or to assist creating false documents and to use them as genuine knowing them to be false in the Court proceedings, to falsely implicate somebody in the false proceedings filed in the name of the person who had no knowledge whatsoever about the same are the acts attributable to the offences punishable under the Bhartiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023. They are also acts of frauds committed not only on the person sought to be falsely implicated and on the person in whose name such false proceedings are filed without his knowledge and consent, but is a fraud committed on the Courts. No Court can allow itself to be used as an instrument of fraud and no Court can allow its eyes to be closed to the fact that it is being used as an instrument of fraud. As held by this Court in V. Chandrasekaran & Anr. vs. Administrative Officer & Ors.4 “The judicial process cannot become an instrument of oppression or abuse, or a means in the process of the court to subvert justice, for the reason that the court exercises its jurisdiction, only in furtherance of justice. The interests of justice and public interest coalesce, and therefore, they are very often one and the same. A petition or an affidavit containing a misleading and/or an inaccurate statement, 2 Witness Protection in Criminal Trial in India by Girish Abhyankar & Asawari Abhyankar 3 [2018] 14 SCR 627 : (2019) 14 SCC 615 4 [2012] 10 SCR 603 : 2012 12 SCC 133 804 [2024] 9 S.C.R.