The two-Judge Bench formulated the characteristics of imposts thus: “21. “Tax”, “duty”, “cess” or “fee” constituting a class denotes various kinds of imposts by State in its sovereign power of taxation to raise revenue for the State. Within the expression of each specie each expression denotes different kind of impost depending on the purpose for which they are levied. The power can be exercised in any of its manifestation only under any law authorising levy and collection of tax as envisaged under Article 265 which uses only the expression that no “tax” shall be levied and collected except authorized by law. In its elementary meaning conveys that to support a tax legislation action is essential, it cannot be levied and collected in the absence of any legislative sanction by exercise of executive power of State under Article 73 by the Union or Article 162 by the State. 22. Under Article 366(28) “Taxation” has been defined to include the imposition of any tax or impost whether general or local or special and tax shall be construed accordingly. “Impost” means compulsory levy. The well- known and well-settled characteristic of “tax” in its wider sense includes all imposts. Imposts in the context have following characteristics: 155 Indian Banks’ Association v. Devkala Consultancy Service (2004) 11 SCC 1 [18] 156 [2009] 8 SCR 983 : (2009) 10 SCC 755 [22] 157 Reiterated in Jindal Stainless Steel (supra) [20], [395] 1644 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (i) The power to tax is an incident of sovereignty. (ii) “Law” in the context of Article 265 means an Act of legislature and cannot comprise an executive or rule without express statutory authority. (iii) The term “tax” under Article 265 read with Article 366(28) includes imposts of every kind viz. duty, cess or fees. (iv) As an incident of sovereignty and in the nature of compulsory exaction, a liability founded on principle of contract cannot be a “tax” in its technical sense as an impost, general, local or special.” 107. The Court held in McDowell (supra) that bottling fees are a payment made by the assessee to the State Government “as consideration for acquiring the exclusive privilege”158 The payment was held to be neither a fee nor a tax but consideration for the grant of approval by the government to contract on the exclusive right to deal in bottling liquor. Therefore, bottling fees were held not to fall within the purview of Section 43-B(a). 108. The expression “tax” under Article 265 includes every kind of impost in the form of a compulsory exaction. An impost is a compulsory exaction. The power to levy an impost is an incident of sovereignty. A liability arising out of contract cannot be termed as an impost or tax. A consideration paid under a contract to the State Government for acquiring exclusive privileges and rights with respect to a particular activity cannot be termed as an “impost” or “tax” under Article 366(28). 109. The government may demand payments in the nature of a price or consideration for parting with its exclusive privilege to carry on activities of a particular description.