It is surprising that despite opposing anticipatory bail applications of co-accused Sunita and Raj Bala and submitting before court that their custody is required for recovery of stolen sarees, IO instead of arresting them made them join investigation after serving notices U/sec 41A Cr. P. C. There was no need to oppose anticipatory bail applications of co-accused Sunita and Raj Bala in case, their custody was not required by IO. When police has opposed anticipatory bail applications of co-accused Sunita and Raj Bala before court but made them join investigation by serving notice U/sec 41A Cr. P.C, it appears that there is something fishy on part of police. ……………………..................……………………………..” (emphasis added) After making the above observations, the appellant dealt with the merits of the bail application and concluded that the accused before him was not entitled to the relief of anticipatory bail. Thereafter, the appellant observed thus: “From conduct of IO, it appears that he is not carrying out investigation in a proper manner and there is something more written on wall than visible.” (emphasis added) 3. The appellant observed that despite so many s passed by the court, the updated status of cases pending against the accused had not been mentioned in the previous involvement report of the accused filed, along with a reply to the anticipatory bail application. Thereafter, the appellant issued the following directions: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 865 Sonu Agnihotri v. Chandra Shekhar & Ors. “Issue show cause notice to SHO PS Defence Colony and IO HC Raj Kumar U/sec 177 IPC for furnishing false information to this court through DCP, South for 31.01.2023. Let copy of be sent to DCP, South to inquire about role of IO as well as SHO PS Defence Colony in investigation of present case in view of observations of this court as have come in this with direction to file Action Taken Report against the erring officials and file report in this regard before this court on 31.01.2023. Let explanation be sought from CP, Delhi as to why SCRB record is not being updated till date despite direction of this court way back about one and half years ago in FIR No. 16/2018, PS Govind Puri for 31.01.2023 with direction to fix responsibility of concerned official for failure to comply with the same. It is notable that once, punishment of censure has already been awarded to defaulting SHOs and advisory has been issued to all defaulting ACPs as per explanation earlier called from CP, Delhi and reports furnished by DCP, South and DCP, South-East on behalf of CP, Delhi in another matter but still, there is no improvement which practically shows that even higher hierarchy in police has failed to instill discipline in Delhi Police. Let copy of be sent to CP, Delhi for information and compliance. Let copy of be sent to SHO PS Defence Colony for reference and compliance.” (emphasis added) 4. Further was passed by the appellant on 31st January 2023 in which it was observed that though the appellant had asked DCP (Deputy Commissioner of Police), South to hold an inquiry about the role of Investigating Officer (IO) as well as Station House Officer (SHO) of Defence Colony Police Station, only show cause notices of censure have been issued to the officers.