This Court further disagreed with the finding of the High Court that the author-member had an insignificant role in the book selection process, by observing: “11. […] to say that such author-member is only one of the members of the Assessment Sub-Committee is to overlook the fact that the author-member can subtly influence the minds of the other members against selecting books by other authors in preference to his own. It can also be that books by some of the other members may also have been submitted for selection and there can be between them a quid pro quo or, in other words, you see that my book is selected and in return I will do the same for you. In either case, when a book of an author-member comes up for consideration, the other members would feel themselves embarrassed in frankly discussing its merits. Such author- member may also be a person holding a high official position whom the other members may not want to displease. It can be that the other members may not be influenced by the fact that the book which they are considering for approval was written by one of their members. Whether they were so influenced or not is, however, a matter impossible to determine. It is not, therefore, the actual bias in favour of the author-member that is material but the possibility of such bias.” (emphasis supplied) 86. In J Mohapatra (supra), it was observed that a decision-maker who is prejudiced can possibly influence the decision of the authority in tangible and intangible ways. This Court recognized that the doctrine of necessity serves as an exception to the nemo judex rule. An adjudicator, who is subject to disqualification on the ground of bias or interest in the matter which he has to decide, may be required to adjudicate in three situations: (i) if there is no other person who 2238 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports is competent or authorized to adjudicate; (ii) if a quorum cannot be formed without him; or (iii) if no other competent tribunal can be constituted. 87. In Ashok Kumar Yadav v. State of Haryana,165 some members of the selection committee of the Haryana Public Service Commission were related to the candidates who appeared for the viva voce examination. Although the members did not participate when their relatives were being interviewed, they participated in the interviews of other candidates. The court observed that the test “is not that the decision is actually tainted with bias, but that the circumstances are such as to create a reasonable apprehension in the mind of others that there is a likelihood of bias affecting the decision.” The Court observed that the nemo judex rule extends to all cases where an independent mind has to be applied to arrive at a fair and just decision between rival claims of parties. However, the court resorted to the doctrine of necessity to hold that the decision of the state Public Service Commission, being a constitutional authority, was not vitiated.166 88.