This period expired on 22.03.2022. However, the same was extended vide dated 11.04.2022 by the NCLT until 25.05.2022, by allowing an exclusion of 65 days. 93. Upon receiving the AOC from the relevant authorities on 20.05.2022 i.e., within the extended time period as allowed by the NCLT, the SRA asserted that the Effective Date had been achieved. The SRA had approached the NCLT seeking a declaration from the Tribunal that all the Conditions Precedent have been met and that the SRA be allowed to begin the implementation of the Resolution Plan. Vide dated 13.01.2023, the NCLT held that all the Conditions Precedent had indeed been met and that 20.05.2022 would be [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2115 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. considered as the Effective Date for the purposes of implementation of the Resolution Plan. The findings of the NCLT in the aforesaid are reproduced hereinbelow: “Findings: 122. […] However, having considered the rival submissions and on perusal of record with regards to satisfactory compliance of conditions precedent (CPs) it is noted that there is no dispute so far as satisfactory compliance of CPs at serial no. (i) and (v) as per approved plan i.e. :- (i) Validation of Air Operator Certificate by Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) and (v) Approval of demerger of ground handling business into all capital AGSL. In this background we have thus considered if the remaining three CPs are duly complied with by the applicant or otherwise. 123. As regards to CP No. 2 i.e. Submission and approval of business plan to DGCA and MoCA: The business plan was submitted to above Authorities to fulfil compliance of DGCA’s Show Cause Notice (SCN) to CD of April 2019. SCN states that Air Operator Certificate will be issued after MoCA approves the business plan. Thus, with issuance of Air Operator Certificate, it is implied that the business plan has been approved. Even otherwise, guidelines for issuance of Air Operator Certificate being CAP 3100 clearly states that the DGCA will review the detailed business plan of the Applicant before issuance of Air Operator Certificate and with issuance of Air Operator Certificate there is implied approval of MoCA. In the background of above we find that this CP is satisfactorily complied with the issuance of AOC. 124. As regards to CP No. 3 i.e. Slots Allotment Approval: It is noted that plan approval of this Tribunal dated 22nd June, 2021 stipulates that no historic slots will be granted to Corporate Debtor or SRA. Admittedly, there is no challenge to this thereby accepting the fact that old slot cannot be reinstated. Accordingly, this CP needs to 2116 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports be read with plan approval , where Corporate Debtor shall be provided with such slots for which it applies. There is no dispute that slots for which SRA applied were granted to them by the concerned Competent Authority including the slots in Delhi and Mumbai, on settling the old dues and as such it cannot be considered as non-allotment of slots, as SRA has received the slots it requested for in compliance with plan approval .