37. This constitutional concern for access to justice which is not only in fact unbiased and fair, but also seems and appears unbiased and fair, is far more relevant to people who do not at present find place in the arbitration universe that is predominantly populated by big businesses, the mega-affluent contractors, and the millionaires. Access to justice, and by implication effective arbitral remedies are 61 Brojo Nath Ganguly (supra); Delhi Transport Corporation v. DTC Mazdoor Congress (1991) Supp (1) SCC 600. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2313 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company equally relevant for “the common man, for the poor and the humble, for those who have businesses at stake, for the “butcher, the baker and the candlestick maker’”.62 H. Precedents of this Court on Section 12(5) after its amendment 38. The substantial argument before us is that a unilateral or panel- based appointment process is invalid under Section 12(5) read with the Seventh Schedule. I will now deal with the case-law on Section 12(5), to examine how this Court has interpreted this provision and the public policy consideration to declare certain kinds of arbitration agreements as being violative of Section 12(5). For the sake of brevity and focus, the principles and main holding of each may be stated as follows: I. First, it is important to note that Section 12(5) of the Act is a mandatory and non-derogable provision, which overrides the arbitration agreement between the parties that prescribes a person who is ineligible to act as an arbitrator. However, the proviso enables parties to waive its applicability through an express agreement in writing between them, subsequent to the dispute.63 II. In Voestalpine,64 a division bench of this Court upheld the validity of an arbitration agreement that mandates appointment of arbitrators from a panel maintained by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). The Court held that a panel comprising serving or retired engineers of government departments or PSUs does not fall foul of the Fifth or Seventh Schedule as they do not have any connection with DMRC and bias or real likelihood of bias cannot be attributed to such highly qualified and experienced persons.65 Rather, the purpose of empanelling them is due to their technical expertise.66 Nevertheless, the Court held that to inspire confidence in the panel, DMRC must 62 Bidi Supply Co v. Union of India, 1956 SCR 267. 63 Haryana Space Application Centre v. Pan India Consultants Private Limited (2021) 3 SCC 103, para 18. 64 Voestalpine Schienen GMBH v. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (2017) 4 SCC 665. 65 ibid, paras 24 and 25. 66 ibid, para 26. 2314 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports not further limit Voestalpine’s choice from the panel to a list of 5 persons prepared by it. Voestalpine and the two appointed arbitrators must have full freedom to make their choice from the entire panel.67 Further, the Court also observed that the panel must be broad-based and comprise members of other professions and expertise such as engineers from the private sector, judges, lawyers, accountants, etc.68 III.