merely directory and thereby enlarge or extend the exemption or the concession granted by the legislature. 81. If, the intention of the legislature was to grant exemption from the requirement of producing Validity Certificate, until, the elected candidate’s application is disposed of by the Scrutiny Committee, nothing prevented the legislature from saying so expressly or at least by necessary implication. Instead, in this case, and perhaps, for good reason, the legislature has consciously deemed it appropriate to insist that the person submits an undertaking that he shall produce the Validity Certificate within six months and further, the legislature, in clear, unambiguous and express terms has provided that upon the failure of such person to produce the Validity Certificate within six months from the date of election, his election shall be deemed to have been retrospectively terminated and he shall be disqualified for being a Councillor. If, the stipulation as to time is construed as directory, then, the legislative intent, so clearly expressed, will be defeated. The significant portions of the provision will be rendered a mere surplusage. In essence, this Court would be rewriting the statute on the basis of its own value s or notions of equity and inequity.” 176 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports After holding that the provision is mandatory, the Full Bench held that failure to produce the Validity Certificate from the Scrutiny Committee within the stipulated time would mean that the election was deemed to have been terminated retrospectively and the person was to be disqualified. It also held that retrospective termination of the election and disqualification were automatic in the following words:- “98. In the present case also the legislature in enacting section 9-A has provided for a statutory fiction, which is evident from the use of expression “his election shall be deemed to have been terminated retrospectively and he shall be disqualified being a Councillor”. The statutory fiction must be allowed to have its full play. No other provision or reason has been pointed out to take the view that consequences prescribed under second proviso to section 9-A are not automatic or would require any further adjudication once it is established that the person elected has failed to produce the Validity Certificate within a stipulated period of six months from the date of his election. 99. The validation of caste claim of the elected Councillor by the Scrutiny Committee beyond the prescribed period would have no effect upon the statutory consequences prescribed under the second proviso to section 9-A i.e. deemed retrospective termination of the election of such Councillor and his disqualification for being a Councillor. The subsequent validation or issue of the Validity Certificate will therefore be irrelevant for the purpose of restoration of the Councillor’s election but, such validation will obviously entitle him to contest the election to be held on account of termination of his election and the consequent vacancy caused thereby. 100. In the result, we hold that the time limit of six months prescribed in the two provisos to section 9-A of the said Act, within which an elected person is required to produce the Validity Certificate from the Scrutiny Committee is mandatory.” Further, in terms of second proviso to section 9-A if a person fails to produce Validity Certificate within a period of six months from the date on which he is elected, his election shall be deemed to have been terminated retrospectively and he shall be disqualified for being a Councillor.