[Paras 62-74] Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 – Mines and Minerals – Contours of a mining lease – Explanation: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) Expressions ‘lease’ and ‘licence’ have been used in the context of mining operations in the Constitution and in the MMRD Act – “Mining lease” is defined under the MMDR Act to mean a lease granted for the purpose of undertaking mining operations and includes a sub-lease granted for such purpose – Expression “mining operations” has been defined to mean any operations undertaken for the purpose of winning any mineral – Expression “winning” means getting or extracting minerals from the mines – Under a lease deed for mining operations, the owner transfers the interest in the minerals to the lessee in lieu of the payment of rent, which usually takes the form of royalty – Under the MMDR Act, a “prospecting licence” is granted for the purpose of undertaking prospecting operations for the purpose of exploring, locating, or proving a mineral deposit – Under a prospecting licence, the licensee does not get an interest in the land or in the minerals contained therein – Licensee is only allowed to carry away a limited quantity of minerals after payment of specified royalty. [Paras 86, 87] Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 – Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 – Nature of a mining lease under the MMDR Act and Mineral Concession Rules: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.) MMDR Act and the Mineral Concession Rules detail the procedure for the grant of mining leases in three situations-where the minerals vest in the government, where the minerals vest in a person other than the government, and where the minerals vest partly in the government and partly in a private person – Right of proprietors to grant leases and receive royalty stems from the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1563 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. proprietary interest in the immovable property including the minerals – MMDR Act regulates the exercise of the proprietary rights in the minerals in the larger public interest – Statute specifies the terms of the lease, but the lease deed is ultimately entered between the State Government (or the private person, as the case may be) and the lessee – Similarly, the rates of royalty are fixed by the Central Government u/s. 9, but royalty is received by the mining lessor, that is the State Government or a private person. [Paras 89, 93] Constitution of India – Federalism – Fiscal federalism, in the context of mineral resources: Held: (per Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself and for Hrishikesh Roy, Abhay S Oka, J.B. Pardiwala, Manoj Misra, Ujjal Bhuyan, Satish Chandra Sharma and Augustine George Masih, JJ.)