We feel that it is not proper to give such wide powers to the executive. The Act also gives powers to restrict the movements of the Criminal Tribes or to place them in settlements to the executive and by making suitable rules under the Act to take work from settlers on pain of punishment. This would virtually amount to “begar” or forced labour which is an offence under the Indian Penal Code and is opposed also to Article 23 of the Constitution.”212 125. The Committee recommended the repeal of the Act: “The Criminal Tribes Act, 1924, should be replaced by a Central legislation applicable to all habitual offenders without any distinction based on caste, creed or birth and the newly formed States included in Parts B and C 212 Ibid, p. 82 576 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the First Schedule of the Constitution, which have local laws for the surveillance of the Criminal Tribes, should be advised to replace their laws in this respect by the Central legislation for habitual offenders, when passed.”213 The Act was repealed in 1952. The criminal tribes were then denotified, as a result of which they were known as “Denotified Tribes”. 126. It must be noted under the Criminal Tribes Act, several marginalized “castes” were also declared as criminal “tribes”. It is for this reason Article 341(1) of the Constitution employs the words “castes” and “tribes” while defining the Scheduled Castes.214 After the repeal of the Act, some of the castes earlier declared as criminal tribes, have been accordingly notified as Scheduled Castes. XII. Jurisprudence on Social Protection in Post-Independence India 127. Parliament enacted legislation to prevent discrimination and atrocities against the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. In State of Karnataka v. Appa Balu Ingale,215 Justice Ramaswamy noted that Parliament enacted the stringent provisions of the PoA Act, 1989 when “the mandate of Article 17 was being breached with impunity, and commission of atrocities on Dalits and Tribes continued unabated”. 128. The Court in State of Madhya Pradesh v. Ram Krishna Balothia216 held that the offences under PoA Act “constitute a separate class and cannot be compared with offences under the Penal Code”. These offences are “committed to humiliate and subjugate members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes with a view to keeping them in a state of servitude”, and “prevent them from leading a life of dignity and self-respect”. The Court quoted the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act to highlight that “when members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes assert their rights and 213 Ibid, p. 104 214 Article 341(1) provides: “The President may with respect to any State or Union territory, and where it is a State, after consultation with the Governor thereof, by public notification, specify the castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes which shall for the purposes of this Constitution be deemed to be Scheduled Castes in relation to that State or Union territory, as the case may be.” 215 [1992] Supp.