Rule 40 of the BCI Rules prescribes that the payment be made by an advocate on the rolls of the SBC and thus, it cannot be a pre-requisite for enrolment. D. Legal background i. All India Bar Committee 14. The establishment of the High Courts by Letters Patent in the Presidencies of Calcutta, Bombay, and Madras brought all courts in the territories of British India under a unified system. The Letters Patent also allowed the High Courts to enroll advocates, vakils, and attorneys. The Legal Practitioners Act 1879 empowered the High Courts not established by royal charters to make rules for the qualifications and admission of persons seeking to be advocates of the Court.13 Initially, barristers and solicitors predominated the Original Side practice in the High Courts.14 Gradually, both advocates and vakils (who were Indian non-barristers) could act and plead before 12 “BCI Rules” 13 Section 41, Legal Practitioners Act 1879 14 Report of the All-India Bar Committee (1953) 15 [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1507 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. all High Courts, except for the Calcutta High Court which excluded vakils from the Original Side.15 This distinction between advocates and vakils led to the demand for the creation of an all-India Bar. 15. To give effect to this demand, the colonial legislature enacted the Indian Bar Councils Act 192616 “to provide for the constitution and incorporation of Bar Councils and to confer powers and impose duties on such Bar Councils.” Section 3 prescribed the constitution of a Bar Council for every High Court. Section 8 pertained to the admission and enrolment of Advocates. It authorized the High Courts to prepare and maintain a roll of advocates. Section 9 empowered the Bar Councils to make rules regulating the admission of persons to be advocates of the High Court including the charging of fees payable to the Bar Councils in respect of enrolment. Thus, the 1926 Act empowered the Bar Councils to prescribe fees in respect of enrolment. However, the 1926 Act did not substantially fulfil the demands of the Indian legal practitioners for an all-India Bar. In 1951, the Government set up the All-India Bar Committee to inquire into this issue and provide a feasible legal solution. 16. The Committee recommended setting up of the SBCs and an All- India Bar Council, uniform minimum qualification for admission to the roll of Advocates, a common roll of Advocates maintained by the respective SBCs, and permitting the enrolled advocates to practice in any court in India, including the Supreme Court. The Committee’s observations on the finances of the BCI and the SBCs are relevant: “It is obvious that in to carry on its duties the All-India Bar Council and the State Bar Councils shall require funds. At present the Advocates, at the time of their enrolment, pay a certain amount ranging from Rs. 25/- to Rs. 100/- which goes to the Bar Council besides Rs. 250/- to Rs. 1,125/- which goes to the State. Entrants to the professions other than the legal profession are not required to pay any amount to the State as and by way of admission fee.