Digital Supreme Court Reports being dead, such allotment in law could not be sustained and rightly NOIDA had cancelled the allotment, more so, for the reason that the appellant never chose to inform the NOIDA of the passing away of his father, doing so only after the allotment letter was issued. In support of his contentions, learned senior counsel referred to the decision of this Court in Greater Mohali Area Development Authority v Manju Jain, (2010) 9 SCC 157, the relevant being at Paragraphs No.21.1 ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 8. Having considered the matter, we find merit in the contentions urged by the appellant. The fact remained that the father of the appellant had properly applied and was satisfying all the prerequisite conditions for allotment which was followed by actual draw of lots and issuance of allotment letter; undoubtedly though after his passing away. In our view, the demise of the appellant’s father would not negate the right which stood vested in the appellant. The appellant is the Legal Representative and heir of his father. 9. The objection taken by the learned senior counsel for NOIDA has been evaluated and the supra relied upon by him has been examined by us. The objection cannot be accepted due to NOIDA’s conduct which we deal with infra. We do not think the is applicable in the extant facts and circumstances. Manju Jain (supra) is distinguishable for more reasons than one: (i) The respondent therein took a ‘vague’ plea that the allotment letter was never communicated to her; (ii) The amounts sought for were never deposited by her, and; (iii) The ratio laid down was that ‘if an is passed but not communicated to the party concerned, it does not create any legal right which can be enforced through the court of law, as it does not become effective till it is communicated.’2 10. In the case at hand, vide letter dated 10.11.2009, the appellant had intimated NOIDA about the demise of his father on 08.11.2007. Further, 1 ‘21. Mere draw of lots/allocation letter does not confer any right to allotment. The system of draw of lots is being resorted to with a view to identify the prospective allottee. It is only a mode, a method, a process to identify the allottee i.e. the process of selection. It is not an allotment by itself. Mere identification or selection of the allottee does not clothe the person selected with a legal right to allotment. (See DDA v. Pushpendra Kumar Jain [1994 Supp (3) SCC 494: AIR 1995 SCC 1]. )’ 2 Para 24 of Manju Jain (supra). [2024] 8 S.C.R. 809 Steve Kanika v. New Okhla Industrial Development Authority (Noida) & Anr. the appellant informed NOIDA that being a whole-time Director of the company, just like his father, he was competent to execute a contract with NOIDA. By way of letters dated 23.11.2009 and 18.10.2010, the appellant requested NOIDA to move forward with the allotment. With the letter dated 23.11.2009, the appellant, alongwith documents, had also submitted a Demand Draft for Rs.7,46,825/- (Rupees Seven Lakhs Forty-Six Thousand Eight Hundred and Twenty-Five only), which continues to be with NOIDA till date, as averred by the appellant.