64. Explaining the social structures that perpetuate humiliation, Gopal Guru, in an introduction to his book2 writes that “humiliation is almost endemic to social life that is active basically through asymmetries of intersecting sects of attitudes – arrogance and obeisance, self- respect and servility and reverence and repulsion. Discussing on how the basis of humiliation varies in different societies, depending upon the social context, he observes that the idea and practice of humiliation “continues to survive in different forms depending upon the specific nature of the social context. For example, in the West it is the attitude of race that is at the base of humiliation. In the East, it is the notion of untouchability that foregrounds the form and content of humiliation.” 1 Humiliation: Claims and Context, Oxford University Press, First Edition (2009), pp. 95-107 2 Humiliation: Claims and Context (supra), pp. 1-22 1138 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 65. While Gopal Guru makes the aforesaid observation in the context of different societies in relation to one another, such as the East and the West, in our opinion the observations are equally applicable to specific individual societies as well wherein multiple varying grounds of humiliation like gender, caste, race, etc. can co-exist and apply to the same or different individuals and groups. 66. Bhikhu Parekh in his paper titled Logic of Humiliation3 attempts to differentiate humiliation from other concepts that it is generally confused with. He gives the example of the ticket inspector who threw Gandhi off the train in South Africa to argue that humiliation might, but need not, involve physical cruelty. On the contrary, he contends that a man who starves another to death and tortures him, shows cruelty but does not necessarily humiliate him. He argues the same regarding the difference between insult and humiliation and observes that although humiliation generally involves insult, yet insult alone is not sufficient to constitute humiliation. 67. On the social context of humiliation, Parekh writes that “organised or institutionalized humiliation exists when social institutions and practices embody disrespect for, and systematically violate the self- respect of, groups of individuals.” Drawing a distinction between systemic and regimented humiliation on the one hand as distinguished from isolated incidents of humiliation on the other, he observes that while the latter is present in modern liberal societies, the former is found in societies structured on the basis of slavery, racial segregation, untouchability, caste system, hierarchical status, etc. According to him, the reason for the same is that the modern liberal societies, though marked by deep economic, political and other inequalities, allow for vertical mobility owing to the fluid nature of the inequalities. Whereas, societies based on race, caste system, etc. are grounded in inequalities like colour, birth, ethnicity, etc. which are unalterable and deeply entrenched in the very foundational fabric of such a society. The inflexible nature of the basis of inequalities leads to the existence of a more structural and systemic form of humiliation, as the perpetrator is assured of its place in the structure of the society owing to its immobility.