Jaypee Rewa Cement Ltd). After the amalgamation, in September 1986, the name of M/s. Jaypee Rewa Cement Ltd was changed to M/s. Jaiprakash Industries Ltd. Subsequently, the name was changed to M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Ltd, which is the present appellant. Thus, in short, the appellant is a company created as a result of the amalgamation of the erstwhile M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Pvt Ltd and M/s. Jaypee Rewa Cement Ltd. In short, the present appellant is the transferee company. 2. An application was made by the appellant to the respondent-Delhi Development Authority (for short, ‘DDA’) for a grant of permission to mortgage the said plots in favour of the Industrial Finance Corporation of India. By the letter dated 14th March 1991, the respondent-DDA demanded an unearned increase value of Rs.2,13,59,511.20. Being aggrieved by the said demand, representations were made by the appellant which were not favourably considered by the respondent- DDA. Therefore, the appellant filed a writ petition before a learned Single Judge of the High Court of Delhi. By the dated 30th January 2003, the learned Single Judge dismissed the said petition filed by the appellant by relying upon a decision a Division Bench of the same High Court in the case of Indian Shaving Products Limited v. Delhi Development Authority & Anr.1 Being aggrieved by the decision of the learned Single Judge, the appellant preferred an appeal before a Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi. By the impugned , the said appeal had also been dismissed. SUBMISSIONS 3. The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant invited our attention to clause II(4)(a) of the lease deed, which puts an embargo on the lessee not to sell, transfer, assign or otherwise part with the possession of the whole or any part of the said plots except with the previous consent in writing from the lessor. The proviso to the said clause entitled the lessor to impose a condition while granting consent, of payment of a portion of the unearned increase in the value (i.e. the difference between the premium paid and the market value). He submitted that the amalgamation of the lessee with another company under the s of the Company Court will not amount 1 2001 SCC Online Del 1123: 2002 1 AD (Del) 175 [2024] 4 S.C.R. 431 M/s. Jaiprakash Industries Ltd. (Presently known as M/s. Jaiprakash Associates Ltd.) v. Delhi Development Authority to the sale, transfer or assignment of the said plots. His submission is that in the case of Indian Shaving Products Limited1, the High Court had dealt with a completely different set of factual and legal nuances. In the said case, the submission of the petitioner was that Section 32 of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (for short, ‘SICA’) would have an overriding effect over the terms and conditions of the lease deed. He submitted that the merger or amalgamation was taken up in the said case for rehabilitation of a sick company and that it was a distressed company merger.