If Parliament had independently repealed these words, it would have [2024] 11 S.C.R. 93 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. not just reduced the scope of Article 31-C but altogether eliminated the effect of the Article. Without the words “the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of article 39” in Article 31-C, the provision would have been rendered nugatory. Given Parliament’s manifest intention to expand the scope of Article 31-C by Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment, it is not plausible to hold that Parliament independently sought to repeal the words “the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of article 39” from Article 31-C. Therefore, it is evident that the legislative intent of Parliament when adopting Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment was composite, to repeal and enact (i.e., to substitute) through one single action. This Court cannot therefore disaggregate the steps of repeal and enactment and give effect to the repeal even after invalidating the enactment. After Minerva Mills invalidated Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment, the composite legal effect of Section 4 is nullified and the unamended text of Article 31-C stands revived. 71. The final question is whether the revival of the unamended text of Article 31-C would in some way manifestly contravene the principles laid down in the of Minerva Mills or result in some other adverse consequence. The text of the unamended Article 31-C was challenged, and the first part of the Article was upheld by thirteen- judge decision in Kesavananda Bharati while the latter half of the Article was invalidated. Therefore, the first half of unamended Article 31-C, which is the subject matter of the present controversy, was undoubtedly constitutional as held by the thirteen-judge decision in Kesavananda Bharati and further by the Constitution Bench in Waman Rao. Therefore, if as a consequence of the decision in Minerva Mills, the unamended Article 31-C continues in force, there can be no question of any unconstitutionality or adverse consequences associated with the unamended Article 31-C. Indeed, both the Constitution Benches in Minerva Mills and Waman Rao expressly noted that the first half of Article 31-C had been held to be constitutional in Kesavananda Bharati. Further, given that the unamended Article 31-C has been given effect for over four decades as demonstrated by the decisions in Bhim Singh and Sanjeev Coke, no argument can be raised concerning any legal or practical difficulties with the operation of the unamended Article 31-C. Given these findings, we conclude that the unamended Article 31-C continues in force. 94 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 72. One final observation may be made. The principles discussed in this section of the judgement concerning the consequences of a substitution being invalidated emanate from cases concerning the invalidation of statutory provisions or delegated legislation. While constitutional amendments undoubtedly stand on a different footing legally, there is no reason that these principles concerning statutory interpretation would not apply equally to constitutional amendments. Indeed, the respondents before us highlighted a reason for them to apply with even greater force to constitutional amendments.