1875 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Mr. Tushar Mehta learned Solicitor General and Ms. Preeti Kumari for the Respondents. The proposed by my esteemed colleague, Hon’ble Mrs. Justice B.V. Nagarathna, records in detail the submissions advanced by all the learned counsel and so, for the sake of brevity I avoid doing the same. Principally, following issues are to be considered : a. Whether the conditional approval of DMH-11 by the GEAC is vitiated be it by arbitrariness/delegation/non-application of mind or any other principle of law? b. Whether in view of the precautionary principle, a complete ban on Ht Crops is warranted or if not, the suitable directions that are required to be given by this Court? Here, it stands clarified that sub-issues/ancillary aspects to the above questions, have been dealt with as the opinion progresses. Conditional Approval of the GEAC 19. The pressing challenge raised by the Petitioners, is the decision of the GEAC to conditionally approve environmental release of transgenic mustard, DMH-11 on varied grounds granted to the applicant namely the Centre for Genetic Manipulation of Crop Plants (CGMCP), University of Delhi, New Delhi. This Centre was set up to undertake research on genetic engineering and molecular breeding of oilseed brassicas.4 Before adverting to the challenges made, this Court must note the timeline leading up to the impugned approval. 20. On 29.09.2010, in the 103rd GEAC Meeting was where for the first time approval was granted for BRL-I level trials at 3 locations, namely, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kumher, Bharatpur, Rajasthan; Agricultural Research Station, Navgaon, Alwar, Rajasthan; Agricultural Research Station, Sriganganagar, Rajasthan. The Committee also approved the conduct of crossibility studies and limited seed production within the institutional research farm located at Jaunti village and Bawana, Delhi respectively. Thereafter on 21.09.2011, the GEAC granted further approval to conduct environmental safety studies on DMH-11. In the 121st meeting dated 18.07.2014, BRL-II trials in respect of DMH-11 were approved at different locations subject to submission of NOC from the State Government. 4 https://www.du.ac.in/index.php?page=centre-for-genetic-manipulation-of-crop-plants 1876 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. In the 126th Meeting of the GEAC, on 04.01.2016, a sub-committee was constituted to further deliberate on the issues raised during deliberations of DMH-11. This was followed by the GEAC on 11.05.2017, examining the report of this sub-committee and recommending the proposal for environmental release of DMH-11 with terms and conditions for further approval by Competent Authority. In the next meeting on 21.03.2018, the GEAC re-examined its decision to grant permission for environmental release of DMH-11 and advised the applicant to undertake field demonstration studies on GM Mustard to generate additional data. 22. On 20.09.2018 in its 136th meeting GEAC approved the application and the protocols for conduct of field demonstration studies on honeybees and other pollinators prepared by University of Delhi and ICAR-AICRP on honeybees at two locations up to 5 acres in each location namely PAU, Ludhiana and IARI, New Delhi and, for conduct of two field studies to assess hybrid seed efficiency and for maintenance of male sterile barnase line bn 3.6.