On this aspect, the courts have given a large number of decisions as to the time, method and manner by which vesting takes place21. 20 In State of W.B. v. Vishnunarayan & Associates (P) Ltd. (2002) 4 SCC 134, this Court held that possession can be resumed by the acquirer only in a manner known to or recognised by law and it cannot resume possession otherwise than in due course of law. In Jilubhai Nanbhai Khachar v. State of Gujarat, 1995 Supp (1) SCC 596, this Court held that though eminent domain is the highest and most exact idea of property remaining in the Government, or in the aggregate body of the people in their sovereign capacity, even then the right to take possession of a private property must be exercised in the manner directed by the Constitution and the laws of the State, since deprivation of property must take place after following the procedure of law and upon ensuring due process. 21 In Girnar Traders (3) v. State of Maharashtra (2011) 3 SCC 1, this Court held that under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, upon the payment of compensation and taking of possession of a land so acquired, the land is vested in the State free of encumbrances and the completion of such vesting of the land in the State amounts to the transfer of title from the owner to the State by a legal fiction. In P. Chinnanna v. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 855 Kolkata Municipal Corporation & Anr. v. Bimal Kumar Shah & Ors. 31. The seven principles which we have discussed are integral to the authority of law enabling compulsory acquisition of private property. Union and State statutes have adopted these principles and incorporated them in different forms in the statutes provisioning compulsory acquisition of immovable property. The importance of these principles, independent of the statutory prescription have been recognised by our constitutional courts and they have become part of our administrative law jurisprudence. 32. Conclusions: Returning to the legal submissions of the counsel for the appellant-Corporation, as we have noticed that Section 352 does not provide for any procedure whatsoever, we reject the contention that it contemplates the power of acquisition. We have already held that Section 352 is only intended to enable the Municipal Commissioner to decide whether a land is to be acquired for public purpose. The power of acquisition is in fact vested with the State under Section 537 and it will exercise it, in its own discretion, whenever the Municipal Commissioner makes an application to that effect. We have also agreed with the decision of the High Court that Section 363 is not a provision for compensation for compulsory acquisition. In this context, we have also held that a valid power of acquisition coupled with the provision for fair compensation by itself would not complete and exhaust the power and process of acquisition. Prescription of the necessary procedures, before depriving a person of his property is an integral part of the ‘authority of law’, under Article 300A and, Section 352 of the Act contemplates no procedure whatsoever.