The rule then directs that the courts must adopt that construction which “shall suppress the mischief and advance the remedy.”” 101. Applying the aforesaid rule to Section 22(1) of the Act, we find that there was a vacuum in the legal framework to deal with sick industrial companies and provide ameliorative steps for their revival. The 1985 Act was thus enacted to fill in this vacuum. The mischief which was sought to be dealt with by the enactment of Section 22 was any such legal proceeding which could impact the assets of the sick company and in-turn negatively impact the formulation and implementation of the rehabilitative scheme. This provision was inserted to provide a remedy by ensuring that the multiple recourses available under the law for recovery of debts, etc. were suspended for the period during which the sick company was under the ameliorative shelter of the BIFR. Finally, it can be said that the reason for the remedy was to shield the formulation and implementation of the revival scheme from any impediments thereby maximising the chances of revival of sick company, which was the ultimate object sought to be achieved by the Act. 102. The original defendants have placed strong reliance on 3 decisions of this Court in Jay Engineering (supra), Bhoruka Textiles (supra) and [2024] 5 S.C.R. 379 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited Tata Motors (supra) respectively. We have discussed in the foregoing parts of this as to how this Court in Jay Engineering (supra) expressly observed that it was not the adjudicatory process, but the execution of an award which would be restricted by Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act. This , thus, only furthers the line of reasoning we have adopted to negate the contention of the original defendants on the applicability of Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act. 103. The decision in Bhoruka Textiles (supra) dealt with the specific facts in that case and should be read alongwith the decision in Raheja Universal (supra) wherein the scope of Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act was considered in detail by a three-Judge bench. We would also like to observe that the reliance placed by this Court in Bhoruka Textiles (supra) on the decision in Tata Motors (supra) seems to be misplaced. The relevant paragraph of Bhoruka Textiles (supra) is reproduced hereinbelow: “10. Section 22 of the Act must be interpreted giving a plain meaning to its contents. An enquiry in terms of Section 16 of the Act by the Board is permissible upon receipt of a reference. Thus, reference having been made on 27- 12-2001 and the suit having been filed on 17-12-2002, the receipt of a reference must be held to be the starting period for proceeding with the enquiry. 11. The effect of the provisions of the Act has been considered by a three-Judge Bench decision of this Court in Tata Motors Ltd. v. Pharmaceutical Products of India Ltd. [(2008) 7 SCC 619] wherein it, in no uncertain terms, held that SICA is a special statute and, thus, overrides other Acts like the Companies Act, 1956, stating: (SCC p. 635, paras 31-33) “31.