Secondly, clause (ii) to Section 30(2)(b) deals with the amounts to be paid to the creditors and not the amount payable by the creditors to the corporate debtor. Thirdly, clause (ii) to Section 30(2)(b) has appliance when the resolution plan is being considered for approval. Fourthly, and for the reasons elaborated earlier, and in view of the specific legislative mandate as incorporated and reflected in Chapter II Part II of the IBC, we should hold that the provisions of the IBC relating to Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process do not recognise the principle of insolvency set-off. We would not extend it by implication, when the legislature has not accepted applicability of mutual set- off at the initial stage, that is, the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process stage. 42. The of this Court in Ebix Singapore Private Limited v. Committee of Creditors of Educomp Solutions Limited and Another.50, that one of the objects of the IBC is to provide for a comprehensive and a time-bound framework with smooth transition in between organisation and liquidation, has no application and relevance to the context and issue in question. The observations were made in the context of the time bound framework specified in the IBC and the need to adhere to the timelines. Reorganisation or resolution process should not get prolonged or continued indefinitely. 43. Similarly, the decision in Swiss Ribbons Private Limited and Another v. Union of India and Others51, which refers to a claim for set-off being considered by the Resolution Professional during the resolution process, is an obiter dicta and not a ratio decidendi to the issue in question. The states that a set-off between the corporate debtor and a financial creditor is a rarity. It also observes that it is not the case that legitimate set-offs may not be considered at all, and that they can be considered at the stage of filing proof 50 (2022) 2 SCC 401. 51 (2019) 4 SCC 17. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 167 BHARTI AIRTEL LIMITED AND ANOTHER v. VIJAYKUMAR V. IYER AND OTHERS of claims. These observations were made to differentiate between financial and operational creditors, and how the process of filing an application for initiating the resolution process is distinct viz. the financial creditors and operational creditors under the IBC. Whether the set-off should be considered at the stage of filing of proof of claims during the resolution process was not an issue before the court in Swiss Ribbons (supra). These observations are not ratio decidendi when we apply the inversion test and other tests for the issue in question.52 44. The of this Court in The Official Liquidator of High Court of Karnataka v. Smt. V. Lakshmikutty53 had applied Section 46 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 and had accordingly permitted insolvency set-off on interpretation and application of Sections 529 and 530 of the Companies Act, 1956. In that context, it is observed that the English courts, on interpretation of corresponding provisions of the English Companies Act, had taken a similar view. In the present matter, we are dealing with the provisions of the IBC.