This is despite the fact that responsibility for these projects was shared among multiple stakeholders, including the Sub-Divisional Officer, Rural Engineering Services, the Deputy Engineer, the Technical Officer, the CEO of the Janpad Panchayat, and the Executing Agency. It is self-evident that construction projects require coordinated efforts from engineers, contractors, timely supply of materials, and are subject to the vagaries of weather etc. Holding the Sarpanch solely accountable for delays, without evidence of her failing in allocating work or performing a duty specific to her elected position, is totally atrocious. We are convinced that these proceedings were initiated on a flimsy pretext, so as to remove the appellant from office under false and untenable grounds. 14. It deeply concerns us that there is a recurring pattern of similar cases, where administrative authorities and village panchayat members collude to exact vendettas against female Sarpanches. Such instances highlight a systemic issue of prejudice and discrimination. More recently, in Civil Appeal No. 10913/2024, titled ‘Manisha Ravindra Panpatil v. The State of Maharashtra’, decided on 27.09.2024, we observed that cases involving female Sarpanches often reveal a pervasive pattern of unfair treatment across various levels of administrative functioning. Alarmingly, the removal of an elected female representative, especially in rural and remote areas, is frequently treated as a casual matter, wherein disregarding principles of natural justice and democratic processes is treated as a time- honored tradition. This entrenched bias is particularly disheartening and demands serious introspection and reform. 15. In this context, we must emphasize that as a nation striving to become an economic powerhouse, it is distressing to witness such incidents occurring consistently and being normalized, so much so that they bear striking similarities even in geographically distant regions. Administrative authorities, being custodians of actual powers and affluent enough, should lead by example, making efforts to promote women’s empowerment and support female-led initiatives in rural and remote areas. Instead of adopting regressive attitudes that discourage 2368 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports women in elected positions, they must foster an environment that encourages their participation and leadership in governance. 16. In this regard, we are also of the view that the High Court ought not to have dismissed the appellant’s appeal vide dated 29.02.2024, on mere technical grounds, citing availability of alternative remedies. It is trite law that the High Court, while exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution has the vast discretion to entertain a writ petition, even if alternate remedies may exist, especially in cases where the Executive has blatantly and brazenly misused its power to weaken democratic values at the grass root level. 17. The impugned s passed by the Sub-Divisional Officer (Revenue), Pharsabahar, District Jashpur, Chhattisgarh dated 18.01.2024, as well as that of the High Court dated 29.02.2024 are, thus, quashed. The appellant shall continue to hold the Office of Sarpanch of Gram Panchayat Jashpur, Chhattisgarh till the completion of her term. 18. Furthermore, considering the harassment faced by the appellant, compelling her to engage in unavoidable litigation, we direct the respondent-State to pay her costs amounting to ₹1,00,000 (Rupees One Lakh) within four weeks.