Subsequently, the Ordinance was repealed and replaced by an Act. The Schedule to the Act enumerated twelve sugar undertakings which stood transferred to and vested in the [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2127 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Corporation w.e.f. 03.07.1971, the date on which the Ordinance was issued. Writ Petitions were filed before the Allahabad High Court challenging the constitutional validity of the Ordinance as well as the Act on various grounds. The Division Bench of the High Court had repelled the contentions advanced on behalf of the petitioners therein and upheld the constitutional validity of the Act. Before this Court, the main thrust of the attack was that the U.P. Legislature lacked legislative competence to enact the impugned Act. This was because under Entry 52 – List I the Parliament had made the requisite declaration in Section 2 of the IDRA and in view of Item 25 of the First Schedule to the Act i.e. sugar, being a declared industry therein, that industry was excluded from Entry 24 - List II. Hence U.P. State Legislature was denuded of all legislative power to legislate in respect of sugar industry and the impugned legislation was void on account of legislative incompetence. 13.2.1 D.A. Desai, J. for himself and on behalf of V.R. Krishna Iyer and S. Murtaza Fazal Ali, JJ. wrote for the majority. This Court analysed the relevant Entries keeping in view the legislative perspective and historical background through which Entries 7 and 52 – List I, Entry 24 - List II and Entry 33 - List III, inter alia, had passed through. Considering Entry 52 – List I and Entry 24 - List II, it was observed that “industry” as a head of legislation is to be found in Entry 24 - List II with the limitation that it is subject to Entries 7 and 52 - List I. The difference in the language in which Entries 7 and 52 - List I is couched has a bearing on the interpretation of Entry 52 - List I. The subject “industry” being enumerated in List II, the State Legislature has power to legislate in respect to it and keeping aside the words “subject to the provision of Entries 7 and 52 of List I”, the State Legislature alone can legislate in respect of the legislative head “industry”. Ipso facto Parliament would have no power to legislate in respect of industry as a legislative head. Under Entry 52 - List I, unless and until a declaration is made by Parliament by law to assume control over specified industries, the embargo on the power of Parliament to legislate in respect of industry would 2128 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports not be lifted. The declaration has to be made by Parliament by law to assume control over specified industry in public interest. Thus, the extent of control would be known by the declaration so made by law. This would necessarily depend upon the legislation enacted spelling out the degree of control assumed which is a pre-requisite for assuming control over a specified industry.