Following the logic discussed earlier, the 60 kmph standard appears arbitrary because if 60 kmph is deemed fast, then 59 kmph should also be considered fast, yet it would not be restricted. However, if the standard is left vague as “fast”, the consequences could be unjust and manifestly arbitrary. Some cars might exceed 80 kmph, leading to potential legal disputes when stopped. The lack of precise regulation could result in ineffective traffic control and costly litigation for public institutions. Conversely, if law enforcement clamps down to limit fast driving, it could create [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1095 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 a chilling effect, slowing traffic even below the optimal speeds. Thus, while a 60 kmph limit may appear arbitrary, yet implementing that as a bright-line test would be more reasonable overall. 226. Therefore, while testing the arbitrariness of bright-line tests, the Courts must be mindful of the inherent limitations in such norms and therefore a microscopic review should be avoided. Instead, as discussed above, the effort should be to determine if the bright-line norm crosses the prescribed limit of ‘manifest arbitrariness’ and is irrational and capricious enough to be struck down. If the norm is backed by a policy reason, the Court must refrain from excessively questioning the specific standard and should exercise judicial review cautiously. (e) Cut-off dates in Section 6A 227. The Petitioners vehemently challenged the cut-off dates and argue that those dates are arbitrary. As explained above, a bright-line test given by cut-off dates cannot be arbitrary unless it is shown to be unreasonable. This Court has, in a catena of decisions, maintained that the determination of cut-off dates falls within the domain of the Executive and the Court should not interfere with the fixation of the same, unless it appears to be, on the face of it, blatantly discriminatory and arbitrary.167 To this effect, this Court has even held that the choice of a cut-off date cannot always be dubbed as arbitrary, even if no particular reason is forthcoming for the choice, unless it is demonstrated to be capricious or whimsical.168 This stance aligns with the understanding of the inherent arbitrariness of bright-line tests, as discussed above in paragraphs 221 to 224. 228. Adverting to the rationale behind the cut-off date of 01.01.1966, it seems there are historical circumstances, and the said date appears to be based on two significant policy reasons: (a) Humanitarian grounds: As discussed in paragraph 185 of this judgement, Section 6A was predicated on humanitarian grounds, where citizenship was granted to the people displaced by wars and political turmoil. Between 1964 and 1965, a significant 167 State of Punjab v. Amar Nath Goyal (2005) 6 SCC 754 168 Union of India v. Parameswaran Match Works (1975) 1 SCC 305 1096 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports influx of refugees prompted the Union to issue instructions to register such persons as citizens.169 The humanitarian grounds for the grant of citizenship apparently influenced the rationale for choosing this cut-off date.