Shri Prakash Kumar Singh, Advocate on Record, who was appearing on behalf of the respondent-contemnor, has stated that he has received a telephonic call on his Mobile No. 9891223681 from Mobile No. 9146553252 supposed to be a mobile of contemnor or his son and received the messages. One of the messages regarding his disengagement and non-appearance on next date is reproduced as under: “To, Mr. Prakash Singh Tomar. From, Prithviraj Vardichand Jain. Date: 01/09/2024 Sir, as I have informed you earlier that you will not be appear in my matter, which is listed on 2nd September, therefore I am sending reminder to you that please don’t appear in my case & I have appointed a new Advocate for pursuing my case. So pls take note for the same.” 6. The photocopy of the said scanned message and other connected communications have been placed on record of this file. 7. We request learned counsel to save these messages in his mobile number in original form and may not be deleted until further s of this Court. 8. Mr. Prakash Kumar Singh, Advocate on Record, in view of the said message seeks discharge from appearing in the matter. We discharge him from appearance but at present, we are not disassociating from this case. 9. The new Advocate on Record Mr. Ashutosh Kumar Mishra, is not present in the Court as informed by the [2024] 9 S.C.R. 421 M/s Sitaram Enterprises v. Prithviraj Vardichand Jain learned counsel Mr. Nityanand Singh now appearing for contemnor. He states that Mr. Anil Kumar, son of the contemnor, has visited to his office at Delhi and met him. On his instructions, he has engaged the AOR Mr. Ashutosh Kumar Mishra and now he is appearing for the respondent-contemnor. The son of contemnor has stated that his father is bed ridden and not in a position to come and appear in the Court. No application has been filed on behalf of the contemnor indicating all these facts seeking exemption and asking date for his appearance in terms of the previous s. 10. In view of the factual scenario as indicated hereinabove, it is clear that the contemnor and his son both are aware of the proceedings of the Court and watching it thoroughly. It is also clear that contemnor has not come to Delhi and his son Anil came and contacted Mr. Nityanand Singh, Advocate, as stated before us. Therefore, the information furnished to the ASI by his son Mr. Rajesh and his wife Ms. Mangibai is incorrect and on the basis of such incorrect information, service of non-bailable warrant of arrest has been returned back to the Registrar of the Supreme Court only by the Police Inspector without supervising it by the Superintendent of the Police/ACP of the concerned area.” 11. In view of the above and for the reasons recorded, fresh non-bailable warrant was issued against respondent/contemnor for securing his physical presence in Court, clearly specifying that non execution of warrant may cause appearance of Assistant Commissioner as well as the Inspector of the police of the area.