Moreover, the effect of implementation of the recommendation of the Law Commission would be that the subject “Alcohol” which covers both industrial alcohol and potable alcohol would no longer be a Central subject.” (emphasis supplied) 131. The Statement of Objects and Reasons indicates that the recommendation of the Law Commission was not accepted because the effect of accepting the recommendation would be that both ‘industrial alcohol’ and potable alcohol would be in the domain of the States, and that this would be contrary to Bihar Distillery (supra). Hence, the IDRA was amended to remove only potable alcohol from Item 26 of IDRA. 132. We have held above that Parliament under Entry 52 of List I does not have the legislative competence to enact a law taking control of the industry of intoxicating liquor. The State Legislatures will have control over the industry of ‘intoxicating liquor’. Parliament could not have taken control of the field covered by Entry 8 since we have interpreted intoxicating liquor to include alcohol other than potable alcohol as well. Therefore, Item 26 of the First Schedule to the IDRA must be read as excluding the industry of “intoxicating liquor”, as interpreted in this . vii. The (ir)relevance of the decision in Tika Ramji to the dispute 133. In Tika Ramji (supra), sugarcane farmers instituted proceedings under Article 32 of the Constitution challenging the constitutional validity of the Uttar Pradesh Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) Act 1953203 and two notifications issued by the State government under the Act. The constitutional validity of the UP Sugarcane Act was challenged on the ground that the State Legislature did not have the competence because Item 8 of the 203 “UP Sugarcane Act”. 2038 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Schedule to the IDRA notified ‘sugar’ as one of the controlled industries, and that the legislation regulating sugarcane was in pith and substance related to ‘sugar’. The Constitution Bench, inter alia, held that: a. Industry in the wide sense of the term comprises of three different aspects: (i) raw materials which are an integral part of the industrial process; (ii) the process of manufacture or production; and (iii) the distribution of the products of the entries;204 b. The Seventh Schedule creates a demarcation based on the above three stages. Entry 27 of List II deals with the production, supply and distribution of goods subject to the provisions of Entry 33 of List III. The term ‘goods’ is defined by Article 366(12) of the Constitution and includes materials, commodities and articles. ‘Materials’ includes raw materials. Thus, the raw materials for industries would be covered by Entry 27 of List II. The products would also fall under Entry 27 of List II, except in the case of a controlled industry in which case they would be covered by Entry 33 of List III. Entry 24 of List II would deal with the process of manufacture or production, unless it is a controlled industry under Entry 52 of List I.205 Thus, the phrase ‘industry’ in Entry 24 of List II and Entry 52 of List I takes the narrow meaning of process of production and manufacture; c. Section 18G of the IDRA enables the Union Government to regulate supply and distribution, and trade and commerce of certain ‘articles’.