See Summary, pp. 10. The report provides the best available evidence about what works to overcome barriers to health care, rehabilitation, education, employment, and support services, and to create the environments which will enable people with disabilities to flourish. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 981 Rajive Raturi v. Union of India & Ors. economic marginalisation of PWDs. Moreover, the lack of accessibility exacerbates inequalities, as it limits the ability of PWDs to engage in community life, and often results in dependence on others, restricting their autonomy and opportunities for self-determination. This, in turn, results in broader societal costs, as PWDs are often prevented from contributing to the workforce and society, thus perpetuating a cycle of poverty and isolation. i. International Framework on Accessibility 14. The evolution of accessibility as a right has been influenced by progressive international legal standards, which recognise it as integral to the dignity, equality, and autonomy of PWDs.6 The recognition of accessibility within the international human rights context highlights its importance as a prerequisite for the enjoyment of a range of rights, fostering a shift from charity-based approaches to rights-based ones.7 15. Accessibility is woven throughout the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 8 as a cross-cutting right, reinforcing its critical role in achieving social inclusion. It is highlighted in paragraph (e) of the Preamble, which calls for an environment that supports full personal development and societal participation.9 Article 3 sets out accessibility as a general principle, which highlights the necessity of removing both tangible and intangible barriers to ensure that PWDs can fully exercise their rights.10 These barriers can be physical, such as inaccessible buildings and transportation systems, or intangible, such as discriminatory attitudes or inaccessible digital content. 6 Fréderic Mégrét, ‘The Disabilities Convention: Human Rights of Persons with Disabilities or Disability Rights?’, Human Rights Quarterly 30, no. 2 (2008): 507. 7 Accessibility was a key element of the third goal of the World Programme of Action (WPA), titled ‘Equalization of Opportunities,’ as outlined in UN General Assembly Resolution 37/52, adopted on 3 December 1982. Another crucial document addressing the principle of accessibility is the UN Standard Rules on the Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1993 under Resolution 48/96, passed on 20 December 1993. 8 “CRPD” 9 CRPD, Preamble para. (e) states as follows: ‘Recognizing the importance of accessibility to the physical, social, economic and cultural environment, to health and education and to information and communication, in enabling persons with disabilities to fully enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms’. 10 CRPD, Article 3. 982 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 16. Article 9 of the CRPD11 is particularly significant as it sets out explicit obligations for States Parties to promote accessibility as an essential right.12 Article 9(1) mandates that States take proactive steps to ensure persons with disabilities have equal access to public spaces, transportation, information, communication systems, and services.13 This directive encompasses the development, implementation, and monitoring of standards and guidelines that promote access.