The appeal has been consequently dismissed on delay on 9 July 2024. 8. The issue which arises for consideration turns on the interpretation of Rule 50 of the NCLT Rules and Rule 22 of the NCLAT Rules. 9. An appeal to the appellate authority is governed by the provisions of Section 61(2) of the IBC which provides as follows : “61. (2) Every appeal under sub-section (1) shall be filed within thirty days before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal: Provided that the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal may allow an appeal to be filed after the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing the appeal but such period shall not exceed fifteen days.” 10. Rule 50 of the NCLT Rules provides as follows : “50. Registry to send certified copy.—The Registry shall send a certified copy of final passed to the parties concerned free of cost and the certified copies may be made available with cost as per Schedule of fees, in all other cases.” 4 “The NCLT Rules” 5 “The NCLAT Rules” 388 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 11. Rule 22 of the NCLAT Rules is in the following terms : “22. Presentation of appeal.—(1) Every appeal shall be presented in Form NCLAT-1 in triplicate by the appellant or petitioner or applicant or respondent, as the case may be, in person or by his duly authorised representative duly appointed in this behalf in the prescribed form with stipulated fee at the filing counter and non-compliance of this may constitute a valid ground to refuse to entertain the same. (2) Every appeal shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the impugned . (3) All documents filed in the Appellate Tribunal shall be accompanied by an index in triplicate containing their details and the amount of fee paid thereon. (4) Sufficient number of copies of the appeal or petition or application shall also be filed for service on the opposite party as prescribed. (5) In the pending matters, all other applications shall be presented after serving copies thereof in advance on the opposite side or his advocate or authorised representative. (6) The processing fee prescribed by the rules, with required number of envelopes of sufficient size and notice forms as prescribed shall be filled along with memorandum of appeal.” 12. Rule 22(1) provides for (i) the presentation of an appeal in Form NCLAT-1; (ii) the person by whom the appeal may be filed; and (iii) the submission of the stipulated fee. Rule 22(2) stipulates that “every appeal shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the impugned ”. 13. Rule 50 of the NCLT Rules governs the furnishing of certified copies. Rule 50 indicates that the Registry shall send a certified copy of the final which has been passed to the parties concerned free of cost. It also indicates that certified copies may be made available against the payment of costs in terms of the Schedule of Fees, in [2024] 10 S.C.R.