On the other hand, if it is to be recognised that ownership of the property gets transferred from the enemy to the Custodian who takes possession of the property and administers it or manages it and thereby the ownership would then be that of the Union, in that event, it would be a deprivation of the property of the true owner who may be an enemy or an enemy subject or enemy firm but such deprivation of property cannot be without payment of compensation. Having regard to the salutary principles of Article 300-A of the Act, we cannot construe the taking possession of the enemy property for the purpose of administration of the same by the Custodian, as an instance of transfer of ownership from the true owner to the Custodian and thereby to the Union. This position is totally unlike the position under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 or the subsequent legislation of 2013 918 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports which are expropriatory legislations under which acquisition of land would inevitably result in transfer of the ownership of the land from the owner to the State which is the acquiring authority, but the same would be subject to payment of a reasonable and fair compensation to the owner. 18.3 Further even under Article 296 of the Constitution, the manner in which ownership of certain types of property gets vested directly with the Union is stated when such property vests with the Union by virtue of the application of the doctrine of escheat or doctrine of bona vacantia. But under the provisions of the Act, the Custodian is appointed only to protect the property and to manage it as a trustee and not as an owner by vesting in the Custodian free from all encumbrances. By that, the Union cannot assume rights of ownership over such property through the Custodian. 19. Therefore, we see no substance in the arguments of learned ASG appearing for the Union of India as well as that of Sri Guru Krishna Kumar appearing for the respondent-lessee to the effect that enemy property vested with the Custodian becomes property of the Union. 20. There is another angle to the case which revolves around Article 285 of the Constitution. Clause (1) of Article 285 of the Constitution corresponds to the first paragraph of Section 154 and clause (2) corresponds to the proviso to Section 154 of the Government of India Act, 1935. For a more comprehensive understanding of the subject, it would also be useful to read Articles 286, 287, 288, 289 and Article 296 also. Article 289: 21. Clause (1) of Article 289 exempts from Union taxation any income of a State, whether it is derived from governmental or non-governmental activities. However, an exception is provided in clause (2) thereof in that the income derived by a State from trade or business would be taxable, provided a law is made by Parliament in that behalf. Clause (3) is an exception to the exception prescribed in clause (2) which states that the income derived from a particular trade or business may still be immune from Union taxation if Parliament declares that the said trade or business is incidental to the ordinary functions of Government.