The appellant has no locus to maintain the present proceedings before this Court. In a case of settlement between a corporate debtor and an individual creditor, there is no scope for hearing any third-party creditor, as such a creditor is free to adopt other remedies for its claims; c. Despite liberty being granted to the appellant to revive its Section 7 petition, the appellant has failed to do so, because a revival would lead to scrutiny of the maintainability of the Section 7 petition. As the appellant has a weak case on maintainability, it is seeking to piggyback on the Section 9 NCLT and is opposing the settlement; d. The appellant is indulging in forum shopping. Despite specific liberty to revive its Section 7 petition, the appellant chose to move an appeal against the of disposal and intervened in the proceedings before the NCLAT instituted by the second respondent. In parallel, the appellant also initiated proceedings before the Delaware Bankruptcy Court to stall the settlement; e. The Corporate Debtor is an ed-tech services business, whose revenue is generated from its intellectual property and subscriptions from students. Revenues are likely to be hit with [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1823 GLAS Trust Company LLC v. BYJU Raveendran & Ors. each day that the Corporate Debtor continues into insolvency, which could lead to classes shutting down, disruption of services, teachers resigning, and students dropping out; and f. The Corporate Debtor is a solvent company with a running business of 27,000 employees and 150 million students. A viable company capable of repaying its debts must not be admitted into CIRP. 32. Mr Tushar Mehta, the learned Solicitor General appearing for the second respondent, supported the arguments of the first respondent in support of the Impugned Judgement and also advanced the following submissions: a. The IBC aims to prevent the economic death of entities, which involves encouraging settlement between the parties. NCLAT passed the Impugned Judgement after hearing all concerned parties. Thus, there was no infirmity in invoking inherent powers under Rule 11 of the NCLAT Rules 2016; b. Regulation 30A was a statutory response to the decision of this Court in Swiss Ribbons (P) Ltd. v. Union of India22 and the intent is to encourage settlement. The provision is directory as no consequence of non-compliance is stipulated. It does not contemplate adjudication about the factum of settlement, the mode/method of settlement or any specific legal ground by the NCLT; c. Regulation 30A, even if applicable can have no application when the settlement is made using personal funds and not the funds of the corporate debtor; and d. The payment to BCCI does not prejudice other creditors or stakeholders of the Corporate Debtor as it is not made from the possible insolvency estate that would be created if the Corporate Debtor goes through CIRP. 33. We also had an opportunity to hear the learned Senior Counsel who appeared for the intervenors. Mr Gopal Sankarnarayan appeared for an entity that claims to be another Operational Creditor. Another intervention application was moved by several shareholders of the 22 [2019] 3 SCR 535 : (2019) 4 SCC 17.