for the Appellants. R Bala, Sr. Adv., Santosh Kr, Akshay Amritanshu, Mohd. Akhil, Sachin Sharma, Alankar Gupta, Dr. Arun Kumar Yadav, Dr. N. Visakamurthy, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Advs. for the Respondents. / of the Supreme Court 1 We have heard Ms Pooja Dhar, counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants and Mr R Balasubramanian, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents. 520 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2 Delay in filing the Miscellaneous Application is condoned. 3 These proceedings arise from a dated 16 November 2022 in Wg Cdr A U Tayyaba (retd) & Ors v Union of India & Ors1. The specific directions which form the subject matter of these proceedings are set out below: "i. All the women SSCOs governed by the present batch of cases shall be considered for the grant of one- time pensionary benefits on the basis that they have completed the minimum qualifying service required for pension; ii. The cases of the appellants shall be evaluated on the basis of the HRP dated 19 November 2010 bearing Part No 5; and iii. The officers who are found eligible for the grant of pensionary benefits in terms of the present direction shall not be entitled to any arrears of salary, but the arrears of pension shall be payable with effect from the date on which the officers are deemed to have completed twenty years of service;” 4 In terms of the above directions, the Union government has issued Pension Payment s2 for the officers. 5 During the course of the hearing, it has emerged before the Court that the women officers were released from service at the end of the fourteenth year and the salary for the purpose of computing the pension was taken as the last drawn salary as of the date of the release. No increments have been granted to the applicants between the date of release and the date on which they are deemed to have completed twenty years service in terms of the of this Court dated 16 November 2022. 6 According to the applicants, the authorities have not correctly interpreted the operative directions; once the applicants have been treated to have completed the minimum qualifying service required for pension, the last drawn salary must be taken as on that date and increments have to be computed for pension. 1 Civil Appeal Nos 79-82 of 2012 2 PPOs [2024] 4 S.C.R. 521 Wg Cdr A U Tayyaba (retd) & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. 7 The first direction which was issued by this Court was that all the women Short Service Commissioned Officers3 governed by the batch of cases would be considered for the grant of one time pensionary benefits “on the basis that they have completed the minimum qualifying service required for pension”. The minimum qualifying service for pension is twenty years. 8 Hence: (i) The pensionary payments would have to be computed on the basis of the salary on the date of the deemed completion of twenty years; and (ii) The women SSCOs would be entitled to notional increments between the date of release and the date on which they have completed the minimum qualifying period for pension, namely, the deemed completion of twenty years.