In such a scenario, a party cannot be precluded from invoking the arbitration clause only on the ground that it had previously invoked the same arbitration clause. If the cause of action for invoking subsequent arbitration has arisen after the invocation of the first arbitration, then the application for appointment of arbitrator cannot be rejected on the ground of multiplicity alone. 53. The principles of 23 Rule 1 are extended to proceedings other than suits with a view to bring in certainty, expediency and efficiency in legal proceedings. However, at the same time, it must also be kept in mind while extending the principles to legal proceedings other than suits that the principles are not applied in a rigid or hyper-technical manner. While the nature of the proceedings, that is, whether such proceeding is a suit or otherwise, should not be a consideration in deciding whether the principles of 23 Rule 1 should be extended to such proceedings or not, the bonafide conduct of a party in the unique facts of a case must be considered before precluding such a party from moving ahead with the proceedings. 54. In the case of Vanna Claire Kaura v. Gauri Anil Indulkar & Ors. reported in (2009) 7 SCC 541 the applicant filed a Section 11(6) application before the High Court of Bombay. A dispute was raised that the application was not maintainable as the agreements were in the nature of international commercial arbitration agreement under the Act, 1996 and the application for appointment would only lie before [2024] 12 S.C.R. 173 M/s HPCL Bio-Fuels Ltd. v. M/s Shahaji Bhanudas Bhad the Chief Justice of India. Accordingly, the applicant withdrew the Section 11 application and filed a Section 11(6) application before this Court. The subsequent application was opposed inter alia on the ground that arbitration was invoked by notice dated 14.03.2006 and was thereafter abandoned with the withdrawal of the petition from the High Court. Hence, the second application without the leave of the High Court would not be maintainable. However, this Court, negatived the objections against the application and proceeded to appoint the arbitrator. 55. Coming to the facts of the case at hand, both the applications under Section 11(6) of the Act, 1996 were filed seeking adjudication of the dispute which arose on 02.02.2014 upon refusal of the appellant to pay the dues of the respondent. The first application under Section 11(6) was filed on 16.02.2018 and was subsequently withdrawn unconditionally on 01.10.2018. After a gap of more than four years, the respondent filed a subsequent application under Section 11(6) before the High Court on 09.12.2022 which came to be allowed by the impugned . 56. The High Court was of the view that the respondent chose to withdraw the petition under legal advice and thereafter approached NCLT under the IBC but did not succeed in its endeavor. Further, the High Court observed that while dismissing the appeal, this Court vide dated 15.07.2022 granted liberty to the respondent to avail such remedies in accordance with law, which shall include the remedy of arbitration.