Whatever be the nature of the claim, the argument can always be put forward that the Government, not the State, is interested in making that claim. Such a rigid interpretation of the scope of Article 131 will [2024] 7 S.C.R. 699 The State of West Bengal v. Union of India virtually reduce it to a dead-letter and destroy a precious safeguard against the use of arbitrary power. The interpretation canvassed by the learned Additional Solicitor General must, therefore, be avoided, Insofar as the language of the article permits it which in my opinion it does. ………. 117. The of this Court in State of Bihar v. Union of India [(1970) 1 SCC 67 : (1970) 2 SCR 522] affords no real assistance on the question arising before us. In that case, the Court raised three issues in the suits filed under Article 131. The first issue which related to the question whether the suits were within the scope of Article 131 was not answered by the Court because it held on the second issue that the suits were not maintainable, since a private party was impleaded thereto. The only assistance which may be derived from the in that case is that it said that the disputes under Article 131 should be “in respect of legal rights and not disputes of a political character” and that though it was unnecessary to define the scope of Article 131, “this much is certain that the legal right which is the subject of dispute must arise in the context of the Constitution and the Federalism it sets up” (p. 529). These observations do not affect the construction which I have placed on Article 131. I have endeavoured to show that it is competent to the State Governments to bring suits of the present nature under that article and that by these suits, the State Governments are raising a legal, not a political, issue. Their assertion is that the Government of India does not possess the constitutional power claimed by it and therefore, this Court should declare that they are immune from the exercise of that power. The States assert their legal right of immunity which, as explained above, denotes freedom from the power of another.” [emphasis supplied] 700 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 36. It could thus be seen that Justice Chandrachud observed that the true construction of Article 131(a), true in substance and true pragmatically, is that a dispute must arise between the Union of India and a State. His Lordship further observed that the dispute between the Union of India and a State cannot but be a dispute which arises out of the differences between the Government in office at the Centre and the Government in office in the State. It was further held that the further requirement for a dispute to fall within the ambit of the classes of disputes under Article 131 of the Constitution is that the dispute must involve a question, whether of law or fact, on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends.