v. MB Power (Madhya Pradesh) Limited & Ors. all the remaining Financial Bids of Qualified Bidders until the entire Requisitioned Capacity is met or until the time when the balance of the Requisitioned Capacity is less than the Minimum Bid Capacity. 3.5.5 At any step in the process in Clause 3.5.4, in case the Requisitioned Capacity has not been achieved and the offered capacity of the Bidder with the lowest Levelized Tariff amongst the remaining Financial Bids is larger than the balance Requisitioned Capacity, any fraction or combination of fractions offered by such Bidder shall be considered for selection, towards meeting the Requisitioned Capacity. 3.5.6 The selection process shall stand completed once the Requisitioned Capacity has been achieved through the summation of the quantum offered by the Successful Bidders or when the balance of the Requisitioned Capacity is less than the Minimum Bid Capacity. Provided however in case only one Bidder remains at any step of the selection process and the balance Requisitioned Capacity exceeds the Minimum Bid Capacity, Financial Bid(s) of such Bidder shall be referred to Appropriate Commission and the selection of the Bidder shall then be at the sole discretion of the Appropriate Commission. 3.5.7 At any step during the selection of Successful Bidder(s) in accordance with Clauses 3.5.2 to 3.5.6, the Procurer / Authorized Representative reserves the right to increase / decrease the Requisitioned Capacity by up to ten percent (10%) of the quantum indicated in Clause 1.3.1 to achieve the balance Requisitioned Capacity and select the Successful Bidder with the lowest Levelized Tariff amongst the remaining Bids. Any increase / decrease in the Requisitioned Capacity exceeding ten percent (10%) of the quantum in Clause 1.3.1. can be made only with the approval of the Appropriate Commission. 938 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 3.5.8 The Letter(s) of Intent shall be issued to all such Successful Bidder(s) selected as per the provisions of this Clause 3.5. 3.5.9 There shall be no negotiation on the Quoted Tariff between the Authorized Representative/ Procurer and the Bidder(s) during the process of evaluation. 3.5.10 Each Successful Bidder shall unconditionally accept the LOI, and record on one (1) copy of the LOI, “Accepted Unconditionally”, under the signature of the authorized signatory of the Successful Bidder and return such copy to the Procurer/ Authorized Representative within seven (7) days of issue of LOI. 3.5.11 If the Successful Bidder, to whom the Letter of Intent has been issued does not fulfill any of the conditions specified in Clauses 2.2.8 and 2.2.9, the Procurer / Authorized Representative reserves the right to annul the award of the Letter of Intent of such Successful Bidder. Further, in such a case, the provisions of Clause 2.5 (b) shall apply. 3.5.12 The Procurer / Authorized Representative, in its own discretion, has the right to reject all Bids if the Quoted Tariff are not aligned to the prevailing market prices.” 42. It will also be relevant to refer to clause 5.15 of the Bidding Guidelines, which is as under: “5.1 The bidder who has quoted lowest levellised tariff as per evaluation procedure, shall be considered for the award.