III. The award was patently illegal 44. In the case at hand, the Division Bench found the award to be perverse, irrational and patently illegal since it ignored the vital evidence of CMRS certification in deciding the validity of termination. This, the Division Bench held, overlooked the statutory certification deeming it irrelevant without reasons and thus the award was patently illegal according to the test in Associate Builders (supra).27 26 Chandi Prasad Chokhani v. State of Bihar, AIR 1961 SC 1708; Pritam Singh v. State, 1950 SCC 189. 27 Division Bench, paras 98-99. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 495 Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. v. Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt. Ltd. 45. This Court in appeal against the of the Division Bench of the High Court held that the award was not perverse. Factual findings such as the finding that the cure period was 90 days and that DAMEPL was entitled to terminate the contract, could not, it was held, be interfered with.28 On the CMRS Certificate, this Court held that the arbitral tribunal was deciding whether there was a breach of the agreement and whether the defects were cured within the cure period; hence the safety of the line was not an issue before the tribunal. This Court held that the Commissioner may be the competent authority to determine the safety of the project but the certificate itself did not show that the defects were cured within 90 days. This Court disagreed with the Division Bench and held that the CMRS certificate had no bearing on the validity of the termination. 46. There is a fundamental error in the manner in which this Court dealt with the challenge to the decision of the High Court. This jurisdiction of this Court was invoked under Article 136 of the Constitution. The Court was exercising its jurisdiction over a decision rendered by the Division Bench of the High Court in appeal under Section 37. The Division Bench had held that the award overlooked crucial facts and evidence on record that were crucial to the determination of the issues before the arbitral tribunal. This led to the award being perverse and patently illegal within the parameters of Section 34 as explained in the s of this Court in Associate Builders (supra) and Ssangyong (supra). The award overlooked the express terms of clause 29.5.1(i) which stipulated that if “effective steps” were taken during the cure period by DMRC, the contractual power to terminate could not be exercised. This Court incorrectly considered the CMRS certificate to be irrelevant to the validity of the termination. i. Interpretation of the termination clause by the Tribunal was unreasonable 47. Interference with an arbitral award cannot frustrate the ‘commercial wisdom behind opting for alternate dispute resolution’, merely because an alternate view exists.29 However, the interpretation of a contract cannot be unreasonable, such that no person of ordinary prudence would take it. The contract, which is a culmination of the parties’ 28 Civil Appeal, para 31. 29 Dyna Technologies Private Limited v. Crompton Greaves Limited, (2019) 20 SCC 1, paras 24, 25.