In fact, the usual practice is to record the complete complaint in the FIR book (or annex it with the FIR [2024] 2 S.C.R. 803 Shailesh Kumar v. State of U.P. (Now State of Uttarakhand) form) but record only about one or two paragraphs (gist of the information) in the General Diary. xxx xxx xxx 70. If at all, there is any inconsistency in the provisions of Section 154 of the Code and Section 44 of the Police Act, 1861, with regard to the fact as to whether the FIR is to be registered in the FIR book or in the General Diary, the provisions of Section 154 of the Code will prevail and the provisions of Section 44 of the Police Act, 1861 (or similar provisions of the respective corresponding Police Act or Rules in other respective States) shall be void to the extent of the repugnancy. Thus, FIR is to be recorded in the FIR book, as mandated under Section 154 of the Code, and it is not correct to state that information will be first recorded in the General Diary and only after preliminary inquiry, if required, the information will be registered as FIR. xxx xxx xxx 72. It is thus unequivocally clear that registration of FIR is mandatory and also that it is to be recorded in the FIR book by giving a unique annual number to each FIR to enable strict tracking of each and every registered FIR by the superior police officers as well as by the competent court to which copies of each FIR are required to be sent. xxx xxx xxx 97. The Code contemplates two kinds of FIRs : the duly signed FIR under Section 154(1) is by the informant to the officer concerned at the police station. The second kind of FIR could be which is registered by the police itself on any information received or other than by way of an informant [Section 157(1)] and even this information has to be duly recorded and the copy should be sent to the Magistrate forthwith. The registration of FIR either on the basis of the information furnished by the informant under Section 154(1) of the Code or otherwise under 804 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Section 157(1) of the Code is obligatory. The obligation to register FIR has inherent advantages: 97.1. (a) It is the first step to “access to justice” for a victim. 97.2. (b) It upholds the “rule of law” inasmuch as the ordinary person brings forth the commission of a cognizable crime in the knowledge of the State. 97.3. (c) It also facilitates swift investigation and sometimes even prevention of the crime. In both cases, it only effectuates the regime of law. 97.4. (d) It leads to less manipulation in criminal cases and lessens incidents of “antedated” FIR or deliberately delayed FIR.” (emphasis supplied) Ram Chander v. State of Haryana, (1981) 3 SCC 191, “3…. The court, the prosecution and the defence must work as a team whose goal is justice, a team whose captain is the judge.