The Constitution mandates that the Parliament and the legislative bodies of the States must apply Directive Principles in making their laws. They would be failing in their duty if they ignore this 35 1951 SCC OnLine SC 30, para 15. 36 1958 SCC OnLine SC 8, para 8. 37 1957 SCC OnLine SC 629, para 12. 282 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Constitutional mandate. It will be the same for the Courts if they fail to enforce Fundamental Rights which are enshrined in Part III of the Constitution. These are coordinate functions and must be performed in harmony.38 The earlier position taken by this Court in s cited above, in my opinion, did not reflect the correct position of the Constitution. An extremely eloquent expression underlining the significance of Directive Principles was given by Justice Y.V. Chandrachud in Kesavananda Bharati: “…..As I look at the provisions of Parts III and IV, I feel no doubt that the basic object of conferring freedoms on individuals is the ultimate achievement of the ideal set out in Part IV. A circumspect use of the freedoms guaranteed by Part III is bound to subserve the common good but voluntary submission to restraints is a philosopher’s dream. Therefore Article 37 enjoins the State to apply the Directive Principles in making laws. The freedoms of a few have then to be abridged in to ensure the freedom of all. It is in this sense that Parts III and IV, as said by Granville Austin, together constitute the ‘conscience of the Constitution’. The Nation stands today at the cross- roads of history and exchanging the time honoured place of the phrase, may I say that the Directive Principles of State Policy should not be permitted to become ‘a mere rope of sand’. If the State fails to create conditions in which the fundamental freedoms could be enjoyed by all, the freedom of the few will be at the mercy of the many and then all freedoms will vanish. In , therefore, to preserve their freedom, the privileged few must part with a portion of it.” 39 Kesavananda Bharati, is a landmark decision which is notable for the strong but positive rupture it makes in our Constitutional journey and lays down a new path of Constitutional understanding and interpretation with its “basic structure” doctrine. Kesavananda Bharati also firmly establishes the importance of directive principles 38 P.k. triPathy, sPOtliGhts On cOnstitutiOnal interPretatiOn (N.M Tripathi Pvt. Ltd., 1972), Pg. 295. 39 [1973] Supp. 1 SCR 1 : (1973) 4 SCC 225, para 2120. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 283 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. in our Constitution and in interpretation of the legislative measures which have been brought about for the enforcement of Directive Principles. Later, in Minerva Mills, Justice Y.V. Chandrachud further reiterates this position: “Part III and Part IV are like two wheels of a chariot, one no less important than the other. In other words, Indian Constitution is founded on the bedrock of the balance between Parts III and IV.