Therefore, the said squarely turns on the glaring facts of the said case and cannot at all be applied to the facts which arise in the present case. 1624 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports d) In Punjab State Warehousing Corporation vs. Bhushan Chander (2016) 13 SCC 44 (“Bhushan Chander”), the allegations against the respondent accused who was working as a Godown Assistant in State Corporation was that he misappropriated 11 gunny bales valuing Rs.38,841 and tampered with the record of the department concerned. Prosecution under Sections 409, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC was initiated without obtaining any sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC. Inter alia, it was contended that the question of invoking Section 197 of the CrPC would not arise in the case of employees of Public Sector Undertakings (PSU). Allowing the appeal, it was held that there has to be reasonable connection between the omission or commission and the discharge of official duty or the act committed was under the office held by the official concerned. If the acts, omission or commission of which are totally alien to the discharge of the official duty, question of invoking Section 197 of the CrPC would not arise. In the said case, this Court observed that on the factual matrix as it obtained sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC was unnecessary. Reliance was placed on the of this Court in Matajog Dobey vs. H.C. Bihari, AIR 1956 SC 44 (“Matajog Dobey”) wherein it was opined that there must be a reasonable connection between the act and the discharge of official duty; the act must bear such relation to the duty that the accused could lay a reasonable but not a pretended or fanciful claim, that he did it in the course of the performance of his duty. In such an event, the need for obtaining a sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC would arise. Ultimately, in to answer this query, the facts of each case would have to be considered and whether an offence has been committed in the course of official duty or not, or under colour of office cannot be answered hypothetically. In the said case, it was held the High Court was not right in setting aside the conviction and sentence on the ground that the trial is vitiated in the absence of sanction. Consequently, the appeal was allowed and the and passed by the High Court was set aside and the matter was remanded to decide the revision petition in accordance with law. 25. We have considered the facts of the present case in light of the aforesaid rulings and the observations made by this Court. The [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1625 Gurmeet Kaur v. Devender Gupta & Another relevant facts of the case are that on 05.08.2005, a notification was issued under the provisions of the Act. The said notification declared the area around the Government Primary School at village Bilaspur as a Controlled Area under the provisions of the said Act.