On these grounds, he implored the court to set aside the impugned and restore the acquittal of the appellants. Submissions on behalf of Respondent-State: - 34. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the respondent State vehemently and fervently opposed the submissions advanced by learned counsel for the appellants. He urged that learned Division Bench of the High Court, while considering the appeal against acquittal, thoroughly reappreciated the evidence available on record and arrived at an independent and well considered conclusion that the depositions of the eye witnesses PW-1, PW- 2, PW-4, PW-6 and PW-15 were convincing and did not suffer from any significant contradictions or infirmities so as to justify the decision of the trial Court in discarding their evidence and acquitting the accused of the charges. The FIR(Exhibit P-10) was promptly lodged at 4.00 am in the morning of 20th September, 2001. There was no such delay in lodging the report which could cast a doubt on the truthfulness of the prosecution story. The so called contradictions and discrepancies highlighted by the trial Court in the evidence of the eyewitnesses for doubting their evidentiary worth are trivial and insignificant and acquittal of accused as recorded by the learned trial Court disregarding the testimony of the eyewitnesses is based on perverse and unacceptable reasoning. Learned counsel thus urged that the High Court was perfectly justified in reversing the acquittal of the accused appellants by the impugned which does not require interference in this appeal. 35. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions made at bar and have gone through the s of the trial Court and High Court as well as the evidence available on record. 190 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Discussion and Conclusion: - 36. First of all, we would like to reiterate the principles laid down by this Court governing the scope of interference by the High Court in an appeal filed by the State for challenging acquittal of the accused recorded by the trial Court. 37. This Court in the case of Rajesh Prasad v. State of Bihar and Another1 encapsulated the legal position covering the field after considering various earlier s and held as below: - “29. After referring to a catena of s, this Court culled out the following general principles regarding the powers of the appellate court while dealing with an appeal against an of acquittal in the following words: (Chandrappa case [Chandrappa v. State of Karnataka, (2007) 4 SCC 415] “42. From the above decisions, in our considered view, the following general principles regarding powers of the appellate court while dealing with an appeal against an of acquittal emerge: (1) An appellate court has full power to review, reappreciate and reconsider the evidence upon which the of acquittal is founded. (2) The Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 puts no limitation, restriction or condition on exercise of such power and an appellate court on the evidence before it may reach its own conclusion, both on questions of fact and of law.