The distinction between a body created by the statute and a body governed in accordance with a statute has been explained by this [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2213 Army Welfare Education Society New Delhi v. Sunil Kumar Sharma & Ors. Etc. Court in Executive Committee of Vaish Degree College v. Lakshmi Narain (1976) 2 SCC 58, as follows:- (SCC p. 65, para 10) “10. … It is, therefore, clear that there is a well marked distinction between a body which is created by the statute and a body which after having come into existence is governed in accordance with the provisions of the statute. In other words the position seems to be that the institution concerned must owe its very existence to a statute which would be the fountainhead of its powers. The question in such cases to be asked is, if there is no statute would the institution have any legal existence. If the answer is in the negative, then undoubtedly it is a statutory body, but if the institution has a separate existence of its own without any reference to the statute concerned but is merely governed by the statutory provisions it cannot be said to be a statutory body.” 31. As stated above, the school is affiliated to CBSE for the sake of convenience, namely, for the purpose of recognition and syllabus or the courses of study and the provisions of the 2009 Act and the Rules framed thereunder. 32. The contention canvassed by Respondent 1 is that a writ petition is maintainable against the Committee of Management controlling the affairs of an institution (minority) run by it, if it violates any rules and bye-laws laid down by CBSE. First, as discussed above, CBSE itself is not a statutory body nor the regulations framed by it have any statutory force. Secondly, the mere fact that the Board grants recognition to the institutions on certain terms and conditions itself does not confer any enforceable right on any person as against the Committee of Management. 33. In Regina v. St. Aloysius Higher Secondary School (1972) 4 SCC 188 : AIR 1971 SC 1920, this Court held that the mere fact that an institution is recognised by an authority, does not itself create an enforceable right to an 2214 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports aggrieved party against the Management by a teacher on the ground of breach or non-compliance of any of the Rules which was part of terms of the recognition. It was observed as under:- “24. … The Rules thus govern the terms on which the Government would grant recognition and aid and the Government can enforce these rules upon the management. But the enforcement of such rules is a matter between the Government and the management, and a third party, such as teacher aggrieved by some of the management cannot derive from the rules any enforceable right against the management on the ground of breach or non- compliance of any of the rules.” 34. In Anita Verma v. D.A.V.