In pursuance of the aforesaid , Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General of India, has handed over a draft notification to be issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) regarding constitution of Central Empowered Committee (CEC). The said draft has already been shared with Mr. K. Parameshwar, learned Amicus Curiae. 3. Learned Amicus Curiae submits that he has only one suggestion to the draft notification i.e. there should be a provision for periodical audit of the functioning of the CEC by the MoEFCC. 4. Learned Solicitor General does not have any objection to the said suggestion. He states that the suggestion given by the learned Amicus Curiae would be incorporated in the final notification that would be issued by the MoEFCC. 5. We, therefore, permit the Union of India to proceed further with the issuance of notification for constitution of the CEC as a permanent body. 6. We find that rather than CEC functioning as an ad hoc body, it functioning as a permanent body would be in the interest of all the stake holders. 7. We also permit the MoEFCC to proceed further with the constitution of the CEC in accordance with the notification that will be issued by the MoEFCC.” 14. Pursuant to the above referred s dated 18.05.2023 and 18.08.2023, the MoEFCC issued a Notification dated 05.09.202321 under Section 3(3) of the Environment (Protection) Act to constitute a permanent authority, i.e., the Central Empowered Committee (CEC), for monitoring and ensuring compliance of this Court’s s covering the subject-matter of environment, forest, and wildlife and related issues arising out of these s; and to suggest measures and make recommendations to the states and Central Government for more effective implementation of the Act and this Court’s s. 21 E. F. No. 13-12/2022-SU. 1206 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. Under the new notification, the CEC shall comprise: i) Chairman, ii) Member Secretary, and iii) Three expert members (one each from the fields of environment, forest, and wildlife). The Chairman and three expert members are to be nominated by the Central Government for a tenure of 3 years, which can be extended to one more tenure subject to the prescribed age limit of 66 years. The Member Secretary is appointed by the Central Government to be the Chief Coordinating Officer of the CEC and to assist the CEC in the discharge of its functions. 16. The notification also provides for the functions and powers of the CEC in accordance with the s of this Court along with certain other functions. They are: “2. The Committee shall exercise the following powers and perform the following functions:- A. Powers and functions conferred upon the Committee by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 202/1995 and 171/1996 in the case of T. N. Godavarman Thirumalpad Vs. Union of India and others:- a) to monitor the implementation of Supreme Court’s s in above matters and place reports of noncompliance before the Central Government for appropriate actions; b) to deal with any applications made to it by any aggrieved person and wherever necessary, to make a report to the Central Government in that matter; c) for the purposes of effective discharge of powers conferred upon the Committee under this ; the Committee can:- i. call for any documents from any persons or the government of the Union or the State or any other official.