1 SCR 623 : (1990) 1 SCC 109 2 “24. Industries subject to the provisions of Entries 7 and 52 of List I” [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1957 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.3 Entry 7 of List I deals with industries which are declared by Parliament by law to be necessary for the purpose of defence or for the prosecution of war.4 Under Entry 33 of List III, the State Legislatures and Parliament can legislate on trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of the products of industries controlled by Parliament under Entry 52 of List I.5 Entry 8 of List II deals with ‘intoxicating liquors’.6 These words are followed by the expression “that is to say, the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors”. The Seventh Schedule also demarcates taxing powers related to alcohol separately. Entry 84 of List I (before it was amended by the Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act 2016) enabled Parliament to levy duties of excise on tobacco and other goods manufactured or produced in India except alcoholic liquors for human consumption but including medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol.7 Entry 51 of List II confers the State Legislature the competence to levy duties of excise, inter alia, on alcoholic liquors for human consumption but not including medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol.8 3 “52. Industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.” 4 “7. Industries declared by Parliament by law to be necessary for the purpose of defence or for the prosecution of war.” 5 “33. Trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of – (a) The products of any industry where the control of such industry by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest, and imported goods of the same kind as such products; (b) Foodstuffs, including edible oilseeds and oils; (c) Cattle fodder, including oilcakes and other concentrates; (d) Raw cotton, whether grinned or ungrinned, and cotton seed; and (e) Raw jute.” 6 “8. Intoxicating liquors, that is to say, the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors” 7 “84. Duties of excise on tobacco and other goods manufactured or produced in India except- (a) Alcoholic liquors for human consumption; (b) Opium, Indian hemp and other narcotic drugs and narcotics, But including medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in sub-paragraph (b) of this entry. But including medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in sub-paragraph (b) of this entry.” 8 “51. Duties of excise on the following goods manufactured or produced in the State and counterveiling duties at the same or lower rates on similar goods manufactured or produced elsewhere in India:- (a) Alcoholic liquors for human consumption; (b) Opium, Indian hemp and other narcotic drugs and narcotics, But not including medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in sub-paragraph (b) of this entry.