b) BSNL v. Union of India17 and Neelima Srivastava v. State of U.P.18 were relied upon to support the contention that overruling of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) merely takes away the precedential value; it, however, does not affect the binding nature of a decision that has attained finality inter se the parties. c) This Court has limited jurisdiction available in review and in terms of the Explanation to Rule 1 of XLVII, CPC, overruling of earlier s would not constitute a ground for review. d) Further, the decision in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra) did not, in any manner whatsoever, endorse the purported liberty granted by Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) in paragraph 217 to the review petitioners to file the present RPs; on the contrary, it has been overruled. Moreover, Shailendra [3-Judge], having been decided by a Bench of co-equal strength, could neither have granted liberty to file the RPs, nor could have declared Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) per incuriam. e) Most of the RPs had been filed after periods of inordinate delay where no sufficient explanation had been provided for the same by the review petitioners. In any event, the present RPs were also filed belatedly after the purported liberty granted by this Court in Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra). 17 (2006) 3 SCC 1 18 [2021] 8 SCR 167 : 2021 SCC OnLine SC 610 974 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 30. Praying that the RPs are not maintainable, the learned counsel urged this Court to dismiss them in limine. G. QUESTIONS BEFORE US 31. The parties have been heard and the materials on record perused, in the light of the law regulating exercise of power by the Supreme Court to review its earlier / under the extant laws. We are of the opinion that on the rival contentions, the following questions arise for answers on the facts of these RPs: a) Can the review petitioners, on the basis of the pleadings in the RPs, be considered persons aggrieved? b) Whether the last sentence of paragraph 217 of Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) grants ‘liberty’ to any party to seek a review of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra)? c) If the answer to (b) is in the affirmative, did such ‘liberty’ survive after the decision in Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra)? d) Can the RPs be held to be maintainable, giving due regard to the Explanation in Rule 1 of XLVII, CPC vis-à-vis Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] (supra)? e) If the answer to (d) is in the negative, do the RPs still deserve to be entertained on the other grounds urged therein? f) Are the miscellaneous applications maintainable? 32. While answering the aforesaid questions, we feel obliged and, hence, intend to address certain ancillary issues too. H. LAW ON REVIEW JURISDICTION 33. The law regulating exercise of review jurisdiction by the Supreme Court is so well-settled that any detailed discussion would, in the first place, seem to be unnecessary. However, we cannot overlook the vociferous arguments on behalf of both the review petitioners and the respondents that the Hon’ble Judges of the said Division Bench have erred in their respective appreciation of the law relating to exercise of review jurisdiction by the Supreme Court.