302, IPC, 120-B with the aid of s.34, IPC – These aspects were not considered by the High Court – Consequently, the and dated 21.04.2023 passed by the High Court in an application filed u/s. 482, Cr.PC, and the dated 19.04.2007 passed by the Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge (CBI) are set aside. [Paras 23, 24, 28, 30, 35] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.227 – Jurisdiction of the Court: Held: It will be within the jurisdiction of the Court concerned to sift and weigh the evidence for the limited purpose of finding out whether or not a prima facie case against the accused concerned has been made out – This Court is of the considered view that a caution has to be sounded for the reason that the chances of going beyond the permissible jurisdiction u/s. 227, Cr.PC, and entering into the scope of power u/s. 232, Cr.PC, cannot be ruled out as such instances are aplenty. [Para 19] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.227 – Framing of charge – Duty and obligation of the Court: [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1157 Ram Prakash Chadha v. The State of Uttar Pradesh Held: The question of framing the charge would arise only in a case where the court upon such exercise satisfies itself about the prima facie case revealing from “the record of the case and the documents submitted therewith” against the accused concerned – In short, it can be said in that view of the matter that the intention embedded is to ensure that an accused will be made to stand the ordeal of trial only if ‘the record of the case and the documents submitted therewith’ discloses ground for proceeding against him – When that be so, in a case where an application is filed for discharge u/s. 227, Cr.PC, it is an irrecusable duty and obligation of the Court to apply its mind and answer to it regarding the existence of or otherwise, of ground for proceeding against the accused, by confining such consideration based only on the record of the case and the documents submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the prosecution in that behalf – To wit, such conclusion on existence or otherwise of ground to proceed against the accused concerned should not be and could not be based on mere suppositions or suspicions or conjectures, especially not founded upon material available before the Court. [Para 22] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.227 – Application for discharge – Disclosure of reasons by the Court for rejection of application: Held: When an application for discharge is filed under Section 227, Cr.PC, the Court concerned is bound to disclose the reason(s), though, not in detail, for finding sufficient ground for rejecting the application or in other words, for finding prima facie case, as it will enable the superior Court to examine the challenge against the of rejection. [Para 22] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.227 – Meaning of the expression “the record of the case and the documents submitted therewith” – discussed.