It is the case of the plaintiffs that upon receiving the said notice, they enquired and found out that the defendant no. 1, on the strength of the aforesaid power of attorney, had executed a registered sale deed in favour of his son, defendant no. 3 in respect of the suit property. 10. Being aggrieved by the aforesaid, the plaintiffs instituted the suit along with an injunction application below Exhibit-5 seeking the reliefs as stated above. 11. The plaintiffs, in their application below Exhibit-5 for interim injunction under 39 of the CPC, pointed out the following: a. The power of attorney was executed in favour of the defendant no. 1 only with a view to entrust the day to day conduct of administrative and procedural functions and not to enable the defendant no. 1 to sell the suit property. There was no intention to sell the property as it was purchased only for the purpose of running a jewellery showroom. It is on the basis of the said power 1348 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of attorney that the necessary permission to put up construction on the suit property was obtained from the Vadodara Municipal Corporation in 1995. Upon completion of the construction of the showroom and start of the business operations in 1997, the power of attorney became redundant, but was kept preserved in the office for the sake of record. b. In 2012, the defendant no. 1 expressed his inclination to retire and part ways from the family business, however this was not accepted by the plaintiff nos. 1 to 3 respectively as they wanted the family members to live jointly. Subsequently, the defendant no. 1 stopped paying attention to the family business and withdrew his share as well as additional amounts from the family business and created his individual responsibilities. As the liabilities of the defendant no. 1 increased, the family business being conducted on the suit property had to be shut down in November, 2013. However, the business records, documents, ornaments, stocks, etc. were kept in the showroom. Thereafter, the plaintiffs along with their sons started their own business. c. The defendant no. 1, in collusion with the officials of the office of the sub-registrar, executed a sale deed of the suit property without any sale consideration in favour of his son, that is, the defendant no. 3, illegally relying on the power of attorney of 1995. The other son of the defendant no. 1 and the wife of the defendant no. 3 stood as the attesting witnesses to the said sale deed. d. As per the recitals in the sale deed, the defendant no. 1 is said to have sold the suit property to his son for a consideration of Rs. 1.70 Crore. However, the market value of the suit property at the time of the execution of the sale deed was more than Rs 20 Crore. Further, the sale amount of Rs 1.70 Crore has not been received by the plaintiffs till date.