34. Lastly, it was submitted that as the matter is still pending for consideration before the Union of India based on the recommendations of the National Commission for Backward Classes dated 29.03.2022, 1 [2020] 11 SCR 597 : (2021) 13 SCC 336 810 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports direction may be issued to Union of India to take a decision within a fixed timeframe and, in the meantime, the present appeals may be kept pending. 35. Insofar as the private respondents and other intervenors are concerned, their submission is akin and in support of the submission of Mr. Ranjeet Kumar to the effect that all those members of “Tanti-Tantwa” community, who had derived advantage/benefit of Scheduled Castes under the Certificates issued to them pursuant to the Resolution dated 01.07.2015 may not be adversely affected and may be protected on the principles of equity and good conscience. 36. Having considered the submissions advanced, we have no hesitation in holding that the Resolution dated 01.07.2015 was patently illegal, erroneous as the State Government had no competence/authority/power to tinker with the lists of Scheduled Castes published under Article 341 of the Constitution. The submission of the respondent-State that Resolution dated 01.07.2015 was only clarificatory is not worth considering for a moment and deserves outright rejection. Whether or not it was synonymous or integral part of the Entry-20 of the lists of Schedule Castes, it could not have been added without any law being made by the Parliament. The State knew very well that it had no authority and had accordingly forwarded its request to the Union of India in the year 2011. The said request was not accepted and returned for further comments/justification/review. Ignoring the same, the State proceeded to issue the Circular dated 01.07.2015. The State may be justified in deleting “Tanti-Tantwa” from the Extremely Backward Classes list on the recommendation of the State Backward Commission, but beyond that to merge “Tanti-Tantwa” with ‘Pan, Sawasi, Panr’ under Entry 20 of the list of Scheduled Castes was nothing short of mala fide exercise for whatever good, bad or indifferent reasons, the State may have thought at that moment. Whether synonymous or not, any inclusion or exclusion of any caste, race or tribe or part of or group within the castes, races or tribes has to be, by law made by the Parliament, and not by any other mode or manner. 37. The submission that the recommendation of the Commission for Extremely Backward Classes was binding on the State, is not a question to be determined here, inasmuch as, even if we accept [2024] 7 S.C.R. 811 Dr. Bhim Rao Ambedkar Vichar Manch Bihar, Patna v. The State of Bihar & Ors. the submission, such recommendation could relate only to the Extremely Backward Classes. Whether or not to include or exclude any caste in the list of Extremely Backward Class would be within the domain of the Commission. The Commission would have no jurisdiction to make recommendation with respect to any caste being included in the Scheduled Castes lists and, even if it makes such a recommendation, right or wrong, the State has no authority to proceed to implement the same when it was fully aware that the Constitution does not permit it to do so.