41. We further find that the finding of the learned Tribunal that initially the plot where GPP was constructed was reserved for Bio-diversity Park is also erroneous and factually incorrect. As discussed hereinabove, the plot in question has been reserved for the GPP since inception and it is only the adjoining plot which was reserved for the Bio- diversity Park. 42. We are therefore of the considered view that the learned Tribunal has erred in allowing the OA of the respondent No. 1 and directing closure of the GPP. Apart from that, we find that the closure of the GPP in question rather than subserving the public interest, would be detrimental to public interest. If the GPP in question is closed, the organic waste generated in the western part of Pune city would be required to be taken all the way throughout the city to Hadapsar which is in the eastern part of the city. This will undoubtedly lead to foul odour and nuisance to the public. 43. It will be relevant to refer to clauses (q) and (v) of Rule 15 of the 2016 Rules, which read thus: [2024] 9 S.C.R. 393 Pune Municipal Corporation v. Sus Road Baner Vikas Manch and Others “15. Duties and responsibilities of local authorities and village Panchayats of census towns and urban agglomerations.- The local authorities and Panchayats shall,- ………….. (q) transport segregated bio-degradable waste to the processing facilities like compost plant, bio-methanation plant or any such facility. Preference shall be given for on site processing of such waste; …………… (v) facilitate construction, operation and maintenance of solid waste processing facilities and associated infrastructure on their own or with private sector participation or through any agency for optimum utilization or various components of solid waste adopting suitable technology including the following technologies and adhering to the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Urban Development from time to time and standards prescribed by the Central Pollution Control Board. Preference shall be given to decentralized processing to minimize transportation cost and environmental impacts such as- a) bio-methanation, microbial composting, vermi-composting, anaerobic digestion or any other appropriate processing for bio-stabilisation of biodegradable waste; b) waste to energy processes including refused derived fuel for combustible fraction of waste or supply as feedstock to solid waste based power plants or cement kilns;” 44. It can thus be seen that the 2016 Rules also give preference to the on-site processing of the waste. It also emphasizes preference to be given to decentralized processing to minimize transportation cost and environmental impact. It has been submitted on behalf of the appellant-Corporation that 48 such GPPs have been commissioned throughout the city of Pune wherein the non-compacted, organic waste is segregated to remove any non-biodegradable materials and the residual organic waste is crushed to make a slurry. The said 394 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports slurry is then transported to a site in Talegaon where raw biogas is generated from the slurry. At the Talegaon plant, biogas is produced which is used for providing fuel to the public transport buses.