37. Thus, I have no hesitation in holding that the referral s of this Court are ex-facie not in accordance with law and there-reference in itself is equally incompetent and unnecessary as well. 38. Notwithstanding what I have opined above in support of my viewpoint that the referral s are invalid and the references incompetent, albeit for technical reasons, there is a weightier reason for declaring the referral s fragile. That is on the merits and I would immediately proceed to say why. 39. Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) talked of two substantial questions that arose before it. The first was, whether Article 30(1) of the Constitution envisages an institution which is established by minorities [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1877 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. alone without the participation for the factum of establishment from any other community. This question was formulated recording that there was no clear decision of this Court. Secondly, whether the status of an institution as a minority institution, which soon after its establishment is registered as a society under the Societies Act, would change in view of the broad principles laid down in S. Azeez Basha (supra). Aligarh Muslim University (supra) had the occasion to observe that question 3(a) which was formulated for an answer in T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) coincidentally reflected the questions referred by Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra). 40. In TMA Pai Foundation (supra), question 3(a) was: “3(a) What are the indicia for treating an educational institution as a minority educational institution? Would an institution be regarded as a minority educational institution because it was established by a person(s) belonging to a religious or linguistic minority or its being administered by a person(s) belonging to a religious or linguistic minority?” 41. To recount, the reference duly took note of question 3(a) and the fact that TMA Pai Foundation (supra) did not decide it. Now, two questions arise: (i) whether there is any decision prior to Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) which had directly decided the first point? And (ii) whether the point touching the Societies Act, i.e., a minority educational institution being registered under the Societies Act could have any bearing on the question decided by Azeez Basha (supra) by equating the former with a case where a university is established by an enactment? 42. Insofar as the first question is concerned, State of Kerala vs. Very Rev. Mother Provincial34, which is of course another decision of the Constitution Bench of 6 (six) Judges of this Court rendered more than half a century back, and has never been doubted by any subsequent bench, provides the answer. The essence of the law laid down therein is that the minority institution should have been established for the benefit of a minority community by a member of that community. Attention of the bench of 2 (two) Judges in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) was not invited to this direct answer to the question it posed 34 (1970) 2 SCC 417 1878 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports and one is left to wonder whether the reference would have at all been made if Very Rev.