That the plaintiffs have obtained the True copy of the aforesaid false Sale deed from Sub Registrar office at Danta on 10.04.2017 and looking to the same in the said document the plaintiffs have not made their signatures or also not produced any photographs or Identity card of the plaintiffs. At the 2128 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports same time on the stamp paper which is produced, the same is also not purchased by the plaintiffs. That the plaintiffs never remained present before the Sub Registrar office at Danta, though the defendants by using their illegal influence registered this false and fabricated sale deed in the Sub Registrar office.” (iii) The final determination as to whether the claim is barred by time or not, can be decided only after considering the evidence led by the parties as limitation is always a mixed question of law and fact. The Trial Court neither verified, nor could find a single document to suggest that the plaintiffs were aware of the execution of the sale deed in the year 2004. (iv) It appears that the stamp papers were purchased by the defendants and not by the plaintiffs and this important fact was not even considered by the Trial Court while deciding the application under -VII Rule-11 of C.P.C. (v) Though the law requires the Talati to make an entry of the sale deed in the revenue records as per the Resolution of the Department of Revenue, Government of Gujarat in hkp-1087- 11-j, dated 15.10.1989, this is not complied. (vi) As per the said Resolution, a duty is cast on the revenue authority to make an entry in the relevant register with respect to sale deeds. There is no material to show that such an entry has been made. The Court can therefore presume that no such notice was issued to the plaintiffs. (vii) The contention of the defendant that they made an application under the RTI Act on 30.05.2014 itself but no response was received is to be rejected on the ground that the appellants were not party to the RTI proceedings. (viii) The various contentions raised by the defendant cannot be taken into account at this stage as the relevant material for disposing of an application under 7 Rule 11 would be the facts as mentioned in the plaint and no more. 6. Challenging the decision of the First Appellate Court, the defendants filed a second appeal before the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad. [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2129 Daliben Valjibhai & Ors. v. Prajapati Kodarbhai Kachrabhai & Anr. By the impugned before us, the High Court allowed the second appeal. 7. From the tone and tenor of the of the High Court, it appears that the High Court was proceeding to decide the case on merits, rather than an application under 7 Rule 11. The High Court referred to and extracted relevant portions of large number of precedents on the subject of 7 Rule 11, of the same High Court as well as the decisions of this Court.