The decision in Kesavananda Bharati also struck down the second half of Article 31-C which prevented judicial review of whether a law in fact gave effect to these principles. The decision in Minerva Mills invalidated Section 4 of the Forty-Second Amendment which expanded the scope of the immunity provided by Article 31-C from laws giving effect to the principles in clause (b) or clause (c) of Article 39 to laws giving effect to any Directive Principle. The decision in Waman Rao, which concerned Article 31-C prior to the Forty-Second Amendment, reiterated the position set out in Kesavananda Bharati, that the first half of the unamended Article 31-C was constitutionally valid and the second half was not. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 57 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. ii. The present dispute concerning Article 31-C and rival contentions 45. It is here that the present controversy concerning Article 31-C arises. Both the appellants and the respondents before us accept that after the decision in Minerva Mills, the words “all or any of the principles laid down in Part IV” in Article 31-C are legally unenforceable. But this is where the agreement ends. In the respondents’ view, the consequence of Minerva Mills invalidating these words is that the words that existed in Article 31-C prior to the Forty-Second Amendment stand revived. In other words, as the Forty-Second Amendment has been struck down by the Court, Article 31-C will now read as it did after the decision in Kesavananda Bharati but prior to the Forty-Second Amendment. The Respondents submit that after Minerva Mills, Article 31-C should be read as follows: “31C. Saving of laws giving effect to certain directive principles. – Notwithstanding anything contained in article 13, no law giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing [all or any of the principles laid down in Part IV] the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of article 39 shall be deemed to be void on the ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by article 14, article 19 or article 31; and no law containing a declaration that it is for giving effect to such policy shall be called in question in any court on the ground that it does not give effect to such policy:” In contrast to this, the appellants submit that since the words “the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of Article 39” were omitted by the Forty-Second Amendment and substituted with different words, the invalidation of the substituted words by the Minerva Mills decision cannot revive words specifically omitted by Parliament. Thus, in the view of the appellants, Article 31-C reads as follows: “31C. Saving of laws giving effect to certain directive principles. – Notwithstanding anything contained in article 13, no law giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing [all or any of the principles laid down in Part IV] the principles specified in clause (b) or clause (c) of article 39 shall be deemed to be void on the ground that it is 58 [2024] 11 S.C.R.