What is also important for our consideration at this stage is that the appellants in the present case have been working as Judicial Officers now for nearly 10 years. They are now Civil Judge (Senior Division). These judicial officers now have a rich experience of 10 years of judicial service behind them. Therefore, unseating the present appellants from their posts would not be in public interest. Ordinarily, these factors as we have referred above, would not matter, once the very appointment is held to be wrong. But we also cannot fail to consider that the appellants were appointed from the list of candidates who had successfully passed the written examination and viva voce and they were in the merit list. Secondly, it is nobody’s case that the appellants have been appointed by way of favouritism, nepotism or due to any act which can even remotely be called as “blameworthy”. Finally, they have now been [2024] 1 S.C.R. 37 RADHEY SHYAM YADAV & ANR. ETC. v. STATE OF U.P. & ORS. working as judges for ten years. There is hence a special equity which leans in favour of the appellants. In a recent Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Sivanandan C.T. and Ors. v. High Court of Kerala and Ors. (2023) SCC OnLine SC 994 though the finding arrived at by this Court was that the Rules of the game were changed by the High Court of Kerala by prescribing minimum marks for the viva voce, which were not existing in the Rules and therefore in essence the appointment itself was in violation of the Rules, yet considering that those persons who had secured appointments under this selection have now been working for more than 6 years it was held that it would not be in public interest to unseat them.” (emphasis supplied) 30. The situation of the appellants in the present case is no different from the individuals whose appointments were protected in the cases cited hereinabove. They had no blameworthy conduct. They were bona fide applicants from the open market. The alleged mischief, even according to the State, was at the end of the School and its Manager. It will be a travesty of justice if relief is denied to the appellants. Enormous prejudice would also occur to them. 31. Ms. Sansriti Pathak, learned counsel, who ably defended the case for the State, made a valiant attempt to draw support from the in Sachin Kumar (supra). In that case, what was in issue was the validity of the cancellation of the selection process for recruitment to the 231 vacancies in the post of Grade 2 (DASS) (Head Clerk). This Court, while reversing the of the Tribunal and the High Court held that in that case there was a basic denial of access to Tier I examination. The Court further held that the nature of the allegations was found substantiated upon the careful examination by the first Committee whose report showed that the credibility of the process itself had been eroded.