43. The Investigating Officer (PW-13) duly proved the process of arrest of accused on 9th August, 2000, i.e., after more than 10 years of the incident. 44. The specimen writings (Exhibits PW-5/D, 5/E and 5/F) of the accused appellant were lawfully collected by the Investigating Officer (PW- 13) after he was arrested and all these documents were placed on record with the charge sheet. These specimen writings (Exhibits PW-5/D, 5/E and 5/F) and the admitted writings (Exhibits PW-12/C and PW-12/D) of the accused appellant along with confession note (Exhibit PW-12/E) recovered from the crime scene were sent to the handwriting expert (PW-24) for comparison from where a report (Exhibit PW-12/F) was received to the effect that the handwritings on these documents match with each other. As is required under law, the handwriting expert Deepa Verma was examined as a witness (PW-24) and she proved the report (Exhibit PW-12/F) establishing the fact that the handwriting on the confessional note (Exhibit PW- 12/E) recovered from the crime scene matched with the handwriting of the accused appellant on the specimen and admitted writings. 45. The Investigating Officer (PW-13) gave unimpeachable evidence proving the various steps taken by him for collection of evidence [2024] 6 S.C.R. 335 Sukhpal Singh v. NCT of Delhi during investigation so as to link the accused appellant with murder of Usha. The fact that the accused appellant was present with Usha on the night preceding the murder is firmly established from the deposition of Ashok Kumar Pathak. He went absconding after the murder and could not be traced out for almost 10 years which is also a strong circumstance pointing towards his guilty state of mind. 46. The circumstances leading to murder of Usha were in the exclusive knowledge of the appellant. He has offered no explanation as to the manner in which Usha was strangled to death within the confines of the room where only he and the deceased were present. The bald plea of denial offered by the accused by way of an explanation to this gravely incriminating circumstance is not sufficient to absolve him of the burden cast upon him by virtue of Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. 47. As a consequence of the above discussion, we are of the firm view that the prosecution has established the following links in the chain of incriminating circumstantial evidence: - (i) Motive; (ii) Last seen together; (iii) Medical evidence establishing that the cause of death of the deceased was homicidal. (iv) Confessional note; (v) Abscondence for nearly 10 years; (vi) Wrong explanation given by the accused in his statement under Section 313 CrPC; (vii) Failure of the accused to offer explanation for the homicidal death of his wife in the night time when only the accused and deceased were present in the house leading to the interference of guilt by virtue of Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. 48. Connected together, all these facts form a clinching and complete chain of incriminating circumstances pointing exclusively towards the guilt of the accused appellant and totally inconsistent with his innocence or the involvement of any other person in the crime.