And the officer may be assessed on the basis of the overall record and self-assessment for the year, if he has submitted his self-assessment on time.” 17. At this juncture, it would be apposite to refer to a decision of this Court in Bhavnagar University v. Palitana Sugar Mill (P) Ltd., (2003) 2 SCC 111 wherein this Court whilst weighing the consideration(s) 402 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports qua the mandatory nature of timelines prescribed upon a public functionary observed as under: “42. We are not oblivious of the law that when a public functionary is required to do a certain thing within a specified time, the same is ordinarily directory but it is equally well settled that when consequence for inaction on the part of the statutory authorities within such specified time is expressly provided, it must be held to be imperative.” 18. Furthermore, this Court in May George v. Tahsildar, (2010) 13 SCC 98 devised a test qua the mandatory nature of an obligation emanating from a provision of law. In this regard, this Court observed as under: “25. The law on this issue can be summarised to the effect that in to declare a provision mandatory, the test to be applied is as to whether non-compliance with the provision could render the entire proceedings invalid or not. Whether the provision is mandatory or directory, depends upon the intent of the legislature and not upon the language for which the intent is clothed. The issue is to be examined having regard to the context, subject-matter and object of the statutory provisions in question. The Court may find out as to what would be the consequence which would flow from construing it in one way or the other and as to whether the statute provides for a contingency of the non-compliance with the provisions and as to whether the non-compliance is visited by small penalty or serious consequence would flow therefrom and as to whether a particular interpretation would defeat or frustrate the legislation and if the provision is mandatory, the act done in breach thereof will be invalid.” 19. In this context we must now consider the implication and / or outcome (if any) of a contravention of the timeline(s) prescribed under the Schedule. A perusal of the PAR Rules would reveal that a contravention of the said timelines, neither render the underlying PAR invalid, nor would be met with any identified immediate consequence. The aforesaid interpretation is also supported by the empirical data i.e., previous performance appraisal report(s) of Respondent No. 1 which were admittedly beyond the timelines prescribed under the Schedule, however within the period prescribed under Rule 5(1) of [2024] 3 S.C.R. 403 The State of Haryana v. Ashok Khemka & Anr. ` the PAR Rules. Furthermore, even though the High Court vide the Impugned , set-aside the CAT , the High Court observed that the timelines prescribed under the Schedule were not water-tight and in fact, were flexible. 20. Thus, we find ourselves unable to accept the contention raised by Mr. Khemka i.e., that the Accepting Authority was either precluded from populating its comment(s) after the cut- off date as more particularly identified at Serial Number 5 in Table 1 above; or that upon the expiry of the cut-off date, the Reviewing Authority’s comments would be deemed to have been adopted by the Accepting Authority.