[2024] 5 S.C.R. 81 : 2024 INSC 310 The State of Telangana & Ors. v. Mohd. Abdul Qasim (Died) Per LRs. (Civil Appeal No. 5001 of 2024) 18 April 2024 [M. M. Sundresh* and S. V. N. Bhatti, JJ.] Issue for Consideration High Court whether justified in passing the impugned in review petition in favour of the plaintiff-respondent despite him not proving his title over the suit property (forest land), setting aside the concurrent s rendered by courts below which inter alia found that the suit land was a part of the reserved forest and the plaintiff had failed to show his title to the suit property. Headnotes Andhra Pradesh Forest Act, 1967 – s.15 – Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317 F. – s.87 – Code of Civil Procedure 1908 – s.114; Or. XLVII, r.1 – Proceedings of the revenue department dtd. 17.11.1960 whereunder a revision of survey and settlement took place – Respondent No.1 herein-Plaintiff filed application u/s.87, A.P. Land Revenue Act, 1317 F. seeking rectification of survey error stating that he owned the suit land, allowed – Land being forest land was declared as reserved forest by way of notification published u/s.15 of the A.P. Forest Act on 11.11.1971 – Trial court while granting title to the plaintiff declined the relief of injunction – High Court in appeal dismissed the suit – Review filed by the plaintiff – Contrary stands as regards the suit land being forest land were taken by State whereby Defendant No.1-District Collector (representing the Revenue Department), who had filed a common written statement along with the Defendant No.2-Forest Officer taking a stand that the suit property was a forest land which became part of a reserved forest area, constituted a committee and it was held that the suit property was to be excluded in favour of the plaintiff – Said decision was taken by the District Collector after the of the First Appellate Court – High Court passed the impugned in review petition in favour of * Author 82 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the plaintiff despite him not proving his title over the suit property – Sustainability: Held: Officials of the State expected to protect and preserve the forests in discharge of their public duties clearly abdicated their role – High Court placed reliance upon evidence produced after the decree, at the instance of a party which succeeded along with the contesting defendant, particularly in the light of the finding that the land was forest land which had become part of reserved forest – Evidence relied upon was inadmissible on the face of it and, therefore, void from its inception, rendered by an authority which had absolutely no jurisdiction at all – There was a distinct lack of jurisdiction – Land belonged to the Forest Department and therefore, Defendant No.1 District Collector (representing the Revenue Department) had absolutely no role in dealing with it in any manner – A subsequent event per se cannot form the basis of a review – Sub-clause (c) of Or.XLVII r.1 specifies that the important matter or evidence produced must have been available at the time when the decree was passed – This is a matter of rule – Further, proceeding under the A.P.