Sd/- B.K. Sarma Member, F.T. Balbari” (sic) [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2349 Md. Rahim Ali @ Abdur Rahim v. The State of Assam & Ors. 31. Some repetition in narration is inescapable. As obvious from the above, the initiation of the case against the appellant was based on the report submitted by the Sub-Inspector Sh. Bipin Dutta which in turn was based on the fact that in his deposition he had stated that upon being directed by the S.P. (B), Nalbari, he had undertaken an inquiry against the appellant and asked him to show the documents regarding his Indian nationality, whereupon the appellant had asked for time and was given 7 days’ time, but did not show any document(s) and thus, Sh. Bipin Dutta filled up Form No.II and submitted his report along with the case diary before the authority. 32. It is further stated that from such inquiry it is revealed that the appellant had illegally migrated to Assam from Bangladesh after 25.03.1971 and based on the same, the opinion given was that the appellant was a foreigner. 33. Section 9 of the Act stipulates if in a case not falling under Section 8 of the Act, any question arises as to whether a person is or is not a foreigner or is or is not a foreigner of a particular class, the person concerned must prove that he/she is not a foreigner or not a foreigner of that particular class. This provision prevails notwithstanding anything in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. 34. However, the question is that does Section 9 of the Act empower the Executive to pick a person at random, knock at his/her/their door, tell him/her/they/them ‘We suspect you of being a foreigner.’, and then rest easy basis Section 9? Let us contextualise this to the facts at hand. The originating point of inquiry is the S.P. (B) Nalbari’s direction to Sub-Inspector Dutta on 12.05.2004. The pleadings and the record are silent as to what was the basis of the S.P. (B) Nalbari’s direction? What materials or information had come to his knowledge or possession that warranted his direction? Obviously, the State cannot proceed in such manner. Neither can we as a Court countenance such approach. 35. First, it is for the authorities concerned to have in their knowledge or possession, some material basis or information to suspect that a person is a foreigner and not an Indian. In the present case, though it is mentioned that from inquiry it was revealed that the appellant had migrated illegally to the State of Assam from Bangladesh after 25.03.1971 but nothing has come on record to indicate even an iota of evidence against him, except for the bald allegation that 2350 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports he had illegally migrated to India post 25.03.1971. It is also not known as to who, if any person, had alleged that the appellant had migrated to India after 25.03.1971 from Village - Dorijahangirpur, Police Station - Torail, District - Mymansingh in Bangladesh.