These were some of the relevant factors that were kept in mind in the 784 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cases noticed above while weighing the pros and cons of the matter. The Court would be additionally justified in considering the conduct of the convict in jail; and the period already undergone to arrive at the number of years which the Court feels the convict should, serve as part of the sentence of life imprisonment and before which he cannot apply for remission. These are not meant to be exhaustive but illustrative and each case would depend on the facts and circumstances therein.” 19.2. We shall thus, consider the sentence imposed on the appellant, in the light of the aforesaid guiding principles. The facts and circumstances highlighted above would clearly disclose that due to sudden provocation, for not giving jaggery, the accused came to the house of the deceased and on exhortation by other accused, the appellant shot the deceased and that, there was no premeditation in the commission of crime. As already stated above, the appellant was acquitted of the charge under section 25/27 of the Arms Act, arising out of the same crime; and that, he was convicted only for the offence under section 302 r/w 34 IPC, whereas the co-accused were acquitted of the said charge. Further, the certificate dated 08.12.2019 received from the Jailor, District Jail, Haridwar, reveals that the appellant has undergone the sentence for a period of 13 years 6 months and 20 days without remission and the total sentence of 17 years 1 month and 9 days and that, he has good conduct during this period; and thus, it is evident that the appellant served incarceration for more than 14 years and that, he had no bad antecedent except this. On a perusal of the records also shows that the appellant belonged to poor economic background and had been taking care of his entire family; and that there exists a possibility of reformation. Pertinently, it is to be noted that the object of punishment is not only to deter the accused from committing any further crime, but also to reform and retribute; and the extent of reformation can be derived only by the conduct of the accused exhibited during his days of retribution. Taking note of the above aggravating and mitigating factors, we are of the view that it would meet the ends of justice, if the sentence [2024] 10 S.C.R. 785 Sandeep v. State of Uttarakhand of imprisonment for life awarded by the Sessions Court as affirmed by the High Court, is modified to the period already undergone by the appellant. 20. Accordingly, we modify the sentence awarded by the Courts below to the period already undergone by the appellant. However, we clarify that the appellant shall pay the fine amount imposed by the Sessions Court, if not paid already. He shall be set at liberty if not required in any other case. The bail bond executed by the appellant stands discharged.