2057 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. with Format VIII-A of this RFRP (“PBG”). The PBG shall be valid, till the later of (i) a period of 180 days from the date of the PBG; and (ii) the date of completion of the implementation of the Resolution Plan (as determined by the RP and the (CoC) and shall be subject to re-issuance or extension by the Successful Resolution Applicant as may be required by the CoC (as assisted by the Resolution Professional) (“PBG Validity”). xxx xxx xxx 3.13.7 SBI, in its capacity as an agent of the CoC (and acting on behalf of the Company), shall have the right to invoke the Performance Security on behalf of the CoC (and upon receiving approval from the CoC), (by issuance of a written demand to the Bank to invoke the Performance Security, if provided as a PBG). The Performance Security can be invoked and appropriated at any time, upon occurrence of any of the following conditions, without any reference to the Resolution Applicant. i. any of the condition under the Letter of Intent or the Successful Resolution Plan are breached; ii. if the Resolution Applicant fails to re-issue or extend the Performance Security (if provided as a PBG), in accordance with the terms of this RFRP; or iii. failure of the Successful Resolution Applicant to implement the Approved Resolution Plan to the satisfaction of the CoC, and in accordance with the terms of the Approved Resolution Plan. 3.13.8 The Performance Security shall be returned to the Successful Resolution Applicant within a period 7 (seven) Business Days (based on the request received from the Successful Resolution Applicant) upon 100% (one hundred percent) of the completion of the implementation of the Approved Resolution Plan by the Successful Resolution Applicant. 2058 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 3.13.9 The Performance Security shall not be set-off against or used as part of the consideration that the Successful Resolution Applicant proposes to offer in relation to the Company, even if expressly indicated as such by the Successful Resolution Applicant in the Successful Resolution Plan.” (emphasis supplied) 4. On 21.09.2020, the Consortium of Murari Lal Jalan and Florian Fritsch (hereinafter, the “Respondent No.1 / SRA”) submitted its Resolution Plan. It was amended by the version dated 30.09.2020 and further supplemented and amended by the addendum dated 02.10.2020. At the 17th meeting of the CoC held on 03.10.2020, the Resolution Plan was placed before the CoC by the RP and was voted upon by the CoC from 05.10.2020 to 17.10.2020 in accordance with Regulation 39 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016 (hereinafter, the “2016 Regulations”). The CoC, in its commercial wisdom, approved the Resolution Plan proposed by Respondent No. 1 with a majority of 99.22% votes. The relevant clauses of the Resolution Plan are reproduced hereinbelow: “2. INTRODUCTION OF THE RESOLUTION APPLICANT 2.1.4. The resolution applicant (“Resolution Applicant”) is defined to mean a Consortium of: a) Mr. Murari Lal Jalan who is the Lead Partner of the Consortium; b) Mr. Florian Fritsch is the Other Partner of the Consortium; and 2.1.5.