There is no decision yet from a larger Bench and until the principle laid down in the case of K. Manjusree (supra) is overruled by a larger Bench, we shall continue to be guided by the same as “no change in the rule midway” dictum has become an integral part of the service jurisprudence. 17. The next point urged by Mr. Gupta is that the ratio of the three s on which reliance has been placed by Mr. Dave would not apply in the facts of the present case. His argument is that in those three authorities, the marking in viva-voce was the subject of dispute whereas in the present writ petitions, it is on aggregate marking that the High Court administration has raised the bar. One of the authorities on which Mr. Gupta has relied on is State of Haryana -vs- Subash Chander Marwaha & Ors. [(1974) 3 SCC 220]. In paragraphs 7 and 12 of the said report, it has been held and observed by a Bench of two Hon’ble Judges of this Court:- “7. In the present case it appears that about 40 candidates had passed the examination with the minimum score of 45%. Their names were published in the Government Gazette as required by Rule 10(1) already referred to. It is not disputed that the mere entry in this list of the name 232 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of candidate does not give him the right to be appointed The advertisement that there are 15 vacancies to be filled does not also give him a right to be appointed. It may happen that the Government for financial or other administrative reasons may not fill up any vacancies. In such a case the candidates, even the first in the list, will not have a right to be appointed. The list is merely to help the State Government in making the appointments showing which candidates have the minimum qualifications under the Rules. The stage for selection for appointment comes thereafter, and it is not disputed that under the Constitution it is the State Government alone which can make the appointments. The High Court does not come into the picture for recommending any particular candidate. After the State Government have taken a decision as to which of the candidates in accordance with the list should be appointed, the list of selected candidates for appointment is forwarded to the High Court then will have to enter such candidates on a Register maintained by it. When vacancies are to be filled the High Court will send in the names of the candidates in accordance with the select list and in the they have been placed in that list for appointment in the vacancies. The High Court, therefore, plays no part except to suggest to the Government who in accordance with the select list is to be appointed and in a particular vacancy. It appears that in the present case the Public Service Commission had sent up the rolls of the first 15 candidates because the Commission had been informed that there are 15 vacancies.