87 Holtzmann and Neuhaus (supra) 388 88 A/CN.9/264, page 31. [It reads: “4. Paragraph (2), like article 10(1) of the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, adopts a general formula for the grounds on which an arbitrator may be challenged. This seems preferable to listing all possible connections and other relevant situations. As indicated by the word “only”, the grounds for challenge referred to here are exhaustive. Although reliance on any specific reason listed in a national law (often applicable to judges and arbitrators alike) is precluded, it is submitted that it would be difficult to find any such reason which would not be covered by the general formula.”] 89 Report of the Secretary-General: possible features of a model law on international commercial arbitration, A/CN.9/207, [65] 90 Section 13, Arbitration Act. [It reads: [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2221 Central Organisation for Railway Electrification v. M/s ECI SPIC SMO MCML (JV) A Joint Venture Company free to agree on a procedure for challenging an arbitrator. If the parties fail to agree on a procedure, the arbitral tribunal shall decide on the challenge. In case the challenge to the arbitrator is not successful, the arbitral tribunal shall continue with the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award. A party may later make an application for setting aside such an arbitral award under Section 34. v. Equality in the arbitral proceedings 52. Chapter V of the Arbitration Act deals with the ‘conduct of arbitral proceedings.’ Section 18 provides that the parties “shall be treated with equality and each party shall be given a full opportunity to present his case.” Section 18 establishes two principles: equal treatment of the parties and a right to a fair hearing. This provision has been referred to as the “due process clause of arbitration.”91 53. Section 18 is based on Article 18 of the Model Law. Article 18 was initially paragraph 3 of Article 19 dealing with the freedom of parties to determine the rules of procedure. It was later formed into a separate article considering its overall importance. The Working Group stated that the freedom of parties is subject to mandatory provisions including the then paragraph 3 of Article 19: “3. The freedom of the parties is subject only to the provisions of the model law, that is, to its mandatory provisions. The most fundamental of such provisions, from which the parties may not derogate, is the one contained in paragraph (3). Other such provisions concerning the conduct of the proceedings or the making “13. Challenge procedure – (1) Subject to sub-section (4), the parties are free to agree on a procedure for challenging an arbitrator. (2) Failing any agreement referred to in sub-section (1), a party who intends to challenge an arbitrator shall, within fifteen days after becoming aware of the constitution of the arbitral tribunal or after becoming aware of any circumstance referred to in sub-section (3) of section 12, send a written statement of the reasons for the challenge to the arbitral tribunal. (3) Unless the arbitrator challenged under sub-section (2) withdraws from his office or the other party agrees to the challenge, the arbitral tribunal shall decide on the challenge.