The proviso to Section 20 would have to be strictly construed and so construed, it would have no application to the facts of the present situation. It is not in dispute that members of the district judiciary appointed after 1 April 2004 did not subscribe to any provident fund, in which event there was no question of applying the proviso to deprive them of the benefit of the General Provident Fund which is available under the substantive part of Section 20. Conclusion 34. For the above reasons, we hold that: (i) The High Courts are constitutional institutions and upon appointment as judges of the High Court, all judges, irrespective of the source from which they are drawn, partake the character of holders of constitutional offices in equal measure; (ii) Neither Article 221(1) of the Constitution which empowers Parliament to determine the salaries of the Judges of the High Court nor Article 221(2) which empowers Parliament to determine the allowances and rights in respect of the leave of absence and pension permits discrimination between judges of the High Court based on the source from which they are drawn; (iii) Article 217 of the Constitution specifies distinct sources of recruitment for judges of the High Court from the district judiciary or, as the case may be, the Bar. But once appointed to the High Court, all judges form one homogenous class of constitutional office holders; (iv) Judicial independence is a part of the basic structure of the Constitution and there is an intrinsic relationship between financial independence of judges and judicial independence; (v) The significance of provisions pertaining to the guarantee of service conditions, while in service and post retiral benefits for judges is evidenced by the fact that the salaries and allowances of sitting judges and the pensions of retired judges are in the nature of a charge on the Consolidated Fund of the State and the Consolidated Fund of India respectively; [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1059 Justice Shailendra Singh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. (vi) Any determination of the service benefits of sitting judges of the High Court and the retiral benefits which are payable to them including pension, must take place on the basis of the fundamental principle of non-discrimination between judges of the High Court who constitute one homogenous group; and (vii) All judges of the High Court, irrespective of the source from which they are drawn, are entrusted with the same constitutional function of discharging duties of adjudication under the law. Once appointed as judges of the High Court, their birthmarks stand obliterated and any attempt to make a distinction between judges, either for the purpose of determining their conditions of service while in service or any form of retiral dues would be unconstitutional. 35. The communication which was addressed by the Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of Law and Justice purportedly stated that as judges appointed by direct recruitment to the State Judicial Service after the adoption of the New Pension Scheme by the State Governments and subsequently appointed as High Court Judges are covered by the Contributory Provident Scheme of the State Government, they would not be eligible to subscribe to the General Provident Fund.