It is in that context, in those cases, this Court held that the sentences shall run concurrently. 20. Under Section 31 CrPC it is left to the full discretion of the court to the sentences to run concurrently in case of conviction for two or more offences. It is difficult to lay down any straitjacket approach in the matter of exercise of such discretion by the courts. By and large, trial courts and appellate courts have invoked and exercised their discretion to issue directions for concurrent running of sentences, favouring the benefit to be given to the accused. Whether a direction for concurrent running of sentences ought to be issued in a given case would depend upon the nature of the offence or offences committed and the facts and circumstances of the case. The discretion has to be exercised along the judicial lines and not mechanically. 21. Accordingly, we answer the reference by holding that Section 31 CrPC leaves full discretion with the court to sentences for two or more offences at one trial to run concurrently, having regard to the nature of offences and attendant aggravating or mitigating circumstances. We do not find any reason to hold that normal rule is to the sentence to be consecutive and exception is to make the sentences concurrent. Of course, if the court does not the sentence to be concurrent, one sentence may run after the other, in such as the court may direct. We also do not find any conflict in the earlier in Mohd. Akhtar Hussain [Mohd. Akhtar Hussain v. Collector of Customs, (1988) 4 SCC 183: 1988 SCC (Cri) 921] and Section 31 CrPC.’ (emphasis supplied) 2264 [2025] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 15. Exemption from surrendering granted earlier vide dated 03.05.2024 in favour of petitioner no.2 will cease to operate. The petitioner no. 2 is hereby directed to surrender within three weeks from the date of communication of this to serve the remaining period of sentence. Registry shall intimate the petitioners and their AOR forthwith. 16. Pending IA(s), if any, stand closed. Result of the case: Petition dismissed. †Headnotes prepared by: Nidhi Jain