147. This principle has been elucidated in different s, reinforcing the right to free and informed consent within the context of marriage. In National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality v. Minister of Justice214 the Constitutional Court of South Africa emphasized that autonomy encompasses more than mere freedom from state interference; it acknowledges the need for individuals to choose their partners freely. The court in that case held that: “117. Autonomy must mean far more than the right to occupy an envelope of space in which a socially detached individual can act freely from interference by the state. What is crucial is the nature of the activity, not its site. While recognising the unique worth of each person, the Constitution does not presuppose that a holder of rights is as an isolated, lonely and abstract figure possessing a disembodied and socially disconnected self. It acknowledges that people live in their bodies, their communities, their cultures, their places and their times. It is not for the state to choose or to arrange the choice of partner, but for the partners to choose themselves” 148. Similarly in Artavia Murillo ET AL v. Costa Rica,215 the Inter- American Court of Human Rights addressed the question of whether the State’s prohibition on the practice of in vitro fertilisation (IVF) constituted an arbitrary interference with the right to private life. The court affirmed that the right to private life extends beyond privacy to include personal autonomy and the freedom to establish relationships. The Court held that: “The scope of the protection of the right to private life has been interpreted in broad terms by the international human rights courts, when indicating that this goes beyond the right to privacy. The protection of private life encompasses a series of factors associated with the dignity of the individual, including, for example, the ability to develop his or her own personality and 214 1999 (1) SA 6, CC (South Africa). 215 Inter-Am. Ct. H.R. (Ser. C) No. 257 (American Court of Human Rights). [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1593 Society for Enlightenment and Voluntary Action & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. aspirations, to determine his or her own identity and to define his or her own personal relationships. The concept of private life encompasses aspects of physical and social identity, including the right to personal autonomy, personal development and the right to establish and develop relationships with other human beings and with the outside world. The effective exercise of the right to private life is decisive for the possibility of exercising personal autonomy on the future course of relevant events for a person’s quality of life. Private life includes the way in which individual views himself and how he decides to project this view towards others, and is an essential condition for the free development of the personality.” (emphasis supplied) 149. These s emphasize the critical role of free and informed consent in marriage, particularly regarding child marriage. b. Right against gender-based violence 150. Further, the right against GBV is recognised.