Most interestingly, the experiment of reintroduction of the wolves helped in stabilising the water banks and fixing the course of rivers. There was reduction in soil erosion due to recovery of the valley and the vegetation. So, a small number of wolves left an indelible mark in the transformation of the first national park of the world, the Yellowstone National Park and its physical geography within a short period of around 20 years. This kind of regenerative effect cannot even be thought of by human efforts whatever the magnitude be thereof. Looking at the empirical evidence of the impact of carnivores in maintaining the ecosystem of forests, the efforts of tiger conservation in the Jim Corbett National Park, an iconic National Park of this country is imperative and of utmost importance. I. BACKGROUND 1. The background leading to the present proceedings, in brief, is thus : 1.1 Mr. Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who has intervened in the present proceedings, had approached the Delhi High Court by filing W.P. (C) No. 8729 of 2021 and CM Application No. 27181 of 2021, alleging therein that illegal construction of bridges and walls within the Tiger Breeding Habitat of Corbett Tiger Reserve and that too, without the approval from the Competent Authority were being carried out. He had sought intervention of the Court to protect and conserve the Biological Diversity, flora and fauna as well as the ecology of the Corbett National Park. 1.2 The Delhi High Court vide its dated 23rd August 2021, disposed of the said petition observing thus : “We have heard the Petitioner. Looking to the averments in the writ petition and the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, more particularly, Section 38(O)(b) thereof, we deem it appropriate, at this stage, to direct the Respondent to treat this writ petition as a Representation and look into the issues flagged and highlighted by the Petitioner. Needless to state that in case the Respondent finds merit in the issues raised, necessary action shall be taken by [2024] 3 S.C.R. 199 In Re: T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India & Ors. In Re: Gaurav Kumar Bansal the Respondent, in accordance with law, keeping in mind the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and the necessity of conserving the flora and fauna as well as the ecology of the National Park. For the purpose of taking a decision and consequential action, if any, it is open to the Respondent to call for an inspection report, in to verify the factual status with respect to the allegations made in the writ petition. The exercise shall be carried out by the Respondent as expeditiously as possible and practicable.” 1.3 The Division Bench of the High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital, noticing a news published in “Times of India”, vide its dated 27th October 2021, in Writ Petition (PIL) No. 178 of 2021, took suo motu cognizance of the illegal construction activities being undertaken by unknown persons. It will be relevant to refer to the said , which reads thus : “A news item has appeared in the “Times of India” newspaper, dated 23.10.2021, regarding the illegal construction activities being undertaken by unknown persons, which are clearly in violation of the Forest Laws.