E. Indra Sawhney vs. Union of India 135. Then next comes the 9-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Indra Sawhney and others vs. Union of India and others,12 which could be considered as an important milestone laying down the law about reservations for Other Backward Classes. The extracts from the said of 9-Judge Bench have in-extenso been reproduced in the referral (The State of Punjab & Ors. vs. Davinder Singh & Ors.13). 136. I will refer to some of the observations made by B.P. Jeevan Reddy, J., who has authored the for himself and M.H. Kania, C.J., M.N. Venkatachaliah, J. and A.M. Ahmadi, J. (as Their Lordships then were). “781. At the outset, we may state that for the purpose of this discussion, we keep aside the Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes (since they are admittedly included within the backward classes), except to remark that backward classes contemplated by Article 16(4) do comprise some castes — for it cannot be denied that Scheduled Castes include quite a few castes.” 137. His Lordship (Jeevan Reddy, J.) observed that with regard to identification of ‘backward class of citizens’, we keep aside the Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes. It will be relevant to note that in the said part of the His Lordship (Jeevan Reddy, J.) was considering an issue with regard to identification of backward class of citizens. In this background, it was observed that the court was keeping aside Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes since 12 (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 13 (2020) 8 SCC 1 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1527 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. they are admittedly included within the backward classes. It was further observed that backward classes contemplated by Article 16(4) do comprise some castes since it cannot be denied that Scheduled Castes include quite a few castes. 138. From paragraph 790 onwards, His Lordship considered the ‘Means-test’ and ‘creamy layer’. It will be apposite to reproduce paragraph 792, which reads thus: “792. In our opinion, it is not a question of permissibility or desirability of such test but one of proper and more appropriate identification of a class — a backward class. The very concept of a class denotes a number of persons having certain common traits which distinguish them from the others. In a backward class under clause (4) of Article 16, if the connecting link is the social backwardness, it should broadly be the same in a given class. If some of the members are far too advanced socially (which in the context, necessarily means economically and, may also mean educationally) the connecting thread between them and the remaining class snaps. They would be misfits in the class. After excluding them alone, would the class be a compact class. In fact, such exclusion benefits the truly backward. Difficulty, however, really lies in drawing the line — how and where to draw the line? For, while drawing the line, it should be ensured that it does not result in taking away with one hand what is given by the other.