(ii) The said application for environmental release was considered in the 125th meeting of GEAC held on 11.12.2015, wherein GEAC deliberated on the application submitted by CGMCP for environmental release of mustard. After a detailed deliberation, it was decided that the applicant may be invited to give a presentation to GEAC on 04.01.2016. (iii) In its 126th meeting held on 04.01.2016, GEAC constituted a sub-committee under the Chairmanship of Dr. K. Veluthambi, Co-Chair of GEAC, with the following members for examination of the dossier: a. Dr. K. Veluthambi, Chairman (Biotechnologist) b. Dr. S R Rao, Adivser, DBT, Member (Agriculture Expert) c. Dr. S.K. Apte Member (Molecular Biology Expert) d. Dr. Ramesh V Sonti Member (Plant Genetics Expert) e. Dr. B. Sesikeran, Member (Nutritional Pathologist and Food Safety Expert) f. Dr. C R Babu Member (Environmental Science Expert) 2004 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports g. Dr. K V Prabhu, Joint Director (Research), IARI Member (Plant Breeding Expert) h. Member Secretary, GEAC to facilitate the sub- committee. (iv) Pursuant to the recommendation of the above-mentioned meeting, GEAC was informed in its 127th meeting held on 05.02.2016, that the 1st meeting of the sub-committee was held on 02.02.2016. The Chair of the sub-committee also informed GEAC that the outcome of the review of the biosafety dossier submitted by the BSU set-up by DBT was also deliberated in detail. It was further informed that the sub-committee recommended revision of the biosafety dossier by incorporating additional information/ clarifications/gaps identified by the sub- committee and the BSU. Considering the above, GEAC, in its 127th meeting, adopted the recommendations of the sub-committee and directed for the revision of biosafety dossier. GEAC also discussed the procedure for further review and consultation on the biosafety data in respect of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 developed by CGMCP and Biosafety RARM report to be prepared for consideration of GEAC. It was also decided that if the biosafety dossier is found to be complete in all respects, the biosafety dossier/RARM report, excluding confidential information, will be put in the public domain for comments. Thereafter, a detailed response to the comments received would be prepared and considered before a final decision is taken by GEAC. (v) The first meeting of the sub-committee was held on 02.02.2016 and the second meeting of the sub-committee was held on 11.04.2016. Sub-committee meetings: 14.2.1 In the first sub-committee meeting, held on 02.02.2016, the sub-committee made the following submissions: a) That the mandate given to it included review of the biosafety dossier for its adequacy and accuracy in all respects, and indicate gaps, if any. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2005 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. b) That Dr. S.R. Rao Advisor, DBT informed that the biosafety dossier had been examined in detail by the BSU set up in DBT and points for further clarification and dossier revision had been prepared for consideration and discussion. c) That on the application submitted by the applicant CGMCP, University of Delhi, South Campus, for environmental release of transgenic mustard hybrid DMH-11 and parental lines containing events bn 3.6 and modbs 2.99 developed using barnase, barstar and bar genes, was taken up.