A clause like this is not hit by Section 23 of the Contract Act at all. Such clause is neither forbidden by law nor it is against the public policy. It does not offend Section 28 of the Contract Act in any manner. xxx 55. It will be seen from the above decisions that except in A.B.C. Laminart [A.B.C. Laminart (P) Ltd. v. A.P. Agencies (1989) 2 SCC 163] where this Court declined to exclude the jurisdiction of the courts in Salem, in all other similar 1224 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cases an inference was drawn (explicitly or implicitly) that the parties intended the implementation of the exclusion clause as it reads notwithstanding the absence of the words “only”, “alone” or “exclusively” and the like. The reason for this is quite obvious. The parties would not have included the ouster clause in their agreement were it not to carry any meaning at all. The very fact that the ouster clause is included in the agreement between the parties conveys their clear intention to exclude the jurisdiction of courts other than those mentioned in the clause concerned. Conversely, if the parties had intended that all courts where the cause of action or a part thereof had arisen would continue to have jurisdiction over the dispute, the exclusion clause would not have found a place in the agreement between the parties.” (Emphasis supplied) 62. As discussed in the foregoing paragraphs, since the Distributorship Agreement already designates Dubai, UAE as the seat of arbitration, the same would be akin to an exclusive jurisdiction clause with only the courts in Dubai, UAE having the jurisdiction over such arbitration in view of the decision of this Court in Indus Mobile Distribution (supra). 63. Even if it is assumed that the aforesaid clause does not confer jurisdiction exclusively to the courts where the seat of arbitration is situated, still this Court will not have jurisdiction to entertain the present Section 11 petition. This is because, in view of the law laid down in BALCO (supra) and Reliance Industries (supra), Part I of this Act, 1996 will not be applicable where the seat of arbitration is outside India or where the law governing the arbitration agreement is not Indian laws. In the present case as discussed in the foregoing paragraphs, the Distributorship Agreement, more particularly Clauses 26 & 27 respectively makes it abundantly clear that the seat of arbitration is in fact Dubai, UAE, furthermore both the law governing the contract and the curial law are not Indian laws. In such scenario, even if the argument of the petitioner that the non-exclusive jurisdiction clause had been incorporated to confer jurisdiction on other courts too is accepted in toto, even then this Court will not have any jurisdiction [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1225 M/s Arif Azim Co. Ltd. v. M/s Micromax Informatics Fze to exercise its powers under Section 11 of the Act, 1996 as neither the seat is India nor is the arbitration agreement governed by Indian laws.