The facts of the said case are, therefore, distinguishable and are not applicable to the case in hand. The said decision was rendered due to specific provision therein and it is also apparent from the fact that the case of Babu Lal(supra) was not even referred to in that case. 22. Another decision of the Supreme Court which needs reference at this stage is the case of Begum Sabiha Sultan v. Nawab Mohd. Mansur Ali Khan and others (2007) 4 SCC 343. In para 12 of the said it was held by the Supreme Court that reading the plaint as a whole in this case, there cannot be much doubt that the suit is essentially in relation to the relief of partition and declaration in respect of the properties situate in Village Pataudi, Gurgaon, outside the jurisdiction of court at Delhi. In that view of the matter it was also held that the Delhi Court will have no jurisdiction to try and decide the aforesaid 1298 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports suit. It was also held in the said decision by following the decision of Harshad Chiman Lal Modi (supra) that the relief of partition, accounting and declaration of invalidity of the sale executed in respect of immovable propertied situated situate in village Pataudi, Gurgaon could not entirely be obtained by personal obedience to the decree by the defendants in the suit. It was further held that applying the test laid down therein, it is clear that the present suit could not be brought within the purview of the Section 16 of the Code or entertained relying on Section 20 of the Code on the basis that three out of the five defendants are residing within the jurisdiction of the court at Delhi. 23. In view of the above facts and circumstances, we are of the considered opinion that the Delhi court would not have the territorial jurisdiction to entertain and decide the aforesaid suits. Consequently, we hold that the decision rendered by the learned Single judge cannot be upheld. The same is accordingly set aside and quashed. 24. The appeals are allowed accordingly, the plaint be returned to the plaintiff in accordance with law.” 13. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, we are of the view that no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned s. 14. Section 16 of the CPC deals with territorial jurisdiction of the courts and provides that suits for recovery or partition of immovable property or for foreclosure, sale or redemption in the case of a mortgage of or charge upon immovable property or for determination of any other right to or interest in immovable property, or for compensation for wrong to immovable property, or for recovery of movable property actually under distraint or attachment, shall be instituted in the court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the property is situate.