Mangesh Bhosale (PW-3) and Aniket Bhosale (not examined), upon hearing the sound of quarrel so also Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5) who was informed by Sunita Bhosale (PW-6) and his wife Chayya, rushed towards the spot and saw the appellant assaulting Gopal Bhosale by means of a bamboo stick and the injured lying on the ground. Seeing the three of them, the appellant ran away from there. Other people including Sharad Bhosale (PW-4) gathered at the spot. The injured Gopal Bhosale was taken to the Rural Hospital, Khandala, where the doctor declared him brought dead. 4.2 Sharad Bhosale (PW-4) lodged the First Information Report being FIR No. 54 of 2014 at Police Station Khandala, District Satara, on the intervening night of 21st March 2014 and 22nd March 2014 at around 1:35 AM. The FIR was registered for offences punishable under Sections 302 and 504 of IPC. 4.3 Investigating Officer Ashok Shelke (PW-10) conducted the investigation. After preparing the inquest panchnama, the dead body was sent for postmortem. The appellant was arrested. The blood-stained clothes of the appellant were seized by preparing a panchnama. While in police custody, the disclosure statement of the appellant was recorded and at his instance muddemal i.e., bamboo stick was seized under panchnama. The Investigating Officer also recorded the statement of witnesses. He sent blood-stained clothes, bamboo stick, etc., for chemical analysis. 4.4 The Investigating Officer, upon completion of the investigation, filed a chargesheet forwarding the appellant to face the trial. The case was committed to the Sessions Court as the offence punishable under Section 302 of the IPC is exclusively triable by the Sessions Court. 4.5 The trial court, upon hearing, framed charge against the appellant. The appellant pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 4.6 In to bring home the guilt of the appellant, the prosecution examined ten witnesses. Besides the oral evidence, prosecution has also placed reliance on a number of documents. The incriminating circumstances in evidence were put to the appellant. The appellant denied the circumstances. He led no defence evidence. The defence was of total denial. 1444 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 4.7 The Sessions Court, upon trial, convicted the appellant for the offence punishable under Section 302 of the IPC and sentenced him to undergo imprisonment for life. 4.8 Aggrieved thereby, the appellant preferred an appeal before the High Court. Vide impugned final and , the High Court dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant. Aggrieved still, the appellant has filed the present appeal. 5. We have heard Shri D.N. Goburdhun, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant and Shri Siddharth Dharmadhikari, learned Counsel appearing for the respondent-State. 6. Shri D.N. Goburdhun, learned Senior Counsel, submits that the trial court as well as the High Court has grossly erred in convicting the appellant. It is submitted that the testimonies of the witnesses i.e. Mangesh Bhosale (PW-3), Rajendra Bhosale (PW-5) and Sunita Bhosale (PW-6) would show that there are material contradictions and inconsistencies in their depositions. It is further submitted that there are various contradictions in the FIR on one hand and the testimonies of the alleged eyewitnesses.