While Section 5-B states that any law related to succession or any custom or usage governing succession of property shall not apply in relation to enemy property under 910 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Act as no person including a legal heir and successor of an enemy or enemy subject or enemy firm shall be deemed to have any right, title or interest or any benefit arising out of such property in relation to enemy property, this provision does not at the same time confer any right, title and interest or any benefit arising out of enemy property in the Custodian for Enemy Property. A Custodian is thus only a trustee of the enemy property. In the absence of any transfer of ownership or any benefit arising from enemy property being conferred on the Custodian, he acts merely as a trustee of the said property and not as the owner of enemy property. The Explanation to Section 5(3) states that for the purpose of that sub-section only ‘enemy property vested in the Custodian’ shall always be deemed to have included all rights, titles and interests in or any benefit arising out of such property vested in him under the Act. This is by a deeming provision and by a fiction only for the limited purpose of extinction of rights of succession on the death of the enemy or extinction or winding up of the business of enemy property or change of nationality of the legal heir or successor. Thus, if no ownership rights are conferred on the Custodian and he is appointed vis-à-vis any enemy property as a Custodian, in law, he cannot be construed to be the owner of such property. This position is also discerned from the manner in which the Custodian acts vis-à-vis the enemy property as a protector of such property and not as its owner. If the Custodian himself cannot be construed to be the owner of the enemy property, then much less the Central Government or Union can be considered to be the owner of such property. In our view, the Union or the Central Government cannot usurp rights of ownership and exercise all such rights of ownership vis-à-vis enemy property. In the absence of any provision conferring such ownership on the Custodian, the Central Government, which appoints the Custodian of Enemy Property in India by issuance of a notification in the Official Gazette to carry on his functions under the provisions of the Act, cannot assume ownership rights over such property. The same is having regard to the fact that the Act is a piece of parliamentary legislation and therefore, the State Legislatures or Governments have [2024] 2 S.C.R. 911 Lucknow Nagar Nigam & Others v. Kohli Brothers Colour Lab. Pvt. Ltd. & Others no competence to take steps under the Act and therefore, the Central Government appoints the Custodian of Enemy Property in India. 17. However, it was contended by Sri Balbir Singh, learned ASG appearing along with Sri Rupesh Kumar, learned counsel for the Custodian that by the appointment of the Custodian by the Central Government, the powers of the Custodian in respect of enemy property vested in him and such other actions that he may take vis-à-vis enemy property, would clearly indicate that the Custodian acts at the behest of the Central Government and therefore, the enemy property becomes Union property even though the same is vested in the Custodian who, in any case, is appointed by the Central Government.