The colonial government leased properties for this purpose and a large number of buildings were constructed. During World War II, the scarcity of housing accommodation became even more acute and there was an unprecedented increase in the rents. To mitigate this, Rent Control legislations were introduced. 7. The use of the buildings by more people than they could accommodate resulted in a steady deterioration of the structures and the dilapidation of the buildings over a period of time. Therefore, the Bombay Housing 2 Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, Number of Cessed Buildings, https://www. mhada.gov.in/en/content/m-b-r-r-board-history. 3 See Hindustan Times, 1 dead, four hurt as portion of nearly 100-year-old building collapses in Grant Road, 21 July 2024, https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1-dead-four-hurt-as-portion- of-nearly-100-year-old-building-collapses-in-grant-road-101721503683871.html; Indian Express, Dongri building collapse: In 37 years, 894 people died in accidents involving MHADA, 17 July 2019, https://indianexpress.com/article/cities/mumbai/dongri-building-collapse-in-37-years-894-people-died- in-accidents-involving-mhada-buildings-5832965/; Indian Express, Mumbai building collapse: Bhendi Bazaar accident leaves 24 dead, CM Devendra Fadnavis assures strict action, 31 August 2017, https:// indianexpress.com/article/cities/mumbai/mumbai-building-collapse-bhendi-bazaar-accident-death-toll- rises-to-22-4822665/ [2024] 11 S.C.R. 35 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. Board Act 1948 was enacted which provided for the setting up of a Housing Board of Bombay to execute housing schemes and construct new residential buildings in the island city. Although the enactment helped increase the housing stock, it could not address the issue of existing buildings, which were collapsing from time to time, resulting in loss of life and property. To address the alarming rate of collapses, which were resulting in the loss of life and property, and exacerbating the existing housing shortage, urgent measures were needed, particularly in light of the rapid population growth of the city due to influx from various parts of the country. The Bombay Repairs and Reconstruction Board Act 1969 was introduced. Under this enactment, the Bombay Building Repairs and Reconstruction Board was set up and a cess was introduced to generate funds for the repair and reconstruction of dangerous buildings. A part of the cess was borne by the owners, while the remaining part was borne by the tenants. However, despite these efforts, due to the unprecedented scale of the problem and lack of financial resources, the problem persisted. 8. Accordingly, the state legislature of Maharashtra enacted the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act 1976,4 which received the assent of the President on 25 April 1977. The long title stipulates that it is an Act to “unify, consolidate and amend the laws relating to housing, repairing and reconstructing dangerous buildings and carrying out improvement works in slum areas.” Pre- existing laws such as the Bombay Housing Board Act 1948, the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board Act 1950, the Bombay Building Repairs and Reconstruction Board Act 1969 and the Maharashtra Slum Improvement Board Act 1973 were repealed on the enactment of the MHADA Act.5 9. Chapter VIII of the MHADA Act provides for the repairs and reconstruction of dilapidated buildings in ‘Brihan Mumbai’ or the erstwhile ‘Greater Bombay’.6 A cess is levied on the owners which is utilised by the Mumbai Building Repair and Reconstruction Board to carry out repairs and reconstruction of such buildings.