7.3 Reliance is placed by the learned Chief Justice on In Re: Natural Resources Allocation, Special Reference No.1 of 2012 (“Natural Resources Allocation”), reported in (2012) 10 SCC 1, wherein it was observed that the Public Trust Doctrine has expanded beyond resources like air, sea, water and forests, to include other resources such as spectrum which also have a community or public element. That no part of such resources can be dissipated as a matter of largess, charity, donation or endowment, for private exploitation.That one set of private citizens cannot prosper at the cost of another set of private citizens, because such resources are owned by the community as a whole. 7.4 On the aspect of “vesting” private resources in the State, adverting to the arguments of Mr. Zal Andhyarujina and Mr. Sameer Parekh, as well as Ms. Uttara Babbar, learned senior counsel, it is opined by the learned Chief Justice that their argument that the acquisition of the privately owned resource is a prerequisite to the applicability of Article 39(b) and only the [2024] 11 S.C.R. 207 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. process of distribution which follows the acquisition is covered by the provision, is a narrow interpretation of the word “distribution”. Referring to Natural Resources Allocation, it is observed that Article 39(b) only lays down a restriction on the object of the distribution, i.e., it must be to subserve the “common good”. However, there is no bar on the mode of distribution. That this Court must not tread into the domain of economic policy, or endorse a particular economic ideology while undertaking constitutional interpretation. To hold that the term “distribution” cannot encompass the vesting of a private resource would amount to falling into the same error as the Krishna Iyer, J.’s doctrine, i.e. to lay down a preference of economic and social policy. Ultimately, in paragraph 229, following conclusions have been deduced by the learned Chief Justice: “229. In a nutshell, the answers arrived at by this Court to the reference before us may be summarised in the following terms: a. Article 31C to the extent that it was upheld in Kesavananda Bharati v. Union of India remains in force. b. The majority in Ranganatha Reddy expressly distanced itself from the observations made by Justice Krishna Iyer (speaking on behalf of the minority of judges) on the interpretation of Article 39(b). Thus, a coequal bench of this Court in Sanjeev Coke violated judicial discipline and erred by relying on the minority opinion. c. The single-sentence observation in Mafatlal to the effect that material resources of the community’ include privately owned resources is not part of the ratio decidendi of the . Thus, it is not binding on this Court. d. The direct question referred to this bench is whether the phrase ‘material resources of the community’ used in Article 39(b) includes privately owned resources. Theoretically, the 208 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports answer is yes, the phrase may include privately owned resources.