It is reasonable to infer that there is a potential of loss of species of indigenous mustard crop, as India is the centre of origin and diversity, which fact cannot be doubted. The concerns about the impact on other beneficial organisms, such as honeybees, earthworms etc. are also well-founded and serious. As per the precautionary principle, those activities which may disturb nature shall be proceeded only upon ex-ante assessment of their consequences. Such a sound risk and impact assessment is also a binding obligation under Article 14(1) (b) of the CBD and Article 26 of the CPB. Therefore, GEAC is duty bound, both under domestic and international law, to sanction long- term chronic and intergenerational studies, as recommended by the TEC. The reluctance to conduct such studies would risk the health of future generations as well as the farmers’ right to conduct their agricultural activities in the most suitable manner. In this regard, it would be pertinent to quote the paragraph 28 of the 301st Report of PSC as under: “28. The Committee notes that the currently, twenty years after their introduction in 1996, only 6 countries continue to account for over 90% of all GM crop area globally (USA 40%, Brazil 23%, Argentina 14%, India 6%, [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2125 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. Canada 6%, China 2%). The Committee was informed by the members of civil society during the deliberation on the subject that there was a decline in GM crop area in 2015. The Committee notes with surprise that inspite of the fact that GM technology is being propagated as the most advanced agricultural technology, 17 of the 20 most developed countries (HDI) do not grow it which includes most of Europe, Japan, Russia, Israel etc. The Committee opines that there is increasing evidence about the lack of safety of GM crops and little or no benefits to justify the risks, most countries in the world do not grow GM crops. The Committee also feels that the policy makers of these countries, as custodians for both present and future generations, have seen that GM organisms spread rapidly, that the impacts have been unpredictable, potentially hazardous, uncontrollable and irreversible, assessed the benefits and risks, taken note of emerging evidence of harm, and therefore do not permit GM crops. The non acceptance of the most advanced agricultural technology, GM technology, by the most developed countries raises doubts about the efficacy of the technology. The Committee, therefore, feels that the Government of India should conduct a comparative study to examine the reasons for not accepting this technology by these developed countries viz-a-viz the reasons led to its acceptance.” (underlining by me) 47. There are considerable concerns that the HT GM technology depends on huge chemical spraying. In this regard, learned counsel Dr. Ravindra Chingale brought to my notice the three unstarred questions raised before the Rajya Sabha on 15.03.2021, 22.03.2021 and 08.12.2022 (the latest being after the decision taken by GEAC and the MoEF&CC for environmental release of transgenic mustard DMH-11 hybrid).