for approval so that Honorable Apex Court may be informed about view of state…”. The proposal was reportedly approved by the State Government within a period of 3 days only, i.e., on 11.09.2023. Res ipsa loquitor. [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2297 Haryana Urban Development Authority v. Abhishek Gupta etc. 40. Even the responses to the questions posed by this Court in its dated 13.09.2023, moved with extraordinary swiftness, securing approval at an astonishingly expedited pace upwards, without the addition of even a single word at any level. The responses the record shows, were drafted by an Assistant. 41. We hasten to add here that we have no intention to suggest that bureaucratic swiftness necessarily undermines the thoroughness of the process. Indeed, our administrative setup can do with more such alacrity. Rather, the confluence of circumstances— the land being prime real estate and yet suddenly and inexplicably being excluded from acquisition, crucial policy decisions with wide ranging public interest of enormous financial ramifications being discussed and finalized by very junior officials, files receiving approval at exceptional speed, etc.—collectively do not inspire confidence as to the objectivity of the entire process. 42. Despite meticulously analyzing all relevant documents appended with the file, including the cryptic brief notes of the Assistant, we are unable to get any qualitative assistance from the government record. As noted above, there is little discussion about: (i) the effect of release of the Respondents’ land on the remaining acquisition, in light of the challenge pending before the High Court or this Court; (ii) the cascading effect that this compromise would have on the other landowners along with the arguments it would invite on the question of hostility of Article 14, and if so; (iii) the basis of such classification and whether it would be reasonable; (iv) whether the release of the land would affect the contiguity of the land under acquisition and if so, would it impair the planned development of the area under acquisition; and (v) whether the State was competent to release the land in purported exercise of its powers under Section 48 of the 1894 Act when the matter was sub judice before this Court. 43. None of these issues have been discussed, considered, or analyzed. The decision regarding release of the Respondents’ land is, therefore, manifestly arbitrary. While the State Government undoubtedly possesses the power to release the land for lawful considerations, it cannot do so whimsically, irrationally, without any application of mind, or selectively. Condoning such action would encourage further monocratic release of other lands in complete disregard of 2298 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the consequences and impact on public interest. This would likely result in the creation of small islands of unacquired lands within large swathes of acquired land. These private enclaves would undoubtedly upset the effectiveness of the rest of the acquisition—making it patently unfair for all other landowners, laying to waste perhaps the very purpose for which their lands were acquired in the first place. Turning futile the acquisition would also render mindless dissipation of the State Exchequer, already expended earlier in the process— reducing returns for all.