This implies that GCWL and KECML had to mutually agree for the terms of the sale and same had to be approved by Ministry of Coal. Given the fact that the MoU was only conditionally ratified, it was incumbent upon the officials of KECML that before they agree to any terms for the sale of the rejects that they had to bring the matter up to the Board of KECML. The subsequent events indicate that even the officials of KECML were of the same understanding. 8. Even assuming that the Clause 12 of the MoU was approved, another aspect of the matter which has to be noted is that Clause 12 of the MoU does not violate the terms of the [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1227 M/s Karnataka Emta Coal Mines Limited and Another v. Central Bureau of Investigation Allotment Letter inasmuch as it specifically required that the approval of the Ministry of Coal be obtained before such a disposal. A bare reading of the Clause 12 does not indicate any illegality a sought to be alleged by the CBI. Therefore, the approval of the MoU in the Board Meeting on 13.01.2009 cannot be said to be an act of negligence or error in and no imputation of any wrongdoing can be imposed any KPCL nominee present in the Board Meeting on 13.01.2009. xxxxx 10. Additionally, KECML wrote a letter wherein it sought for a waiver from meeting the specification if raw coal was supplied. The difficulty for the Management of KPCL was that if the raw coal did not match the specification, it would not be utilization for the generation of power. This would result in stoppage of generation resulting in power crisis in the State of Karnataka. The better alternative would have been to wait for the certificate of the Coal Controller regarding whether the raw coal met the requirements of KPCL of not. Hence, no confirmation was given. This was a managerial decision taken in the best interest of the State of Karnataka as the power generation could not be compromised to save washing cost. The cost of procurement of power would be tremendous and outweighed any temporary disadvantage caused by not abiding by the Board Minutes of 13.06.2009. This decision was vindicated by the letter issued by the Coal Controller’s Office on 09.12.2009 wherein it concluded that to obtain the agreed parameter of coal quality, washing would be required. Therefore, it cannot be said that there was an act of omission or negligence or error in on part of the KPCL nominees on the Board of KECML. The 1228 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports decision was taken keeping the best interests of KPCL in mind and cannot be faulted. xxxxx 16. The contention of CBI that there is a violation of the allotment that tailings and rejects are the property of KPCL and should be utilized only for its end use of power generation appears to be based on a strict interpretation of the allotment conditions.