The presence of the accused at the scene of crime in the afternoon at about 2 O’clock in the background of the evidence of last seen of PW-10, 11 and 13.2, is a clear link in the chain of circumstances which point to the guilt of the accused. If one couples this fact with the fact that he was not at home around the time when PW-10 Jyotsnaben and PW13.2 Artiben, the mother visited the house of the appellant, it reinforces the evidence of PW-9 that in the afternoon, on the date of crime, the appellant was at the place of the crime and the deceased who was taken from the house was not with him at that moment. Circumstance No. 3: Injury on the private parts of the accused 23. PW-7, Dr. Kamlesh Kumar who examined the accused on 15.04.2016 deposed that there was injury on the genitals of the accused. Exh.P-27 certificate also reveals that there were abrasions on the prepuce of the accused. It will be seen from the injuries on the deceased as reflected in the evidence of PW-8 Dr. Kalpesh and the postmortem report Exh. P.28 that the perianal region of the deceased had multiple scratch abrasions with the underlying contusions; that the perianal skin was swollen and reddish in colour; the anal orifice dilated, roomy and that part of the rectum protruded out through the anal orifice. The doctor has also opined that these 1084 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports injuries were antemortem in origin. The abrasions in the prepuce of the accused were there even two days after the incident. The only suggestion in the cross-examination to the doctor raised that if a person scratches the genitals a lot, signs of contusions could be observed. No other explanation is offered. Considering the overall facts, we are inclined to accept this circumstance as an additional link in the chain of circumstances. Circumstance No. 4: Conduct under Section 8 of the Evidence Act: 24. Irrespective of the admissibility of the discovery, panchnama (Exh.18) and the recovery panchnama Exh. 21 and irrespective of the admissibility of the recovery of the clothes of the deceased on the statement of the accused, we find that the conduct of the appellant in leading the investigation team and the panchas and pointing out where the apparel of the deceased was hidden would be admissible. In this case PW-17, the Investigating Officer has clearly deposed that the accused showed willingness to show the place where he had thrown the clothes. PW-17, his team and the panchas reached by walking to the place as indicated by the accused. This Court in A.N. Venkatesh and another v. State of Karnataka (2005) 7 SCC 714 relying on Prakash Chand v. State (Delhi Admn. ), (1949) 3 SCC 90 held as under: “9. By virtue of Section 8 of the Evidence Act, the conduct of the accused person is relevant, if such conduct influences or is influenced by any fact in issue or relevant fact.