Ignoring an earlier judicial precedent rendered by a Bench presided by co-equal number of judges and taking a totally contrary view itself amounts to a fundamental error rendering the subsequent view per incuriam as held in case of Karnail Singh v. State of Haryana.30 27 Writ-C No. 20585 of 2010 28 Civil Misc. Writ Petition No. 29682 of 2009, hereinafter referred to as ‘Narendra Road Lines’ 29 supra 30 [2009] 11 SCR 470 : (2009) 8 SCC 539 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1091 Kali Charan and Others v. State of U.P. and Others (xvi) That there is no pre or post notification delay in the present acquisition inasmuch as there are only three notifications, where a period of nearly one year has been consumed in issuing the Section 6 notification. For other seven notifications, Section 6 notification was issued within two to four months. Learned Solicitor General concluded his submissions urging that it is now futile to oppose the acquisition, particularly when the same is unequivocally accepted by all except a few, inasmuch as the majority of the landowners have accepted the enhanced compensation without raising any further challenge to the acquisition. Learned Solicitor General urged that the entire process was wholly transparent and that there was pressing necessity for acquisition of lands, considering the public purpose involved. He thus implored the Court to accept the appeals filed by the YEIDA and dismiss the appeals filed by the landowners. 27. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at bar and have gone through the impugned s and the material placed on record. DISCUSSION AND FINDINGS: - 28. The issues which arises for our consideration in the present batches of appeal are as follows: - (i) Whether the present acquisition is a part of the integrated development plan of ‘Yamuna Expressway” undertaken by respondent No.3-YEIDA? (ii) Whether the application of Sections 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act was legal and justified in the instant case, thereby justifying the decision of the State Government to dispense with the enquiry under Section 5-A of the Act? (iii) Whether the view taken by the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Kamal Sharma validating the questioned acquisition while relying upon Nand Kishore lays down the correct proposition of law or whether the Division Bench in the case of Shyoraj Singh was justified in applying the principles laid down in Radhy Shyam and quashing the acquisition proceedings in question? 1092 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 29. Before adverting to the above issues, we may take note of the fact that the State Government had formulated a “Policy for Planned Development along the Taj Expressway31” and the notification to this effect was issued by the Infrastructure & Industrial Development Commissioner, Government of Uttar Pradesh on 29th December, 2007. The Policy dealt with the formation of Special Development Zone32 and the development thereof. As per clause 3.2 of the said Policy, the land use of SDZ is divided in the following terms: - “3.2.