It is noteworthy that the Court in paragraph 15 of Hemani Malhotra (supra) itself notes that: [2024] 6 S.C.R. 565 Abhimeet Sinha & Ors. v. High Court of Judicature at Patna & Ors. “15. There is no manner of doubt that the authority making rules regulating the selection can prescribe by rules the minimum marks both for written examination and viva voce, but if minimum marks are not prescribed for viva voce before the commencement of selection process, the authority concerned, cannot either during the selection process or after the selection process add an additional requirement/qualification that the candidate should also secure minimum marks in the interview. Therefore, this Court is of the opinion that prescription of minimum marks by the respondent at viva voce test was illegal.” [emphasis supplied] 44. The above findings in Hemani Malhotra (supra) were in the absence of rules prescribing minimum marks for interview. The facts here are significantly different since the qualifying marks in the interview segment was notified before commencement of the recruitment process. In line with the settled principle of law as discussed above, in case of inconsistency of the existing Rules with the recommendations, the Rules will prevail. 45. Similarly in the other cited cases i.e., Ramesh Kumar (supra), the Court noted that in the absence of any contrary provision in relevant Rules, the competent authority can fix minimum qualifying marks, both for the written and viva voce. It was held that if specific Rules provide for minimum marks for viva voce, strict adherence to the same is mandatory. Significantly, the also elucidates the importance of the viva voce test in bringing out a candidate’s overall intellectual and personal qualities. Importantly in Hemani Malhotra (supra) and Ramesh Kumar (supra), the fundamental issue was whether the rules of the game could be changed midway through the selection process. However, in the present matters, the writ petitioners were aware of the rules of the game i.e. the prescription of minimum marks, well before the selection process commenced. This distinguishing feature cannot be overlooked. At this point, we may also note that the present writ petitions were de-tagged from the five-judge Constitution Bench matter21 concerning the issue of changing the rules of the game which is currently reserved for 21 Tej Prakash Pathak And Ors. v. Rajasthan High Court And Ors. C.A. No. 2634/2013 & batch 566 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports . This has been fairly conceded by the learned senior counsel for the petitioners, Mr. Ajit Kumar Sinha. Therefore, the challenge here is not w.r.t. changing the rules of the game but the implication of the Shetty Commission recommendations and the law laid down in All India Judges (2002). 46. On the contention relating to the decision in Mahender Kumar (supra) being per incuriam, it is plausible in the present facts to reconcile both decisions i.e. Mahender Kumar (supra) and Ramesh Kumar (supra). Crucially in both the decisions, it is emphasized that primacy must be given to the existing statutory rules.