220. Even, assuming that the respondent no. 1 did not actually store the aforesaid two videos in his mobile phone, and that he had no knowledge of the existence of those videos, nonetheless, the aforesaid aspect cannot be looked into by us at the stage of quashing, more particularly while deciding whether a prima-facie case is said to be made out. Even otherwise, since the material on record adduced by the prosecution clearly establishes the possession or storage of child pornographic material and the failure on the part of the respondent [2024] 10 S.C.R. 287 Just Rights for Children Alliance & Anr. v. S. Harish & Ors. no. 1 in deleting, destroying or reporting the same, the foundational facts necessary to invoke the statutory presumption of culpable mental state could be said to have been prima facie established. 221. In view of the statutory presumption of culpable mental state being attracted, any defence of the respondent no. 1 such as the absence of knowledge or intention would be a matter of trial. Absence of culpable mental state has to be established before the trial court by leading cogent evidence in that regard. Such defences should not be looked into by us at this stage. All that should be ascertained is whether a prima facie case is said to have been made out. v. Summary of our conclusion 222. We summarize our final conclusion as under: - (I) Section 15 of the POCSO provides for three distinct offences that penalize either the storage or the possession of any child pornographic material when done with any particular intention specified under sub-section(s) (1), (2) or (3) respectively. It is in the nature and form of an inchoate offence which penalizes the mere storage or possession of any pornographic material involving a child when done with a specific intent prescribed thereunder, without requiring any actual transmission, dissemination etc. (II) Sub-section (1) of Section 15 penalizes the failure to delete, destroy or report any child pornographic material that has been found to be stored or in possession of any person with an intention to share or transmit the same. The mens-rea or the intention required under this provision is to be gathered from the actus reus itself i.e., it must be determined from the manner in which such material is stored or possessed and the circumstances in which the same was not deleted, destroyed or reported. To constitute an offence under this provision the circumstances must sufficiently indicate the intention on the part of the accused to share or transmit such material. (III) Section 15 sub-section (2) penalizes both the actual transmission, propagation, display or distribution of any child pornography as-well as the facilitation of any of the abovementioned acts. To constitute an offence under Section 15 sub-section (2) apart from the storage or possession of 288 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports such pornographic material, there must be something more to show i.e., either (I) the actual transmission, propagation, display or distribution of such material OR (II) the facilitation of any transmission, propagation, display or distribution of such material, such as any form of preparation or setup done that would enable that person to transmit it or to display it.