The ultimate decision is, therefore, by a judicial officer trained in the art and skill of law and not by an executive officer. …” (emphasis supplied) 31. In view of the above authorities, it is clear as crystal that if the officers have no personal interest in the lis, bias cannot be imputed; especially since, the officer is acting not in his capacity as an executive official, but as a quasi-judicial authority. The issue, thus, does not survive for determination by the Inquiry Officer. It is apposite to note that the High Court, in paragraph 13 of the impugned had already rendered a finding on the issue by holding that though the Inquiry Officer was an officer of the first appellant, in the inquiry proceedings, he is an independent quasi-judicial officer under the Act. To frame a point despite such determination is plainly incomprehensible. 864 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 32. The eighth point raises the issue of impleading the State Government in the proceedings under section 105B of the Act. The legality of the proceedings have already been held against the respondents, and the subject premises admittedly being that of the first appellant, the question of impleading the State Government is superfluous. 33. The ninth point examined by the High Court as regards the Inquiry Officer’s competence to proceed with the inquiry in the absence of regulations having been framed under section 105H of the Act, yet again, compels us to take a critical view. The High Court framed an issue, the answer to which was given by it in paragraph 13 of the impugned wherein it has been held that mere non-framing of regulations would not entitle the respondents to keep the proceedings in abeyance, and the proceedings would thus continue, in compliance with the principles of natural justice. Further, section 105H of the Act was examined to observe that it was not mandatory for the first appellant to frame regulations, since the provision stated that the Commissioner “may” make regulations for taking possession of premises of the first appellant. 34. We hold that even in the absence of regulations being framed under section 105H of the Act, the proceedings for eviction can be continued by the Inquiry Officer by adhering to principles of natural justice. The said provision cannot be construed as placing an embargo on the Inquiry Officer to proceed until regulations were framed. Much of the utility in ensuring that public premises are made free of unauthorised occupants would be lost on such technical pleas based raised and examined on a provision of law which is not imperative in terms. All that is required, as held above, is adherence to natural justice principles wherever applicable. 35. The impugned entertaining writ petitions which were not maintainable in the form they were presented did not warrant the High Court to exercise jurisdiction by framing points for determination by the Inquiry Officer. For the foregoing reasons, the same is indefensible; it has to be and is, accordingly, set aside.