In other words, the question whether a particular act is done by a public servant in the discharge of his official duty is substantially one of fact, which is to be determined in the unique circumstances of each case. 42. The applicability of Section 197 CrPC has been the subject of judicial interpretation in several cases. One of the first and foremost case laws which examined the pith of the expression “any act done or purporting to be done” was the Federal Court decision in Dr. Hori Ram Singh v. The Crown reported in AIR 1939 FC 43. Their Lordships were called upon to consider the applicability of Section 270 of the Government of India Act, 1935 which albeit not identical, but was similar to Section 197 CrPC. The Court held that while the offence under Section 409 IPC as regards the criminal breach of trust by a public servant would not require consent from the Governor for it cannot be done or purported to be done in the execution of his duty, yet the offence under Section 477A IPC as regards the falsification of accounts would require the Governor’s consent. The words “purported to be done” was interpreted as follows: “Extent of the Protection. Obviously, the section does not mean that the very act which is the gravamen of the charge and constitutes the offence should be the official duty of the servant of the Crown. Such an interpretation would involve a contradiction in terms, because an offence can never be an official duty. The words as used in the section are not “in respect of any official duty” but “in respect of any act done or purporting to be done in the execution of his duty.” The two expressions are obviously not identical. The offence should have been committed when an act is done in the execution of duty or when an act purports to be done in the execution of the duty. The reference as obviously to an offence committed in the course of an action, which is taken or purports to be taken in compliance with an official duty, and is in fact connected with it. The test appears to be not that the offence is capable of being committed only by a public servant and not by anyone else, but that it is committed by a public servant in an act done or purporting to be done in the execution of his duty. The section cannot be confined to only such acts as are [2024] 12 S.C.R. 799 Om Prakash Yadav v. Niranjan Kumar Upadhyay & Ors. done by a public servant directly in pursuance of his public office, though in excess of the duty or under a mistaken belief as to the existence of such duty. Nor is it necessary to go to the length of saying that the act constituting the offence should be so inseparably connected with the official duty as to form part and parcel of the same transaction. If the act complained of is an offence, it must necessarily be not an execution of duty, but a dereliction of it.