7 Subs. for “imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months and also with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees” by Act 18 of 2023, S. 2 and Sch. (w.e.f. 8-11-2023). [2024] 2 S.C.R. 755 Ram Nath v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. 273. Sale of noxious food or drink.—Whoever sells, or offers or exposes for sale, as food or drink, any article which has been rendered or has become noxious, or is in a state unfit for food or drink, knowing or having reason to believe that the same is noxious as food or drink, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.” 17. Section 272 is an offence of adulteration of any article of food or drink. The definition of food under Clause (a) of Section 3 of the FSSA also includes a liquid. If adulteration of an article of food is made which makes such articles noxious as food or drink, the person who adulterates is guilty of an offence punishable under Section 272 of the IPC. It contemplates the accused adulterating food with the intention to sell adulterated food. Thus, intention is an ingredient of the offence. When by adulterating an article of food or liquid, it becomes harmful or poisonous, it can be said that it becomes noxious. If, by adulteration, an article of food becomes noxious, it becomes unsafe food within the meaning of Section 3 (zz) of FSSA. 18. Section 273 of the IPC applies when a person sells or, offers or exposes for sale any article of food or drink which has been rendered noxious or has become unfit for food or drink. Section 273 incorporates requirements of knowledge or reasonable belief that the food or drink sold or offered for sale is noxious. Section 59 of the FSSA does not require the presence of intention as contemplated by Section 272 of the IPC. Under Section 59 of the FSSA, a person commits an offence who, whether by himself or by any person on his behalf, manufactures for sale or stores or sells or distributes any article of food for human consumption which is unsafe. So, the offence under Section 59 of the FSSA is made out even if there is an absence of intention as provided in Section 272 of the IPC. However, knowledge is an essential ingredient in sub-Section 1 of Section 48, and therefore, it will be a part of Section 59 of the FSSA. The maximum punishment for the offence under Section 272 of the IPC is imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with a fine. The substantive sentence for the offence punishable under Section 273 is the same, whereas, under Section 59, the punishment is of simple 756 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports imprisonment extending from three months to a life sentence with a fine of rupees three lakh up to 10 lakhs.