The Court also sought inputs on measures which may be taken to increase investor awareness thereby creating a conducive environment for a more efficient market. The Expert Committee solicited views and perspectives from SEBI and various market participants. 60. Before the Expert Committee, SEBI submitted that there has been no market default owing to price movements due to the measures 17 SEBI, Analysis of Profit and Los of Individual Traders dealing in Equity F&O Segment, 25 January 2023, available at <https://www.sebi.gov.in/reports-and-statistics/research/jan-2023/study-analysis-of-profit- and-loss-of-individual-traders-dealing-in-equity-fando-segment_67525.html#> 204 [2024] 1 S.C.R. DIGITAL SUPREME COURT REPORTS taken by SEBI. These measures include an index-based market- wide “circuit breaker” system, limit of 20% in movement of prices in individual shares, price bands at 10% of the previous day’s closing price for the future and options segment, stock specific surveillance mechanisms like ASM and GSM, and cautionary messages displayed to brokers placing s for stocks under ASM or GSM. 61. The Expert Committee has concluded that having systems like ASM and GSM is not sufficient and that there must be a real prospect of investors being aware of heightened surveillance by measures, such as clients being alerted when stocks are under ASM or GSM at the point of entry of s. The Expert Committee also highlighted the possibility of there being a surfeit of information in which investors find themselves drowned. Measures to communicate relevant information in a comprehensive manner to the investors are therefore imperative for informed decision making. 62. The Committee also explored investor awareness with respect to unclaimed securities, dividends and bank deposits of deceased next of kin which may be lost due to the legal framework. The Committee invited the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority18 to present its workings and manner of administration. Based on its findings, the Committee recommended that the Government of India establish a centralised authority to handle and process unclaimed private assets. It suggested creating the Central Authority for Unclaimed Property which must aim to reunite assets of deceased persons with their next of kin. The Committee also made some suggestions in the context of IEPFA which state: “a. The integrated portal announced in the Finance Minister Budget Speech should be expedited and process re-engineering delegation to the issuer companies based upon type and threshold of the claims must be considered; b. The same may be reviewed on incremental basis from time to time considering the benefits on reducing the timeline for disposal of claims vis-à-vis the risks of fraud. 18 IEPFA [2024] 1 S.C.R. 205 VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS c. Pilot projects such as taking up names from the death registry in a given area to map it with the database of the IEPFA and proactively attempting to reach out to the next of kin should be considered; d. Registered market intermediaries who are answerable to the regulatory regime of financial sector regulators could be identified and recognized as agents for service delivery to enable release of unclaimed dividend and securities; e. An officer strength of a dozen personnel is evidently disproportionate.