Relying on that assurance he forbore to obtain an independent medical opinion. The Minister of Pensions later decided that the appellant’s disability could not be attributed to war service. It was held that as between subjects such an assurance would be enforceable because it was intended to be binding intended to be acted upon, and was in fact acted upon; and the assurance was also binding on the Crown because no term could be implied that the Crown was at liberty to revoke it. xxx 1394 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports SUBMISSIONS BY THE RESPONDENT(S) NO.1: 15. Per contra, learned counsel for Respondent No.1 submitted that the Impugned has dealt with all relevant aspects and is legally and factually correct, needing no interference. 16. It was submitted that the Division Bench rightly held that tax could not be levied by the Corporation, as such power cannot be exercised by the Corporation on its own, as it is in the domain of the Legislature to confer such power, which has not been done. It was further submitted that absence of such power coupled with the fact, that no procedure was adopted before such imposition, would be fatal, as the same cannot be arbitrarily enforced, in the absence of either a provision in law or without any procedure adopted, much less that sanctioned by Regulations, finally made/approved by the State Government as per the provisions of the Act. 17. It was emphasised that under Section 1465 of the Act, there has to 24. Under our jurisprudence the Government is not exempt from liability to carry out the representation made by it as to its future conduct and it cannot on some undefined and undisclosed ground of necessity or expediency fail to carry out the promise solemnly made by it, nor claim to be the judge of its own obligation to the citizen on an ex parte appraisement of the circumstances in which the obligation has arisen. We agree with the High Court that the impugned passed by the Textile Commissioner and confirmed by the Central Government imposing cut in the import entitlement by the respondents should be set aside and quashed and that the Textile Commissioner and the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports be directed to issue to the respondents import certificates for the total amount equal to 100% of the f.o.b. value of the goods exported by them, unless there is some decision which fails within clause 10 of the Scheme in question.’ 5 ‘146. Licence for use of site for purpose of advertisement.-(1) Except under, and in conformity with, such terms and conditions of a licence as the Municipality may, by the regulations, provide, no person being the owner, lessee, sub-lessee, occupier or advertising agent shall use, or allow to be used, any site in any land, building or wall, or erect, or allow to be erected, on any site any hoarding, frame, post, kiosk, structure, vehicle, neon-sign or sky-sign for the purpose of display of any advertisement.