vs. Union of India & Ors. (2021) 15 SCC 125, this Court observed as under: “52. We must clarify here that the use of the term “indirect discrimination” is not to refer to discrimination which is remote, but is, instead, as real as any other form of discrimination. Indirect discrimination is caused by facially neutral criteria by not taking into consideration the underlying effects of a provision, practice or a criterion” 28. In fact, the “One Size Fits All” theory in deciding eligibility of persons with disability to avail the benefit of reserved seats was questioned first in Ravinder Kumar Dhariwal & Anr. vs. Union of India and Others (2023) 2 SCC 209 wherein this Court had the following to say: - “77. Since disability is a social construct dependent on the interplay between mental impairment with barriers such as social, economic and historical among other factors, the one-size-fits-all approach can never be used to identify the disability of a person. Disability is not universal but 686 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports is an individualistic conception based on the impairment that a person has along with the barriers that they face. Since the barriers that every person faces are personal to their surroundings — interpersonal and structural, general observations on “how a person ought to have behaved” cannot be made.” 29. Close on the heels of Ravinder Kumar Dhariwal (supra) came an of this Court in Writ Petition (C) No. 856 of 2023 [Bambhaniya Sagar Vasharambhai vs. Union of India & Ors.]. In the said writ petition, by dated 22.09.2023, in Para 13, this Court opined as under: “13. In the opinion of this Court in cases even of specified disabilities, in all cases the standard of 40% may result in “one size fit all” norm which will exclude eligible candidates. The Union, therefore, shall consider the steps to mitigate such anomalies, because a lower extent of disabilities bar benefits and at the same time render them functional, whereas higher extent of disability would entitle benefits, but also result in denying them the benefit of reservation. The National Commission and the Central Government are directed to consider the problem and work out suitable solutions to enable effective participation.” 30. Though ultimately Writ Petition (C) No. 856 of 2023 was dismissed on 31.10.2023, the issue with regard to finding a suitable solution to facilitate the effective participation of persons with disabilities by the Central Government, as suggested in the of 22.09.2023, was directed to be complied with. 31. It must be said to the credit of the Union of India that the directions of this Court in Bambhaniya (Supra) was carried forward and the Government of India through the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment issued a communication dated 25.01.2024 to the National Medical Commission. 32. The communication was placed on record by Mr. S.D. Sanjay, learned ASG. The Government of India mentioned in the communication that the National Medical Commission was obliged to take into account the developments in aids and assistive devices and also in other technologies which are capable of reducing the effects of disability [2024] 10 S.C.R.