This 1790 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports was having regard to the scheme of MMDR Act, 1957 and the Rules made thereunder as discussed above. Further, Entry 49 - List II could not be relied upon by the State Government to impose a cess on royalty by treating it as a land revenue and as a tax on land. This was because payment of royalty was under Section 9 of the MMDR Act, 1957 as a tax on exercise of mineral rights. Hence, it was observed in paragraph 34 itself that “Royalty on mineral rights is not a tax on land but a payment for the use of land.” It is in the above legal framework of the Tamil Nadu Act and the Entries in List I and List II and having regard to the object and scheme of MMDR Act, 1957 and the Rules made thereunder that the conclusion in paragraph 34 was arrived at. Ultimately, it was held that the levy of cess and surcharge on cess on the royalty payable was ultra vires the power of the State Legislature. As a result, the appeals filed by the appellant in India Cement, were allowed. As already noted, reference was made in detail to two decisions of the Patna and Mysore High Courts in arriving at the above conclusion by this Court which could be discussed at this stage. Laddu Mal: 16. In Laddu Mal, notices issued to the brick-layers by the Assistant Mining Officer, Purnea, Bihar calling upon them to pay royalty were assailed. The petitions challenged the notices mainly on the ground that what were being used by them for manufacture of bricks, which were minor minerals and therefore, the Bihar State Government had no authority in law to impose any royalty in respect of minor minerals. In the said case, the High Court considered the definition of “taxation” under Article 366(28) of the Constitution of India to include the imposition of any tax or impost and observed that the expression royalty is used in a secondary sense to signify that part of the reddendum which is variable and depends upon the quantity of minerals taken out. It is a payment made to the land owner by the lessee of the mine, in return of the privilege of working which is different from rent. Royalty is a levy in proportion to the minerals worked. Royalty is an impost by the Government and was in the nature of tax because it was a compulsory exaction recoverable, in the event of non-payment, as if it was arrears of land revenue. That royalty on mines and minerals is not a fee but a levy which is in [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1791 Mineral Area Development Authority & Anr. v. M/s Steel Authority of India & Anr. Etc. the nature of a tax. Article 265 of the Constitution provides that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law and the State Government had no authority to impose and demand royalty for mines and minerals.