In the light of the aforestated position of law propounded by the three Judge Bench, we have prima facie examined the case alleged against the appellants and the prima facie defense put forth by the appellants, to satisfy ourselves whether there are reasonable grounds for believing that the appellants are not guilty of the alleged offences under the Act and that they are not likely to commit any offence while on bail. Though it was urged on behalf of the respondent – ED that the appellant Satyendar Kumar Jain is a very influential political leader and is likely to influence the witnesses if released on bail, we would rather objectively decide the appeals on merits. 17. The case in nutshell put forth by the respondent – ED is that the appellant Satyendar Kumar Jain had conceptualized the idea of accommodation entries against cash and at this instance, his close associate Shri Jagdish Prasad Mohta had arranged a meeting between Satyendar Kumar Jain and Rajendra Bansal, a Kolkata based accommodation entry provider in July/ August, 2010. In the said meeting the modalities of carrying out accommodation entries, percentage of commission, process of cash transfer and documents to be maintained etc. were finalized. Thus, according to the ED, Satyendar Kumar Jain was the conceptualizer, initiator and supervisor for the entire operation of the accommodation entries. It has been alleged that the accommodation entries totalling to Rs.4.81 crores were received during the period 2015-16 from Kolkata based entry operators in the bank accounts of the four companies – Paryas Infosolution Pvt. Ltd., Indo Metalimpex Pvt. Ltd., Mangalayatan Projects Pvt. Ltd. and Akinchan Developers Pvt. Ltd., which companies were owned/controlled by him and his family members, and the cash totalling Rs.4,65,99,635/- approximately was paid to the said entry operators. It has been also alleged that the appellant Satyendar Kumar Jain received accommodation entries of Rs.15 lakhs in his company J.J. Ideal Estate Pvt. Ltd. during the year 2015-16 from the said Kolkata based entry operators by paying cash amounts of Rs.15 lakhs and commission of Rs.16,800/-. Thus, it has been alleged that Satyendar Kumar Jain committed offence of money laundering under Section 3 of PMLA by actually acquiring, possessing, concealing and using the process of bank to tune of Rs.4,81,16,435/- and projecting and claiming the same as untainted. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 801 Satyendar Kumar Jain v. Directorate of Enforcement 18. The ED has also alleged against the appellants Ankush Jain and Vaibhav Jain inter alia that they had assisted Satyendar Kumar Jain in the commission of the alleged offence by making separate independent declarations under IDS 2016 for declaring undisclosed income of Rs.8.26 crores for period from 2010-11 to 2015-16 in to protect Satyendar Kumar Jain. As per the case of ED, the appellants Ankush Jain and Vaibhav Jain had prepared ante dated documents with the help of Sunil Kumar Jain and Jagdish Prasad Mohta with regard to the Directorship in Akinchan Developers Pvt. Ltd. Paryas Infosolution Pvt. Ltd., Indo Metalimpex Pvt. Ltd., and Mangalayatan Projects Pvt.