3.3 The complainant sought cancellation of such of bail by way of Bail Cancellation Application No.24/2022. Various grounds were urged therein, including the appellant having made contradictory statements. 3.4 The High Court, while dismissing the application for cancellation of bail, vide impugned made observations and issued directions, now the subject matter of adjudication in appeal before this Court. 4. The dated 1st October, 2022 of the learned Single Judge, while dismissing the bail cancellation application, made reference to the conflict of facts in the affidavits filed by the complainant and the present appellant. While the complainant submitted in her affidavit that certain events took place, the present appellant denied the same with certain explanations. It was further noted that the State’s affidavit supported the position of the present respondent. Despite the said contradiction having been brought to the notice of the present appellant, he “did not assist the Court in finding the truth about the incident of 24.07.2022”. It was, as such, concluded that the appellant had intentionally filed a false affidavit before the Court. Accordingly, in the penultimate paragraph of the , issued the following directions: 1 ‘IPC’ hereinafter 2 Complainant 3 First Bail Petition No.180 of 2021, at Annexure P-3 4 First Bail Application No.1190 of 2021, at Annexure P-4 336 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “28. The above narration establishes that the respondent no.2 intentionally filed false affidavit before the Court, Therefore, this Court requests Registrar, Judicial of this Court to file a complaint against the respondent no.2 in, the court of competent jurisdiction for filing a false affidavit.” 5. Pursuant to such an by the High Court, a complaint under Section 193 of the IPC was filed before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Nainital bearing the following particulars - Criminal Complaint No.2991 of 2022, titled as State Through Registrar (Judicial), Hon’ble High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital v. James Kunjwal. 6. By way of the special leave petition it is urged that mere denial of the averments in the pleadings would not constitute the offence of perjury. Further, it was urged that a Court is not “bound” to make a complaint under Section 195(1)(b), Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, unless it is of the opinion that it is expedient in the interest of justice to do so. Reliance is placed on a Constitution Bench of this Court in Iqbal Singh Marwah v. Meenakshi Marwah.5 7. In the counter affidavit it has been claimed that the appellant has misrepresented and twisted certain facts, for instance, that he continued to have relations with the 2nd Respondent despite his marriage being fixed with someone else; that the appellant had forced the complainant to terminate her pregnancy etc. The respondent, in view of the above, has submitted that the High Court was justified in directing the filing of the complaint against the appellant. At this juncture, for ready reference, we extract the relevant portion of what the complainant had said in her bail cancellation application. It reads as under:- “9 That the applicant want to seek the kind attention of the Hon’ble court that on today’s date.