In any event, according to the learned Senior Counsel, the doctrine of contra proferentem applied and the interpretation in favour of the Insured should have been adopted. It was argued that there was a breach of Regulation 9(3) of the IRDA Regulations. So contending, the learned senior counsel prayed that the appeal of NIACL be dismissed and the cross appeals of the Insured be allowed. Questions before this Court: 28. In the above background, the questions that arise for consideration are as follows: i. Was the Reinstatement Value Clause part of the policy? ii. Was NIACL justified in computing loss on depreciation basis and fixing depreciation at 60%? iii. Is the Insured justified in claiming reinstatement value by placing reliance on the in Oswal Plastic Industries (supra)? iv. To what reliefs are the parties entitled? Discussion and Reasons: 29. At the outset, it is important to set out the crucial clauses of the policy in question. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 297 New India Assurance Company Ltd. Through its Manager v. M/s Tata Steel Ltd. Fire Policy “C” In consideration of the insured name in the schedule hereto having paid to the New India Assurance Company Limited (hereinafter called the company) the premium mentioned in the said schedule. THE COMPANY AGREES (subject to the Condition and Exclusions contained herein or endorsed or otherwise expressed hereon) that it after payment of the premium the property Insured described in the said schedule or any part of such property, be destroyed or damaged by: 1. Fire …… 6. ….. During the period of Insurance named in the said schedule or of any subsequent period in respect of which the insured shall have paid and the Company shall have accepted the premium required for the renewal of the policy the Company will pay to the insured the value of the property at the time of the happening of its destruction or the amount of such damage or at its opinion reinstate or replace such property or any part thereof. Conditions …… 6. (i) On the happening of any loss or damage the insured shall forthwith give notice thereof to the company and shall within 15 days after the loss or damage or such further time as the Company may in writing allow in that behalf, deliver to the company; a. A claim in writing for the loss or damage containing as particular an account as may be reasonably practicable of all the several articles or items or property damaged or destroyed, and of the amount of the loss or damage thereto respectively, having regard to their value at the time of the loss or, b. Particular of all other insurance, if any: 298 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports The insured shall also at all times at his own expense produce, procure and give to the company all such further particulars, plans, specifications, books, vouchers, invoices, duplicates or copies thereof, documents investigation reports (internal/external), proof and information with respect to the claim and the origin and cause of the insured perils and the circumstances under which the loss or damage occurred, and any matter touching the liability or the amount of the liability of the Company as may be reasonably required by or on behalf of the Company together with a declaration on Oath or in other legal form of the truth of the claim and of any matter connected therewith.