The passed by the Sessions Court also records the fact that during the course of the trial, the accused was kept in a child protection home. Further at para 32 of the , the trial Court also noted that the Public Prosecutor himself argued that Thirumoorthy was a CICL who committed the offence upon the child victim. 1 [2023] 2 SCR 587 : (2023) 5 SCC 504 2 [2023] 15 SCR 261 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1492 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1237 Thirumoorthy v. State Represented by the Inspector of Police 27. Thus, there is no escape from the conclusion that even before the result of investigation was filed, the fact regarding the accused being a CICL was well known to the Investigating Officer(PW-25), the prosecution and the trial Court as well. 28. Before dealing with the rival contentions, we would now refer to some of the relevant provisions of the JJ Act which are required to be followed in a case involving prosecution of a CICL:- “3. General principles to be followed in administration of Act. ––The Central Government, the State Governments, the Board, and other agencies, as the case may be, while implementing the provisions of this Act shall be guided by the following fundamental principles, namely: –– (i) Principle of presumption of innocence: Any child shall be presumed to be an innocent of any mala fide or criminal intent up to the age of eighteen years. (ii) Principle of dignity and worth: All human beings shall be treated with equal dignity and rights. (iii) Principle of participation: Every child shall have a right to be heard and to participate in all processes and decisions affecting his interest and the child’s views shall be taken into consideration with due regard to the age and maturity of the child. (iv) Principle of best interest: All decisions regarding the child shall be based on the primary consideration that they are in the best interest of the child and to help the child to develop full potential. (v) Principle of family responsibility: The primary responsibility of care, nurture and protection of the child shall be that of the biological family or adoptive or foster parents, as the case may be. 1238 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (vi) Principle of safety: All measures shall be taken to ensure that the child is safe and is not subjected to any harm, abuse or maltreatment while in contact with the care and protection system, and thereafter. (vii) Positive measures: All resources are to be mobilised including those of family and community, for promoting the well- being, facilitating development of identity and providing an inclusive and enabling environment, to reduce vulnerabilities of children and the need for intervention under this Act. (viii) Principle of non-stigmatising semantics: Adversarial or accusatory words are not to be used in the processes pertaining to a child. (ix) Principle of non-waiver of rights: No waiver of any of the right of the child is permissible or valid, whether sought by the child or person acting on behalf of the child, or a Board or a Committee and any non-exercise of a fundamental right shall not amount to waiver.