8. A reading of Section 125 of the CrPC would indicate that the intention of the said provision is to provide for a speedy remedy and prevent vagrancy by compelling the husband to support the wife. The provision is meant to achieve a social purpose. The reason being, that after marriage, it is the duty of the husband to provide shelter and maintenance to the wife in the Indian context. Particularly, if she is unable to maintain herself. If he neglects or refuses to do so, the wife is legally entitled to enforce the said right by filing a petition under Section 125 of the CrPC irrespective of any other right created in favour of the wife under any other law. Therefore, the passing of the 1986 Act, in my view, cannot militate against or dilute the salutary nature of Section 125 of the CrPC. The object of this provision is to save a wife including a divorced woman from deprivation and destitution. 9. The salutary parliamentary intent behind Section 488 of the erstwhile CrPC was exposited by Subba Rao, J., (as the learned Chief Justice of India then was) in Jagir Kaur vs. Jaswant Singh (1964) 2 SCR 73. It was held that “Chapter 36 of the Code of Criminal Procedure providing for maintenance of wives and children intends to serve a social purpose.” After the enactment of the CrPC, 1973, this Court in Bhagwan Dutt vs. Kamla Devi (1975) 2 SCC 386, held that in to subserve the object of Section 125(1) of the CrPC the Magistrate must determine the wife’s requirements in such a manner that prevents vagrancy and destitution. While assuring the aggrieved woman a standard of living that is ‘neither luxurious nor penurious,’ this Court held that her separate income must also be accounted for while computing the amount of maintenance. Therefore, the object of maintenance proceedings is rehabilitative and not punitive as it seeks to efficaciously provide a deserted wife with food, clothing and shelter - the very basic essentials or needs of a human life. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1279 Mohd. Abdul Samad v. The State of Telangana & Anr. 10. The direction to provide maintenance seeks to alleviate the financial stress and vulnerability of the impecunious woman who is dependent on her husband economically. It is indeed a constitutional imperative to redress the vulnerability of a married woman which includes a divorced woman who does not have an independent source of income under Section 125 of the CrPC. It is commonplace that married women sacrifice employment opportunities to nurture the family, pursue child rearing, and undertake care work for the elderly, vide Jasbir Kaur Sehgal vs. District Judge, Dehradun (1997) 7 SCC 7. A neglected dependent wife, which also includes a divorced woman who has no other source of income, has to perforce take recourse to borrowings from her parents/relatives/others during the interregnum to sustain herself and the minor children, till she receives interim maintenance. This makes her obligated in so many ways which may be taken advantage of by her parental (or natal) family or others from whom she may have borrowed.