214. Significantly, both Justice Krishna Iyer (in Ranganatha Reddy and Bhimsinghji) and Justice Chinappa Reddy (in Sanjeev Coke) consistently referred to the vision of the framers as the basis to advance this economic ideology as the guiding principle of the provision. However, as noted earlier in this judgement, the vision of the framers while drafting the Constitution was not to lay down 146 Ranganatha Reddy [81]. 147 Bhim Singhji [11]. 148 Ibid [16A]; Fabianism refers to a British socialist theory which believes in the gradual transition to a socialist society and rejects the revolutionary doctrines of Marxism. [Lamb, P. (2023, November 28). Fabianism. Encyclopedia Britannica. https://www.britannica.com/money/Fabianism] 149 Sanjeev Coke [19]. 174 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a particular form of social structure or economic policy for future governments. The debates in the Constituent Assembly reflect the foresight of Dr B R Ambedkar. He was categoric in his constitutional vision. The Constitution and the Directive Principles, as he expounded their fundamental principles, rejected the prevalence of one dogma. The Constitution was framed in broad terms to allow succeeding governments to experiment with and adopt a structure for economic governance which would subserve the policies for which it owes accountability to the electorate. According to Dr Ambedkar, if the Constitution laid down a particular form of economic and social organisation, it would amount to taking away the liberty of people to decide the social organisation in which they wish to live. He opined on several occasions that economic democracy is not tied to one economic structure, such as socialism or capitalism, but to the aspiration for a ‘welfare state’. Thus, the role of this Court is not to lay down economic policy, but to facilitate this intent of the framers to lay down the foundation for an ‘economic democracy’. 215. Indeed, it is this spirit and its all-encompassing nature of the Constitution which has allowed elected governments since independence to pursue economic reforms and policies based on domestic conditions, international requirements and political exigencies of the time. At the time of independence in the 1950s and 1960s, given the early challenges of our republic, the focus of the government was on planning, a mixed economy, heavy industries, and import substitution policies. Subsequently, in the late 1960s and 1970s, there was a shift towards purportedly ‘socialist’ reforms and policies. Since the decade of the 1990s, or the liberalisation years, there has been a shift towards pursuing a policy of market- based reforms.150 Today, the Indian economy has transitioned from the dominance of public investment to the co-existence of public and private investment.151 The doctrinal error in the Krishna Iyer approach was, postulating a rigid economic theory, which advocates for greater state control over private resources, as the exclusive basis for constitutional governance. 150 Rahul De, A History of Economic Policy in India: Crisis, Coalitions, and Contingency, 2023 (Oxford University Press). 151 Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs), Government of India, The Indian Economy: A Review, January 2024. [2024] 11 S.C.R.