Till the time of such registration, no conveyance could be said to have taken place. 20. Thus, even if the suit for specific performance is decreed without a specific decree for transfer of the possession of the suit property, the same can be enforced only when the trial court directs the defendants to convey the suit property to the plaintiff by getting a sale deed registered with respect to the suit property, as it is only after registration that the transfer of title would take place from the defendants to the plaintiff. The registration of the sale deed in the present case would have to take place at Gurugram as the suit property is situated there. The sale deed is not sought to be registered at Delhi and the implication of the grant of specific relief would be that the trial court will have to direct the defendants to move out of Delhi and go to Gurugram to get the sale deed registered. As rightly held by the Division Bench of the High Court, such a relief cannot be obtained entirely by the personal obedience of the defendants as the defendants will have to go to the jurisdiction of another court to get the decree executed. 21. We agree with the view expressed by the High Court in the impugned that the proviso to Section 16 would be applicable to a case where the relief sought by plaintiff can be obtained through the personal obedience of the defendant, that is, the defendant has not to go out of the jurisdiction of the court at all for the purpose of the grant of relief. However, since the present case would require the defendants to go to Gurugram for the purpose of execution of the sale deed, hence the proviso to Section 16 of the CPC will not be applicable. 22. It is also necessary to understand the true import of Section 22 of the Specific Relief Act for a better appreciation of the issue before us. The said provision provides that any person suing for specific performance of a contract for transfer of immovable property may, in an appropriate case, sue for possession, or partition and separate possession of the property, in addition to such performance. It is further provided in sub-section (2) of the said provision that no relief under the said provision shall be granted by the court unless it has been specifically claimed, provided that where the plaintiff has not claimed any such relief in the plaint, the court shall, at any stage [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1301 Rohit Kochhar v. Vipul Infrastructure Developers Ltd. & Ors. of the proceeding, allow him to amend the plaint on such terms as may be just for including a claim for such relief. 23. This Court in Babu Lal (supra), upon a combined reading of Sections 22 and 28(3) of the Specific Relief Act respectively and Section 55 of the Transfer of Property Act, observed that the it was only “in an appropriate case” that the plaintiff was required to separately seek the relief of possession, partition, or separate possession, as the case may be, along with the relief of specific performance.