5. Ms. Vandana Sehgal, AOR appearing on behalf of the Respondent brought forth the following key contentions: 5.1. That the Appellant has forcefully retained the custody of the Minor Children for a prolonged period of 8 (eight) years in blatant disregard of various (s) passed by the High Court and / or the Family Court directing interim shared custody of the Minor Children at different points of time. 5.2. That the Underlying granted the Appellant custody of the Minor Children proceeding on an erroneous and irrelevant consideration i.e., the alleged act of adultery. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 269 Col. Ramneesh Pal Singh v. Sugandhi Aggarwal 5.3. That the Appellant has deliberately disenfranchised the Minor Children from their mother i.e., the Respondent herein, and accordingly it was vehemently contended that the present lis is a classic case of ‘parental alienation syndrome’ (“PAS”). 5.4. That the Minor Children are at an impressionable age and require the presence of their mother i.e., the Respondent. 5.5. That the Court whilst exercising its parens patriae jurisdiction must not limit itself to the wish and / or desire of the Minor Children but must ensure the welfare of the Minor Children. 5.6. That the Respondent is employed as a teacher in a reputed school in Gurugram; and would be able to provide the Minor Children with a stable and conducive environment as opposed to Appellant i.e., a serving officer in the Indian Armed Forces, who is due to be transferred to a field station as opposed to a family station. 5.7. In regard to the aforesaid, Ms. Sehgal relied on the following: (a) Vivek Singh v. Romani Singh, (2017) 3 SCC 231; (b) Gaurav Nagpal v. Sumedha Nagpal (2009) 1 SCC 42; (c) Nil Ratan Kundu (Supra); and (d) Rosy Jacob v. Jacob A. Chakramakkal, (1973) 1 SCC 840. Analysis and Findings 6. We have heard the learned counsels appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length and we have carefully considered and deliberated upon the submission(s) made on behalf of the parties. 7. In the instant appeal we have been called upon to decide the guardianship of 2 (two) minor children i.e., (i) SSU; and (ii) SSH, till they attain the age of majority. 8. It is well settled that the principal consideration of the Court whilst deciding an application for guardianship under the Act in exercise of its parens patriae jurisdiction would be the ‘welfare’ of the minor children.1 1 V. Ravi Chandran (Dr.) (2) v. Union of India (2010) 1 SCC 174 270 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9. The aforesaid principle is also enshrined in Section 17 of the Act, the same is reproduced as under: “17. Matters to be considered by the Court in appointing guardian. – (1) In appointing or declaring the guardian of a minor, the Court shall, subject to the provisions of this section, be guided by what, consistently with the law to which the minor is subject, appears in the circumstances to be for the welfare of the minor.