On the morning of 04.11.2005, it was she who detected the dripping of the blood from the pipe adjoining the western wall, and a hole being made in the eastern side wall of the house. iv) The evidence of PW-1, 2, 4, 6, 23, 30 and 32 speaks about the appellant lying in the southern room of the house and being taken to the hospital from there. PWs 1,2,4,6,23 & 30 also speak about the hole that has been made on the eastern wall of the house. The seizure of M.O. 29,30,31,32,33 & 34 items i.e., 2 (two) knives, 2 (two) knife sheaths, iron rod and bag recovered also contributes as a link in the chain. v) On 4.11.2005, M.O. 29 & 30 (Knives found in the southern room on the ground floor where the accused was found) were seized and taken into custody under Ext. P-12 (Scene Mahazar). M.O. 33 (Iron rod) was also seized and taken from the northern room in the upper floor, vide the same Ext. P-12. 924 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports vi) Another important circumstance is the report of the Finger Print Expert (Ext.P-22). The Finger Print Expert has opined that the chance finger print on the water bottle found at the scene of the crime (marked as C-9 by the Expert) was identified as the left thumb impression of the appellant in the slip made available with the Expert for verification (marked as “S” by the expert). The Expert concluded in P-22 that since the identical ridge characteristics are present in their nature and relative possessions, the finger impressions “C9” and “S” are identical i.e. that they are the impressions of the same finger of the person. The Expert concluded that, in his opinion, that the chance print marked as C-9 and developed by him from the scene of crime on 04.11.2005 is made by the left thumb of the appellant. vii) The prosecution case is also that there were writings on the wall and on certain objects in the southern room of the ground floor where the accused was found. The writings indicate that these were parting messages of the accused (as the High Court labels them) since he had decided to commit suicide. The writings were in the following words “Do not enter here”; “Shyaman, you are a O, you should not desire the ruppam of a woman, money will make people traitors, you are O, you should not destroy the local area”; The mirror had the writing with pen on it reading ‘Latha, I love you’ and same was underlined and below that it was written ‘Salim, I love you’ and ‘Yahio I lo” and below that ‘Shabna I lo”; The aforesaid wall had one wall clock with the label ‘Samaya Quartz’ inside. On it, it was written with marker pen ‘Latha, I love you’; On the wall, below the clock, it was written “My name is Nawas, reason for my death is Latha, so myself and Latha decided to die together.....Confirm by Navaz P.M.”; “Yahayikka knows that now I shall not be there, wherever, no harm should happen to Yahayikka.