5. The events giving rise to the present appeal began on 03.01.2018 when the Plaintiffs filed Suit No. 1 of 2018 in the court of the ADJ, against the Defendants and Respondent No. 21 (hereinafter collectively referred to as the ‘Original Defendants’) seeking permanent injunction and a declaration to the effect that the Release Deeds and the sale deed dated 26.04.2007 are null and void (the ‘Underlying Suit’). 6. Admittedly, after the issuance of notice in the Underlying Suit, Respondent No. 21 entered appearance before the ADJ on 11.01.2018 and hence knowingly executed the RSD in favor of the Appellant pendente lite. Thereafter, on 25.01.2019, the ADJ granted a temporary injunction in favor of the Plaintiffs. 7. On becoming aware of the temporary injunction, the Appellant, along with the other pendente lite purchasers of the Subject Land filed an impleadment application on 13.02.2019 before the ADJ under 1 Rule 10, CPC. Vide dated 10.10.2019, the application was dismissed by the ADJ holding that no need arises to implead the applicants therein as (i) permission of the Court was not sought prior to the sale; and (ii) more importantly, they were not bona fide purchasers as they were wholly cognizant of the Underlying Suit prior to their purchase. The ADJ placed reliance on the of this Court in Bibi Zubaida Khatoon vs. Nabi Hassan Saheb & Anr (2004) 1 SCC 191. 8. Thereafter, the Appellant alone approached the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution of India challenging the of the ADJ. Vide the Impugned , the High Court held that the impleadment application was untenable as the RSD itself was a nullity by virtue of being hit by the doctrine of lis pendens as provided under Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (the ‘Act’). 672 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Submissions & Analysis: 9. Mr. C.A. Sundaram, Learned Senior Counsel for the Appellant forcefully contended before us that the Appellant after paying the full consideration, obtained a registered sale deed in his favor and is therefore entitled to the protection of his interests in the Subject Land. He argues that impleadment of the Appellant in the Underlying Suit is necessary as there exists a real possibility of collusion between the Plaintiffs and the Original Defendants. To substantiate his claim, Learned Counsel highlights that the Plaintiffs and the Defendants are relatives. Further, he points to the considerable delay in the filing of the Underlying Suit, about 12 years after the execution of the Release Deeds. 10. On the legal issue, Mr. Sundaram asserts that there is no bar to the impleadment of a transferee pendente lite, even when the transferee has prior knowledge of pendency. To buttress his contention, he points to the of this Court in Thomson Press vs. Nanak Builders, (2015) 5 SCC 397 wherein, after considering all the previous s on the question of impleadment of a transferee pendente lite, this Court permitted the impleadment of a transferee in a suit for specific performance, who not only had notice of the pendency but also had knowledge of the injunction prohibiting any transactions relating to the subject property therein.