C and Exbt. D) that on 28.02.06 a sum of Rs. 7,00,000/- was debited to the appellant and that was the case of the complainant/ respondent that on 28.02.06 he issued the cheque bearing no. 951764 amounting to Rs. 7,00,000/- in favour of the appellant. During the course of trial the appellant/ accused failed to shift the burden of proof upon the respondent/ complainant that he was falsely implicated 1966 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports and the company was the essential party to face the trial also and thus I am of the view that the rulings relied upon by the appellant do not render any help and support to succeed with his contention. After perusal of the evidence on record and the entire , I am constrained to hold that ld. Trial Court was wrong thereby observing the appellant guilty for the commission of offence u/s 138 of NI Act, rather going through the entire , I find that Id. Trial Court meticulously described the finding for holding the appellant guilty for commission of the offence and rightly passed the of conviction, and thus I find that this Appellate Court has no scope to make any interference with the of conviction. Upon my above observation the criminal appeal fails & is hereby dismissed. C.F. paid is found correct.” iii. Proceedings before the High Court 18. The accused being dissatisfied with the dismissal of his appeal by the Sessions Court invoked the revisional jurisdiction of the High Court under Section 401 read with Section 397 of the Cr.P.C. 19. The High Court allowed the revision application and acquitted the accused on the ground that the offence as alleged could be said to have been committed by the company, that is Shilabati Hospital Pvt. Ltd., which is a separate legal entity. It further observed that as the cheque was drawn by the accused for and on behalf of the company in his capacity as one of the Directors, he could have been held vicariously liable for the alleged offence in terms of Section 141 of the NI Act, but only if the company was made an accused and held guilty. According to the High Court, as the company was not arraigned as an accused person, the accused as a Director of the said company could not be held vicariously liable for the offence. 20. The High Court placed reliance on the decision of this Court in Himanshu v. B. Shivamurthy and Another reported in (2019) 3 SCC 797 and held that in the absence of the company being [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1967 Bijoy Kumar Moni v. Paresh Manna & Anr. arraigned as an accused, the complaint against the accused could not be held to be maintainable. It observed that although the complainant was entitled to the benefit of the presumption under Section 139 of the NI Act as the accused had failed in rebutting the presumption cast upon him, yet in the absence of compliance with the requirements necessary for the applicability of vicarious liability as provided under Section 141, the accused could not have been convicted as a sole accused in the absence of the company being arraigned as an accused and convicted as the principal offender first.