The relevant observations read as under: - “15. In the absence of an express statement about the governing law, the inferred intention of the parties determines that law. The true intention of the parties, in the absence of an express selection, has to be discovered by applying “sound ideas of business, convenience and sense to the language of the contract itself". In such a case, selection of courts of a particular country as having jurisdiction in matters arising under the contract is usually, but not invariably, an indication of the intention of the parties that the system of law followed by those courts is the proper law by which they intend their contract to be governed. However, the mere selection of a particular place for submission to the jurisdiction of the courts or for the conduct of arbitration will not, in 1202 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the absence of any other relevant connecting factor with that place, be sufficient to draw an inference as to the intention of the parties to be governed by the system of law prevalent in that place. This is specially so in the case of arbitration, for the selection of the place of arbitration may have little significance where it is chosen, as is often the case, without regard to any relevant or significant link with the place. This is particularly true when the place of arbitration is not chosen by the parties themselves, but by the arbitrators or by an outside body, and that too for reasons unconnected with the contract. Choice of place for submission to jurisdiction of courts or for arbitration may thus prove to have little relevance for drawing an inference as to the governing law of the contract, unless supported in that respect by the rest of the contract and the surrounding circumstances. Any such clause must necessarily give way to stronger indications in regard to the intention of the parties.” (Emphasis supplied) 45. Accordingly, this Court in NTPC (supra) held that since the proper law governing the contract was expressly stipulated to be the laws in force in India and because the parties had specifically accepted the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts in Delhi in all matters arising under the contract it meant that the law governing the arbitration agreement would be same as the proper law governing the contract which contained the relevant arbitration clause. It further observed that since London had no significant connection with the contract or the parties except being a neutral place that had been chosen only because of the rules of the International Chamber of Commerce, it held that, the stipulation of such rules merely governed the procedure and conduct of the arbitration and could not in any manner supersede the overriding jurisdiction and control of the Indian law and the Indian courts that governed the main contract including the arbitration clause that formed part and parcel of the main contract. The aforesaid relevant observations read as under: - [2024] 11 S.C.R.