The High Courts will have to frame a rule in this regard.” (Emphasis supplied) 123. The expressions “certain minimum standard, objectively adjudged” and “in to ascertain the legal knowledge of those candidates and to assess their continued efficiency with adequate knowledge of case law” in All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra) clearly indicate that the intention was to test each candidate on their own merit as this Court never mandated that a comparative assessment of merit was also required. In other words, what is stipulated is the determination of suitability of the candidates and assessment of their efficiency based on whether they possess adequate knowledge of case law. It goes without saying that some standards of suitability and efficiency for continued service is required. The High Court may deny promotion to a Civil Judge (Senior Division) only in case the candidate is not suitable for being promoted to the post of District & Sessions Judge. It was never the intention of this Court that after taking the suitability test, a list should be prepared based on inter-se merit and the judicial officers should be promoted only if they fall in the said merit list. It cannot be said to be a competitive exam. Only the suitability of the judicial officer is to be assessed and once it is found that the candidate has secured the requisite marks in the suitability test, they cannot be thereafter ignored for promotion. 124. The first change brought around was the introduction of a mandatory assessment of the suitability of the members of the District Judicial Service before promoting them to the Higher Judicial Service. The concept of assessment of suitability was introduced to ensure that a 1138 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports certain minimum standard is maintained in the Higher Judicial Service. The method of devising a suitability test for this purpose was left to the respective High Courts. However, broad guiding principles were laid down by this Court on the contours of the suitability test. It was directed that the suitability test must objectively test the following: - a. Whether the candidate possesses legal knowledge? b. Whether the candidate has displayed continued efficiency during his tenure in the feeder cadre? c. Whether the candidate possesses adequate knowledge of case law? 125. The second change introduced by the aforesaid decision was the creation of a third category of recruitment to the Higher Judicial Service. While the allocation of seats for direct recruitment from the members of the Bar was kept at 25% of the total posts in the Higher Judicial Service, the erstwhile promotional category was split up into two categories – firstly, 50% of the posts in the Higher Judicial Service were directed to be filled by promotion on the basis of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’; and secondly, the remaining 25% of the seats were directed to be filled by promotion strictly on the basis of merit, through a limited departmental competitive examination. 126. We are of the view that the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ stipulated in Rule 5(1) of the 2005 Rules should be understood in accordance with what has been observed by this Court in paragraphs 27 & 28 respectively of All India Judges’ Association (3) (supra).