In the circumstances, while accepting the repudiation, without conceding that the appellant had a 870 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports right to repudiate the contract, he could claim damages for breach of contract. Such a claim for damages is a dispute or difference which arises between himself and the appellant and is ‘upon’ or ‘in relation to’ or ‘in connection with’ the contract. 7. The contention that has been canvassed before us is that as there has been a full and final settlement under the contract, the rights and obligations under the contract do not subsist and consequently the arbitration clause also perishes along with the settlement. If so, the dispute whether there has or has not been a settlement cannot be the subject of an arbitration. There is, in our view, a basic fallacy underlying this submission. A contract is the creature of an agreement between the parties and where the parties under the terms of the contract agree to incorporate an arbitration clause, that clause stands apart from the rights and obligations under that contract, as it has been incorporated with the object of providing a machinery for the settlement of disputes arising in relation to or in connection with that contract. The questions of unilateral repudiation of the rights and obligations under the contract or of a full and final settlement of the contract relate to the performance or discharge of the contract. Far from putting an end to the arbitration clause, they fall within the purview of it. A repudiation by one party alone does not terminate the contract. It takes two to end it, and hence it follows that as the contract subsists for the determination of the rights and obligations of the parties, the arbitration clause also survives. This is not a case where the plea is that the contract is void, illegal or fraudulent etc. in which case, the entire contract along with the arbitration clause is non est, or voidable. […]” (Emphasis supplied) 62. In Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. vs. Amar Nath Bhan Prakash reported in (1982) 1 SCC 625 it was observed by this Court that the question whether there was discharge of the contract by “accord and satisfaction” or not is a dispute liable to be resolved by the [2024] 7 S.C.R. 871 SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Krish Spinning arbitral tribunal and the court ought to appoint an arbitrator in such matters when a party approaches it seeking relief for the same. It was observed thus: “1. It appears from the of the High Court impugned in the appeal that the High Court has not correctly appreciated the position that the question whether there was discharge of the contract by accord and satisfaction or not, is a dispute arising out of the contract and is liable to be referred to arbitration and hence the application of the Respondent under Section 20 of the Indian Arbitration Act should have been allowed and the matters in dispute between the parties, including the question whether or not there was discharge of the contract by accord and satisfaction should have been referred to arbitration.” (Emphasis supplied) 63.