It was reiterated that the SRA had undertaken all possible steps to further the execution of the mortgage of the Dubai properties [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2105 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. as per the Resolution Plan and it is the Appellants who have not cooperated in this regard. 79. The counsel submitted that the Appellants have taken contradictory stances at different stages of the dispute before different forums. Before the NCLAT in its pending Company Appeal, it was contended by the Appellants that the NCLT had erroneously allowed the Resolution Plan to be implemented without the complete compliance of the Conditions Precedent by the SRA. However, before this Court, they have argued that the SRA has claimed that the Conditions Precedent were fulfilled on 20.05.2022 and has asserted that it would be the Effective Date. As a consequence, the SRA should have met with their first tranche payment obligations within 180 days from the Effective Date. 80. The counsel submitted that the consequences of non-compliance with the Conditions Precedent were that the SRA would not be able to re-commence operations as an aviation company as stated in Clause 7.6.1 of the Resolution Plan. He also submitted that the Effective Date for the purposes of the Resolution Plan would only kick in upon the fulfillment of all the Conditions Precedents. The consequence of non-compliance with the Conditions Precedent would be that the Resolution Plan shall automatically stand withdrawn and upon, such withdrawal, the members of the SRA in the MC shall resign and the remaining members of the MC shall assume absolute control of the Corporate Debtor. 81. Adding to the submissions as regards the Airport Dues, it was submitted that as per the estimates made by the RP, the airport dues i.e., the parking charges and airport space lease charges were Rs. 240 Crore and this was reflected in Clause 6.4.1(f) of the Resolution Plan. It was submitted that the dues accrued during the period of CIRP i.e., till the date of approval of the Resolution Plan, is a part of the CIRP costs and such payments have to be made within 170 days from the Effective Date as per Clause 6.4.1 of the Resolution Plan. As per Clause 6.4.1(h), a sum of Rs. 25 Crore was set aside for CIRP costs. However, it must be noted that Clause 6.4.1(m) allows the SRA to utilize the funds available with the Corporate Debtor for making payments of any portion of the CIRP costs. It was submitted that the Lenders rely on Clause 6.3.1(d) to state that the airport dues have to be settled upfront and not in staggered payments. 2106 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports However, Clause 6.3.1(d) is just a proposal and not a condition of the Resolution Plan. 82. On workmen and employees’ dues, it was submitted that, as per Clause 6.4.2 on the “Summary of Financial Proposal” the amount demarcated for all the claims related to employees or workmen was Rs.