Further, the s in the case of State of Uttarakhand and others (supra) and in the case of Nasiruddin and another (supra) further reiterated the view taken by Associated Hotel of India Ltd. (supra). Paragraph 17 in the case of Nasiruddin and another (supra) is reproduced hereunder: “17. The expression “lease” under the Stamp Act has a wider meaning as compared to its original meaning contained in Section 105 of the Transfer of Property Act (for short “the TP Act”). If “lease” under Section 2(16) of the Stamp Act includes therein four specified categories of documents set out in sub-clauses (a) to (d), we do not find any such inclusion in Section 105 of the Transfer of Property Act. It is for this reason, we are of the view that the definition of “lease” for the purpose of the Stamp Act is extensive in nature. It is also clear from the use of the expression and includes also “in Section 2(16) of the Stamp Act. So by fiction, “any instrument by which tolls of any description are let “is considered as “lease” for the purpose of payment of stamp duty under the Stamp Act.” [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1145 M/S Rewa Tollway P. Ltd. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. 30. Thus, the view taken by the High Court further stands fortified by the above two s and the view that we are taking. 31. The only issue which requires to be considered afresh is with respect to determination of the amount spent under the agreement by the lessee. For the said purpose, we reproduce proviso(c) to Clause (C) of the proviso inserted in 2002: “(c) an agreement to lease where the right to collect tolls is given in lieu of the amount spent by the lessee in construction of roads, bridge etc. under the Build, Operate and Transfer (B.O.T.) scheme, shall be chargeable at the rate of two percent on the amount likely to be spent under the agreement by the lessee.” 32. From a clear reading of the above proviso (c) to Clause (C), the stamp duty would be chargeable @ 2% on the amount likely to be spent under the agreement by the lessee. Thus, the lessee has no liability to pay any stamp duty on the amount not spent by the lessee but by the lessor or any other stake-holder. The amount spent by the lessee as per the agreement generally was 50% of the total cost of the project. 33. In the case of Rewa Tollway,19 the total cost of the project was Rs.54 crores, out of which, approximately 50 % would be that of the lessee and 50% to be funded by the lessor i.e. MPRSNN, respondent no.3. However, further reading of the Concession Agreement reflects that the amount to be spent by the lessee was not exactly 50% but is slightly different figure. At some places, it is mentioned as Rs.24.10 crores and in other places a different amount is mentioned. We are not entering into this issue of what is the amount spent but we require that this be determined by the Collector (Stamps) / Revenue Officer of the concerned district.