It was the stand of the respondent-employer that prior to the formulation of the policy, certain guidelines existed and the objectives of the policy were to rationalize and 1124 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports codify the existing guidelines relating to promotions within officers cadre. There is no statutory rule operating. It is for the employer to stipulate the criteria for promotion, the same pertaining really to the area of policy making. It was, therefore, permissible for the respondent to have their own criteria for adjudging claims on the principle of seniority-cum-merit giving primacy to merit as well, depending upon the class, category and nature of posts in the hierarchy of administration and the requirements of efficiency for such posts.” (Emphasis supplied) 91. In Bhagwandas Tiwari & Ors. v. Dewas Shajapur Kshetriya Gramin Bank & Ors. reported in (2006) 12 SCC 574, this Court observed that although the requirement of minimum marks for assessing merit can be prescribed for the purpose of promotion on the basis of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’, yet where a very high requirement of minimum marks has been prescribed, the same would amount to laying greater emphasis on merit and thereby departing from the principle of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ and shifting towards to the principle of ‘Merit-cum-Seniority’ where merit and ability play a predominant role. The relevant observations read as under: - “11. The principle of “merit-cum-seniority” lays greater emphasis on merit and ability and seniority plays a less significant role. Seniority is to be given weight only when merit and ability are approximately equal. xxx xxx xxx 20. There is no basis, in the instant case, for the stand that for assessing merit a minimum number of marks has been prescribed. The contention that minimum marks were 45 out of 60, means that an employee is to secure 75% of marks. Such a high percentage cannot be a measure for prescribing minimum marks to assess merit. It obviously would be a case of shifting the focus to merit-cum-seniority principle. In para 37 of Sivaiah case this Court noted that minimum marks prescribed for assessing merit do not depart from the seniority-cum-merit principle. But the factual position is different here. There is no mention that [2024] 5 S.C.R. 1125 Ravikumar Dhansukhlal Maheta & Anr. v. High Court of Gujarat & Ors. 45 marks out of 60 relate to the prescription of minimum marks for assessing the merit. In Jalal Uddin case it was noted that in seniority-cum-merit greater emphasis is on seniority though it is not the determinative factor. In the case of merit-cum-seniority, merit becomes a determinative factor. In fact, the position noted by this Court in paras 19, 20, 24 and 25 of Sivaiah case dealt with almost identical fact situation, apart from para 16 of the .” (Emphasis supplied) 92. In Shriram Tomar & Anr. v. Praveen Kumar Jaggi & Ors. reported in (2019) 5 SCC 736, for the purpose of promotion on the basis of ‘Seniority-cum-Merit’ it was stipulated that the assessment would be on the basis of a written test, interview and performance appraisal for a grand total of 100 marks out of which requirement of a minimum aggregate of 40% marks was prescribed.