It further restored the mutation Entry No.207 in favour of defendant Nos.2, 4 and 5. 10. Aggrieved by the same, the legal heirs of Tota Ram i.e. his three sons, three daughters and widow have filed Civil Appeal No.8187 of 2023 to challenge the of the High Court to the extent it saved the transactions in favour of defendants 2, 4 & 5. The other Civil Appeal No.8188 of 2023 has been filed by Vikram Singh (defendant no.1) with respect to the declaration of his Will dated 16.05.1994 to be an invalid document shrouded with suspicion. 11. We have heard learned counsel for the parties. On behalf of the plaintiffs-appellants, the submission is that the High Court fell in serious error in extending the benefit of Section 41 of the TP Act to the defendants 2, 4 and 5. Neither there was any specific pleading, nor any issue framed, nor any evidence led with respect to such relief. None of the purchasers namely defendants 2, 4 and 5 entered the witness box. The High Court has carved out a completely new case which is unsustainable in law. 12. Section 41 of the TP Act reads as follows: “41. Transfer by ostensible owner. Where, with the consent, express or implied, of the persons interested in immoveable property, a person is the ostensible owner of such property and transfers the same for consideration, the transfer shall not be voidable 1 In short, TP Act [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1209 Duni Chand v. Vikram Singh and Others on the ground that the transferor was not authorised to make it: provided that the transferee, after taking reasonable care to ascertain that the transferor had power to make the transfer, has acted in good faith.” A plain reading of the above provision clearly requires the consent, be it express or implied, of the persons interested in the immovable property. 13. In the present case, the plaintiff, Tota Ram, was definitely interested in the immovable property having a registered will of 1988 in his favour and we do not find either in the pleadings or in the evidence, that he had given, his consent, expressly or impliedly, to Vikram Singh, defendant no.1, to transfer the property, in favour of defendant nos. 2, 4 and 5. Nowhere in the written statements filed by defendants 1, 2,4 and 5 have they pleaded, that defendant no. 1 had obtained the consent, either express or implied, from the plaintiff before making the transfers. Further the proviso to section 41 of the TP Act requires that the transferees to take reasonable care in ascertaining that the transferor had power to make the transfer and that they had acted in good faith. This again would require specific pleading and evidence by the transferees. As already recorded above, even at the cost of repetition, defendants 2,4 and 5, the purchasers, from defendant no. 1, neither pleaded such facts nor entered the witness box to prove such facts as required under the proviso. The relief granted by the High Court relying upon section 41 of the TP Act was thus completely unwarranted, misplaced and against the pleading and evidence on record.