There, the appellant (AO1) opened the zip of his rexine bag and instructed the complainant (PW-1) to place the bribe money inside the same. The complainant (PW-1) complied and placed the tainted currency notes in the rexine bag of the appellant (AO1). The appellant (AO1) then handed him the papers which were prepared during the inspection of the saw-mill by the Flying Squad. This version of the complaint was corroborated only by Ramesh Naidu (PW-2). However, the version of the complainant (PW-1) and PW-2 that the appellant (AO1) while sitting inside the coffee shop, initially demanded the bribe and then refused to accept the same does not find corroboration from the evidence of K. Srinivas Rao (PW-3) and the Inspector (PW-11). If at all, the complainant (PW-1) and the appellant (AO1) were sitting on the table adjoining the one [2024] 7 S.C.R. 665 Mir Mustafa Ali Hasmi v. The State of A.P. on which the panch witnesses and the Inspector, N. Chandrasekhar (PW-11) were sitting then, these persons would not have missed out hearing the appellant (AO1) demanding the bribe from the complainant (PW-1). In total diversion to the version of the complainant (PW-1) and PW-2, the panch witness (PW-3) and the Inspector (PW-11) did not utter a word in their testimonies, that they both went to the coffee shop and occupied a table adjacent to the table where the complainant (PW-1), PW-2 and the appellant (AO1) were sitting. This can be supported by post-trap panchnama (Exhibit P-11), which also doesn’t elucidate on the fact that K. Sriniwas Rao (PW-3) and Inspector (PW-11) heard the conversation of the complainant (PW- 1) and the appellant (AO1). Thus, it can be presumed and put the Court on guard that the testimonies of PW-3 and PW-11 and the post-trap panchnama (Exhibit P-11) distorted the facts. 52. Thus, there is a grave suspicion on the story as put forth by the prosecution that the accused, the appellant (AO1) demanded the bribe money from the complainant (PW-1) while in the coffee shop of Hotel Quality-Inn. 53. In view of the above analysis and elaboration of evidence, we have no hesitation in holding that the prosecution miserably failed to prove the factum of demand of bribe against the appellant (AO1) by reliable direct or circumstantial evidence. The allegation regarding acceptance of bribe by the appellant (AO1) is primarily based on the evidence of the complainant (PW-1) and PW-2 and the DySP (PW-10). From the extracted portion of the deposition of the complainant (PW-1) supra, it is comprehensible that he admitted that the appellant (AO1), forgot his rexine bag in the coffee shop and that the complainant (PW-1) picked up the same and handed it over to the appellant (AO1). Thus, unquestionably, the complainant (PW-1) had the opportunity to plant the tainted currency notes into the bag being carried by the appellant (AO1). 54. As we have observed above that the entire case seems to have been planned at the behest of M. Ashok, it is clear that the complainant (PW-1) was simply used as a tool to get the appellant (AO1) trapped on made up allegations.