Thereafter, the petitioner therein moved this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of his fundamental rights under Article 19(1) (a) and (g) of the Constitution of India. This Court observed that the impugned was passed by the learned Judge in the course of trial of a suit before him after hearing the parties. This Court took the view that the restraint was passed to prohibit publication of evidence in the media during the progress of the trial and could not be construed as imposing a permanent ban on the publication of the said evidence. 39.2. The question which fell for consideration before this Court was whether a judicial passed by the High Court prohibiting the publication in newspapers of evidence given by a witness pending the hearing of the suit, was amenable to be corrected by a Writ of Certiorari of this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution of India. In the above context, this Court first held that a judicial verdict pronounced by a court in a matter brought before it for its decision cannot be said to affect the fundamental rights of citizens under Article 19(1) of the Constitution of India. Thereafter, this Court proceeded to hold that if any judicial was sought to be attacked on the ground that it was inconsistent with Article 14 or any other fundamental rights, the proper remedy to challenge such an would be by way of an appeal or revision as may be provided by law. It would not be open to the aggrieved person to invoke the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution and to contend that a Writ of Certiorari should be issued to quash such an . This Court observed that it would be inappropriate to allow the petitioners to raise the question about the jurisdiction of the High Court to pass the impugned in a proceeding under Article 32. Rejecting the argument of the petitioners, this Court held that judicial s passed by High Courts in or in relation to proceedings pending before the High Courts are not amenable to be corrected by this Court exercising jurisdiction under Article 32 of the Constitution of India. This being the law of the land, it is binding on all the courts including benches of lesser coram of this Court. [2024] 1 S.C.R. 861 Bilkis Yakub Rasool v. Union of India & Others 40. Before proceeding further, it may also be mentioned that it was only respondent No.3 who had approached this Court by filing a writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India being Writ Petition(Crl.) No.135 of 2022, seeking a direction to the State of Gujarat to consider his pre-mature release. None of the other convicts, i.e. respondent Nos.4 to 13 had approached this Court or any High Court seeking such a relief. Therefore, in so far these respondents are concerned, there was no direction of this Court or any court to the State of Gujarat to consider their pre-mature release.