The appellants by virtue of their special knowledge must offer an explanation which might lead the Court to draw a different inference. We, therefore, see no substance in this submission of Mr. Mishra.” (Emphasis supplied) 54. Cases are frequently coming before the courts where the husband, due to strained marital relations and doubt as regards the character, has gone to the extent of killing his wife. These crimes are generally committed in complete secrecy inside the house and it becomes very difficult for the prosecution to lead evidence. No member of the family, like in the case at hand, even if he is a witness of the crime, would come forward to depose against another family member. 55. If an offence takes place inside the four walls of a house and in such circumstances where the accused has all the opportunity to plan and commit the offence at a time and in the circumstances of his choice, it will be extremely difficult for the prosecution to lead direct evidence to establish the guilt of the accused. It is to resolve such a situation that Section 106 of the Evidence Act exists in the [2024] 6 S.C.R. 199 Anees v. The State Govt. of NCT statute book. In the case of Trimukh Maroti Kirkan (supra), this Court observed that a Judge does not preside over a criminal trial merely to see that no innocent man is punished. The Court proceeded to observe that a Judge also presides to see that a guilty man does not escape. Both are public duties. The law does not enjoin a duty on the prosecution to lead evidence of such character, which is almost impossible to be led, or at any rate, extremely difficult to be led. The duty on the prosecution is to lead such evidence, which it is capable of leading, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case. 56. We are of the view that the following foundational facts, which were duly proved, justified the courts below in invoking the principles enshrined under Section 106 of the Evidence Act: a) The offence took place inside the four walls of the house in which the appellant, deceased and their 5-year-old daughter were living. The incident occurred in the early morning hours between 3.30 am and 4.00 am. b) When the Investigating Officer reached the house of the appellant, he found the deceased lying in a pool of blood. The appellant was also present at his house. c) The defence put forward by the appellant that two unidentified persons entered the house and inflicted injuries on the deceased and also on his body is found to be false. d) The clothes worn by the appellant at the time of the incident were collected by the Investigating Officer. The clothes had blood stains. According to the Forensic Science Laboratory report, the blood stains on the clothes of the appellant matched with the blood group of the deceased i.e., AB+ e) The conduct of the appellant in leading the Investigating Officer and others to a drain nearby his house and the discovery of the knife from the drain is a relevant fact under Section 8 of the Evidence Act.