The machinery selected by the legislature to assess the tax cannot determine the true nature of the tax. The issue of selecting the appropriate measure of tax is a matter of fiscal policy.404 Sometimes, the method selected by the legislature to measure a tax may be imperfect, but that does not imply unconstitutionality. 335. It was further contended that since Entry 50 of List II is a special entry, the use of minerals produced or mineral value as a measure of tax under Entry 49 of List II will lead to overlap between the two entries. The issue for consideration is whether the limitations imposed by Parliament in a law relating to mineral development, which bears on the legislative field under Entry 50 of List II would also impact the field reserved to the State legislature under Entry 49 of List II. 336. The respondents have relied on a three-Judge Bench decision in State of Bihar v. Indian Aluminium Company,405 to strongly contend that a tax on lands cannot include tax on removal or excavation of land. In that case, the State Government levied a tax called the 404 P M Ashwathanarayana Setty v. State of Karnataka (1989) Supp. 1 SCC 696 [84] 405 [1997] Supp. 4 SCR 222 : (1997) 8 SCC 360 1744 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Bihar Restoration and Improvement of Degraded Forest Land Tax on excavational activities. The amount of tax was relatable to the extent to which the land was ‘voided’. The impugned legislation defined “void” to mean any area of leftover forest land from where soil, mineral or rock or anything being fastened with the earth has been removed for non-forest purpose, transported or dumped at a place other than the place from where the same was taken. This Court relied on Orissa Cement (supra) and Mahanadi Coalfields (supra) to hold that the tax was outside the ambit of Entry 49 of List II. It was held: “15. Applying the ratio of the aforesaid decisions to the facts of the present case we find that the position is no different. Entry 49 of List II has been interpreted to mean the levy of tax directly on land as a unit. The land has been regarded as meaning the land on surface and also below the surface. Therefore, in that a tax can be levied under Entry 49 of List II it is essential that ‘land’ as a unit must exist on which the tax is imposed. In the instant case the tax is, in effect, being levied not on land but on the absence of land. The levy is on the void which has been created. The forest land which is being used is not subjected to tax. The Schedule to the Act itself shows that the assessment of tax is on excavation and use of forest land for non-forest purpose. The Schedule further says that the rate of tax to be levied, in the case of mining or excavation varies with the extent of the land voided.