16. Given this state of the law, a five-Judge Bench of this Court in BALCO v. Kaiser Aluminium Technical Services Inc., overruled both Bhatia International and Venture Global Engg. [...] 17. It will thus be seen that facts like the present case attract the Bhatia International3 principle of concurrent jurisdiction inasmuch as all arbitration agreements entered into before 12-9-2012, that is, the date of pronouncement of BALCO , will be governed by Bhatia International. 18. It is important to note that in para 32 of Bhatia International itself this Court has held that Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 will not apply if it has been excluded either expressly or by necessary implication. Several s of this Court have held that Part I is excluded by necessary implication if it is found that on the facts of a case either the juridical seat of the arbitration is outside India or the law governing the arbitration agreement is a law other than Indian law. … xxx 1196 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 21. The last paragraph of BALCO has now to be read with two caveats, both emanating from para 32 of Bhatia International itself — that where the Court comes to a determination that the juridical seat is outside India or where law other than Indian law governs the arbitration agreement, Part I of the Arbitration Act, 1996 would be excluded by necessary implication. Therefore, even in the cases governed by the Bhatia principle, it is only those cases in which agreements stipulate that the seat of the arbitration is in India or on whose facts a cannot be reached on the seat of the arbitration as being outside India that would continue to be governed by the Bhatia principle. Also, it is only those agreements which stipulate or can be read to stipulate that the law governing the arbitration agreement is Indian law which would continue to be governed by the Bhatia rule." (Emphasis supplied) 39. Thus, the legal position that emerges from a conspectus of all the decisions referred to above is that Part I of the Act and the provisions thereunder only applies where the arbitration takes place in India i.e., where either (I) the seat of arbitration is in India OR (II) the law governing the arbitration agreement is Indian law. As a natural corollary to the above, the position of law may be summarized as under: - (i) Arbitration agreements executed after 06.09.2012 where the seat of arbitration is outside India, Part I of the Act, 1996 and the provisions thereunder will not be applicable and would fall beyond the jurisdiction of Indian courts by virtue of the decision of this Court in BALCO (supra). (ii) Even those arbitration agreements that have been executed prior to 06.09.2012 and thus, governed by Bhatia International (supra), Part I of the Act, 1996 may not necessarily be applicable, if its application has been excluded by the parties in the arbitration agreement either explicitly by designating the seat of arbitration outside India or implicitly by choosing the law governing the agreement to be any other law other than Indian law, by virtue of Reliance Industries (supra).