That the daughter was born on 06.06.2022 and the parties have been living separately since 18.08.2022, and thus, the respondent has never stayed with or cared for the child. Owing to the history of domestic violence, threat to life, and negligence of the respondent, such visitation rights to the respondent would be completely averse to the best interest of the minor daughter. 8. This Court, while issuing notice, had noted that the limited grievance raised by the appellant in the present appeal is that while passing the impugned , the Division Bench of the High Court did not take into consideration the fact that the venue for the respondent to have access to the two years old minor child of the parties is situated 150 Kilometers away from the place of the residence of the appellant, which is at Madurai. 9. We have heard the learned counsel for the appellant, whereas no one has entered appearance for the respondent, despite service of notice. 10. It is also on record that the mediation proceedings between the parties have failed. 11. It is an admitted fact that the minor daughter was born to the parties on 06.06.2022 and they have been living separately since 18.08.2022. Further, it is also admitted that both the parents are doctors by profession, and while the appellant resides in Madurai with the minor daughter, the respondent is a resident of Karur. The distance between the two places is about 150 kilometers. 12. While the observation of the High Court that the father being the natural guardian cannot be denied of the care and custody of the child and that his agony of missing his child’s childhood cannot be prolonged, is sound and fair, but the same cannot override the interest of the child. 13. The submissions on behalf of the appellant pertaining to the history of domestic violence and threat to life cannot be gone into at this stage of deciding interim visitation rights. These are [2024] 12 S.C.R. 2093 Sugirtha v. Gowtham serious allegations which require careful consideration, both on facts and evidence. 14. We also recognise that the child has effectively been in the care of the respondent for approximately two months only, as the parents started living separately shortly after her birth. But this does not compromise the respondent’s rights as a father to visit and enjoy the company of his daughter. The matrimonial disputes and grave allegations between parents should not be an impediment to a child’s right to have care, company, and affection of both the parents. It is evident from multiple failed attempts at mediation that the parties are not inclined to reconcile. While no guardianship or custody petition has been preferred by the respondent, the visitation rights of the father, as prayed in the application, require a careful and empathetic consideration during the pendency of the divorce proceedings. 15. In all of this, the interest of the minor child is paramount. In the process of adjudicating upon the rights of the parents, her health cannot be compromised.