While it would be unwise to blind ourselves to the obvious weaknesses of the present system, we think it would be equally a mistake to uproot an organization which has worked with a fair measure of success in several directions.” 21 According to Professor Aditya Mukherjee, through the Bombay Plan the industrial class in India sought a compromise in the inevitable socialist pattern of our national economy: “The attempt was to incorporate ‘whatever is sound and feasible in the socialist movement’ and see ‘how far socialist demands could be accommodated without capitalism surrendering any of its essential features’. The eventual plan (Bombay Plan) was, therefore, to seriously take up the questions of equitable distribution, partial nationalization, etc., with this objective clearly in mind. ‘A consistent ... programme of reforms’ was the ‘most effective remedy against violent social upheavals”. 22 The purpose of discussing the Bombay Plan is to demonstrate that the 1940s and early 1950s were an era when socialist principles were acceptable to all classes, though with reservations. The young nation short of capital, took a conscious decision to imbibe these principles not only in its economy but also thought it prudent to include some of the provisions in Part IV of the Constitution; the Directive Principles of State Policies. 11. Coming now to the Directive Principles of State Polices. On November 4, 1948, while presenting the draft Constitution to the Constituent Assembly Dr. B. R. Ambedkar elaborated each provision of the Constitution, and laid particular stress on the Directive Principles of State Policies: “The Directive Principles are like the Instruments of Instructions which were issued to the Governor-General and to the Governors of the colonies and to those of India by the British Government under the 1935 Act. Under the Draft Constitution it is proposed to issue such instruments 21 sir P. thakurdas, Jrd tata et al., Introductory, in a Plan Of ecOnOMic develOPMent fOr india (Part ii) (1944). Also see sanJay Baru (ed. ), the BOMBay Plan (Rupa Publications India Pvt Ltd., 2018), Pg. 292. 22 aditya MukherJee, POlitical ecOnOMy Of cOlOnial and POst-cOlOnial india (PriMus BOOks, 2022), Pg.192. 274 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to the President and to the Governors. The texts of these Instruments of Instructions will be found in Schedule IV of the Constitution. What are called Directive Principles is merely another name for Instruments of Instructions. The only difference is that they are instructions to the Legislature and the Executive. Such a thing is to my mind to be welcomed. Wherever there is a grant of power in general terms for peace, and good government, it is necessary that is should be accompanied by instructions regulating its exercise. The Inclusion of such instructions in a Constitution such as is proposed in the Draft becomes justifiable for another reason. The Draft Constitution as framed only provides a machinery for the government of the country. It is not a contrivance to install any particular party in power as has been done in some countries.