i. Position of Law 23. We begin with the decision of this Court in Executive Committee of Vaish Degree College v. Lakshmi Narain, AIR 1976 SC 888. This is one of the landmark decisions of this Court as this case discussed and considered all the previous decisions and the same has been referred to and relied upon by this Court till this date. This Court held that a contract of personal service cannot ordinarily be enforced specifically. Three exceptions were set out as well recognized : (1) Where a public servant is sought to be removed from service in contravention of the provisions of Article 311 of the Constitution of India; (2) Where a worker is sought to be reinstated under the Industrial Law; (3) Where a statutory body acts in breach or violation of the mandatory-provisions of the statute. A statutory body was defined in that case as one which was created by or under a statute and owed its existence to a statute. It was held that an institution governed by certain statutory provisions for its proper maintenance and administration would not be a statutory body. The test prescribed was whether the institution would exist in the absence of a statute. 24. In J. Tiwari v. Jawala Devi Vidya Mandir (1979) 4 SCC 160, it was held that the rights and obligations of an employee of a private institution are governed by the terms of the contract between the parties. It was also observed that the regulations of the University or the provisions of the Educational Code framed by the State Government may be applicable to the institution and if the provisions thereof are violated, the University may be entitled to disaffiliate the institution. But that would not, however, make that the institution a public or a statutory body. 25. In Dipak Kumar Biswas v. Director of Public Instruction, 1987 (2) SCC 252, the appellant before this Court instituted a suit for declaration that he continued to be in service in Lady Keane Girls College, Shillong and for an injunction. His services were terminated by the College on the ground that the Director of Public Instruction had not approved of his appointment. The trial court dismissed the suit. The first appellate court allowed the appeal of the plaintiff and granted 2202 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports a decree as prayed for. The High Court, while holding that there was no necessity for the approval by the Director of Public Instruction as the Assam College Management Rules were not adopted by the State of Meghalaya, held that reinstatement of the plaintiff in service was not possible as it could be granted only to persons belonging to the categories of (1) Government servants (2) Industrial workmen and (3) Employees of statutory bodies. Consequently, the High Court granted a decree for damages only. The aggrieved plaintiff took the matter on appeal to this Court. Following the view token in Vaish Degree College v. Lakshmi Narain (supra), this Court held that a contract of service could not be enforced specifically.