ARGUMENTS 4. In the aforesaid factual matrix, the argument raised by learned counsel for the appellants challenging the and decree of the High Court was that the execution of Will was surrounded by various suspicious circumstances and deserves to be discarded as was rightly done by the First Appellate Court. The finding of facts recorded by the First Appellate Court was erroneously reversed by the High Court without the same being perverse. Re-appreciation of the facts merely to come to another possible conclusion does not fall within the scope of consideration of a matter in second appeal. There was no substantial question of law involved in the second appeal before the High Court. There were discrepancies in the statements of the scribe and the attesting witnesses to the Will. The health of the testator was not good and he was not in a position to understand and comprehend the contents of the Will. There were differences in the thumb impressions of the testator on the Will and on the register in the office of the Sub-Registrar. 5. Though, admittedly the testator left behind his widow and a minor daughter but there is no mention in the Will about the same. How their interest was taken care of, the Will is silent. In fact, the appellants were in possession of the suit property. The suit filed by the respondent was totally misconceived. 150 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the execution of Will by a person in favour of any other relative always would mean that the testator wishes to take away some property from the normal course of inheritance. In fact, the respondent being like daughter to the testator was taking care of his health, who was suffering from asthma and chronic cough. It is not that the entire property owned by the testator was given to the respondent by way of Will, rather it was only a part thereof. She is in possession of the suit property after the death of the testator. The need to file the suit arose more than two years after the death of the testator as her possession was disturbed by the appellants. Otherwise also the appellants had not taken any step to take care of the testator when he was not keeping good health or the property left by him after his death. Admittedly, the appellant no. 1 was living away from the testator. Even at the time of his death the appellants were not present as she came later on. Even the expenses for performing last rites of the testator were borne by the husband of the respondent. There is no error in the of the High Court. The findings recorded by the First Appellate Court being totally perverse were rightly interfered by the High Court. 6.1. In the written statement filed by the appellants, there was no specific denial to the claim made by the respondent/plaintiff. No para-wise reply was given.