Digital Supreme Court Reports 18. Section 357of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 reads thus: “357. to pay compensation.—(1) When a Court imposes a sentence of fine or a sentence (including a sentence of death) of which fine forms a part, the Court may, when passing , the whole or any part of the fine recovered to be applied— (a) in defraying the expenses properly incurred in the prosecution; (b) in the payment to any person of compensation for any loss or injury caused by the offence, when compensation is, in the opinion of the Court, recoverable by such person in a civil court; (c) when any person is convicted of any offence for having caused the death of another person or of having abetted the commission of such an offence, in paying compensation to the persons who are, under the Fatal Accidents Act, 1855 (13 of 1855), entitled to recover damages from the person sentenced for the loss resulting to them from such death; (d) when any person is convicted of any offence which includes theft, criminal misappropriation, criminal breach of trust, or cheating, or of having dishonestly received or retained, or of having voluntarily assisted in disposing of, stolen property knowing or having reason to believe the same to be stolen, in compensating any bona fide purchaser of such property for the loss of the same if such property is restored to the possession of the person entitled thereto. (2) If the fine is imposed in a case which is subject to appeal, no such payment shall be made before the period allowed for presenting the appeal has elapsed, or, if an appeal be presented, before the decision of the appeal. (3) When a Court imposes a sentence, of which fine does not form a part, the Court may, when passing , the accused person to pay, by way of compensation, [2024] 6 S.C.R. 705 Rajendra Bhagwanji Umraniya v. State of Gujarat such amount as may be specified in the to the person who has suffered any loss or injury by reason of the act for which the accused person has been so sentenced. (4) An under this section may also be made by an Appellate Court or by the High Court or Court of Session when exercising its powers of revision. (5) At the time of awarding compensation in any subsequent civil suit relating to the same matter, the Court shall take into account any sum paid or recovered as compensation under this section.” 19. Way back in 1981, this Court speaking through Krishna Iyer, J. in Maru Ram vs Union of India & Others3, held that while social responsibility of the criminal to restore the loss or heal the injury is part of the punitive exercise; the length of the prison term is no reparation to the crippled or bereaved and is futility compounded with cruelty. Section 357 provides power to award compensation to victims of the offence out of the sentence of fine imposed on accused.