Where, however, an instrument merely declares or recognises a pre-existing right, such as a claim to maintenance or partition or share to which the female is entitled, the sub-section has absolutely no application and the female’s limited interest would automatically be en- larged into an absolute one by force of s. 14(1) and the restrictions placed, if any, under the document would have to be ignored. Thus where a property is allotted or transferred to a female in lieu of maintenance or a share at partition, the instrument is taken out of the ambit of subsection (2) and would be governed by s. 14(1) despite any restrictions placed on the powers of the transferee. (5) The use of express terms like “property acquired by a female Hindu at a partition”, “or in lieu of maintenance”, “or arrears of maintenance” etc. in the Explanation to s. 14(1) clearly makes sub-s. (2) inapplicable to these categories which have been expressly excepted from the operation of sub-s. (2). (6) The words “possessed by” used by the Legislature in s. 14(1) are of the widest possible amplitude and include the state of owning a property even though the owner is not in actual or physical possession of the same: Thus, where a widow gets a share in the property under a preliminary decree before or at the time when the 1956 Act had been passed but had not been given actual possession under a final decree, the property would be deemed to be possessed by her and by force of s. 14(1) she would get absolute interest. in the property. It is equally well settled that the possession of the widow, however, must be under some vestige of a claim, right or title, because the section does not contemplate the possession of any trespasser without any right or title. 510 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (7) That the words “restricted estate” used in s. 4(2) are wider than limited interest as indicated in s. 14(1) and they include not only limited interest, but also any other kind of limitation that may be placed on the transferee.” 13. The decision in Tulsamma (supra) was followed in the case of Gulwant Kaur v. Mohinder Singh23 and this was affirmed by a three-Judge bench in Jaswant Kaur v. Major Harpal Singh.24 14. In a 1991 decision, a two-Judge bench in Thota Sesharathamma (supra), while following the decision in Tulsamma (supra), noticed another three-Judge bench decision in Karmi (supra) which was not noticed in Tulsamma. Having examined the matter in detail, one of the Judges observed that the decision in Karmi (supra) “is a short without adverting to any provisions of Section 14(1) or 14(2) of the Act. The neither makes any mention of any argument raised in this regard nor there is any mention of the earlier decision in Badri Pershad v. Smt Kanso Devi. The decision in Mst Karmi cannot be considered as an authority on the ambit and scope of Section 14(1) and (2) of the Act”.25 Taking a similar stand, the concurring Judge held that in Karmi (supra) “the attention of this Court to Section 14(1) was not drawn nor had an occasion to angulate in this perspective.