1 will be applied after the CoC approves this Resolution Plan. If the RBI approval for creating such charge is not received by the Effective Date, then alternate security will be provided in India of equivalent value on the Effective Date. Event of Default Corporate Debtor’s failure to make such committed payment Consequences of Enforcement of security for recover the Event of Default outstanding amounts. Governing Law and Indian Law and courts of Mumbai will have Jurisdiction exclusive jurisdiction. xxx xxx xxx 6.4.12. Request for the consideration of the CoC - As required under the RFRP, the Resolution Applicant shall provide the performance security bank guarantee (“PBG”) for a total sum of Rs. 150 Crores. The PBG will be provided in two parts, with the first PBG of Rs. 47.5 Crores provided within 7 (seven) days from the date of receipt of LOI; and PBG for the remaining sum of Rs. 102.5 Crores provided on the Effective Date. 7.3. Compliance with respect of Regulation 36B (4A) The Resolution Applicant undertakes to provide the performance security bank guarantee as per the terms of the RFRP in favour of “State Bank of India” (in its capacity as an agent of the CoC (and acting on behalf of the Corporate Debtor)), within 7 (seven) days of it being declared the “Successful Resolution Applicant”, or by way of a direct deposit by way of the real time gross settlement system into a bank account held by the SBI Bank, as per the terms of the RFRP. xxx xxx xxx 2072 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 7.1. Term of the Resolution Plan 7.1.2. The effectiveness and implementation of the Resolution Plan by the Resolution Applicant shall be subject to the approval of the NCLT. Notwithstanding anything set out in this Resolution Plan, the implementation of this Resolution Plan by the Resolution Applicant shall not be conditional upon satisfaction of any conditions, other than approval of the NCLT. 7.6. Conditions to the Implementation of the Resolution Plan 7.6.1. Conditions Precedent - The obligation of the Resolution Applicant to re-commence operations as an aviation company, being the business proposed to be acquired is subject to the fulfilment of the following conditions after the Approval Date (“Conditions Precedent”): (a) Validation of AOP of the Corporate Debtor by DGCA & MoCA - The AOP of the Corporate Debtor shall have been validated by the DGCA, the MoCA and any other relevant Government Authority and grant of all other mandatory approvals to the Corporate Debtor to enable it to re-commence flying operations (including commercial/ cargo operations) and related on-ground services. (b) Submission and approval of the Business Plan to DGCA & MoCA - The Business Plan of the Resolution Applicant shall have been submitted after the Approval Date to the DGCA and MoCA for their review, and approval. The Resolution Applicant agrees to modify its business plan to incorporate all reasonable changes required by the DGCA/ MoCA, which otherwise does not make the business unviable for the Resolution Applicant.