479 Nabha Power Limited & Anr. v. Punjab State Power Coroporation Limited & Anr. environmental management plan for the power station but shall not include (i) any change in any withholding tax on income or dividends distributed to the shareholders of the Seller, or (ii) change in respect of UI Charges or frequency intervals by an Appropriate Commission. 46. Considering the facts of the case and the arguments, we are very clear that the case of the parties is not based on any change in interpretation or change in consent, approval or licence so these sub clauses of the opening part of 13.1.1 is ruled out. Equally, the latter part dealing with price of land for the project and cost of implementation and rehabilitation package of land or cost of implementing environmental management plan is also not attracted. 47. The question that remains is the applicability of sub clause (i) of clause 13.1.1 namely, when did the change in law happen? For 13.1.1. (i) to be attracted there has to be an enactment, bringing into effect, adoption, promulgation, amendment, modification or repeal of any law. Further, if there was a change in law the question would be, did it result in any change in any cost or revenue from the business of selling electricity by the seller to the procurer under the terms of the agreement. 48. It is important to keep in mind the definition of law which has been defined to mean in relation to this Agreement, all laws including Electricity Laws in force in India and any statute, ordinance, regulation, notification or code, rule or any interpretation of any of them by an Indian Governmental instrumentality and having force of law and shall further include all applicable rules, regulations, s, notification by an Indian Governmental instrumentality pursuant to or under any of them and shall include all rules, regulations, decisions and s of the Appropriate Commission. We are convinced that the words “shall include all rules, regulations, decisions and s of the Appropriate Commission”, only refer to the rules, regulations, decisions and s of the Appropriate Commission. 49. It is important to bear in mind that ‘law’ is one thing and ‘change in law’ is another, in the sense that the two are two different concepts. For the case in question, we need to understand what the extant law was on 01.10.2009 and then decide whether there was a legal regime alteration as defined under 13.1.1 on the said date. 480 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 50. The law, as it stood prior to the press release of 01.10.2009 insofar as the financial implications for the matter is concerned, was the notification under Section 25 of the Customs Act issued on 01.03.2002 and entry 400 thereof, extracted in the earlier part of this . That notification, subject to the conditions mentioned thereon in entry 400 granted exemption from customs duty for import of goods required for setting up of any Mega Power project if such Mega Power project was an inter-State power plant and if it fulfilled the other conditions mentioned in the notification.