The court emphasised that when statutory language is clear and unambiguous, it should be given its natural and ordinary meaning. The legislative intent, as discerned from the plain language of the statute, aims to hold the drawer accountable. The appellants’ argument for a broader interpretation to include authorised signatories under section 143A contradicts this principle and would lead to an unjust extension of liability not supported by the statutory text.” (Emphasis supplied) 44. In yet one another decision of this Court in the case of N. Harihara Krishnan v. J. Thomas reported in (2018) 13 SCC 663, while dealing with the issue of commission of an offence under Section 138 of the NI Act by a company, the Court observed that Section 138 only contemplates the drawer of the cheque to be responsible for the commission of the offence. It is only by virtue of Section 141 that certain persons other than the drawer of the cheque can be made liable for the offence in cases where the offence under Section 138 is committed by a company and not an individual person. The Court, in the facts of the case before it, further held that the identity of the drawer of the cheque was apparent from the cheque itself and thus it was not open to the payee/complainant to seek impleadment of the company, that is, the drawer of the cheque, at a belated stage by filing an impleadment application when it had instituted the complaint only against the authorised signatory who had signed the cheque on behalf of the company. The Court also held that the offence under Section 138 is person specific and in the absence of applicability of the principles of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, the magistrate cannot take 1978 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports cognizance of the complaint unless it is made against the drawer of the cheque, as it is only the drawer who can be an accused under Section 138. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: “20. The offence under Section 138 of the Act is capable of being committed only by the drawer of the cheque. The logic of the High Court that since the offence is already taken cognizance of, there is no need to take cognizance of the offence against Dakshin is flawed. Section 141 stipulates the liability for the offence punishable under Section 138 of the Act when the person committing such an offence happens to be a company—in other words when the drawer of the cheque happens to be a company. [...] xxx xxx xxx 22. The High Court failed to appreciate that the liability of the appellant (if any in the context of the facts of the present case) is only statutory because of his legal status as the Director of Dakshin. Every person signing a cheque on behalf of a company on whose account a cheque is drawn does not become the drawer of the cheque. Such a signatory is only a person duly authorised to sign the cheque on behalf of the company/drawer of the cheque.