In a case where there is a statutory presumption, after the prosecution discharges initial burden, the burden of rebuttal may shift on the accused. In the absence of the statutory provisions as above, in this case, the burden was on the prosecution to prove the guilt of the accused beyond a reasonable doubt. Therefore, the High Court’s finding on the burden of proof is completely erroneous. It is contrary to the law of the land. 8. We have carefully examined the evidence of the material prosecution witnesses. PW-1 Danabhai stated that after he was informed in the night around 9 O’clock about the assault on the deceased by one Vajsurbhai, he proceeded by his bicycle. He stated that when he reached Jhanjhmer, he found that his deceased brother was laid in a tempo of Ramabhai. He stated about the presence of Arjanbhai and Jivabhai. He stated that no one informed him about the incident at that time. He thereafter described how the deceased was taken to the hospital of Dr Goti and thereafter to a private hospital in Bhavnagar. PW-1 deposed that PW-4 Karshanbhai went with him to Bhavnagar, and in the hospital of Dr Rana, PW-4 informed PW-1 that the appellants had assaulted the deceased by using a stick. He stated that though PW-4 informed him that he was present at the time of the incident, he did not tell him about the assault on him by the accused. Thus, PW-1 did not state that PW-4 was present when he reached the place where he found that the deceased was laid in a tempo, and according to his version, PW-4 came to Bhavnagar. Though PW-4 stated that PW-1 came on a bicycle and came to Dhola with them, the version of PW-1 is that PW-4 joined him at Bhavnagar. This creates a doubt about the presence of PW-4 at the time of the incident. Importantly, one Vajsurbhai, who informed PW-1 about the assault on the deceased, has not been examined as a witness. [2024] 4 S.C.R. 327 Bhupatbhai Bachubhai Chavda & Anr. v. State of Gujarat 9. PW-4 admitted that there is an ongoing litigation about his family’s land between the appellants and his family. PW-4 claimed that just before the fatal blow was inflicted on the deceased, a blow was given to the witness by pipe around 8 pm on the date of the incident. However, PW-5 Dr Jagadishbhai stated that when he examined PW-4 on 19th September 1996, the history given by PW-4 was to the effect that he was assaulted by a pipe on 18th September 1996 at 8.00 pm. The incident is of 17th September 1996. The High Court has completely brushed aside this statement of PW-5 by observing that once the police recorded statements of the Doctor and PW-4, the statements of PW-4 and the Doctor before the Court became meaningless. As is apparent from Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (CrPC), statements recorded by police under Section 161 of the CrPC cannot be used for any purpose except to contradict the witness.