The High Court observed that equity cannot defeat the statutory provision and thus, if any excess freight realized by the railway is held to be an unjust enrichment it would result in the statutory time-period under Section 78B of the Act, 1989 being rendered otiose and redundant. The relevant observations read as under: - “Mr. S.R. Joshi has finally submitted that in the event this Court were to uphold the impugned dated 15.05.1990, passed by the Tribunal, it would entail unjust enrichment of the Railway as admittedly the distance over which its goods were transported was 511 KMs and not 946 KMs (between Banas siding and Thiyat Hamira railway station) and further that rate charged was Rs.21.44 per qtl. instead of Rs.13.11 per qtl. Limitation under Section 78B of the Act of 1989 has been statutorily provided for. A misplaced argument of unjust enrichment cannot be misapplied, removed from the context it has been developed by courts of equity and turned on its head and be agitated to circumvent the provisions of statutory limitation and for the matter, the Limitation Act. Were it to be so, the provisions of the law limitation under the Act of 1963 or otherwise would be rendered otiose and redundant. Equity to defeat pubic policy encapsulated in the statutes of limitation cannot be visualised.” (Emphasis supplied) 56. In another decision of this Court in Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. v. Union of India, reported in (2018) 17 SCC 729, the freight had been paid as per the notified chargeable distance. Subsequently when a computerized system for generating railway receipts was introduced, the chargeable distance was reduced and re-notified. This Court relying upon West Coast Paper Mills (supra) held that since the freight had been paid as per the notified rate which was later found to be incorrect, the case would be of an illegal charge and not an overcharge. The relevant observations reads as under: - “2. The core facts that will be required to be noticed are as follows: the appellant, a public sector organisation, had dispatched various petroleum products through Railway [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1105 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. Tank Wagons of the respondent from Asaudah Railway Station, District Rohtak, Haryana to Partapur, District Meerut, Uttar Pradesh and to some other destinations located in different parts of the country. The freight was paid by the appellant as per the notified distance i.e., 125 Km, so notified by the Chief Goods Supervisor, the competent authority at the relevant point of time. The dispatch of the petroleum products continued for a long period between the year 2008 and 2011 and the freight charges were paid according to the distance between the destinations as notified by the competent authority of the respondent. When the manual system of generating railway receipts was discontinued and the respondent had installed computerised railway freight charges system called Terminal mechanism System (TMS) at Asaudha Railway Station, the distance between Asaudah Railway Station, District Rohtak, Haryana and Partapur District Meerut (Uttar Pradesh was notified as 100 km instead of 125 km.