Therefore, it does not fall in Clause (5)(b) of Schedule II. He submitted that the entire purpose of ITC is to extend the ITC paid at the anterior stage to remove the cascading burden of taxation at a subsequent stage. As there is no GST payable on shopping malls, there is no need to grant ITC. He pointed out that if a shopping mall is sold as an immovable property immediately after the completion certificate is issued, no GST is payable at the time of sale of the immovable property. Therefore, ITC credit cannot be used. If the mall is used to render renting service for five years and then is sold after five years, no GST will be payable on the sale. However, if ITC is allowed as contended during these five years, ITC will [2024] 10 S.C.R. 815 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. be exhausted against GST payable on rental income. Thereafter, the mall would be sold without paying any tax, which would cause a substantial monetary loss. Learned ASG relied upon a decision of this Court in Union of India v. Shri Harbhajan Singh Dhillon,32 and in particular, what is held in paragraphs 74 to 76 and 82. He also relied upon a decision in the case of India Cement Ltd. & Ors. v. State of Tamil Nadu & Ors.33 and State of W.B. v. Kesoram Industries Ltd. & Ors..34 He pointed out that the construction of a complex building intended for sale to a buyer will be treated as a supply of service except where the entire consideration has been received after the issuance of the commencement certificate. He pointed out that the supply of a constructed building complex or a civil structure before the issuance of the completion certificate can be construed as a supply of services and will be liable to GST. The dividing line is the issuance of a completion certificate. A supply prior to the issuance of the commencement certificate is treated as a supply of service, whereas a sale made after the issuance of the completion certificate is not treated as a supply of service. Miscellaneous Submissions e. He submitted that tax on works contracts is also a tax on movable goods, either as goods, or during the transfer of goods, or before accretion takes place, leading to their becoming immovable property. f. The learned ASG also dealt with the services on tax and work contracts in the pre-GST regime. Relying upon the definition of “works contract” in Article 366 (29A)(b) of the Constitution, he submitted that what is taxed cannot be a taxation on the immovable property. GIST OF REJOINDER 17. By way of rejoinder, the learned counsel representing assessees submitted that the legislature intentionally used the expression “plant 32 [1972] 2 SCR 33 : (1971) 2 SCC 779 33 [1989] Supp. 1 SCR 692 : (1990) 1 SCC 12 34 (2004) 10 SCC 201 816 [2024] 10 S.C.R.