These amendments altered the intersection between the exercise of power under Article 16(4) and Article 335. The Constitution (Seventy-seventh Amendment) Act 1995 included Article 16(4-A) enabling the State to provide reservations for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in promotions. The Constitution (Eighty-second) Amendment Act 2000 added the proviso to Article 335 stipulating that lowering the standards of evaluation will not be inconsistent with the maintenance of efficiency. The amendments recognize the difficulties and struggles faced by members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes during promotions. In a formal sense, the criteria of selection for promotions a priori excludes the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes because the criteria which are considered to be appropriate are not accessible to them. In a more informal but substantive manner, the members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes are often unable to climb up the ladder because of the stigma of incompetence held against candidates who are selected through reservation. The stereotype operates against them because they are externalized as “affirmative action beneficiaries” or “quota candidates”.103 The amendments recognize 101 The holding that there shall not be reservations in promotions was based on the link between Article 16(4) and Article 335. See, Justice Reddy [827] and Justice Sawant [552-224] 102 Justice Pandian in Indra Sawhney (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 [243(11)] 103 See Ashwini Deshpande, Double Jeopardy? Stigma of Identity and Affirmative Action, The Review of Black Political Economy 2019, Vol. 46(I) 38-64 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1377 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. the discrimination through the operation of both human conduct and recruitment processes. They are an emphatic repudiation of the binary of reservation and merit. ii. Permissibility of sub-classification under Article 14 76. In Chinnaiah (supra), one of the issues was “whether the impugned enactment creates sub-classification or micro-classification of Scheduled Castes”.104 Justice Santosh Hegde, writing for himself and two other Judges noted that according to the decision in NM Thomas (supra), all the castes in the list acquired a special status as a ‘class’ and that a classification for the purpose of reservation already existed. The learned Judge observed that the Scheduled Castes form a class by themselves and any further classification would violate the doctrine of reasonableness.105 Justice Hegde observed that a class cannot be sub-divided to give more preference to a “miniscule proportion of the Scheduled Castes in preference to the other members of the same class”.106 In his concurring opinion, Justice Sema observed that further classification of the Scheduled Castes, who constitute a homogenous group would amount to “discrimination in reverse” and would run contrary to Article 14.107 Justice Sinha observed that the Constitution permitted additional measures in respect of disadvantaged groups to bring them at par with the advantaged groups, but the class which requires the benefits of additional protection, cannot be discriminated inter se when both satisfy the test of abysmal backwardness and inadequate representation in public service.108 Justice Sinha further noted that the state had not discharged the burden of proving reasonable classification and the nexus of the classification with the purpose of the enactment.109 77.