373 Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited & Ors. v. M/s Coromandal Sacks Private Limited the respondent/plaintiff as the benefit of the prohibition or embargo created under section 22 of the Act would come into operation only where the appellant/defendant has disclosed before the Court, that the amounts claimed by the respondent/plaintiff have been duly shown and disclosed in the scheme formulated and laid before the BIFR. The Apex Court in the case of Deputy Commercial Tax Officer v. Corromandal Pharmaceuticals, (1997) 10 SCC 649 enunciated the law to hold that a cessation of legal proceedings would be justified only if the dues in respect of which adjudication is ongoing is also included in the contemplation of scheme presented by BIFR… xxx xxx xxx 14. In the light of the above settled legal position, analyzing the facts of the case at hand, it is manifest that no material was placed on record by the appellant to show that the amount in respect of which the respondent laid its claim in the said recovery suit was reflected in the scheme laid before the BIFR. The only contention raised by the appellant before the trial court as well as before this Court was that the prohibition or embargo as envisaged in Section 22 would come into operation immediately once the defendant brings to the notice of the Court that an inquiry under Section 16 is pending before the Board or an appeal is pending relating to the said inquiry before the Appellate Authority. Having failed to place any such material on record, this Court is of the clear view that the bar or embargo envisaged under Section 22 of the Act will not apply to the facts of the present case as the appellant cannot take the advantage of the said provision merely because an inquiry under Section 16 was pending before the BIFR or an Appeal under Section 25 against the of BIFR was pending before the AAIFR.” (Emphasis supplied) 94. In Kusum Products Ltd. v. Hitkari Industries Ltd. reported in 2014 SCC OnLine Del 4926, a learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court, relying upon the decision in Raheja Universal (supra) held that a suit for recovery of money simpliciter will not be liable 374 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports to be suspended under Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act. It was observed thus: “3. The aforesaid paragraphs show that the proceedings for which prior permission is required under Section 22 of SICA are proceedings in the nature of execution, distress or like. It is not every suit or every suit for recovery which automatically becomes proceedings in the nature of execution, distress or like, and only such suits of recovery where there would be proceedings which cause liquidation of assets of a sick company, would be those suits which would be hit by the bar of Section 22 of SICA. 4. In the present case, the suit for recovery of money is a suit for recovery of money simplicitor.