The relevant paragraphs of the said are reproduced as under: - “13. ……We are of the opinion that the cumulative effect of the circumstances stated above was sufficient to create in the mind of a reasonable man the impression that there was a real likelihood of bias in the inquiring officer. There must be a “real likelihood” of bias and that means there must be a substantial possibility of bias. The Court will 176 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports have to judge of the matter as a reasonable man would judge of any matter in the conduct of his own business (see R. v. Sunderland, JJ.) [(1901) 2 KB 357 at 373] 14. The test of likelihood of bias which has been applied in a number of cases is based on the “reasonable apprehension” of a reasonable man fully cognizant of the facts. The courts have quashed decisions on the strength of the reasonable suspicion of the party aggrieved without having made any finding that a real likelihood of bias in fact existed (see R. v. Huggins [(1895) 1 QB 563] ; R. v. Sussex, JJ., ex. p. McCarthy [(1924) 1 KB 256] ; Cottle v. Cottle [(1939) 2 All ER 535] ; R. v. Abingdon, JJ. ex. p. Cousins [(1964) 108 SJ 840] .) But in R. v. Camborne, JJ. ex. p Pearce [(1955) 1 QB 41 at 51] the Court, after a review of the relevant cases held that real likelihood of bias was the proper test and that a real likelihood of bias had to be made to appear not only from the materials in fact ascertained by the party complaining, but from such further facts as he might readily have ascertained and easily verified in the course of his inquiries. XXX XXX XXX 16. The tests of “real likelihood” and “reasonable suspicion” are really inconsistent with each other. We think that the reviewing authority must make a determination on the basis of the whole evidence before it, whether a reasonable man would in the circumstances infer that there is real likelihood of bias. The Court must look at the impression which other people have. This follows from the principle that justice must not only be done but seen to be done. If right minded persons would think that there is real likelihood of bias on the part of an inquiring officer, he must not conduct the enquiry; nevertheless, there must be a real likelihood of bias. Surmise or conjecture would not be enough. There must exist circumstances from which reasonable men would think it probable or likely that the inquiring officer will be prejudiced against the delinquent. The Court will not inquire whether he was really prejudiced. If a [2024] 4 S.C.R. 177 Krishnadatt Awasthy v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. reasonable man would think on the basis of the existing circumstances that he is likely to be prejudiced, that is sufficient to quash the decision...” 26. This Court while emphasising upon bias in the case of Dr. G. Sarana Vs. University of Lucknow and others; (1976) 3 SCC 585 held that what has to be seen is whether there is a reasonable ground for believing that he was likely to have been biased.