84. This aforesaid aspect may be looked at from one another angle, by making use of the Hohfeld’s analysis of jural relations. As per Hohfeld’s scheme of jural relations conferring of a right on one entity must entail vesting of a corresponding duty in another. Under Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989, the right of consignee to seek a refund of an overcharge arises only when there is a corresponding duty on the railway administration to grant such refund i.e., when the notice of claim is made to it within the statutory period. To seek a refund, certain condition precedents need to be satisfied by the consignee before the right can be said to accrue, namely: - a) An overcharge has been paid by the consignor to the Railway administration b) A notice has been served by the consignor to the Railway administration to which overcharge has been paid c) The consignor has served the said notice within six months from the date of such payment or the date of delivery of such goods at the destination station, whichever is later. 84.1 Thus, once the aforesaid conditions are satisfied, the consignee’s “right to get a refund” can be said to have as its jural correlative the “duty to grant refund” of the Railway administration. 85. Now the consignee’s duty to make the notice of claim for refund will only arise if the sum was an overcharge within the statutory time-period, if it is not, then it could not be said that there was any 1122 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports duty to make the notice of claim. Similarly, if the right of consignee to claim a refund for an overcharge, accrues when the sum was an overcharge on the date of payment, the corresponding duty of consignor to refund it will also arise when the sum was an overcharge. 86. Thus, if on the date of payment, the sum was not an overcharge, neither is the right to claim refund emanating in terms of Section 106(3) nor is the corresponding duty i.e., neither the right nor the duty could be said to have arisen on the date of payment. Both the right to claim refund and the corresponding duty to refund must arise in synergy in terms of Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989 (emphasis). It would be too much to say that, although no overcharge was made in terms of Section 106(3), yet when the sum actually became an overcharge, the duty to seek refund will only be in terms of Section 106(3) of the Act, 1989. 87. For illustration, say, goods were booked and freight was charged at the rate of Rs. 100 per km, and accordingly freight was paid. Subsequently, 7-months later the Railways decides as a matter of policy to reduce it to Rs 50 per km with retrospective effect. Now though the reduction is taking place retrospectively, but intimated 7-months after when the payment was made, and further even- though, this is an overcharge (because Rs.