The Learned Judge observed that reading Article 16(1) and Article 16(4) together would reveal that they recognize that the right to equality of opportunity includes the right of the underprivileged to conditions comparable to or compensatory of those enjoyed by the privileged. It is observed that the equality of opportunity must be such as to yield “Equality of Results” and not that which simply enables people, socially and economically better placed, to win against the less fortunate, even when the competition is itself otherwise equitable. 1518 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 122. The Learned Judge thereafter refers to “A Theory of Justice” by John Rawls. He also refers to the ‘Principle of Redress’ according to which underserved inequalities call for redress; and since inequalities of birth and natural endowment are undeserved, these inequalities are somehow to be compensated for. D. K.C. Vasanth Kumar vs. State of Karnataka 123. The next of the Constitution Bench of this Court that requires consideration is the case of K.C. Vasanth Kumar and another vs. State of Karnataka.11 In the said case, the Court was invited not so much to deliver but to express its opinion on the issue of reservations in the context of Articles 15(4) and 16(4), which would serve as a guideline to the Commission which the Government of Karnataka had proposed to appoint, for examining the question of affording better employment and educational opportunities to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes. Each of the 5 Learned Judges comprising the Constitution Bench of this Court rendered their separate opinions. 124. Y.V. Chandrachud, C.J. laid down certain propositions. It will be relevant to refer to paragraph 2, which reads thus: “2. I would state my opinion in the shape of the following propositions: (1) The reservation in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes must continue as at present, there is, without the application of a means test, for a further period not exceeding fifteen years. Another fifteen years will make it fifty years after the advent of the Constitution, a period reasonably long for the upper crust of the oppressed classes to overcome the baneful effects of social oppression, isolation and humiliation. (2) The means test, that is to say, the test of economic backwardness ought to be made applicable even to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes after the period mentioned in (1) above. It is essential that 11 [1985] Supp. 1 SCR 352 : (1985) Supp. SCC 714 [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1519 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. the privileged section of the underprivileged society should not be permitted to monopolise preferential benefits for an indefinite period of time. (3) Insofar as the other backward classes are concerned, two tests should be conjunctively applied for identifying them for the purpose of reservations in employment and education: One, that they should be comparable to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the matter of their backwardness; and two, that they should satisfy the means test such as a State Government may lay down in the context of prevailing economic conditions.