However, we are of the view that this contention is bereft of merit as no such distinction is permissible. 1094 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 32. The core question which requires this Court’s consideration is whether the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in the case of Shyoraj Singh was justified in relying upon Radhy Shyam, so as to quash the acquisition notification pertaining to the development of the land adjoining the Yamuna Expressway. The relevant extracts from Radhy Shyam which are reproduced supra would make it clear that in the said case, this Court was considering a controversy relating to the land acquisition for the purpose of planned industrial development in District Gautam Budh Nagar through Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority. Hence, the project did not contemplate a planned and integrated development of an Expressway and the adjoining areas. It was a standalone project pertaining to the development in industrial Gautam Budh Nagar. However, it cannot be gainsaid that Yamuna Expressway is a vital heartline providing access to millions of commuters from National Capital Delhi to Agra. The Expressway also connects the prestigious upcoming Jewar Airport to adjoining areas. To assume that the Yamuna Expressway is a simple highway without any scope for simultaneous development of the adjoining lands for commercial, residential and other such activities would be unconceivable. A project of such magnitude and enormity would definitely require the involvement of the adjoining areas which would lead to an overall development of the State of Uttar Pradesh at large. 33. As observed above, the purpose behind the acquisition was unquestionably the integrated development of lands abutting the Yamuna Expressway. The acquisition of the lands for the Expressway could not be isolated or separated from the acquisition of the abutting lands. This was precisely held in the case of Nand Kishore. 34. It may be noted that the entire edifice of Shyoraj Singh is based on Radhy Shyam, wherein a two-Judge Bench of this Court decided the controversy arising from land acquisition pertaining to the planned industrial development in the District Gautam Budh Nagar. Another Division Bench of this Court considered the acquisition pertaining to the Yamuna Expressway in the case of Natthi. Placing reliance on Nand Kishore,the Division Bench of the same composition as in Radhy Shyam vide dated 9th May, 2011 rejected the special leave petition(s) laying challenge to the invocation of the urgency clause in the self-same acquisition proceedings. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1095 Kali Charan and Others v. State of U.P. and Others 35. Much stress was laid by the learned counsel for the landowners on the issue that the Division Bench while deciding the impugned in the case of Kamal Sharma could not have taken a different view from Shyoraj Singh and if at all, there was any doubt on the correctness of the view taken in Shyoraj Singh, then, the question of law was mandatorily required to be referred to a larger Bench. We feel that the said argument is fallacious on the fact of it.