(2) While trying an offence under this Act, a Special Court shall also try an offence [other than the offence referred to in subsection (1)], with which the accused may, under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) be charged at the same trial. [2024] 5 S.C.R. 789 Child in Conflict with Law Through his Mother v. The State of Karnataka and Another (3) The Special Court constituted under this Act, notwithstanding anything in the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000) shall have jurisdiction to try offences under section 67B of that Act in so far as it relates to publication or transmission of sexually explicit material depicting children in any act, or conduct or manner or facilitates abuse of children online.” II. WHETHER THE PERIOD PROVIDED FOR COMPLETION OF PRELIMINARY ASSESSMENT UNDER SECTION 14(3) OF THE ACT IS MANDATORY OR DIRECTORY. 9. Section 15 of the Act enables the Board to make preliminary assessment into heinous offences where such an offence alleged to have been committed by a child between 16 and 18 years of age. The preliminary assessment is to be conducted with regard to his mental and physical capacity to commit such an offence, ability to understand the consequences of the offence and the circumstances in which the offence was allegedly committed. Proviso to the aforesaid section provides that for making such an assessment the Board may take assistance of an experienced psychologist or psycho-social worker or other experts. Explanation thereto provides that the process of preliminary assessment is not a trial but merely to assess the capacity of such a child to commit and understand the consequences of the alleged offence. The importance of the assistance from the expert is even evident from Section 101(2) of the Act. While considering the appeal against an passed under Section 15, the appellate authority can also take assistance of experts other than those who assisted the Board. 9.1 The importance of the aforesaid provision was considered by this Court in Barun Chandra Thakur’s case (supra) where requirement of such assistance was held to be mandatory, even though the words used in proviso to Section 15(1) and Section 101(2) of the Act are ‘may’. 9.2 Section 14(3) of the Act provides that the preliminary assessment in terms of Section 15 is to be completed by the Board within a period of three months from the date of first production of the child before the Board. 790 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9.3 In case the Board after preliminary assessment under Section 15 of the Act comes to a conclusion that the trial of the CCL is to be conducted as an adult, then the Board shall transfer the records to the Children’s Court having jurisdiction. 9.4 The argument raised by learned counsel for the appellant was that the CCL was produced before the Board on 03.11.2021. The period of three months having expired on 02.02.2022, any passed by the Board thereafter is non-est, and the trial of CCL cannot now be transferred to the Children’s Court.