Unless the loss or deprivation of the goods is by way of a penalty or punishment for a crime, offence or breach of engagement it would not come within the definition of forfeiture This word ‘forfeiture’ must bear the same meaning of a penalty for breach of a prohibitory direction. The fact that there is arithmetical identity, assuming it to be so, between the figures of the illegal collections made by the dealers and the amounts forfeited to the State cannot create a conceptual confusion that what is provided is not punishment but a transference of funds. If this view be correct, and we hold so, the legislature, by inflicting the forfeiture, does not go outside the crease when it hits out against the dealer and deprives him, by the penalty of the law, of the amount illegally gathered from the customers….” (Emphasis supplied) 72. The privy council in Kunwar Chiranjit Singh v. Har Swarup reported in (1926) 23 LW 172, while dealing with the concept of earnest money, had observed as follows: - “Earnest money is part of the purchase price when the transaction goes forward: it is forfeited when the transaction falls through, by reason of the fault or failure of the vendee.” (Emphasis supplied) [2024] 2 S.C.R. 65 The Authorised Officer, Central Bank of India v. Shanmugavelu 73. The above referred decision of the Privy Council has been referred to and relied upon by the High Court of Bombay in the case of Dinanath Damodar Kale v. Malvi Mody Ranchhoddas and Co. reported in AIR 1930 Bom 213. The Court observed as under: - “Turning to the law in England we have a series of decisions showing that a deposit by way of earnest in a contract for the sale of land is distinguishable from a penalty for breach of the contract. The cases cited to us by the appellant’s counsel are all cases in which either an instalment of the price or a part payment was by the terms of the contract to be forfeited on breach by the purchaser. If any authority be needed to show what the law in England is, it may be found in the passage in Halsbury, Vol. 25, p. 398, para 681, which was cited to us by respondents’ counsel. There it is clearly laid down that there is a distinction between a deposit and a penalty. This distinction was referred to by the majority of the Bench in the case of Bishan Chand v. Radha Kishan Das [(1897) 19 All. 489 = (1897) A.W.N. 123], where it was stated that a deposit is a payment actually made or advanced and therefore Ss. 73 and 74 of the Contract Act, have no application in such a case and are not intended to apply to it. These sections show what is the compensation to the seller, who is not responsible for the breach. They contemplate a case in which he is seeking to recover compensation for the breach. They do not contemplate a case in which a sum of money has been paid by way of earnest.