953 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others recall, for that matter, would not afford a ground for review within the parameters of Ord. XLVII – Plea that an aggrieved party can seek a review “for any other sufficient reason” and overruling of Pune Municipal Corporation’s case followed by recall thereof brings the claims of the review petitioners within the coverage of this particular ground cannot be accepted – Thus, review petition not maintainable. [Para 99, 100, 104-105] Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – XLVII r.1 explanation – Review – Application for review of – Review petitions not held to be maintainable, giving due regard to the explanation in r. 1 of Ord. XLVII vis-à-vis Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] case – Review petitions if could be entertained on the other grounds urged therein: Held: Review petitions include under the caption ‘grounds’ reference to points which, according to the review petitioners, are sufficient to review the s/s under review, apart from reference to the so-called ‘liberty’ granted by this Court vide Shailendra [3-Judge] case – ‘Grounds’ in each of the review petitions are factual in nature – In fact, the review petitioners have raised ‘Grounds’ without even averring what was pleaded in their counter affidavits filed before the High Court and what were the defences raised which, because of non-consideration by this Court, could be said to amount to an error apparent on the face of the record – Review petitions are silent as to on which specific ground referrable to r. 1 of XLVII the review has been asked for – Even then, having considered such ‘Ground’, the s/ s under review do not suffer from any error apparent on the face of the record – Review petitions could not be entertained on the other grounds urged therein. [Paras 109-111] Miscellaneous applications – Maintainability – Miscellaneous applications seeking recall of certain s of this Court, whereby some of the land acquisition proceedings were declared to have lapsed: Held: Miscellaneous applications not maintainable – Said applications filed in the form of miscellaneous applications, were in essence akin to the review petitions as they also seek reconsideration of this Court’s s – Since these miscellaneous applications also rely on Manoharlal [5-Judge, lapse] case as a ground for review/reconsideration of the previous s, they are squarely covered by the analysis in this – If it is 954 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports held otherwise, the review petitioners would be permitting to do something indirectly that is seeking review through miscellaneous applications, which they could not have done directly i.e., seeking review through review petitions – This would open the law to being misused and lead to by-passing the legislative intent behind introduction of Explanation 1 to Rule 1 of XLVII, CPC which cannot be permitted by the Court – This does not imply an absolute prohibition against filing of miscellaneous applications seeking ‘clarification,’ ‘modification,’ or ‘recall’ following the initial disposal of a matter – Only the Court need to exercise prudence and ascertain whether such an application is, in substance, in the nature of a review petition – In case such an application is found to be nothing but a disguised version of a review petition, it ought to be treated in similar manner a review petition is treated.