The Madrasa Modernization Programme subsequently became a part of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. During the 11th Five Year Plan (2007 to 2011), the Ministry of Human Resource Development implemented the Scheme for Providing Quality Education in Madrasas to encourage and incentivize Madarsas and Maktabs to impart education in modern subjects by providing them financial assistance.10 Only Madarsas which have been in existence for at least three years and registered under central or state legislation, Madarsa boards, or waqf boards are eligible to apply for assistance under this scheme.11 b. Teaching in Madarsas 6. According to the data placed on record in the affidavit filed by the State of Uttar Pradesh, there are presently around thirteen thousand Madarsas catering to more than twelve lakh students in the state. The following table is instructive: Type of Madarsas Number of Madarsas Number of students State funded 560 1,92,317 Permanently 3,834 4,37,237 recognized (non-state funded) Temporarily 8,970 6,04,834 recognized (non-state funded) Total 13,364 12,34,388 7. The state government has an annual budget of Rupees one thousand and ninety-six crores for the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff working in the state-aided Madarsas. The state government also provides books and midday meals to students of state-funded Madarsas. Moreover, it also operates Industrial Training Institutes in Ministry of Human Resource Development, Centre Releases Rs. 5.9 crore for madrasa modernization (12 December 2003) https://archive.pib.gov.in/archive/releases98/lyr2003/rdec2003/12122003/ r1212200330.html) 10 Department of School Education and Literacy, https://dsel.education.gov.in/spemm 11 Central Sponsored Scheme for Providing Quality Education in Madrasa, https://www.education.gov.in/ sites/upload_files/mhrd/files/upload_document/SPQEM-scheme.pdf [2024] 11 S.C.R. 377 Anjum Kadari & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. recognised Madarsas to teach trades such as welding, mechanics, and stenography. 8. Academic education in Madarsas is broadly divided into four levels: (i) Tathania (equivalent of elementary classes I to V); (ii) Fauquania (equivalent to upper elementary classes VI to VIII); (iii) Maulvi or munshi (equivalent to a certificate of secondary school or Xth standard); and (iv) Alim (certificate of senior secondary level examination or XIIth standard). 9. The syllabus until the Alim classes is in accordance with the syllabus of the Uttar Pradesh State Council of Educational Research and Training.12 For the Munshi/Maulvi and Alim levels, the Madarsas teach subjects such as theology (Sunni and Shia), Arabic literature, Persian literature, Urdu literature, General English, General Hindi, and optional subjects such as Mathematics, Home Sciences, Logic and Philosophy, Social Sciences, Science, Tibb (medical science), and Typing. The Munshi/Maulvi and Alim certificates are treated equivalent to High School and Intermediate levels respectively by the Uttar Pradesh government and the Government of India. The Sachar Committee Report suggests that most students study in Madarsas only till primary and middle classes.13 10. A few Madarsas also award certificates of Kamil (undergraduate degree) and Fazil (post-graduate degree). The State of Uttar Pradesh has stated in its affidavit that Kamil and Fazil degrees awarded by Madarsas are not recognised as alternatives to graduate and post- graduate degrees respectively. The government further states: “At the undergraduate and post graduate level, the U.P Madrasa Board grants the Qamil and Fazil degrees respectively, specialized courses for the education of Arabic-Persian and Deenyat subjects, which are the minimum educational qualifications required for imparting education of Arabic-Persian and Deenyat subjects in Madrasas.