We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions advanced at a bar and have perused the impugned s. With the assistance of learned counsel for the parties, we have thoroughly examined the material available on record. 22. The core issue presented for adjudication by the Court is whether the appellants herein, despite being classified as temporary employees of a scheme managed by contributory pooling of funds, can claim entitlement to pensionary benefits in accordance with the 6th CPC. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 527 Rajkaran Singh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. 23. To address this issue, we must first consider the legal framework established by this Court in various landmark decisions, particularly in Ajay Hasia and Others v. Khalid Mujib Sehravardi and Others6 and Pradeep Kumar Biswas v. Indian Institute of Chemical Biology and Others.7 While Ajay Hasia (supra) and Pradeep Kumar Biswas (supra) primarily dealt with determining whether a corporation could be considered an instrumentality of the state, the principles laid down therein provide valuable guidance in assessing the nature of employee-employer relationships. The relevant paragraphs of Ajay Hasia (supra) are reproduced below: - “7. …..If a corporation is found to be a mere agency or surrogate of the Government, “in fact owned by the Government, in truth controlled by the Government and in effect an incarnation of the Government”, the court, must not allow the enforcement of fundamental rights to be frustrated by taking the view that it is not the Government and therefore not subject to the constitutional limitations. We are clearly of the view that where a corporation is an instrumentality or agency of the Government, it must be held to be an “authority” within the meaning of Article 12 and hence subject to the same basic obligation to obey the Fundamental rights as the Government. 8. We may point out that this very question as to when a corporation can be regarded as an “authority” within the meaning of Article 12 arose for consideration before this Court in R.D. Shetty v. International Airport Authority of India [(1979) 3 SCC 489]…. The court then addressed itself to the question as to how to determine whether a corporation is acting as an instrumentality or agency of the Government and dealing with that question, observed: “A corporation may be created in one of two ways. It may be either established by statute or incorporated under a law such as 6 [1981] 2 SCR 79 : (1981) 1 SCC 722 7 [2002] 3 SCR 100 : (2002) 5 SCC 111 528 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the Companies Act, 1956 or the Societies Registration Act, 1860. Where a corporation is wholly controlled by Government not only in its policy-making but also in carrying out the functions entrusted to it by the law establishing it or by the charter of its incorporation, there can be no doubt that it would be an instrumentality or agency of Government. But ordinarily where a corporation is established by statute, it is autonomous in its working, subject only to a provision, often times made, that it shall be bound by any directions that may be issued from time to time by Government in respect of policy matters.