In this case, the incident in question occurred on 14.06.1995 and thus, obviously, more than 29 years have passed by. The appellant has already undergone incarceration for a period of more than 12 years. In the circumstances, we are inclined to proceed with the consideration of the contentions bearing in mind the aforesaid authorities laying down the position of law on various aspects of Section 313, Cr.PC. 19. In the case on hand, the appellant was convicted for the offence under Section 300, IPC, punishable under Section 302, IPC, with the aid of Section 34, IPC. In other words, the conviction was not under Section 302, Cr.PC, simpliciter. Upon finding guilty for commission of murder only one of two extreme penalties viz., death or imprisonment for life 192 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports could be imposed on the convict. When this be the consequence of finding an accused to have committed murder or in any other serious offence where extreme punishment of like nature alone is imposable, the failure to comply with the mandatory questioning on incriminating circumstance(s) appearing in the prosecution case, if made out, the plea of non-examination or inadequate examination under Section 313, Cr.PC, whether resulted in material prejudice to the accused or total miscarriage of justice, shall not be ignored or declined to be taken into account by the Court. 20. We have already noted that crucial incriminating circumstances viz., (1) pertaining to the exhortation of the appellant to kill Arun Kumar and others in his family (2) he had caught hold of the deceased to enable Mahinder Kumar to stab on his chest repeatedly, were not allegedly put to the appellant while being examined under Section 313, Cr.PC. The first among the twin incriminating circumstances not to put to the appellant was virtually the charge framed against him to the effect that in furtherance of the common intention of Mohinder Kumar and the appellant caught hold of deceased Arun Kumar and the other accused Mohinder Kumar inflicted knife blows on deceased Arun Kumar and murdered him. The former incriminating circumstance relating to exhortation by the appellant did not form part of the charge against the appellant. There can be no doubt with respect to the position that the question whether the aforementioned twin incriminating circumstances appeared in the prosecution evidence and whether they were put to the appellant while being examined under Section 313, Cr.PC, to enable him an opportunity to offer explanation are not matters of argument as a bare perusal of the materials on record viz., the oral testimonies of the eyewitnesses and Section 313, Cr.PC, examination of the appellant would reveal the verity or otherwise of the said contentions. The oral testimonies of Anil Kumar (PW-7), Smt. Prem Devi (PW-8), Mrs. Madhu (PW-19) and Anand Kumar (PW-22) would reveal that they have deposed regarding the exhortation from the appellant though in slightly different manner, and also about the fact that he had caught hold of the deceased to enable Mohinder Kumar to stab on the chest of the deceased repeatedly.