It was argued that to claim protection under Article 30(1) an institution/university should be predominantly established by the minority, for the minority and administered as a minority institution. 141. In understanding the meaning of the term “establish” occurring under Article 30, the in the case of St. Stephens [supra] rendered by a bench of five Hon’ble Judges, is crucial. In the said case, the dispute arose due to the College, affiliated with the University of Delhi, had a practice of reserving a certain percentage of seats for Christian students in admissions. Furthermore, St Stephens had also formulated an admissions policy that was at variance with the admission policy of the University as a whole. The circulars issued by the University prescribing the admission schedule and procedure were not being followed in St Stephens on the ground that it was a minority educational institution which had the right to frame its own policy for admissions. Certain students challenged the admission policy of St. Stephens College for being divergent from the University policy. They also challenged the preference given by the college to Christian students. In response, the management of St Stephens retired that as a minority institution, it had the right to administer its own affairs, including the selection of students, to some extent. During the arguments, a question arose as to the status of the institution as a minority institution. The judgement points out towards what has been subsequently referred to as the ‘real positive indicia’ for any institution to claim to be an institution established by a minority. The relevant paragraphs of the said are quoted as under: “28. There is by now, fairly abundant case law on the questions as to “minority”; the minority’s right to “establish”, and their right to “administer” educational institutions. These questions have arisen in regard to a variety of [2024] 11 S.C.R. 1971 Aligarh Muslim University v. Naresh Agarwal & Ors. institutions all over the country. They have arisen in regard to Christians, Muslims and in regard to certain sects of Hindus and linguistic groups. The courts in certain cases have accepted without much scrutiny the version of the claimant that the institution in question was founded by a minority community while in some cases the courts have examined very minutely the proof of the establishment of the institution. It should be borne in mind that the words “establish” and “administer” used in Article 30(1) are to be read conjunctively. The right claimed by a minority community to administer the educational institution depends upon the proof of establishment of the institution. The proof of establishment of the institution, is thus a condition precedent for claiming the right to administer the institution. Prior to the commencement of the Constitution of India, there was no settled concept of Indian citizenship. This Court, however, did reiterate that the minority competent to claim the protection of Article 30(1) of the Constitution, and on that account the privilege of establishing and maintaining educational institutions of its choice, must be a minority of persons residing in India.