Q. 2. Does Section 18-G of the aforesaid Act fall under Entry 52 of List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, or is it covered by Entry 33 of List III thereof? Q. 3. In the absence of any notified by the Central Government under Section 18-G of the above Act, is the power of the State to legislate in respect of matters enumerated in Entry 33 of List III ousted? [2024] 10 S.C.R. 2047 State of U.P. & Ors. v. M/s Lalta Prasad Vaish and sons Q. 4. Does the mere enactment of Section 18-G of the above Act, give rise to a presumption that it was the intention of the Central Government to cover the entire field in respect of Entry 33 of List III so as to oust the States’ competence to legislate in respect of matters relating thereto? Q. 5. Does the mere presence of Section 18-G of the above Act, oust the State’s power to legislate in regard to matters falling under Entry 33(a) of List III? Q. 6. Does the interpretation given in Synthetics and Chemicals case (1990) 1 SCC 109 in respect of Section 18-G of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, correctly state the law regarding the States’ power to regulate industrial alcohol as a product of the scheduled industry under Entry 33 of List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution in view of Clause (a) thereof?” 2.1 A similar view was expressed by a five-Judge Bench in very same case wherein this Court was of the view that the matter has to be considered by a Bench of nine-Judges. 2.2 In view of the nature of questions raised by the three-Judge Bench as well as the five-Judge Bench of this Court, the correctness or otherwise of of this Court in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) is being considered by this nine-Judge Bench. Conclusions arrived at by the learned Chief Justice: 3. His Lordship, the Chief Justice has overruled the in Synthetics and Chemicals (7J) and has arrived at the following conclusions: “In view of the discussion above, the following conclusions emerge: a. Entry 8 of list II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution is both an industry-based entry and a product-based entry. The words that follow the expression “that is to say” in the Entry are not 2048 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports exhaustive of its contents. It includes the regulation of everything from the raw materials to the consumption of ‘intoxicating liquor’; b. Parliament cannot occupy the field of the entire industry merely by issuing a declaration under Entry 52 of List I. The State Legislature’s competence under Entry 24 of List II is denuded only to the extent of the field covered by the law of Parliament under Entry 52 of List I; c. Parliament does not have the legislative competence to enact a law taking control of the industry of intoxicating liquor covered by Entry 8 of List II in exercise of the power under Article 246 read with Entry 52 of List I; d. The s of the Bombay High Court in FN Balsara v. State of Bombay (supra), this Court in FN Balsara (supra) and Southern Pharmaceuticals (supra) did not limit the meaning of the expression ‘intoxicating liquor’ to its popular meaning, that is, alcoholic beverages that produce intoxication.