On the said date, the respondent again, after checking the eye, told the appellant that the eye was in good condition and called the appellant on the next day. On 27.01.1999, the respondent cleaned the appellant’s eye with cotton and when the appellant complained that he was unable to see anything, he was reassured by the respondent that his vision will be restored to normal in a few days. It was on the same day that the respondent, for the first time, advised the appellant to conduct the Blood Sugar Level test, which came out to be normal. 7. Even after taking the medicines prescribed by the respondent, the appellant continued to suffer from severe pain in the eye and headache which was getting progressively worse for his bearing. The complainant, on 27.01.1999 itself due to unbearable pain, contacted one Dr. Tasliwal, an eye surgeon from Yerawada, who further referred the appellant to another eye specialist named Dr. Chitra Khare. Dr. Khare checked the appellant’s eye and opinionated that the operated eye was completely damaged and if it is not removed in time, it may lead to further damage to the brain. Shocked on receiving such a medical opinion for the first time in previous couple of days, the [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1879 Bherulal Bhimaji Oswal(D) by Lrs. v. Madhusudan N. Kumbhare appellant and his family hastened to seek a third medical opinion on the matter and contacted Dr. Nitin Prabhudesai, an eye specialist from Pune. After checking the appellant’s eye, Dr. Prabhudesai opined that there was a septic infection in the operated eye which has led to a complete damage and has to be removed. 8. Thereafter, the appellant, along with his relatives, ran from post to pillar for surgical removal of the infected eye and was finally admitted at the Military Hospital at Wanawadi on 29.01.1999 wherein he was diagnosed with endophthalmitis. Thereafter, an operation was performed for removal of partially extruded IOL through limbal section. As a result, doctors from military hospital succeeded in retaining the eyeball for cosmetic purposes but the appellant lost his complete vision from the right eye. 9. Aggrieved by the loss of vision, money spent on doctor visits and operation and the hardship caused in the entire series of unfortunate events, the appellant sent a legal notice, through his Counsel, to the Respondent for willful medical negligence and claimed compensation to the tune of Rs. 10,00,000/- (Rupees Ten lakhs only). Subsequently, the appellant preferred Complaint No. 11 of 2000 before the District Consumer Forum, Pune inter alia contending medical negligence and praying for compensation of Rs. 3,50,000/- (Rupees Three lakh fifty thousand only) for loss of his vision along with special damages and interest on the amount. 10. The District Consumer Forum, vide dated 19.10.2005, dismissed the appellant’s complaint mainly on the ground that the appellant has not filed any expert evidence or affidavit of Doctors of Military Hospital and has, thus, failed to prove that the respondent was negligent while performing the operation of the right eye.