In this regard reference may be made to Vikram Deo Singh Tomar v. State of Bihar,8 “2. India is a welfare State governed by a Constitution which holds the pride of place in the hearts of its citizens. It lays special emphasis on the protection and well being of the weaker sections of society and seeks to improve their economic and social status on the basis of constitutional guarantees spelled out in its provisions. It shows a particular regard for woman and children, and notwithstanding the pervasive ethos of the doctrine of equality it contemplates special provision being made for them by law. This is 8 [1988] Supp. 1 SCR 755 : (1988) Supp SCC 734 1132 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports only to be expected when an enlightened constitutional system takes charge of the political and socio-economic governance of a society, which has for centuries witnessed the relegation of women to a place far below their due. We live in an age when this Court has demonstrated, while interpreting Article 21 of the Constitution, that every person is entitled to a quality of life consistent with his human personality. The right to live with human dignity is the fundamental right of every Indian citizen. And, so, in the discharge of its responsibilities to the people, the State recognises the need for maintaining establishments for the care of those unfortunates, both women and children, who are the castaways of an imperfect social and for whom, therefore, of necessity provision must be made for their protection and welfare. Both common humanity and considerations of law and require the State to do so. …” 14. Given the vulgarity of what the two women had to endure, we may say nothing more but express our surprise as to why the State chose not to assail the non-speaking of the High Court granting stay in favour of the accused before this Court. The State’s decision to litigate an issue should not depend on the benefit that may be derived either to the State exchequer or elsewhere but also should be reflected of its responsibility to protect, within its people the respect for the rule of law and justice for all. 15. Incidents such as the one before us, as also many others that come across our desks, keep us alive to the on-ground reality that however much has been done by way of legislative, executive and judicial action to protect vulnerable sections of the society, in this context women, from exploitation, its effect has not permeated to the grassroot level. We take this opportunity to refer to and reaffirm our commitment to the ideals of equality and justice for all. 16. Unquestionably, Article 21 of the Constitution is at the forefront of violations having taken place in this inhumane incident. In the celebrated case Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala,9 it was held that the right to dignity forms part of the basic structure of the 9 [1973] Supp. 1 SCR 1 : (1973) 4 SCC 225 [2024] 12 S.C.R.