OBC - open in the second round of allotment. Copy of relevant pages of tabulation/chart drawn for second round counselling is annexed herewith as ANNEXURE R/3. However, so far as availability of vacant seat in OBC – open category is concerned then it is only 5 in number. So, in any eventually (sic. ), the petitioner would not have been allotted a seat even in Mop-up-Round being placed below in merit. Thus, the grievance raised by the petitioner in present petition is misconceived and in no manner, it is affecting the merit of the petitioner even on account of introduction of amendment on 18.08.2023 (Annexure P/8) implemented on 10.09.2023. [2024] 11 S.C.R. 705 Ramkrishna Medical College Hospital & Research Centre v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. Copy of chart demonstrating vacant seats in OBC – Open Category is annexed herewith as ANNEXURE R/4.” 9. Pursuant to the interim , on 26.09.2023, the Director, Medical Education (R-4) issued a directive to the appellant-college to keep on hold one MBBS seat for the academic year 2023-24. 10. The appellant college rushed to the High Court seeking intervention and the State filed interlocutory application for vacating the interim . 11. The appellant pleaded the following in the intervention application: “That in the context of the above, it is submitted that the interests of the present-applicant institute are directly aligned with the outcome of this instant petition. While the institute does not contest the keeping of a seat on hold in the interim, as per the interim passed by the Hon’ble High Court, it is also emphasised that any adverse consequences in the event of the petition being dismissed shall have a direct and adverse effect on the applicant-college, on the ground that the 1 seat being put on hold in the interim as per the Hon’ble Court’s dated 22/9/2023, has been allotted to the instant applicant; and hence in case this petition is dismissed by this Hon’ble Court and if the cut-off date for admission elapses without a resolution of the controversy involved, the applicant shall be left with a vacant seat in MBBS Course, despite being sanctioned by the regulatory authority. Thus, the outcome of this petition shall have a bearing upon the legitimate interests of the applicant, especially in respect of its academic and logistical planning and resource utilization and the foundational infrastructural investments involved, encompassing faculty, infrastructure etc. It is humbly submitted that a vacant seat would result in the resources being underutilized and wastage of resources, which shall not only cause financial hardship upon the applicant, but also lead to loss to the meritorious and eligible candidates as well.” 12. The High Court ultimately dismissed the Writ Petition on 04.03.2024 stating that the amendment was the policy decision and that there 706 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports were no grounds to hold it unconstitutional. Nothing was said of the intervention application filed by the appellant. Aggrieved, the appellant is before us seeking a compensatory seat for the subsequent academic year.