Such action taken by the secured creditor is, in our opinion, a part of the measures specified in Section 13(4) and, therefore, it is regarded as a measure taken Under Section 13(4) read with Rule 9(5)….” (Emphasis supplied) 57. It appears that the High Court whilst passing the impugned was of the view that the legislature had provided for forfeiture under the SARFAESI Rules as a relief to the secured creditor for the breach of obligation by the auction purchaser. Thus, it was of the view that Section 73 of the 1872 Act will be applicable to forfeiture under Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules and any forfeiture will only be allowed to the extent of the loss or damage suffered by the secured creditor. 54 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 58. This Court in C. Natarajan (supra) whilst dealing with a similar issue pertaining to the applicability of Section(s) 73 and 74 of the 1872 Act on forfeiture under Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules, answered the same in a negative. The said decision is in two parts: - a) It held that as the SARFAESI Act is a special enactment with overriding effect over other laws by virtue of Section(s) 35 and 37, the 1872 Act more particularly Section(s) 73 and 74 will not be applicable to Rule 9(5) of the SARFAESI Rules especially since the rules framed under a statute become part of the statute. “20. In terms of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (for brevity “Contract Act”, hereafter), a person can withdraw his offer before acceptance. However, once a party expresses willingness to enter into a contractual relationship subject to terms and conditions and makes an offer which is accepted but thereafter commits a breach of contract, he does so at his own risk and peril and naturally has to suffer the consequences. We are not oblivious of the terms of section 73 and section 74 of the Contract Act, being part of Chapter VI thereof titled “Of the Consequence of Breach of Contract”. These sections, providing for compensation for breach of contract and for liquidated damages, have remained on the statute book for generations and permit the party suffering the breach to recover such quantum of loss or damage from the party in breach. However, with changing times, the minds of people are also changing. The judiciary, keeping itself abreast of the changes that are bound to occur in an evolving society, must interpret new laws that are brought in operation to suit the situation appropriately. In the current era of globalization, the entire philosophy of society, mainly on the economic front is making rapid strides towards changes. Unscrupulous people have been inventing newer modes and mechanisms for defrauding and looting the nation. It is in such a scenario that provisions of enactments, particularly those provisions which have a direct bearing on the economy of the nation, must receive such interpretation so that it not only fosters economic growth but is also in tune with the intention of the law-makers in introducing a provision such as sub-rule (5) of rule 9, which though harsh in its operation, is intended to [2024] 2 S.C.R.