Supreme Court Reports of the completion/occupation certificate (v) Even after issuance of completion certificate, deviation/violation if any contrary to the planning permission brought to the notice of the authority immediate steps be taken by the said authority concerned, in accordance with law, against the builder/owner/occupant; and the official responsible for issuance of wrongful completion/occupation certificate shall be proceeded departmentally forthwith (vi) No permission/licence to conduct any business/trade must be given by any authorities including local bodies of States/Union Territories in any unauthorized building irrespective of it being residential or commercial building (vii) The development must be in conformity with the zonal plan and usage – Any modification to such zonal plan and usage must be taken by strictly following the rules in place and in consideration of the larger public interest and the impact on the environment (viii) Whenever any request is made by the respective authority under the planning department/local body for co-operation from another department to take action against any unauthorized construction, the latter shall render immediate assistance and co-operation and any delay or dereliction would be viewed seriously – The States/UT must also take disciplinary action against the erring officials once it is brought to their knowledge (ix) In the event of any application/appeal/revision being filed by the owner or builder against the non-issuance of completion certificate or for regularisation of unauthorised construction or rectification of deviation etc., the same shall be disposed of by the authority concerned, including the pending appeals/revisions, as expeditiously as possible, in any event not later than 90 days as statutorily provided (x) Banks/financial institutions shall sanction loan against any building as a security only after verifying the completion/occupation certificate issued to a building on production of the same by the parties concerned. [Para 21] Doctrine – Doctrine of Caveat Emptor – Discussed – Transfer of Property Act, 1882 – s.55(1)(a). Illegal/unauthorized constructions – Without any approved building plan or in violation of/deviation therefrom to be curtailed with iron hands without any leniency: Held: Illegality of unauthorized construction cannot be perpetuated – If the construction is made in contravention of the Acts/Rules, it is illegal and unauthorized construction which has to be demolished – It cannot be legitimized or protected – Administrative failures, regulatory inefficiency, cost of construction and investment, negligence and laxity on the part of the authorities concerned in [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1323 Rajendra Kumar Barjatya and Another v. U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad & Ors. performing their obligation(s) under the Act, cannot be used to defend action taken against the illegal/unauthorized constructions – Regularization only in exceptional circumstances and as a onetime measure for residential houses – Threats of unauthorized constructions, discussed. [Paras 19, 20] Case Law Cited Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana v. Inderjeet Singh [2008] 14 SCR 95 : (2008) 13 SCC 506; K. Ramadas Shenoy v. Chief Officers, Town Municipal Council [1975] 1 SCR 680 : (1974) 2 SCC 506; Dr.G.N. Khajuria and others v. Delhi Development Authority and others [1995] Supp. 3 SCR 212 : (1995) 5 SCC 762; M.I.