16.5 Finally, emphasizing the importance of mustard as a prominent edible oil and seed meal crop of India, the economic need to increase its domestic yield was highlighted. It was also submitted that internationally, the United States of America (USA), Canada, and Australia have allowed cultivation of GE rapeseed containing the bar, barnase, and barstar genes. Parental lines and hybrids were also released for cultivation in Canada (1996), the USA (2002), and Australia (2003). In all three countries, yields of rapeseed increased with the introduction of GM hybrids. Therefore, if employed, the DMH-11 hybrid technology would contribute to increase in the domestic yield of mustard in India. Submissions: 17. Elaborate submissions have been advanced by the learned senior counsel, Sri Sanjay Parekh and learned counsel, Sri Prashant Bhushan for the petitioners as well as learned Senior Counsel Sri Pais and other learned Counsel for other petitioners and intervenors. Learned Attorney General and the learned Solicitor General have appeared for the respondents. A summary of the submissions is set out hereinbelow. Submissions of the petitioners: 17.1 Sri Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel has made the following submissions: The decision dated 18.10.2022 of GEAC to approve environmental and commercial release of DMH-11/GM mustard/ HT mustard is violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution as it suffers from non-application of mind and is, therefore, arbitrary and [2024] 7 S.C.R. 2023 Gene Campaign & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. unreasonable. Elaborating on the same, it was contended that the said decision would lead to irreversible contamination of the environment and threaten biodiversity. The decision was also said to violate the choice of consumers to consume non-GM food and that of farmers to grow non-GM crops in violation of Article 21 of the Constitution. In this regard, the following points were highlighted: a. It is an admitted fact that DMH-11 is an HT crop (vide para 16 page 12 of the Additional Affidavit of Union of India). b. The TEC appointed by this Court, in its detailed report, recommended a complete ban on all HT crops. c. It is an admitted fact that DMH-11 has no yield advantage over non-GM/HT mustard hybrids/varieties. d. The sole advantage for environmental release of DMH-11 is that it is robust at cross pollination and there are absolutely no immediate advantages to the environmental release of DMH-11, rather there are attendant risks that come with the environment release of HT crops and it is only a hope that the same could be used to produce new hybrids with better yield in future. If that is the hope, then the new hybrids with better yield could be developed in hybrid conditions and not be released into the environment, as there would be no rational nexus to the object sought to be achieved by the release. e. Condition Nos. VI and VII of the or decision dated 18.10.2022 directed that the farmers may not lawfully spray herbicide/glufosinate on DMH-11, thereby ensuring that there can be no lawful beneficial effect therefrom in terms of weed management from HT crops to farmers.