Learned counsel for the appellant submits that there are gross contradictions in the testimony of the prosecution witnesses. The so called eyewitnesses were no eyewitnesses at all. Rather, they were interested witnesses having previous political enmity with the appellant. It is because of such political rivalry that appellant was falsely implicated in the case. 6.1. He further submits that not only there are glaring inconsistencies in the version of the prosecution witnesses; crucial and material witnesses have not been examined. Even the country made pistol allegedly used by the appellant was not recovered. The pellets found at the site and also extricated from the body of the deceased were not sent for ballistic examination. In the absence of any ballistic report linking the pellets to the pistol allegedly used by the appellant, he could not have been convicted. Both the trial court and the High Court therefore fell in error in convicting the appellant. 6.2. Learned counsel submits that it is true that on 16.07.2018, this Court had issued notice only on the question of converting the [2024] 2 S.C.R. 673 Ram Singh v. The State of U.P. conviction from under Section 302 IPC to Section 304 IPC and also on the prayer for grant of bail, nonetheless, he had submitted before this Court on 31.10.2023 that he would argue for acquittal as well. 6.3. He further submits that the trial court had committed a fundamental error in convicting the appellant on the one hand and acquitting the co-accused Lala Ram on the other hand. Evidence against both were the same. When on the same set of evidence the co-accused was acquitted, the trial court ought to have acquitted the appellant as well. This aspect was overlooked by the High Court. In support of his submission, learned counsel has placed reliance on a decision of this Court in Javed Shaukat Ali Qureshi Vs. State of Gujarat, (2023) 9 SCC 164. 6.4. Contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that there are no materials on record to conclusively prove the guilt of the appellant. Rather, it is a case of no evidence. Therefore, appellant is entitled to be acquitted. s of the trial court as well as of the High Court should be set aside. 7. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent-State argues that in view of the incriminating evidence against the appellant, both the Sessions Court as well as the High Court had rightly convicted the appellant. The ocular evidence clearly points to the positive act of the appellant firing the gunshot which killed the mother of PW-1, Dulli. Considering the gruesome nature of the murder and the testimony of the prosecution witnesses, conviction of the appellant is fully justified. High Court had rightly dismissed the criminal appeal of the appellant. No case for interference is made out. 8. Submissions made by learned counsel for the parties have received the due consideration of the Court. Evidence: appreciation and analysis 9. PW-1, who is the first informant and son of the deceased, stated in his evidence that they are the three brothers: Desh Raj, Sunder Lal and himself, he being the youngest.