A critical amendment to the text of the draft Article 11 further fortifies this conclusion. Initially, the draft Article granted Parliament the power to make ‘further provisions’. However, during a session of the Constituent Assembly on 29.04.1947, the President of the Assembly argued that the word ‘further’ might imply that Parliament should only make provisions in continuation of other Articles in Part II. Consequently, the word ‘further’ was replaced with ‘any’. This amendment highlights the framers’ intention to afford Parliament nearly unrestricted flexibility in crafting laws pertaining to citizenship. 142. Based on the analysis presented in this section, it can be concluded, and we hold so, that the Parliament indeed possesses the legislative power to enact laws concerning citizenship and that this authority is not restricted by the provisions of Part II of the Constitution. (b) Section 6A and dual citizenship 143. The Petitioners, having not limited their contentions to the violation of Articles 6 and 7, also urged that since the immigrants did not renounce their citizenship before they were granted Indian citizenship, Section 6A enables dual citizenship and is therefore unconstitutional for violating Article 9. While the Respondents have not directly addressed this issue, it is vital to provide a comprehensive analysis for the sake of completeness. 144. The concept of dual citizenship means one has citizenship of two countries simultaneously. Across the world, there are various countries [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1069 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 like China,107 Japan,108 Kuwait,109 etc. that prohibit dual citizenship. Internationally, too, several countries have come together at various points to counter multiple citizenships. For instance, European nations that were members of the Council of Europe entered into the Convention on the Reduction of Cases of Multiple Nationality and on Military Obligations in Cases of Multiple Nationality, 1963, which, inter alia, provides that a person acquiring an additional nationality shall lose their previous nationality. Similarly, countries that were a part of the League of Nations (including India) entered the Convention on Certain Questions Relating to the Conflict of Nationality Law, 1930, to establish a commitment to abolishing dual citizenship. 145. In India, such citizenship is restricted by Article 9 of the Constitution and Section 9 of the Citizenship Act. Article 9 states that no person shall be granted Indian citizenship by Articles 5, 6, and 8 if such person has voluntarily acquired citizenship of a foreign state. As a corollary to this, Section 9 of the Citizenship Act provides: “Termination of citizenship — (1) Any citizen of India who by naturalisation, registration or otherwise voluntarily acquires, or has at any time between the 26th January, 1950 and the commencement of this Act voluntarily acquired, the citizenship of another country shall, upon such acquisition or, as the case may be, such commencement, cease to be a citizen of India: Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to a citizen of India who, during any war in which India may be engaged, voluntarily acquires the citizenship of another country, until the Central Government otherwise directs.