The contractor shall provide these safety accessories at his own cost and shall be replaced by him from time to time; iv. The contractor shall make arrangements at his own cost for shelter, food, night-stay and other requirements of the staff near the site of operation; v. The normal working hours on the cranes shall be from 7 to 10 hours with a break of half an hour. These timings shall be subject to change. There shall be four days’ maintenance off for the cranes; vi. The contractor must make adequate and proper arrangements for fuel, lubricants and other consumables, etc., in relation to the cranes and other items. The contractor shall look after the repair and maintenance of the cranes; [2024] 1 S.C.R. 511 M/s. K.P. Mozika v. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. and Ors. vii. The contractor shall ensure that the cranes comply with the requirements of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and the rules and regulations framed thereunder. Similarly, the crew members must be legally competent and hold valid licences; viii. The contractor will be solely responsible and shall keep ONGC indemnified against any consequence under any law arising from any accident caused to the equipment/ property/personnel engaged in the contract. Even for damage or injury to any third party due to the operation of cranes, the contractor will be responsible. The contractor shall safeguard his interest through comprehensive insurance at his own cost, and the ONGC shall not be liable to pay any amount towards the insurance; ix. It will be the contractor’s responsibility to arrange parking of the cranes at selected places. However, the contractor shall be responsible for providing the cranes at the requisite site at the requisite time; x. The insurance taken by the contractor shall cover all the risks of whatsoever nature to any third party, any equipment/property/personnel of the contractor and damage to the property or personnel of ONGC; xi. It will be the responsibility of the contractor to register himself under the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970; and xii. It is provided that after using cranes for a specific period, as mentioned in the contract, the contractor has to park the cranes on the sites provided by ONGC at the risk of the contractor. 35. On a conjoint reading of the aforesaid terms of the contract, it is apparent that the contractor has an option of replacing the cranes in case one of the cranes was not working properly. Only the contractor is liable to take care of the legal consequences of using the cranes. The contractor must maintain the cranes, and it is for the contractor to pay for consumables like fuel, oil, etc. Even the cranes must be moved and operated by the crew members appointed by the contractor. Moreover, in case of any mishap or 512 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports accident in connection with the cranes or connection with the use of the cranes or as a consequence thereof, the entire liability will be of the contractor and not of the ONGC.