[2024] 9 S.C.R. 235 : 2024 INSC 671 Chalasani Udaya Shankar and others v. M/s. Lexus Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and others (Civil Appeal Nos. 5735-5736 of 2023) 09 September 2024 [Sanjiv Khanna and Sanjay Kumar,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration NCLT and NCLAT, if justified in dismissing the company petition by the appellant seeking rectification of the Register of Members of respondent No.1-Company by entering their names therein u/ss. 59 and 88 of the Companies Act, 2013, and to initiate action against respondent Nos. 2, 3 and 4, for oppression and mismanagement, and criminal proceedings u/ss. 447 and 448 of the 2013 Act, for committing fraud. Headnotes† Companies Act, 2013 – ss. 59 and 88 – Rectification of registrar of members – Allegations of fraudulent transfer of shares and mismanagement in the company – Company petition by the appellant seeking rectification of the Register of Members of respondent No.1-Company by entering their names therein u/ss. 59 and 88, and to initiate action against respondent Nos. 2-4, for oppression and mismanagement, as also criminal proceedings u/ss. 447 and 448 for committing fraud – Dismissed by the NCLT – Appeal thereagainst and IA also dismissed – Correctness: Held: National Company Law Tribunal exercising jurisdiction u/s. 59 has to examine the factual issues to ascertain the substance of the issue before it – Expression ‘rectification’ connotes something that ought to have been done but, by error, was not done, or what ought not to have been done but was done, requiring correction – Phrase ‘sufficient cause’ in s. 59 is to be tested in relation to the statutory mandate thereof-anything done or omitted to be done in contravention of the Act of 2013 or the Rules framed thereunder – If, on facts, an open-and-shut case of fraud is made out in favour of the person seeking rectification, the NCLT would be entitled to exercise such power u/s. 59 – Proper verification of * Author 236 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the assertions made by the parties was a sine qua non – Acting President of the NCLT, by failing to carry out the said exercise, failed to discharge the mandate of law – Exercise of power u/s. 59 is to be undertaken in right earnest by examining the material, evidence, and the facts on record – This was not done, rather, a narrow view was taken without calling upon respondent No. 2 to prove the veracity of the contrary story put forth by him, despite receiving monies from the appellants – Facts, material, and evidence had to be examined in the context of the underlying facts, which would have included the receipt of monies, the signatures on the transfer deeds, etc. – Questions of fact must be decided on the principle of preponderance of probabilities, giving due weight to the specific facts, as found, so as to draw the conclusion that a reasonable person, acquainted with the relevant field, would draw on the basis of the same facts – Interim passed by the Member (Judicial) of the NCLT indicated, in clear terms, the issues that arose for consideration and the inquiry required to determine the same – However, the President of the NCLT ignored the said interim , and chose to summarily dismiss the petition, without considering the material already placed on record and without further evidence being adduced – Also, the NCLAT did not even get the facts right – in Company Petition, in Company Appeal and I.A.