Notwithstanding such rejection, respondent continued to file one representation after the other claiming duty drawback. It is in such circumstances that a Policy Interpretation Committee was constituted by the DGFT which examined the case of the respondent and vide its decision dated 07.10.2002 decided to extend the benefit of duty drawback to the respondent as a special case. It is in this backdrop that DGFT had passed dated 01.11.2002 emphasizing that the duty drawback paid to the respondent would not be treated as a precedent. He submitted that duty drawback was extended to the respondent as a special case which was not available to the respondent under the Exim Policy of 1992-1997. In such [2024] 2 S.C.R. 97 Union of India and Ors. v. M/S. B.T. Patil and Sons Belgaum (Construction) Pvt. Ltd. circumstances, question of awarding any interest to the respondent on the ground of alleged delay in payment of duty drawback did not arise. There was no provision under the Exim Policy of 1992-1997 for payment of such interest. Therefore, learned Single Judge erred in awarding interest to the respondent, that too, at the high rate of fifteen percent. 5.1. He further argued that the Division Bench had fallen in error taking the view that circulars dated 20.08.1998 and 05.12.2000 were clarificatory in nature and therefore would have retrospective effect covering the case of the respondent. According to him, these circulars were issued under the successor Exim Policy, 1997-2002 and thus could not be applied to cases like that of the respondent under the Exim Policy 1992-1997. He, therefore, submitted that the present is a fit case for interfering with the decision of the learned Single Judge as affirmed by the Division Bench. 6. Per-contra, Mr. Basuva Prabhu Patil, learned senior counsel for the respondent supported the s of the learned Single Judge and that of the Division Bench. He submitted that the appellants having granted the benefit of duty drawback to the respondent though belatedly, it is not open to them to now contend that respondent was not entitled to such duty drawback which was only granted as a concession. Admittedly, there was delay in refund of duty drawback. Respondent is, therefore, entitled to interest on such delayed refund which was rightly awarded by the High Court. 6.1. Referring to the provisions of Section 27A of the Customs Act, 1962 (referred to as the ‘Customs Act’ hereinafter), learned senior counsel submitted that the High Court had taken a rather conservative figure considering the legislative scheme while awarding interest at the rate of fifteen percent to the respondent. He, therefore, submitted that no interference would be called for in the s of the High Court and that the civil appeal filed by the appellants should be dismissed. 7. Submissions made by learned counsel for the parties have received the due consideration of the Court. 8. Before we examine the decisions of the High Court, it would be apposite to briefly highlight the statutory framework and the concerned Exim Policy.