For instance, in SLP (C) Diary No. 19172/2019, titled “DDA v. Vijay Mohan”, while the possession was admittedly not taken, compensation was paid on 09.08.2005. Accordingly, the test laid down in Manoharlal (supra) has been met and the acquisition proceedings cannot be deemed to have lapsed under the 2013 Act. 66. All such civil appeals are accordingly allowed, the impugned of the High Court in each case is set aside, and the acquisition of the respondents’ lands under 1894 Act is consequently upheld. This will, however, not preclude the respondents from recovery of the compensation amount, if not already paid or to the extent it is not paid, along with interest and other statutory benefits under 1894 Act. Similarly, they shall be at liberty to seek reference under Section 18 of the 1894 Act in accordance with law. The Government of NCT of Delhi and its authorities are directed to take physical possession of the lands falling under this category (i.e., ‘List-E.2’), if not already taken and continue uninterruptedly to complete the public infrastructure projects. 1260 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 67. Similarly, we find on perusal of the record that the cases which we have included in the appended ‘List-C.1’ are covered by the ratio of KL Rathi (supra) and are disposed of accordingly. As regards to the cases which form part of ‘List-C.2’, it appears that the Review Petitions and Miscellaneous Applications are based on grounds other than change of law. Such Review Petitions and Miscellaneous Applications are required to be examined on a case-to-case basis. Accordingly, these cases are also de-tagged and ed to be listed separately on 22.07.2024. 68. Likewise, we have identified the cases enlisted as D.1, which fall within the four corners of our analysis in GNCTD v. BSK Realtors.49 All these cases are, therefore, disposed of by invoking our powers under Article 142 of the Constitution in terms of the directions issued in BSK Realtors (supra). On the same analogy, there are cases included in ‘List-D.2’, where the impugned judgements have been already set aside in the previous rounds of litigation. All these matters have thus been rendered infructuous. ed accordingly. 69. It has also been brought to our notice that in some of the cases (see ‘List-E.1’) notice was issued only on delay and not on merits. Since delay has now been condoned, we direct that let notice be issued in these petitions on merits, returnable on 22.07.2024. 70. At this stage, we may hasten to add that the cases mentioned in the appended ‘List-A’ contain allegations of fraud against the landowners. As discussed in paragraph 21, given that a detailed fact-finding inquiry is necessary to ascertain the rightful title-holder and the claimant of receiving the compensation, we hereby set aside the s of the High Court that are under challenge in these civil appeals or in the civil appeals out of which the subject Review Petitions or Miscellaneous Applications have arisen. We revive the relevant writ petitions, which shall stand restored on the file of the High Court.