[2024] 10 S.C.R. 1 : 2024 INSC 746 K. Vadivel v. K. Shanthi & Ors. (Criminal Appeal No. 4058 of 2024) 30 September 2024 [B.R. Gavai and K.V. Viswanathan,* JJ.] Issue for Consideration Under what circumstances could the power be invoked for further investigation and whether on the facts, further investigation was warranted. Headnotes† Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 178(3) – Further investigation – Applications filed by the first respondent for directing the State to conduct further investigation or re-investigation by examining the related occurrence and eyewitnesses of the crime mentioned in the application and submit additional/supplementary charge-sheet – Dismissed by the trial court holding that further investigation cannot be ed at the post cognizance stage – However, the High Court allowed the application – Correctness: Held: Contextual facts and the attendant circumstances have to be singularly evaluated and analyzed to decide the needfulness of further investigation or re-investigation to unravel the truth and mete out justice to the parties – However, the further investigation cannot be permitted to do a fishing and roving enquiry when the police had already filed a charge-sheet and the very applicant for further investigation, has not whispered about anything new in her evidence as is now sought to be averred in the application – There must be some reasonable basis which should trigger the application for further investigation so that the court is able to arrive at a satisfaction that ends of justice require the ing/ permitting of further investigation – Though power to further investigation is a significant power it has to be exercised sparingly and in exceptional cases and to achieve the ends of justice – On facts, the direction for further investigation absolutely unwarranted – ing the additional charge sheet to be taken on record at this * Author 2 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports stage pursuant to the further investigation will not be in accordance with law – All the stakeholders in the process have contributed to the delay and in spite of eleven years having elapsed after the incident, the trial has still not concluded – High Court allowed the further investigation without giving valid justification for the same – Denial of speedy and timely justice can be disastrous to rule of law in the long term – Even if the parties involved in a case themselves, with no valid justification attempt to delay the proceedings, the courts need to be vigilant and stop such attempt instantly – Any proceeding or application which prima facie lacks merit should not be instituted in a court – Pleadings/petitions with outrageous and ex facie unbelievable averments are made with no inhibition whatsoever – These directly impinge on the rule of law, because they add to the pendency and the consequential delay in the disposal of other cases – Such frivolous and vexatious proceedings to be met with due sanctions in the form of exemplary costs to dissuade parties from resorting to such tactics – Thus, the of the High Court set aside as also application filed by the respondent no.