Such a test would practically nullify the provision for reservation for socially and educationally backward classes other than Scheduled Castes and Tribes. Such a test would perpetuate the dominance of the existing upper classes. Such a test would take a substantial majority of the classes who are between the upper classes and the Scheduled Castes and Tribes out of the category of backward classes and put them at a permanent disadvantage. Only the “enlightened” classes will capture all the “open” posts and seats and the reserved posts and seats will go to the Scheduled Castes and Tribes and those very near the Scheduled Castes and Tribes. The bulk of those behind the “enlightened” classes and ahead of the near Scheduled Castes and Tribes would be left high and dry, with never a chance of imposing themselves.” 132. The Learned Judge rejects the argument that insofar as Other Backward Classes are concerned, their social backwardness has to be ascertained by applying the test of nearness to the conditions of existence of the Scheduled Castes. The Learned Judge observed that such a test would practically nullify the provision for reservation for socially and educationally backward classes other than Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. He observed that such a test would take a substantial majority of the classes, who are between the upper classes and the Scheduled Castes and Tribes, out of the category of backward classes and put them at a permanent disadvantage. He observed that only the “enlightened” classes will capture all the “open” posts and seats and the reserved posts and seats will 1524 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports go to the Scheduled Castes and Tribes and those very near the Scheduled Castes and Tribes. However, the bulk of those behind the “enlightened” classes and ahead of the near Scheduled Castes and Tribes would be left high and dry. 133. It will also be relevant to refer to the following observations of Venkataramiah, J. (as His Lordship then was) in the case of K.C. Vasanth Kumar (supra): “143. This view is in conformity with the intention underlying clause (6) of the resolution regarding the aims and objects of the Constitution moved by Jawaharlal Nehru on December 13, 1946 which asked the Constituent Assembly to frame a Constitution providing adequate safeguards for minorities, backward and tribal areas and depressed and other backward classes and also with the provisions of Article 338 and Article 340 of the Constitution. Unless the above restriction is imposed on the Government, it would become possible for the Government to call any caste or group or community which constitutes a powerful political lobby in the State as backward even though in fact it may be an advanced caste or group or community but just below some other forward community. There is another important reason why such advanced castes or groups or communities should not be included in the list of backward classes and that is that if castes or groups and communities which are fairly well advanced and castes and groups and communities which are really backward being at the rock-bottom level are classified together as backward classes, the benefit of reservation would invariably be eaten up by the more advanced sections and the really deserving sections would practically go without any benefit as more number of children of the more advanced castes or groups or communities amongst them would have scored higher marks than the children of more backward castes or groups or communities.