65. He further submitted that, the petitioner herein being fully aware about the aforesaid terms of auction, consciously participated in the auction process, and thus now cannot be permitted to claim either the absolute ownership of the Secured Asset despite the pendency of the proceedings before the DRT or demand physical possession of the same by relying upon the Sale Certificate that was directed to be issued by this Court in the Main Appeals when no such terms were stipulated in the 9th auction notice. He submitted that the Sale Certificate that came to be issued to the petitioner in accordance with the decision of this Court was purely on the basis of the terms of the auction and cannot by any stretch be in derogation of the same. 66. It was also submitted that the present contempt petitions proceed on a fundamental flaw that this Court in the Main Appeals had decided and directed the handing over of physical possession of the Secured Asset. Since physical possession was never the subject matter of the Main Appeals and no prayer to this effect was made by the petitioner, merely because physical possession has not been handed over it cannot be said that any contempt of this Court’s decision has been committed and thus, the present contempt petitions are misconceived. 67. It was further submitted that the petitioner was well aware that as per the terms of auction it was not entitled to obtain physical possession and thus, in its written submissions had only prayed that the Bank be directed to issue a Sale Certificate and carry all other necessary acts under the SARFAESI Act. Even this Court in the Main Appeals only directed the issuance of the Sale Certificate and not the delivery of physical possession of the Secured Asset. 68. He also submitted that where an auction is conducted on symbolic possession, the correct approach for obtaining physical possession of the secured asset is to initiate proceedings before the District 1652 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports Magistrate in terms of Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act. In this regard, reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in ITC Ltd. v. Blue Coast Hotels Limited & Ors. reported in (2018) 15 SCC 99. 69. He further submitted that in the present case the Bank had rightly filed an application under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act for seeking physical possession and had even obtained a favourable on 02.02.2024. Since, any passed under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act is challengeable before the DRT and appealable before the DRAT, the Borrower herein was well within its rights to challenge the dated 02.02.2024 before the DRT by way of S.A. No. 53 of 2024 which came to be rejected. Against which, the Borrower filed an appeal before the DRAT, wherein status quo was granted. He submitted that the Bank and the petitioner herein instead of challenging the passed by the DRAT as required under the statutory provisions, decided to take law in their hands by filing the present contempt petition and MA, which is completely in negation of the statutory provisions of the SARFAESI Act.