198 S. P. Mittal v. Union of India (1983) 1 SCC 51 1120 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (d) Section 6A vis-à-vis Article 29 296. Having scrutinized the fundamental basis on which the applicability of Section 6A needs to be examined, it is imperative at this juncture to systematically address each of the Petitioners’ contentions. 297. The Petitioners contended that the presence of immigrants from Bangladesh has led to an erosion of their culture. However, it is not their contention, nor is it our opinion, that the scheme of Section 6A was intended to take away these cultural rights. Section 6A does not address culture at all; it focuses solely on establishing the criteria that migrants from the East Pakistan region must fulfil within specified dates to obtain citizenship upon entering Assam. The impact on Assamese culture, if any, would be only incidental and not direct or intentional. 298. In addition, the onus is on the Petitioners to not only show effect, but also demonstrate causation. The Petitioners need to establish both, that there has been an adverse impact on Assamese culture over time and that such impact is attributable to the legitimisation of the citizenship status of pre-1971 immigrants. The Petitioners have been unable to establish the latter. Indeed, the respondents have proffered various other plausible explanations, like internal migration, state reorganization and unchecked immigration post- 1971 which fall outside the umbrella of Section 6A. Additionally, Section 6A does not compel pre-1971 immigrants to keep residing within the territory of Assam once they have obtained Indian citizenship, given that they would enjoy Article 19(1)(e) rights like any other citizen of India. 299. To substantiate the former limb on effect, the Petitioners have cited data showing changes in Assam’s religious and linguistic demographics. These metrics by themselves are not ‘culture’ within the meaning of Article 29(1). Although significant changes to the demographics of a region can affect the interests of its original inhabitants, the ‘culture’ of a region by itself is a far more complex and dynamic phenomenon—involving an interplay of various competing forces and interconnected elements. 300. Though we are not oblivious to the Petitioners’ demographic anxiety, we must be cautious of the impact our findings would have on the greater national landscape. Accepting the Petitioners’ assertion that [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1121 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 a mere change in demographics is sufficiently actionable evidence of erosion of rights under Article 29(1) would have far reaching consequences. We say so, for the reason that it would undermine the idea of fraternity envisaged by our Constitutional drafters, and bring to life their fears by threatening the cohesion of our diverse nation. It would open the floodgates for similar challenges by residents of other states who might seek to undermine Article 19(1)(e) rights and inter-state migration under the guise of protecting their indigenous culture under Article 29(1). The Constitution of India, and indeed this Court as well, does not envision India as a union of endogamous- homogenous territories.