In my humble view, that would be an incorrect and improper approach. Hence, for the foregoing reasons and for all intents and purposes,the of reference in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) must be regarded as completely flawed and non-est. 29. One other interesting feature draws attention. The bench in Anjuman- e-Rahmania (supra), perceiving the matter to be urgent, granted liberty to the counsel for the parties to mention the matter before the Chief Justice of India for an early decision but the file seems to have gathered dust ever since. There is hardly any material on record to suggest that either the incumbent Chief Justice of India or any of the successive Chief Justices of India for the next 20 (twenty) years, thought it fit to direct the office to dust the dust for a bench of 7 (seven) Judges to be constituted to decide the issue that was referred, assuming that question 3(a) formulated for an answer by the Constitution Bench of 11 (eleven) Judges in T.M.A. Pai Foundation and ors. vs. State of Karnataka and ors.26 was inspired by the in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra). Res ipsa loquitur! 26 (2002) 8 SCC 481 1872 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports 30. The contention that the said in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) was acted upon and the bench in T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) being called upon to address question 3(a) could be traced to the in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra),apart from being incorrect, pales into insignificance for primarily two reasons. In T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra), initially 9 (nine) questions were framed,27 later 10 (ten) questions were framed 28and finally 11 (eleven) questions were framed by the bench of 11 (eleven) Judges. Neither does one find reference in the said s framing questions to any decision/ of this Court including Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) nor is the in Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) referred to in the entire in T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra). To say that question no. 3(a) was framed because of Anjuman-e-Rahmania (supra) appears to be thoroughly misconceived. While T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) did not answer question 3(a), the Regular Bench too was not persuaded to decide the same as it appears from its dated 11th March, 2003 in Shahal H. Musaliar and Anr. vs. Union of India and Ors.29 The proceedings in Anjuman-e-Rahmania vs. District Inspector effectively stood closed by the of this Court dated 11th March 2003. 31. Significantly, T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) came to be considered by two more Constitution Bench decisions of this Court, viz. Islamic Academy of Education vs. State of Karnataka30 and P.A. Inamdar vs. State of Maharashtra31 not too long thereafter. The former decision does record that the Constitution Bench of 5 (five) Judges was constituted to clarify doubts/anomalies, if any, arising from varied interpretation of the majority view in T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) by the parties. The Constitution Bench of 7 (seven) Judges in the latter decision has also recorded that post T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra), petitions flooded the high courts as well as this Court to resolve issues which were not answered by the bench of 11 (eleven) Judges.