This argument was rejected by the Court and it was held that if the law to further the Directive Principle must necessarily be non-discriminatory or based on a reasonable classification then there is no purpose left in Article 31-C. It would be valid on its own. Hence it was held that a law designed to promote a Directive Principle, even if it came into conflict with the formalistic and doctrinaire view of equality before the law, would advance the broader egalitarian principle and the constitutional goal of social and economic justice for all. If the law was aimed at the broader egalitarianism of the Directive Principles, Article 31-C was held to protect the law from a challenge under Article 14.133 189. On the question of whether the Act gives effect to Article 39(b), the counsel for the petitioners argued that a coal mine or coke oven plant owned by private parties could not constitute “material resources of the community”. It was urged that to qualify as a “material resources of the community”, the ownership of the resource must vest in the state. The legislation may be considered as a legislation for the acquisition by the State of coking coal mines and coke oven plants belonging to private parties but it is not a legislation towards securing the principles in Article 39(b). It was argued that the keyword in Article 39(b) is “distribute” and material resources had first to be acquired by the State before they could be distributed. A law providing for acquisition could not, it was urged, be considered a law for distribution. 190. This argument was rejected by this Court (speaking through Justice Chinappa Reddy). The Court observed that the expression “material resources of the community” means all things capable of producing 133 Sanjeev Coke [16, 17]. 162 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports wealth for the community and cannot be limited to only public-owned resources. Further, the words must – the learned Judge held - be understood in the context of the constitutional goal of setting up a ”socialist” republic, which has always been the goal of the Chapter on Directive Principles. Further, it was held that the term “distribution”cannot be given a narrow construction, and includes the “transformation of wealth from private ownership into public ownership”. This Court relied on the observations in the concurring opinion authored by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy to buttress these observations. These findings on the meaning of the phrases “material resources of the community” and “distribution” are at the heart of the reference before us and have been reproduced in full below. “19. […] The expression “material resources of the community” means all things which are capable of producing wealth for the community. There is no warrant for interpreting the expression in so narrow a fashion as suggested by Shri Sen and confine it to public-owned material resources and exclude private-owned material resources. The expression involves no dichotomy. The words must be understood in the context of the constitutional goal of establishing a sovereign, socialist, secular, democratic republic.