five lakhs by two other co-accused persons and made constant attempts to further terrorist activities of the banned CPI (Maoist). It is also the prosecution’s case that she has been encouraging youngsters and recruited them as members in the banned organization and participated in a broad conspiracy to organize Elgar Parishad programme. It is further alleged that the appellant is associated with the Indian Association of Peoples Lawyer (“IAPL”), Committee for the Protection of Democratic Rights (“CPDR”) Anuradha Ghandy Memorial Committee (“AGMC”) and Kabir Kala Manch (“KKM”) which have been described as frontal organization of the CPI (Maoist) on the ground that they are instrumental in organizing meetings and exchange of messages for implementation of aims and policies of the said banned organization. Her involvement in the controversy hatched by two other accused and underground members has also been highlighted. As we have already indicated, there was a search in her residential premises on 06.06.2018. It is the prosecution’s case that materials recovered from her, as also other accused persons, revealed her participation in the meetings and conferences of Revolutionary Democratic Front (“RDF”), which again has been alleged to be a frontal organization to spread the propaganda of the banned CPI (Maoist). The presence of the appellant in the National Conference of RDF conducted in Hyderabad is sought to be demonstrated through the first supplementary chargesheet. 25. In the second supplementary chargesheet, allegations against her are contained in the paragraphs which we have already referred to. Here also, the video of the RDF Conference held on 22-23.04.2012 has been highlighted. It is also indicated that she took active part in the Elgar Parishad function. In this chargesheet, her conduct and coordination with other accused persons has been sought to be demonstrated, which include Anand Teltumbadde, Gautam Navlakha, Hany Babu, Jyoti Jagtap and Stan Swamy (since deceased). It is also pointed out that she was in close connection with the other members 292 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of CPI (Maoist) through e-mail and mobile phones. But we do not find these allegations to reveal involvement of the appellant in any outrageously offensive act or activities having characters altogether different from those contained in the two earlier chargesheets. In this chargesheet, only her interaction and connection with other accused persons has been revealed and forms part of the same chain of accusations. 26. In its counter-affidavit, the NIA, being the contesting respondent before us, has primarily taken the stand confined to its preliminary objections on maintainability of this appeal, which we have already noted. But in course of hearing before us, we were addressed on merit of the appeal on the question of entitlement of the appellant to be released on bail, having regard to the proviso of Section 43D(5) of 1967 Act. The materials which form part of the three chargesheets, were brought on record before us by the appellant through two additional affidavits. Apart from these of these of the appellant, detailed written submission has been filed by Mr. Nataraj, which contains a series of documents found to be incriminating by the prosecution along with witness statements implicating the appellant.