However, if on a scrutiny of the evidence, it is found that the finding recorded by the first appellate court is totally perverse then an interference is certainly possible in the matter as it constitutes a question of law. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: “7. The learned Single Judge after considering the matter found that these averments did not constitute the basis on the part of the plaintiff that he was not in possession of the suit property. On the contrary, the learned Single Judge found in reply to Para 13 of the plaint that the defendants in their written statement admitted that the work was stopped by Defendant 1 for some time but they restarted the work again. This, according to the learned Single Judge was a proof of the fact that Defendants 1 and 2 and Defendant 3 were not sure about the possession and right of Defendants 1 and 2 over the property. In fact, what transpires from all these facts is that the trial court reached the same conclusion as the learned Single Judge in second appeal in the High Court. It is true normally that in the second appeal the High Court should not interfere on the questions of fact. But if on the scrutiny of the evidence it is found that the finding recorded by the first appellate court is totally perverse then certainly the High Court can interfere in the matter as it constitutes the question of law.” (emphasis supplied) [2024] 11 S.C.R. 2111 State Bank of India & Ors. v. The Consortium of Mr. Murari Lal Jalan and Mr. Florian Fritsch & Anr. 89. In Abdul Raheem v. Karnataka Electricity Board and Others reported in (2007) 14 SCC 138, the Court acknowledged that the High Court’s jurisdiction in terms of Section 100 is limited. Having said so, it was also observed that a consideration of irrelevant facts, non-consideration of relevant facts and a finding of fact arrived at by overlooking vital documents would also give rise to a substantial question of law. The relevant observations are reproduced hereinbelow: “10. A substantial question of law ordinarily would not arise from the finding of facts arrived at by the trial court and the first appellate court. The High Court’s jurisdiction in terms of Section 100 of the Code is undoubtedly limited. 11. The question as to whether the plaintiff was ready and willing to perform its part of contract by itself may not give rise to a substantial question of law. Substantial question of law should admittedly be formulated relying on or on the basis of findings of fact arrived at by the trial court and the first appellate court. 12. However, there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that consideration of irrelevant fact and non-consideration of relevant fact would give rise to a substantial question of law. Reversal of a finding of fact arrived at by the first appellate court ignoring vital documents may also lead to a substantial question of law. In Vidhyadhar v. Manikrao [(1999) 3 SCC 573] this Court held : (SCC p. 586, para 23) “23.