The other appellants (appellant No. 2-appellant No. 6) also filed similar representations to the respondents which met a similar fate on the same reasoning. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 521 Rajkaran Singh & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors. 7. Aggrieved by the rejection of their claim for pensionary benefits under the 6th CPC, the appellants filed Original Applications before the Tribunal, laying a challenge to the non-implementation of the benefits of the 6th CPC and also raising a grievance about the lack of General Provident Fund (GPF) provisions in the SSD Fund, despite they having been appointed to posts created under the authorisation of the Cabinet Secretariat and after following the due process of law in making the appointments. 8. The Tribunal, vide dated 4th October, 2016 dismissed the Original Applications and rejected the appellants’ claims holding that they were not employed in government service. The Tribunal referred to Rule 2 of the CCS Rules, and held that the appellants were not entitled to the benefits under the CCS Rules as their salaries were neither paid from the Consolidated Fund of India, the Contingent Fund or the Public Accounts Funds, nor were their services governed by statutory obligations i.e. no recruitment rules were applicable to them. The Tribunal further held that the appellants were not recruited under an advertisement issued where people at large were given the opportunity of appearing; there was no question of any obligation cast under the Factories Act for running the SSD Fund, as it was not covered under the definition of a factory; and the services performed were not statutory in nature because the SSD Fund is a voluntary contribution made by the SFF employees. The Tribunal found that the SSD Fund was financed by voluntary contributions from SFF employees and hence the services rendered therein did not qualify as government service. 9. The appellants challenged the Tribunal’s by filing a writ petition before the Delhi High Court which came to be rejected and the Tribunal’s was affirmed, taking note of the fact that the appellants were appointed for the purpose of maintaining the SSD Fund, a welfare scheme run through personal contributions made by the troops of SFF. The High Court held that while the troops of SFF, undoubtedly, are government servants, however, that by itself would not clothe the appellants with the status of government servants. The impugned dated 25th April, 2017 passed by the High Court is subjected to challenge in this appeal by special leave. Submissions on behalf of the appellants: - 10. Ms. Neha Rathi, learned counsel representing the appellants, vehemently and fervently contended that the appellants had served 522 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports the department for more than three decades to maintain the accounts of the SSD Fund and therefore, not granting them pensionary and other service benefits in accordance with the 6th CPC on a surmise, that their employment was temporary/non-governmental in nature, tantamounts to grossly arbitrary action, violative of the fundamental rights of the appellants as guaranteed under the Constitution of India.