Therefore, it is directed that needful be done for complete compliance. (iv) In terms of directions contained in para 100.8 and 100.9, the High Court should inform this Court as to the steps taken for a list of identified prisoners who are unable to comply with bail conditions and what steps have been taken to alleviate this situation. (v) In terms of direction contained in para 100.9, it has been disclosed that bail applications under Section 440 of CrPC have not been received in relation to prisoners. Therefore, needful be done. (vi) To inform on whether the in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC. 10. State of Goa -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, it is directed that the State shall provide details of Special Courts constituted [2024] 2 S.C.R. 1087 Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. and the necessary steps taken for creation of Additional Special Courts and its stage. The State is also directed to inform about the steps being undertaken to fill the existing vacancies. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) In terms of the above referred , we direct the State to ensure that the prosecutors are stating the correct position of law as per the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra). (b) To circulate the passed by this Court in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) (c) To train and update the prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 10.1 High Court of Bombay (Refer to Serial No. 21.1) 11. State of Gujarat -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction in para 100.7, the State is directed to give details of the number of Special Courts constituted and whether any steps are underway for creation of Additional Special Courts and at what stage. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) The State is directed to issue directions to the Prosecutors to place on record the correct legal position as per Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil vs. CBI (Supra).