[It reads: “265. Taxes not to be imposed save by authority of law – No tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law”.] 120 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “84. […] Unlike the economically neutral — if not pro- capitalist — Constitutions governing those countries, the Indian Constitution has set before itself the goal of “Justice, Social, Economic and Political” — a total restructuring of our society — the goal being what is set out in Part IV of the Constitution and, in particular, in Articles 38 and 39. Indeed, the aforesaid words in the Preamble constitute the motto of our Constitution, if we can call it one. Article 38 enjoins upon the State to “strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and protecting as effectively as it may a social in which justice, social, economic and political shall inform all the institutions of the national life”. Article 39 lays down the principles of policy to be followed by the State. It says that the State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing “(b) that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good; and (c) that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment”. Refunding the duty paid by a manufacturer/assessee in situations where he himself has not suffered any loss or prejudice (i.e., where he has passed on the burden to others) is no economic justice; it is the very negation of economic justice. By doing so, the State would be conferring an unearned and unjustifiable windfall upon the manufacturing community thereby contributing to concentration of wealth in a small class of persons which may not be consistent with the common good. The Preamble and the aforesaid articles do demand that where a duty cannot be refunded to the real persons who have borne the burden, for one or the other reason, it is but appropriate that the said amounts are retained by the State for being used for public good […] (emphasis supplied) 118. In the next paragraph, Justice Jeevan Reddy made further observations about ‘philosophy and values’ which must be kept in [2024] 11 S.C.R. 121 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. mind while interpreting the Constitution. Significantly, Justice Jeevan Reddy borrowed from the observations by Justice Krishna Iyer in Ranganatha Reddy and noted: “85. […] As observed by Thomas Jefferson, as far back as in 1816, “laws and institutions must go hand-in-hand with the progress of the human mind … as new discoveries are made, new truths are discovered and manners and opinions change with the change of circumstances, institutions must advance also and keep pace with the time…”. The very same thought was expressed by Krishna Iyer, J. in State of Karnataka v. Ranganatha Reddy with particular reference to our constitutional philosophy and values: “Constitutional problems cannot be studied in a socio-economic vacuum, since socio-cultural changes are the source of the new values, and sloughing off old legal thought is part of the process of the new equity-loaded legality….