Digital Supreme Court Reports categories must be substantial. Justice Jeevan Reddy held that the sub-categorization must be reasonable. a. Indra Sawhney did not exclude sub-classification within the Scheduled Castes 98. In Chinnaiah (supra), this Court observed that the principles in Indra Sawhney (supra) on sub-classification of the Other Backward Class will not apply to the Scheduled Castes because the specifically observed that it is only ruling on the sub-classification of the Other Backward Class and not the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.149 At two places in Indra Sawhney (supra), Justice Jeevan Reddy limited the observations to the Other Backward Classes and did not extend them to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. While dealing with the identification of the backward class of citizens under Article 16(4), the learned judge made the following observations:150 “781. At the outset, we may state that for the purpose of this discussion, we keep aside the Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes (since they are admittedly included within the backward classes), except to remark that backward classes contemplated by Article 16(4) do comprise some castes – for it cannot be denied that Scheduled Castes include quite a few castes.” 99. These observations were made in the specific context of the recognition of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes as a separate class of beneficiaries under Article 15(5) and their absence in Article 16(4). Justice Jeevan Reddy noted that it is admitted that the Backward Class in Article 16(4) includes the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes even though the provision does not expressly state so. 100. While discussing the issue of the exclusion of the creamy layer in the identification of the beneficiary class under Article 16(4), Justice Jeevan Reddy noted that the discussion is confined to the Other Backward Class and does not have any relevance to the 149 Chinnaiah v. State of AP (2005) 1 SCC 394 [Justice Santhosh Hegde, 38]; [Justice Sinha, 76] 150 (1992) Supp. 3 SCC 217 [781] [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1391 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.151 This observation must also be understood in the context in which it was made. While discussing the necessity of the exclusion of the creamy layer of the Other Backward Class for the purposes of reservation, Justice Reddy observed that social backwardness is the connecting link in a class identified under Article 16(4). The learned Judge remarked that the class does not remain a homogenous class if some of the members of the class are socially forward. This Court noted that economic advancement can be a relevant criterion to exclude the creamy layer provided that the economic advancement is so high as to cause social advancement. The observation that this does not apply to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes was made because they suffer from a more egregious form of social backwardness when compared to the Other Backward Class. The Court did not deem it necessary to decide the issue of whether the financial advancement of the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes would cause social advancement since the issue in Indra Sawhney (supra) was only with respect to reservation for the Other Backward Class.