76 Ibid. 274 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports in the development and implementation of awareness-raising campaigns.77 This is crucial for shifting the perception of persons with disabilities from “objects of charity” to “rights holders.” While awareness creation is not a right per se, the Convention obliges States parties to raise awareness about the rights of persons with disabilities. Establishing a right is different from ensuring its realization, which is why State parties must provide an enabling environment for persons with disabilities to fully enjoy their rights. The media’s power to shape attitudes and create awareness is a vital component of this enabling environment. 53. The CRPD emphasizes respect for difference and acceptance of persons with disabilities as part of human diversity. It aims to prevent discrimination rather than disability, shifting the focus from a medical approach to a rights-based approach. This perspective should also guide public service campaigns related to public safety and health, ensuring they respect diversity and combat discrimination. 54. The World Programme of Action Concerning Disabled Persons78 , adopted in 1982, promotes disability from a human rights perspective and provides recommendations for national, regional, and international action.79 It encourages developing media guidelines in consultation with disability organizations, training in self-advocacy for persons with disabilities, and informed education and training within the media sector to improve disability portrayal.80 The guidelines should promote sensitive and accurate portrayals of persons with disabilities across various media forms, not just news media. 55. In line with the WPA, the United Nations developed guidelines for the inclusion and portrayal of disabled people in the media, culminating in the booklet titled “Improving Communications about People with Disabilities.” 81 These guidelines, designed to be adaptable across different media and countries, aim to improve public perception of persons with disabilities. They cover topics such as inclusion in 77 Ibid. 78 “WPA” 79 The UN General Assembly adopted the WPA, and declared at the same time the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons, 1983-1992. See also Paul Harpur, ‘From Disability to ability: changing the phrasing of the debate’ (2012) 27 (3) Disability & Society 325, 327. 80 Ibid. 81 United Nations, Improving Communications about People with Disabilities (Recommendations of a United Nations Seminar, 8-10 June 1982, Vienna), p. 5. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 275 Nipun Malhotra v. Sony Pictures Films India Private Limited & Ors. mainstream programming, portrayal and depiction issues, the use of language, and participation of persons with disabilities in media production.82 56. While the guidelines from the WPA provide effective measures for improving media portrayal, they are outdated in some respects, particularly their medical-based understanding of disability. For instance, they include recommendations on preventing and treating impairments, which may contradict the CRPD’s principle of respecting disability as part of human diversity. However, the guidelines’ promotion, availability, and monitoring mechanisms remain valuable for encouraging accurate and positive media representations of persons with disabilities. V. Indian jurisprudence aligns with the human rights approach. 57. The foundation of laws for persons with disabilities has been traced to the guarantee of dignity as a core human right, recognised by the Constitution under Article 2183.