Similarly, the children of other varnas also adopted the varna of their father ignoring their own nature, talent and qualities. When this system grew rigid & birth based, it became dysfunctional. 66. In short, what is intended to be conveyed is that according to Gita there is no caste system and the varna system (categorization) referred to therein is quite distinct, based upon persons nature & qualities. Thus, there was no caste system in ancient India i.e., Bharat. The misconstruction of the varna system as a caste system was a social defect that crept in with time and was not considered to be good as it divided the society and brought about discrimination & inequality. 20 Skanda Purana Vol.18 Book VI, Nagar Kanda, Chapter 239, Verse 31-34. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 1667 The State of Punjab & Ors. v. Davinder Singh & Ors. 67. The social problems created by the so-called caste system or the problem of untouchability etc. were widely considered to be bad practices prevailing in the Indian society. Thus, social reformers always propagated giving up of such malpractices. 68. Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation, during the entire freedom struggle strenuously worked for the upliftment of the so- called depressed classes including ‘untouchables’. He described the untouchables as ‘persons of God’ - ‘Harijans’. After independence with the adoption of the constitution, we decided to move towards the unified casteless society and vide Article 17 envisaged to abolish the practice of untouchability in any form and contemplated to make untouchability ‘a punishable offence’. Notwithstanding, the objective of casteless society and the principle of equality; the original Constitution made provision by Article 15 (3) enabling the State to make special provision for women and children despite prohibition of discrimination on grounds religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth. Similarly, Article 16 (4) enabled the State for making special provision for reservation of appointments or post in favour of any backward class of citizens. This was done with the object to bring about social equity and justice. 69. The Constitution at the same time vide Article 341 conferred power upon the President to notify certain castes, races or tribes or part of such caste, races and tribes to be deemed to be Scheduled Castes. In fact, the constitution otherwise does not recognise any caste except for the above deeming provision. The country as such had moved into a casteless society except for the above legal fiction only for the purposes of the constitution and not otherwise. 70. In other words, to put it summarily there was no caste system in primitive India. Slowly the varna system prevalent was misconstrued to be a caste system which practice was found to be socially non- acceptable and as such after independence with the adoption of the Constitution we again tried to move into a casteless society but in the name of social welfare to uplift the depressed and the backward classes, we again fell into the trap of caste system. We gave privilege of reservation to the depressed or the backward class or the Scheduled Caste to bring about equality.