In other words the amendment or amplification must relate to particulars of a corrupt practice already pleaded and must not be an effort to expand the scope of the enquiry by introducing particulars regarding a different corrupt practice not earlier pleaded. Only the particulars of that corrupt practice of which the germ exists in the election petition can be amended or amplified and there can be no question of introducing a new corrupt practice. It is significant to note that Section 86 (5) permits ‘particulars’ of any corrupt practice ‘alleged in the petition’ to be amended or amplified and not the ‘material facts’. It is, therefore, clear from the trinity of clauses (a) and (b) of Section 83 and sub-section (5) of Section 86 that there is a distinction between ‘material facts’ referred to in clause (a) and ‘particulars’ referred to in clause (b) and what Section 86 (5) permits is the amendment / amplification of the latter and not the former. Thus, the power of amendment granted by section 86 (5) is relatable to clause (b) of Section 83 (1) and is coupled with a prohibition, namely, the amendment will not relate to a corrupt practice not already pleaded in the election petition. The power is not relatable to clause (a) of Section 83 (1) as the plain language of Section 86 (5) confines itself to the amendments of ‘particulars’ of any corrupt practice alleged in the petition and does not extend to ‘material facts’…..” 19. As to what meaning is to be ascribed to the expression ‘material facts’, and what a pleading must contain, a three-Judge Bench of this Court in Harkirat Singh v. Amrinder Singh18 observed as under: “48. The expression “material facts” has neither been defined in the Act nor in the Code. According to the dictionary meaning, “material” means “fundamental”, “vital”, “basic”, “cardinal”, “central”, “crucial”, “decisive”, “essential”, “pivotal”, “indispensable”, “elementary”, or “primary” 18 [2005] Supp. 5 SCR 817 : (2005) 13 SCC 511 [2024] 6 S.C.R. 71 Sheikh Noorul Hassan v. Nahakpam Indrajit Singh & Ors. [Burton’s Legal Thesaurus (3rd Edition), p.349]. The phrase “material facts”, therefore, may be said to be those facts upon which a party relies for its claim or defence. In other words, “material facts” are facts upon which the plaintiff’s cause of action or the defendant’s defence depends. What particulars could be said to be material facts would depend upon the facts of each case and no rule of universal application can be laid down. It is, however, absolutely essential that all basic and primary facts which must be proved at the trial by the party to establish the existence of a cause of action or defence are material facts and must be stated in the pleading by the party. 51. A distinction between “material facts” and “particulars”, however, must not be overlooked. “Material facts” are primary or basic facts which must be pleaded by the plaintiff or by the defendant in support of the case set up by him either to prove his cause of action or defence.