Definitions. — In this Act, unless there is something repugnant in the subject or context, — (11) “Duly stamped”. — “duly stamped”, as applied to an instrument, means that the instrument bears an [2024] 5 S.C.R. 261 Life Insurance Corporation of India v. The State of Rajasthan and Ors. 23. Pursuant to the adaptations by the 1952 Act, the relevant portion of Section 3 and Schedule I of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 as adapted to the state of Rajasthan by the 1952 Act is as follows: “3. Instruments chargeable with duty.—Subject to the provisions of this Act and the exemptions contained in Schedule I, the following instruments shall be chargeable with duty of the amount indicated in that Schedule as the proper duty therefore respectively, that is to say— (a) every instrument mentioned in that Schedule which, not having been previously executed by any person, is executed in India on or after the day on which the Act comes into force in the State of Rajasthan; (b) every bill of exchange payable otherwise than on demand, or promissory note drawn or made out of India on or after that day and accepted or paid or presented for acceptance or payment, or endorsed, transferred or otherwise negotiated, in India; and (c) every instrument (other than a bill of exchange or promissory note) mentioned in that Schedule, which, not having been previously executed by any person, is executed out of India on or after that day, relates to any property situate, or to any matter or thing done or to be done, in India and is received in India:” Schedule I of the central Act, as adapted to the state of Rajasthan, reads as follows: “SCHEDULE I Stamp Duty on Instruments (See section 3) [In this Schedule, given under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, only those articles are reproduced for which no specific provision is made in the Rajasthan Amending Act, No. 7 of 1952.] *** adhesive or impressed stamp of not less than the proper amount and that such stamp has been affixed or used in accordance with the law for the time being in force in India” 262 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 47. Policy of insurance– D- LIFE INSURANCE OR GROUP If drawn If drawn INSURANCE OR OTHER IN- singly in SURANCE NOT SPECIFICAL- duplicate LY PROVIDED FOR, except for each such a RE-INSURANCE, as part. is described in Division E of this article— (i) for every sum insured not Ten paise. Five exceeding Rs. 250; paise. (ii) for every sum insured Ten paise. Five exceeding Rs. 250 but paise. not exceeding Rs. 500; (iii) for every sum insured Twenty Ten exceeding Rs. 500 but paise. paise. not exceeding Rs. 1,000 and also for every Rs. 1,000/- or part thereof in excess of Rs. 1,000. N.B.- If a policy of group insurance is renewed or otherwise modified whereby the sum insured exceeds the sum previously insured on which stamp-duty has been paid, the proper stamp must be borne on the excess sum so insured.