[2024] 5 S.C.R. 831 : 2024 INSC 435 Kolkata Municipal Corporation & Anr. v. Bimal Kumar Shah & Ors. (Civil Appeal No. 6466 of 2024) 16 May 2024 [Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha* and Aravind Kumar, JJ.] Issue for Consideration State Municipal Corporation having claimed to have acquired the property of respondent-land bearer in exercise of powers u/s.352 of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation Act, 1980, the High Court, if justified in holding that there was no such power of compulsory acquisition of immovable property u/s.352 of the Act. Headnotes† Kolkata Municipal Corporation Act, 1980 – s. 352 – Power to acquire lands and buildings for public streets and for public parking places – Interpretation of s. 352 – If there is power of compulsory acquisition of immovable property u/s. 352 – On facts, Kolkata Municipal Corporation claims to have acquired the property of respondent-land bearer in exercise of powers u/s. 352 – Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court concurrently held that there was no such power of compulsory acquisition of immovable property u/s. 352 – Interference with: Held: Not called for – Scheme of the Act makes it clear that s. 352 empowers the Municipal Commissioner to identify the land required for the purpose of opening of public street, square, park, etc. and u/s. 537, the Municipal Commissioner has to apply to the Government to compulsorily acquire the land – Upon such an application, the Government may, in its own discretion, proceedings to be taken for acquiring the land – s. 352 is thus, not the power of acquisition – It cannot be said that s. 352 enables the Municipal Commissioner to acquire land – s. 352 is only intended to enable the Municipal Commissioner to decide whether a land is to be acquired for public purpose – Power of acquisition is in fact vested with the State u/s. 537 and it will exercise it, in its own discretion, whenever the Municipal Commissioner makes an application to that effect – s. 363 is not a provision for compensation for compulsory acquisition – Valid power of acquisition coupled with the provision * Author 832 [2024] 5 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports for fair compensation by itself would not complete and exhaust the power and process of acquisition – Prescription of the necessary procedures, before depriving a person of his property is an integral part of the ‘authority of law’, u/Art. 300A and, s. 352 of the Act contemplates no procedure whatsoever – Thus, the exercise of the power is illegal, illegitimate and caused great difficulty to the respondent-land-bearer – Single Judge held that the appellant- Corporation acted in blatant violation of statutory provisions – High Court justified in rejecting the case of the Corporation acquiring land u/s. 352 – Costs quantified at Rs. 5,00,000/- to be paid to the respondent no. 1-land bearer. [Paras 22, 23, 32-35] Kolkata Municipal Corporation Act, 1980 – Scheme of the Act – Explained. [Paras 14-23] Constitution of India – Art. 300 A – Right to property – Net of intersecting rights – Seven sub-rights or procedures to right to property: Held: Under the constitutional scheme, compliance with a fair procedure of law before depriving any person of his immovable property is well entrenched – Art 300A which declares that “no person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law” has been characterised both as a constitutional and also a human right – Twin conditions of the acquisition being for a public purpose and subjecting the divestiture to the payment of compensation in lieu of acquisition were mandated – Although not explicitly contained in Art 300A, these twin requirements have been read in and inferred as necessary conditions for compulsory deprivation to afford protection to the individuals who are being divested of property – Furthermore, binary reading of the constitutional right to property must give way to more meaningful renditions, where the larger right to property is seen as comprising intersecting sub-rights, each with a distinct character but interconnected to constitute the whole – Seven such sub-rights can be identified, albeit non-exhaustive – These are, the right to notice; the right to be heard; the right to a reasoned decision; the duty to acquire only for public purpose; the right of restitution or fair compensation; the right to an efficient and expeditious process; and the right of conclusion – These seven rights are foundational components of a law that is tune with Art.