The well-established precepts of public trust and public accountability are fully applicable to the functions which emerge from the public servants or even the persons holding public office. 214. In State of Bihar v. Subhash Singh [(1997) 4 SCC 430] , this Court, in exercise of the powers of judicial review, stated that the doctrine of “full faith and credit” applies to the acts done by the officers in the hierarchy of the State. They have to faithfully discharge their duties to elongate public purpose. 215. The concept of public accountability and performance of functions takes in its ambit, proper and timely action in accordance with law. Public duty and public obligation both are essentials of good administration whether by the State or its instrumentalities. In Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of India [(2005) 8 SCC 202 : (2006) 1 SCC (Cri) 23] , this Court declared the dictum that State actions causing loss are actionable under public law. This is a result of innovation, a new tool with the courts which are the protectors of civil liberties of the citizens and would ensure protection against devastating results of State action. The principles of public accountability and transparency in State action are applicable to cases 24 [2011] 12 SCR 191 : (2011) 9 SCC 354 [2024] 11 S.C.R. 763 In Re: Directions in The Matter of Demolition of Structures of executive or statutory exercise of power, besides requiring that such actions also not lack bona fides. All these principles enunciated by the Court over a passage of time clearly mandate that public officers are answerable for both their inaction and irresponsible actions. If what ought to have been done is not done, responsibility should be fixed on the erring officers; then alone, the real public purpose of an answerable administration would be satisfied. 216. The doctrine of “full faith and credit” applies to the acts done by the officers. There is a presumptive evidence of regularity in official acts, done or performed, and there should be faithful discharge of duties to elongate public purpose in accordance with the procedure prescribed. Avoidance and delay in decision-making process in government hierarchy is a matter of growing concern. Sometimes delayed decisions can cause prejudice to the rights of the parties besides there being violation of the statutory rule. 217. This Court had occasion to express its concern in different cases from time to time in relation to such matters. In State of A.P. v. Food Corporation of India [(2004) 13 SCC 53 : 2006 SCC (L&S) 873] , this Court observed that it is a known fact that in transactions of government business, no one would own personal responsibility and decisions would be leisurely taken at various levels. 218. Principles of public accountability are applicable to such officers/officials with all their rigour. Greater the power to decide, higher is the responsibility to be just and fair. The dimensions of administrative law permit judicial intervention in decisions, though of administrative nature, which are ex facie discriminatory.