of Assam / District Commissioner allot land within the ambit of Rules under the Assam Land and Revenue Regulation, 1886. It is pertinent to point out here that in a tea garden, tea bushes and shade trees are removed and uprooted in regular intervals once the trees grow old and there is loss of production of tea. Generally, Siris tree species (Albizia lebbeck/albizzia procera) which are fast growing indigenous species of trees in Assam, are planted as shade trees/cover crops and primarily used to meet the requirement of fuel wood for workers in the tea gardens. As per the Assam Tea Garden Act / Policy, clearing of tea bushes and shade trees are permissible. Moreover, tea bushes are considered as agricultural crops (Special Cultivation) and uprooting activity of such tea bushes and shade trees do not fall under any of the project / activity to the Schedule of the EIA Notification S.O. 1533(E) Dated 14.09.2006. 82 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports This is submitted for favour of your kind perusal and needful action.” 10. In pursuance of the directions of this Court, Ms Salma Sultana, a judge in the district judiciary in the State of Assam, posted as Secretary to the District Legal Services Authority Kachar submitted a report dated 27 April 2024. The report, inter alia, indicates that 89 shade trees were found to be cut. Ms Sultana has also stated that “the entire area is mostly a dense forest, therefore, other possible cut down shade trees were not visible due to dense forest and thick bushes”. The report also indicates that according to the statement of the Circle Officer, Shri Arunjyoti Das, 41,95,909 tea bushes have been uprooted. 11. The Secretary of the District Legal Services Authority recorded statements on oath of witnesses who were tea garden workers, the Garden Manager, Circle Officer and Patwari among other persons. Several witnesses who were examined by the officer appointed by this Court have stated that: (i) tea bushes were uprooted from Doloo Tea Estate Airport site with the help of JCBs in the month of May 2022; (ii) the entire operation took place over three days and involved the use of about 200 to 250 JCBs ‘day and night’; (iii) shade trees were cut and uprooted; and (iv) during the operation the inhabitants were prevented from moving out of their homes. 12. The Court must take cognizance of the fact that the statements of these witnesses have not been tested on the anvil of cross- examination. At the same time, at this stage, it would prima facie appear that these statements would match with the statement of the Circle Officer to the effect that 41,95,909 tea bushes have been uprooted. 13. The contention of the State Government in the affidavit, which was tendered before this Court on 22 April 2024, was that tea bushes are removed routinely “even as a part of regular tea cultivation” for which no prior Environmental Clearance is required. To support this submission, reliance was placed on the communication of the Member Secretary of the SEAC in Assam which also records that in [2024] 6 S.C.R.