6.15 One cannot lose sight of the precarious condition India was in when it gained Independence in the August, 1947 and at the dawn of the Republic in January, 1950. The provisions of the Constitution have hence sought to achieve a transformation in the socio-economic conditions of the people of India given the situation as it emerged in the colonial period. The transition of the Indian economy towards privatization and liberalization is ultimately for the welfare of the people of India. Heavy capital investment in the public sector in the early decades after Independence and its failure to yield good results in the subsequent decades and the move towards disinvestment and privatization are all experiments in achieving the constitutional goals which are static but the path to achieve them may vary with the passage of time.It is in the above backdrop that the s of this Court must be viewed rather than viewing the Judges who authored the s as doing a disservice to the Constitution of India. Back to the second issue: 7. The further observations of the learned Chief Justice are that “however, there is no bar on the inclusion of private property as a class and if privately owned resource meets the qualifiers of being a “material resource” and “of the community”, it may fall within the net of the provision. Thus, Mr. Zal Andhyarujina’s formulation that “material resources of the community” refers to either natural resources (which are those of the nation) or those resources which in a large sense can be said to be of community, even though they may be in private hands: not be right”. 7.1 In to determine whether a particular privately owned resources falls within the fold of Article 39(b), certain factors have been delineated by the learned Chief Justice so as to constitute the same as a “material resource of the community”, namely: (a) nature of the resource and inherent characteristics; (b) the impact of the resource on the well-being of the community; 206 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (c) the scarcity of the resource; and (d) the consequences of such a resource being concentrated in the hands of the private owners. 7.2 The fact that the community may have a vital interest in the character of the resources and their retention in the private hands would make them fall within the ambit of the expression “material resources of the community” is the test which has been innovated. Placing reliance on the Public Trust Doctrine, it is observed by the learned Chief Justice that the doctrine mandates the government to protect the resources for the enjoyment of the general public, such as, forests, mineral bearing lands etc. rather than to permit their use for commercial gains. Significantly, this does not mean that the State cannot distribute such resources, sometimes even to private entities, rather while distributing such resources, the state is bound to act in consonance with the principles of public trust so as to ensure that no action is taken which is detrimental to public interest (vide Centre for Public Interest Litigation vs. Union of India, (2012) 3 SCC 1, paras 74-78 (“Centre for Public Interest Litigation”)) are the observations of the learned Chief Justice.