While Jugoslavenska (supra) was not expressly overruled by the House of Lords, its correctness was doubted. 5.4 The Court held that there is no bar on courts in India to pass a decree for a sum expressed in foreign currency. However, for the purpose of payment of such amount, the limitations and restrictions under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (that was in force at the time) must be considered. If permission 23 ibid, para 39. 24 Jugoslavenska Oseanska Plovidba v. Castle Investment Co. Inc., [1973] 3 All E.R. 498. 25 In re United Railways of the Havana and Regia Warehouses, Ltd.,[1959] 1 All E.R. 214 (CA). 26 Schorsch Meier GmbH v. Hennin, [1975] 1 All E.R. 152 27 Miliangos v. George Prank (Textiles) Ltd., 1976 AC 443. [2024] 8 S.C.R. 305 DLF Ltd. (Formerly Known as DLF Universal Ltd) and Anr. v. Koncar Generators and Motors Ltd. is not granted by the authorities to pay the decretal amount in foreign currency, the amount would have to be converted to Indian rupees for payment of an equivalent amount. The date of conversion becomes relevant here, as the “court must select a date which puts the plaintiff in the same position in which he would have been had the defendant discharged his obligation when he ought to have done, bearing in mind that the rate of exchange is not a constant factor but fluctuates, and very often violently fluctuates, from time to time.”28 These are the guiding principles and considerations for the Court to determine the relevant date, which are apposite even today. 5.5 The Court then undertook a detailed examination of each of the 6 dates that it set out earlier and held that the date of the decree (the third option) is the most appropriate amongst them. The Court adopted the approach of eliminating other possible dates, on the following grounds: i. The date when the amount becomes due and payable does not have the same effect of putting the plaintiff in the same position that he would have been in if the defendant had discharged his obligation. Due to the fluctuations in exchange rate, using this date could result in the decree- holder only receiving a fraction of or a lot more than what he is entitled to.29 ii. The second date – when the action or suit commenced – was rejected for the same reason as above, considering that there is usually a large period of time between the filing of the suit, the decree by the Trial Court, subsequent appeals, revisions, and reviews, and the final decision.30 iii. The Court favourably discussed the third option, i.e., the date of the decree or . It held that the decree crystallises the amount payable to the decree-holder. To account for appeals and revisions, the date when the action is finally disposed of and when the decree becomes final 28 Forasol (supra), para 40. 29 ibid, para 41. 30 ibid, para 42. 306 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports and binding on both parties, after exhausting all remedies, can be used.