PART-II IV. Submissions and Analysis: 15. Returning to facts of the case, Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel, appearing on behalf of the appellant, articulated the allegation of delay into six parts and in his inimitable style proceeded to explain how in each part, the appellant had no role and not at all responsible. We will deal with each phase of delay in the same manner as Mr. Sibal has presented the case before us. 16. (i) The first phase of delay is between 2003 and 2011. The relevant facts are as follows. 16.1. The appellant was appointed by respondent no.1 to develop the Project under a development agreement dated 20.08.2003, following which the appellant made a proposal for development on 11.12.2003. The Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai, however, assigned the re-development to a rival society, namely Omkareshwar Co-Operative Housing Society13 and a developer, namely Siddhivinayak Developers14 on 06.05.2004. Pursuant to this, on 07.09.2004, the SRA accepted the proposal given by Omkareshwar and Siddhivinayak for the development of the Property. After a long-drawn litigation between the appellant and respondent no. 1 on one side, and Omkareshwar and Siddhivinayak on the other, the CEO, SRA finally settled the dispute by its dated 07.06.2011 and held that the appellant had the required 70% consent of individual slum dwellers to implement the project and also that the proposal of Omkareshwar was not valid as it was 13 Hereinafter, referred to as “Omkareshwar”. 14 Hereinafter, referred to as “Siddhivinayak”. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1459 Yash Developers v. Harihar Krupa Co-Operative Housing Society Limited & Ors. made after the proposal of respondent no.1. Dealing with the period, Mr. Sibal has submitted that multiple proceedings between the appellant and respondent no. 1 on one side and Omkareshwar and Siddhivinayak on the other consumed lot of time. While the High Court initially disposed of a writ petition recording a settlement that appellant and respondent no.1 are entitled to develop the Property, Omkareshwar challenged it leading to several rounds of litigation before the High-Powered Committee15 and the High Court. The issue was laid to rest only on 07.06.2011 by an of the CEO, SRA holding that the appellant enjoyed the consent of 70% of eligible slum dwellers and hence was qualified to be the developer. Mr. Sibal has submitted that the consequence of this litigation is that the LOI could be issued in favour of the appellant only on 29.06.2011, i.e. after this dispute was settled. The eight years’ delay in obtaining the LOI was inevitable and was not due to any fault of the appellant. 16.2. Per contra, Mr. C A Sundaram, learned senior counsel, appearing for the respondent no.6-Veena Developers, has submitted that the appellant did not have the financial capacity or the technical expertise to complete the project within the prescribed time of 3 years. It is due to this reason that the appellant was unable to commence construction even when all the requisite permissions and approvals had been obtained. Further, Mr. Huzefa Ahmadi, learned senior counsel, appearing for respondent nos.8-48, who are some of the slum dwellers, has submitted that the delay in the construction is entirely attributable to the appellant.