In the case at hand, it has been stated in the FIR that the Divisional Office of LIC, Varanasi has not purchased the insurance stamps from the Treasury Office of U.P. but the same were purchased from the stamp vendors, outside of State, which caused loss to the State exchequer to the tune of Rs 1,67,21,520.00 to the State Government. So, the sole allegation against the appellants is that they have purchased the insurance stamps from outside the State of U.P. However, as we have already noted that the said act of the appellants cannot be said to be inconsistent with any provisions of the Stamp Act or any other rules. So, the allegation made in the FIR even if proved by the prosecution does not constitute any offence. 32. It is wholly immaterial whether the appellants are purchasing the insurance stamps from the State of U.P. or from any other State. In fact, as mentioned earlier, Rule 115-A of the U.P. Stamp Rules itself declares that “Stamps which are the property of the Central Government”. That being the legal position, it is legally untenable to contend that the insurance stamps must be purchased from the State of U.P. only.” (emphasis supplied) 28. These portions of the must be seen in the context of the facts and the law applicable in that case. While arriving at its conclusion, this Court in VVS Rama Sharma (supra) interpretated Rule 115A of the UP Stamp Rules, 194232 (these Rules were framed by the state 32 Rule 115A of the UP Stamp Rules, 1942 has been extracted in VVS Rama Sharma (supra), para 20 that reads as follows: “20. Further, Rule 115-A of the Stamp Rules provides for the mode of sale of such stamps. It reads as follows: “115-A. Stamps which are the property of the Central Government and which are required to be sold [2024] 5 S.C.R. 265 Life Insurance Corporation of India v. The State of Rajasthan and Ors. government pursuant to rule-making powers given to states under Sections 74 and 75 of the Indian Stamp Act, 189933) read with the provisions of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899.34 It was held that since the Stamp Rules have been framed under the central Act, their scope is only to the extent provided in Sections 74 and 75 and they cannot circumvent the provisions of the central Act.35 In these facts, this Court held that the State of UP could not require that stamps on insurance policies must only be purchased within the state and cannot be validly purchased from other states. 29. The law under consideration in the facts of the present case is different. In the present case, the imposition of stamp duty by the state government is under the 1952 Act, which is a state law that has been enacted under Entry 44 of List III, and has received Presidential assent as contemplated under Article 254.36 Article 254(2) clearly stipulates that when a state law with respect to a to the public through post offices e.g.