Service rendered on adhoc/contract basis before regular appointment on pre-appointment training shall not be taken into reckoning. However, past continuous regular service in another Government Department in a post carrying same grade pay prior to regular appointment in a new Department, without a break, shall also be counted towards qualifying regular service for the purposes of MACPS only (and not for the regular promotions). However, benefits under the MACPS in such cases shall not be considered till the satisfactory completion of the probation period in the new post. xxx xxx xxx 13. Existing time-bound promotion scheme, including in-situ promotion scheme, Staff’ Car Driver Scheme or any other kind of promotion scheme existing for a particular category of employees in a Ministry/Department or its offices, may continue to be operational for the concerned category of employees if it is decided by the concerned administrative authorities to retain such Schemes, after necessary consultations or they may switch-over to the MACPS. However, these Schemes shall not run concurrently with the MACPS. xxx xxx xxx [2024] 12 S.C.R. 1527 Union of India & Ors. v. N.M. Raut & Ors. 19. The MACPS contemplates merely placement on personal basis in the immediate higher Grade pay / grant of financial benefits only and shall not amount to actual/functional promotion of the employees concerned. Therefore, no reservation s/roster shall apply to the MACPS, which shall extend its benefits uniformly to all eligible SC/ST employees also. However, the rules of reservation in promotion shall be ensured at the time of regular promotion. For this reason, it shall not be mandatory to associate members of SC/ST in the Screening Committee meant to consider cases for grant of financial upgradation under the Scheme. 20. Financial upgradation under the MACPS shall be purely personal to the employee and shall have no relevance to his seniority position. As such, there shall be no additional financial upgradation for the senior employees on the ground that the junior employee in the grade has got higher pay/grade pay under the MACPS. 21. Pay drawn in the pay band and the grade pay allowed under the MACPS shall be taken as the basis for determining the terminal benefits in respect of the retiring employee. xxx xxx xxx 28 Illustrations: A. (i) If a Government servant (LDC) in PB-I in the Grade Pay of Rs.1900 gets his first regular promotion (UDC) in the PB-I in the Grade Pay of Rs.2400 on completion of 8 years of service and then continues in the same Grade Pay for further 10 years without any promotion then he would be eligible for 2nd financial upgradation under the MACPS in the PB-I in the Grade Pay of Rs.2800 after completion of 18 years (8+10 years). (ii) In case he does not get any promotion thereafter, then he would get 3rd financial upgradation in the PB-II in Grade Pay of Rs.4200 on completion of further 10 years of service i.e. after 28 years (8+10+10). 1528 [2024] 12 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports (iii) However, if he gets 2nd promotion after 5 years of further service in the pay PB-II in the Grade Pay of Rs.4200 (Asstt.