14.1 High Court of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh -Directions to be complied with: (i) Regarding the directions in Para 100.2, discrepancy is noted in districts such as Jammu, Ramban and Bandipora, wherein it is stated that there is compliance of Sections 41 and 41-A of CrPC, yet bail is being granted for non-compliance of the same which is contradictory to each other. The High Court is directed to ensure proper compliance and furnish information on the same. (ii) With regards to the directions issued in para 100.5, discrepancy is noted in the affidavits dated 09.03.2023, which shows “yes” under the relevant column, while the affidavit dated 11.04.2023 shows “N/A”. The High Court is directed to ensure compliance of the aforementioned directions and furnish information on the same. (iii) In terms of directions issued in Para 100.7, the High Court is directed to ensure compliance and furnish information regarding the constitution of Special Courts in consultation with the Union Territory. (iv) In terms of the directions issued in paras 100.8 and 100.9, the High Court should inform this Court as to whether any steps have been taken to identify prisoners who are unable to comply with bail conditions and unable to furnish sureties in many cases, and what steps have been taken to alleviate this situation. (v) In terms of direction contained in dated 03.02.2023, the High Court should inform on compliance for inclusion of Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) in curriculum of judicial academy. (vi) To inform on whether the in Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) is being applied to petitions under Section 438 of CrPC. 15. State of Jharkhand -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of direction contained in para 100.2, it is directed to provide the particulars of First Information Reports of cognizable and non-bailable cases in which the mandate of Sections 41, 1092 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 41-A of CrPC and Arnesh Kumar (Supra) has not been followed and consequently to provide the details of necessary actions that have been taken against erring police officers. Also, in terms of direction contained in para 100.2, information has to be provided as to whether the Standing is being complied with by Investigating Officers. (ii) In terms of direction contained in para 100.7, the State is directed to give details of the number of Special Courts Constituted and whether any steps are underway for creation of Additional Special Courts and at what stage. (iii) Compliance with dated 21.03.2023 passed by this Court: (a) The State is directed to issue directions to Prosecutors to place on record the correct legal position as per Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra), (b) The State is directed to circulate the in Siddharth (Supra) and Satender Kumar Antil (Supra) to Prosecutors. (c) The State is directed to train and update the Prosecutors on a periodical basis and provide details of the same. 15.1 High Court of Jharkhand -Directions to be complied with: (i) In terms of the directions issued in para 100.2, it is noted that in districts such as Godda and East Singhbhum, bail has been granted for non-compliance of Sections 41 and 41-A of CrPC, while it has been mentioned that the conditions as stipulated in the statutory provisions are being complied with which are contradictory to each other.