The report expressed doubt as to who would have jurisdiction over a bribe taking member of Parliament. To resolve the jurisdictional question between the House and the court the report recommended for clarity from Parliament in the form of a statute. The report recommended that: “The Salmon Commission in 1976 recommended that such doubt should be resolved by legislation, but this has not been acted upon. We believe that it would be unsatisfactory to leave this issue outstanding when other aspects of the law of Parliament relating to conduct are being clarified. We recommend that the Government should now take steps to clarify the law relating to the bribery of or the receipt of a bribe by a Member of Parliament. This could usefully be combined with the consolidation of the statute law on bribery which Salmon also recommended, which the government accepted, but which has not been done. This might be a task which the Law Commission could take forward.” (emphasis supplied) This recommendation was referred by the government to the Law Commission. The Law Commission submitted its report in 1998 64 [1998] PL 357, referred to as R v Currie in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) [2024] 3 S.C.R. 549 Sita Soren v. Union of India recommending a new law which makes the offence of corruption applicable to all. This led to a sequence of events which ultimately culminated in the enactment of the Bribery Act 2010. The Act covers instances where members of Parliament engage in corruption. 138. While efforts were being made by lawmakers, the courts in UK continued answering questions on the scope of Article IX of the Bill of Rights on members of Parliament who engage in bribery. The allegations which had led to the constitution of the Nolan committee came before the courts in R v. Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards Ex Parte Fayed,65 and in Hamilton v. Al Fayed.66 In the first case, a person had accused a member of Parliament of taking corruption money from him while the member was serving as a minister in the government. The Parliamentary Commissioner of Standards had cleared a member of Parliament of charges pertaining to taking of bribes. The complainant filed for leave to apply for judicial review. The Court of Appeal allowed the application and held that: “It is important on this application to identify the specific function of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards which is the subject of complaint on this application. It is that a Member of Parliament received a corrupt payment. Mr. Pannick rightly says that parliamentary privilege would not prevent the courts investigating issues such as whether or not a Member of Parliament has committed a criminal offence, or whether a Member of Parliament has made a statement outside the House of Parliament which it is alleged is defamatory. He submits that, consistent with this, the sort of complaint which the applicant makes in this case is not in relation to an activity in respect of which the Member of Parliament would necessarily have any form of parliamentary immunity.” (emphasis supplied) 139.