PART - I 4. Original Constitution and Functioning of CEC till 2023: This Court’s endeavours to protect forests in India and to ensure regulation of non-forest activities in forests commenced in 1996. Even prior to the constitution of the CEC, this Court directed the constitution of various bodies to oversee and monitor the compliance of its s. In one of the most important s dated 12.12.1996,4 this Court defined the term ‘forest’ as covering all statutorily recognised forests, irrespective of how they were designated (either as reserved, protected or otherwise). The term ‘forest land’ in Section 2 of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 was held to include any area recorded as a forest in government records, irrespective of its ownership. Along with mandating prior approval of the Central Government to undertake any non-forest activities in forests and issuing directions on the felling of trees, this Court also directed the constitution of Expert Committees by each state government to identify ‘forests’ and sustainable existence of saw mills in forests. This Court also directed each state government to constitute a committee with the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and another Senior Official to oversee the compliance of its s and the filing of status reports by the states. 5. In its dated 04.03.1997,5 this Court constituted a High-Powered Committee6 to oversee the implementation of its s in the North- Eastern region and to also oversee preparation of inventory of timber, apart from permitting its sale. By dated 17.04.2000,7 this Court empowered the HPC to also supervise the transportation of illegal timber, oversee investigation into cases of illegal felling of trees, and to re-examine licensing of units. 4 T.N. Godavarman Thirumulkpad v. Union of India, [1996] Supp. (9) SCR 982 : (1997) 2 SCC 267. 5 T.N. Godavarman Thirumulkpad v. Union of India, [1997] 2 SCR 642 : (1997) 3 SCC 312. 6 Hereinafter ‘HPC’. 7 T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India, (2002) 10 SCC 646. 1200 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 6. The CEC was constituted by this Court by dated 09.05.20028 to monitor the implementation of its s and to present cases of non-compliance, including with respect to encroachment removals, implementation of working plans, compensatory afforestation, plantations and other conservation issues. The Court directed that the CEC must be constituted until such time that the Central Government constitutes a statutory body under Section 3 of the Environment (Protection) Act. The CEC, so constituted comprised: (i) a Chairman, nominated by the Ministry of Environment and Forests9 in consultation with the amicus curiae, (ii) a nominee of the MoEF, (iii) two NGOs who are to be nominated in consultation with the amicus curiae, and (iv) a Member Secretary. These members (other than the nominee of the MoEF) could not be removed without the Court’s permission. 7. The above required that the reports and affidavits filed by states pursuant to this Court’s s were to be placed before the CEC for its examination and recommendations. The recommendations of the CEC would be placed before this Court for s. Further, persons who are aggrieved by any steps taken by the government in purported compliance of this Court’s s could seek relief from the CEC, which must decide the applications in conformity with the Court’s s. To perform these functions, the CEC was given the power to call for documents from any person or government, summon any person and receive evidence on oath, and seek assistance/ presence of any person or official, including the power to co-opt persons as special invitees for dealing with specific issues.