The statute empowers the SBCs to organize legal aid for the poor, promote and support law reform, conduct academic discourses, and publish journals and papers on matters of legal interest. 3. The functions of the BCI have been enumerated under Section 7. These include laying down standards of professional conduct and etiquette for advocates, enunciating the procedure to be followed by its disciplinary committee and the disciplinary committee of the SBCs, safeguarding the rights, privileges, and interests of advocates, and promoting law reform. BCI is empowered to exercise general supervision and control over the SBCs. BCI is also empowered to impart legal education and lay down standards for legal education in consultation with the universities whose degrees in law would be a qualification for enrolment as an advocate and, for that purpose, visit and inspect universities. 4. Chapter III of the Advocates Act pertains to the admission and enrolment of advocates. Section 17 mandates the SBCs to prepare and maintain a roll of advocates. An application for admission as an advocate on a State roll is made to the SBCs.5 The SBCs are 1 “SBCs” 2 “Advocates Act” 3 Section 3, Advocates Act 4 “BCI”; Section 4, Advocates Act 5 Section 25, Advocates Act [2024] 7 S.C.R. 1501 Gaurav Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. required to issue a certificate of enrolment to every person whose name is enrolled in the roll of advocates.6 Section 24 prescribes the qualifications and conditions for a person to be admitted as an advocate.7 5. To qualify to be admitted as an advocate on a State roll, a person must: (a) be a citizen of India; (b) complete the age of twenty-one years; 6 Section 22, Advocates Act 7 Section 24, Advocates Act [It reads: 24. Persons who may be admitted as advocates on a State roll.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, and the rules made thereunder, a person shall be qualified to be admitted as an advocate on a State roll, if he fulfils the following conditions, namely:— (a) he is a citizen of India: Provided that subject to the other provisions contained in this Act, a national of any other country may be admitted as an advocate on a State roll, if citizens of India, duly qualified, are permitted to practise law in that other country; (b) he has completed the age of twenty-one years; (c) he has obtained a degree in law— (i) before the [12th day of March, 1967], from any University in the territory of India; or (ii) before the 15th day of August, 1947, from any University in any area which was comprised before that date within India as defined by the Government of India Act, 1935; or [(iii) after the 12th day of March, 1967, save as provided in sub-clause (iii-a), after undergoing a three-year course of study in law from any University in India which is recognised for the purposes of this Act by the Bar Council of India; or (iii-a) after undergoing a course of study in law, the duration of which is not less than two academic years commencing from the academic year 1967-68, or any earlier academic year from any University in India which is recognised for the purposes of this Act by the Bar Council of India; or] [(iv) in any other case, from any University outside the territory of India, if the degree is recognised for the purposes of this Act by the Bar Council of India; or] [he is a barrister and is called to the Bar on or before the 31st day of December, 1976; [or has passed the articled clerk’s examination or any other examination specified by the High Court at Bombay or Calcutta for enrolment as an attorney of that High Court;] or has obtained such other foreign qualification in law as is recognised by the Bar Council of India for the purpose of admission as an advocate under this Act]; (e) he fulfils such other conditions as may be specified in the rules made by the State Bar Council under this Chapter; [(f) he has paid, in respect of the enrolment, stamp duty, if any, chargeable under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), and an enrolment fee payable to the State Bar Council of [six hundred rupees and to the Bar Council of India, one hundred and fifty rupees by way of a bank draft drawn in favour of that Council]: Provided that where such person is a member of the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes and produces a certificate to that effect from such authority as may be prescribed, the enrolment fee payable by him to the State Bar Council shall be [one hundred rupees and to the Bar Council of India, twenty-five rupees].