On the other hand, the respondents contend that this clearly a case where the Petitioners claim refund of an over-charge in respect of goods carried by railway, and, therefore, admittedly, the Petitioners claim that they have been charged more than what they should have been charged because the circular under which inflated distance charge was levied had been withdrawn, and was not operative during the period in question. Despite this, the Petitioners were compelled to pay the inflated distance charge. 10. In our view, the submission urged on behalf of the respondents must prevail, and the same is clearly supported by the principles laid down by the Apex Court in Birla Cement Works v. G.M., Western Railways, (1995) 2 SCC 493 : AIR 1995 SC 1111. The petitioner therein manufacturer of Cement at Chittorgarh in Rajasthan, had transported cement to various destinations through railway carriages. Prior to 3rd May, 1989, the Petitioner got the cement transported through meter gauge from the railway siding at Chanderia. After conversion into broad gauge the railway siding was at Difthkola Chittor Broad Gauge Rail [2024] 3 S.C.R. 1099 Union of India v. M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. Link. Consequently, 34 kilometres’ distance was added to levy freight charges. Thereafter, between May-June, 1989 and March, 1990 the Petitioner had booked various consignments of cement and transported them to diverse destinations and paid the freight charges. Later, on January 21, 1991, the Petitioner had sent a notice to the Western Railway under section 78-B of the Indian Railway Act, 1890, claiming refund of different amounts. Since it was rejected, the Petitioner laid a claim under section 16 of the Act before the Railway Claims Tribunal, which dismissed the petition holding the same to be barred under section 78-B of the Indian Railway Act, 1890. xxx xxx xxx 16. [...] Having regard to the scheme of the Act, we are satisfied that it provides a complete mechanism for correcting any error, whether of fact or law, and that not only a remedy is provided by way of claim before a Tribunal, but also a further appeal to this Court, which is a Civil Court. It would, therefore, not be appropriate for this Court, in exercise of its writ jurisdiction, to give relief, which authority, in law, has been vested in the Claims Tribunal under section 13 of the Railway Claims Tribunal Act, 1987. xxx xxx xxx 18. We, therefore, find no merit in this Writ Petition, and the same is accordingly dismissed, and Rule discharged, but without prejudice to the right of the petitioners to seek remedy before the appropriate forum, if so advised.” (Emphasis supplied) 52. The aforesaid decision of the Bombay High Court came to be challenged before this Court. A 2-Judge Bench of this Court in Rajasthan State Electricity Board v. Union of India reported in (2008) 5 SCC 632, set-aside the High Court’s and held the appellant therein to be entitled to refund of the freight charges. The relevant observations read as under: - “4.