Failure to appropriately invoke and apply Section 149 enables large number of offenders to get away with the crime. * * * * * 22. When a large number of people gather together (assemble) and commit an offence, it is possible that only some of the members of the assembly commit the 2 [2018] 6 SCR 1050 : (2018) 7 SCC 743 52 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports crucial act which renders the transaction an offence and the remaining members do not take part in that “crucial act” — for example in a case of murder, the infliction of the fatal injury. It is in those situations, the legislature thought it fit as a matter of legislative policy to press into service the concept of vicarious liability for the crime. Section 149 IPC is one such provision. It is a provision conceived in the larger public interest to maintain the tranquility of the society and prevent wrongdoers (who actively collaborate or assist the commission of offences) claiming impunity on the ground that their activity as members of the unlawful assembly is limited. * * * * * 34. For mulcting liability on the members of an unlawful assembly under Section 149, it is not necessary that every member of the unlawful assembly should commit the offence in prosecution of the common object of the assembly. Mere knowledge of the likelihood of commission of such an offence by the members of the assembly is sufficient. For example, if five or more members carrying AK 47 rifles collectively attack a victim and cause his death by gunshot injuries, the fact that one or two of the members of the assembly did not in fact fire their weapons does not mean that they did not have the knowledge of the fact that the offence of murder is likely to be committed. 32. It is true that there are certain lacunae in the prosecution. The scribe Kuldeep was not examined. Similarly, the younger brother Laxmi Narain was not examined though it has come on record that Laxmi Narain was killed in the year 1993 and in that case one of the accused is the appellant himself. It is also true that neither any country-made pistol was recovered nor any cartridge, empty or otherwise, recovered. However, the appellant has been roped in with the aid of Section 149 IPC. Therefore, as held by this Court in Yunis alias Kariya Vs. State of M.P.,3 no overt act is required to be imputed to a particular person when the charge is under Section 149 IPC; the presence of the accused as part of the unlawful assembly 3 (2003) 1 SCC 425 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 53 Nitya Nand v. State of U.P. & Anr. is sufficient for conviction. It is clear from the evidence of PW-1 and PW-2 that the appellant was part of the unlawful assembly which committed the murder. Though they were extensively cross-examined, their testimony in this regard could not be shaken. 33.