III. Intimation emails dated 14.05.2024 were issued to social media companies to remove/withdraw all advertisements of aforesaid 14 ayurvedic medicine/formulations, if any, suspended 424 [2024] 8 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports vide dated 15.04.2024 passed by State Drug Licensing Authority Ayurvedic and Unani Services, Dehradun, Uttarakhand, wherein such posts have been issued by third party individuals/entities who are not associated with any of the Respondent No. 5 verified social media handles. The said request was made directly to the Social Media Intermediaries as Respondent No. 5 has not direct control on any such handle which belongs to third party individuals/entities and any notice/take down action can only be initiated by the Social media Intermediary themselves. A true copy of the emails dated 14.05.2024 sent to social media platforms/companies namely, X (Twitter), YouTube, Google and Meta (Facebook & Instagram) are annexed herewith and marked as ANNEXURE R-3 at pages 28-35. Copies of the aforesaid emails dated 14.05.2024 written to various agencies, media houses and social media platforms are tabulated hereinbelow for ready reference of this Hon’ble Court: S. No. Medicines 1. Patanjali (Exclusive/Franchise Stores 2. Patanjali Super Distributors 3. Sanskar Group 4. Vermillion Team 5. Fit India (E Commerce Partner) 6. Meta (Facebook) 7. Google LLC 8. Meta (Instagram) 9. Rights Ad communication Private Limited 10. X Corp (Twitter) 11. Vedic Broadcasting Limited 12. YouTube (Google LLC) [2024] 8 S.C.R. 425 In Re: Patanjali Ayurved Ltd. Through Its Mangg. Dir., Acharya Balkrishna & Baba Ramdev in The Matter of: Indian Medical Asso. and another v. Union of India and others Combine Communications Private 13. Limited 14. Aastha Broad Casting Network Pvt. Ltd. 7. Respondent No. 5 has further intimated/conveyed all its franchise and stores to withdraw/remove any offending advertisement material. 8. The Respondent No. 5 further states that it has the highest regard for the s/directions passed by this Hon’ble Court and further it will comply with any other directions/instructions as directed by this Hon’ble Court in to meet the compliance of s passed by this Hon’ble Court.” M. ARTICLE 129 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA AND CONTEMPT OF COURTS ACT, 1971 22. Before examining the conduct of the proposed contemnors in the aforesaid background, we may note the relevant provisions of law. Article 129 of the Constitution declares the Supreme Court to be “a court of record” and states that it shall have all the powers of such a court including the power to punish for contempt of itself. The provisions of Contempt of Courts Act, 19717 and the Rules framed thereunder form a part of a special statutory jurisdiction that is vested in courts to punish an offending party for its contemptuous conduct. It needs no emphasis that the power of contempt ought to be exercised with caution, care and sparingly. The contemptuous act complained of must be such that would result in obstruction of justice, adversely affect the majesty of law and impact the dignity of the courts of law. 23. It must also be understood that contempt proceedings are sui generis inasmuch as the Law of Evidence and the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 are strictly inapplicable.