2 did not have any choice but to lodge an FIR in which a closure report was filed and accepted also. She further submitted that even during this period of five years, the child had been coming to her parents off and on. It was further submitted that after the closure report in the aforesaid FIR was accepted, respondent No. 2 filed a complaint dated 27.03.2017 under Sections 363, 346, 120-B IPC with reference to the custody of the child. The aforesaid complaint is stated to be still pending. In a petition9 filed by the appellants and respondents No. 7 and 9 seeking quashing of the complaint, further proceedings in the complaint have been stayed by the High Court of Orissa. Immediately after filing of the aforesaid complaint by respondent No. 2, his wife, i.e., biological mother of the child, filed the petition in the High Court of Judicature at Patna praying for issuance of directions to the official respondents to recover the child from the wrongful confinement of the private respondents therein. The aforesaid petition was dismissed as withdrawn with liberty to avail any other remedy in accordance with law. 7.1 Explaining the delay in filing the petition before the High Court, learned counsel for respondent No. 2 submitted that it is was because of COVID pandemic. She further submitted that since 8 (2010) 2 SCC 654 9 CRLMC N0. 549 of 2019 16 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 2015, the biological parents of the child have not even been able to meet her. Respondent No. 2 was and is able to take care of all the needs of the child and provide her best education, as is being provided to the sister of the child as twins were born. It was further argued that appellant No. 1 got married with respondent No. 10, who is a stranger to the family. In terms of Mohammedan law, custody of the child cannot be given to the stranger, who is beyond prohibitory degree for marriage but she fairly submitted that they all are living in a joint family. 7.2 It was further argued that one of the prayers made by the appellants before this Court is that appellant No. 2 be permitted to stay for some time with the child in case custody is handed over to respondent No. 2 so that the child settles in new atmosphere. Respondent No. 2 does not have any objection to the fair offer made by the appellants. In fact, when the child was handed over to appellant No.1, she was un-married. However, thereafter she got married and is having two children. The child may be discriminated. If the custody of the child is handed over to respondent No. 2, the distance between Patna and Rourkela being not much, the appellants are always welcome to visit the child. The question is also of the identity of the child which has been lost in the process. If she comes back, she will also have love, affection and company of her twin sister.