However, a similarly situated immigrant, who is yet to be detected by the state, can continue to stay in Assam without incurring any liability of deportation. 153. Thus, from an analysis of the scheme of Section 6A and the corresponding rules along with the decision in the case of Moslem Mandal (supra), it is as clear as the noon-day sun that placing temporal limitations on the benefits available under Section 6A appears to have been one of the objects of the legislation - as otherwise the provision would go against the spirit of the Assam Accord. 154. It is pertinent to mention that even the permit system, which was brought in after the partition of the country to allow the immigrants from Pakistan to migrate to India had a temporal limit to its applicability. The said system was brought to an end on 26.12.1952 by the Influx from Pakistan (Control) Repealing Act, 1952. Seen in this context, it appears to me to be unreasonable why Section 6A of the Citizenship Act, which too was brought in to deal with a one-time extraordinary situation, should be allowed to continue for all times to come. 155. Continuance of the exercise of detection indefinitely without any temporal limitations promotes the immigrants to stay in Assam, and the immigrants residing in the neighbouring states to come into Assam92 in the hope of never being detected as a foreigner, or of setting up a defence under Section 6A of the Citizenship Act upon identification to claim its benefit. iii. Absurd consequences arising out of Section 6A(3) in the absence of any temporal limits to its application. 156. Shri S.W. Dhabe, Member of the Rajya Sabha, during discussion on the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 1985 mentioned93: - 92 sAnGeetA BArooAh pishAroty, supra note 45, “That the government gave a general amnesty to such migrants in Assam, have also led some to presume that it might have encouraged that category of people from other b states to move into Assam. Since the government didn’t register the category of people who came to the state post the 1950 citizenship cut-off date before granting the general amnesty of 1971, there is no data, though, to pin down exactly how many people benefitted from the exclusive cut-off date in Assam.”. 93 Session No. 136, Rajya Sabha Deb., Statement of Shri. S.W. Dhabe on The Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 1985 at cols. 371-372 (Dec. 2, 1985). [2024] 10 S.C.R. 1207 In Re : Section 6A of The Citizenship Act 1955 “What do you mean by “ten years from the date on which he has been detected to be a foreigner”? In Sub-Clause (5) on page 3 it is stated: “A person registered under sub- section (3) shall be deemed to be a citizen of India for all purposes as from the date of expiry of a period of ten years from the date on which he has been detected to be a foreigner.” Suppose you take 15 years or 20 years or 30 years for detection purposes, the person shall not be eligible to vote for ten years after the detection.