The operative part of the reported as Sita Soren v. Union of India4, is extracted below: “24. We are inclined to agree …that the view which has been expressed in the decision of the majority in PV Narasimha Rao requires to be reconsidered by a larger Bench. Our reasons prima facie for doing so are formulated below: Firstly, the interpretation of Article 105(2) and the corresponding provisions of Article 194(2) of the Constitution 3 [1998] 2 SCR 870 : (1998) 4 SCC 626 4 [2023] 12 SCR 753 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1217 [2024] 3 S.C.R. 479 Sita Soren v. Union of India must be guided by the text, context and the object and purpose underlying the provision. The fundamental purpose and object underlying Article 105(2) of the Constitution is that Members of Parliament, or as the case may be of the State Legislatures must be free to express their views on the floor of the House or to cast their votes either in the House or as members of the Committees of the House without fear of consequences. While Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution recognises the individual right to the freedom of speech and expression, Article 105(2) institutionalises that right by recognising the importance of the Members of the Legislature having the freedom to express themselves and to cast their ballots without fear of reprisal or consequences. In other words, the object of Article 105(2) or Article 194(2) does not prima facie appear to be to render immunity from the launch of criminal proceedings for a violation of the criminal law which may arise independently of the exercise of the rights and duties as a Member of Parliament or of the legislature of a state; Secondly, in the course of in PV Narasimha Rao, Justice S.C. Agarwal noted a serious anomaly if the construction in support of the immunity under Article 105(2) for a bribe taker were to be accepted: a member would enjoy immunity from prosecution for such a charge if the member accepts the bribe for speaking or giving their vote in Parliament in a particular manner and in fact speaks or gives a vote in Parliament in that manner. On the other hand, no immunity would attach, and the member of the legislature would be liable to be prosecuted on a charge of bribery if they accept the bribe for not speaking or for not giving their vote on a matter under consideration before the House but they act to the contrary. This anomaly, Justice Agarwal observed, would be avoided if the words “in respect of” in Article 105(2) are construed to mean ‘arising out of’. In other words, in such a case, the immunity would be available only if the speech that has been made or the vote that has been given is an essential and integral part for the cause of action for the proceedings giving rise to the law; and 480 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports Thirdly, the of Justice SC Agarwal has specifically dwelt on the question as to when the offence of bribery would be complete.