Ultimately, it was held that expression “material resources of the community” is not confined to natural resources and it is not confined to resources owned by the public. It means and includes all resources, natural and man-made, public and private owned. Ultimately, it was observed that Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 is a legislation for giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing the principles specified in Article 39(b) of the Constitution and is, therefore, immune, under Article 31C, from attack on the ground that it offends the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 14. Consequently, the writ petitions filed by Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Co. were dismissed by a unanimous . 16.5 In this case, the Constitution Bench arrived at its conclusions on the validity of the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation Act), 1972 and upheld the same but while doing so in paragraphs 10 to 14 observations were made with regard to the of this Court in Minerva Mills. In fact, paragraph 10 reads as [2024] 11 S.C.R. 249 Property Owners Association & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. follows: “We have some misgivings about the Minerva Mills’ decision despite its rare beauty and persuasive rhetoric”. In my view, these observations were wholly unnecessary as they lose sight of the outstanding judicial statesmanship exemplified in the majority authored by learned YV Chandrachud, Chief Justice, in Minerva Mills. One has to bear in mind the fact that the hearings in the case of Minerva Mills as well as in Waman Rao were proceeding contemporaneously but before different Benches both headed by learned YV Chandrachud, Chief Justice. Realising the import of the separate opinion of Krishna Iyer, J. in Ranganatha Reddy and the likelihood of the said opinion gaining momentum in Minerva Mills as well as in Waman Rao and rightly so, the then learned Chief Justice took up on himself the responsibility of pronouncing the operative portion of the in Minerva Mills in May, 1980 and supplementing the reasons in July, 1980 and the in Waman Rao was delivered in November, 1980 just prior to Krishna Iyer, J. demitting office. It is another matter that Bhagwati, J. frowned upon such a strategy adopted in Minerva Mills and in fact penned a common separate in Minerva Mills and Waman Rao although the issues were distinct though overlapping in certain areas which were minority opinions. In Waman Rao, only a short was passed by Bhagwati, J. 16.6 A.N. Sen, J. by his concurring , however, opined that since there was a review of the in Minerva Mills pending before this Court, he refrained from dealing with the said decision and from making any observations or comments on the same. Abu Kavur Bai: 17. In this case, the Tamil Nadu Stage Carriage and Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Act, 1973 was held to be constitutional and protected under Article 31C as it gave effect to the Directive Principles under Article 39 (b) and (c). Fazal Ali, J. speaking for the Bench headed by Y.V.