17. Turning back to the three post 1900 deeds, we are not in agreement with the reasoning of the High Court in full. On remarriage of Chiruthey, after the death of Madhavan, her title or interest over the suit property stood lapsed in terms of Section 2 of the 1856 Act. Thus, Chiruthey’s right to deal with property derived from Madhavan stood extinguished so far as the deed of 14th July 1910 is concerned (Exhibit A-20). But it was not Chiruthey alone who had executed that instrument, it was Nangeli and also Sankaran, (son of Chiruthey) who had executed it and remained valid legal heirs of Madhavan (since deceased). There is no conflict at least on that point. We have no material before us that Madhavan had any other legal heir. In such a situation, even if we 392 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports discount Chiruthey’s title over the property forming subject of lease, it stood conveyed by its actual owners i.e., Nangeli and Sankaran. To that extent, we accept the validity of the lease deed, that was otherwise proved in the Trial Court. Once we find the Exhibit A-20 to be valid conveyance, we do not think the corollary transaction which is marked as Exhibit A-1 bearing No.2329/1910, by which the same property was leased back to Chiruthey and Kuttiperavan to be invalid. These back-to-back transactions may be unusual, but in absence of any evidence pointing to any illegality, we hold them to be valid. The High Court on finding that these deeds are valid restored the Trial Court’s and decree. The underlying reasoning of the High Court was that Chiruthey had legitimate right over the property. We however, find a flaw in this reasoning of the of the High Court. 18. The High Court as also the Trial Court have held that since the deeds were proved, implying that Cheruthey had the right to execute the lease deed on 14th July 1910 so far as the deed of re-lease is concerned, the same might entitle her to be the beneficiary as a lessee thereof. But it would be trite to repeat that even if subsistence of a deed is proved in evidence, the title of the executing person (in this case Chiruthey) does not automatically stand confirmed. If a document seeking to convey immovable property ex-facie reveals that the conveyer does not have the title over the same, specific declaration that the document is invalid would not be necessary. The Court can examine the title in the event any party to the proceeding sets up this defence. Chiruthey could not convey any property over which she did not have any right or title. Her right, if any, would stem from the second deed of lease (Exhibit A-1). We are conscious of the fact that no claim was made before any forum for invalidating the deed dated 14th July 1910 (Exhibit A-20). But in absence of proper title over the subject property, that lease deed even if she was its sole lessor would not have had been legally valid or enforceable.