The test that has to be applied is one which is more than prima facie case as exercised at the time of framing of charge, but short of satisfaction to an extent that the evidence, if goes unrebutted, would lead to conviction. In the absence of such satisfaction, the court should refrain from exercising power under Section 319 CrPC…..” 16. The degree of satisfaction required to exercise power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. is well settled after the above-referred decision. The evidence before the trial court should be such that if it goes 16 [2024] 6 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports unrebutted, then it should result in the conviction of the person who is sought to be summoned. As is evident from the above-referred decision, the degree of satisfaction that is required to exercise power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. is much stricter, considering that it is a discretionary and an extra-ordinary power. Only when the evidence is strong and reliable, can the power be exercised. It requires much stronger evidence than mere probability of his complicity. 17. In this background, we will examine the evidence on record which prompted the trial court to exercise the power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. PW-1, who is the mother of the deceased, is the only witness who has named the appellants. 17.1 In the first information statement, she has taken the name of the appellants as having played a role in the commission of the crime owing to the past enmity between the two families. The relevant portion of this statement is as follows: “I am quite sure that my son Vijay Singh has been jointly murdered by Bachha Singh s/o Mohan Singh, Shankar s/o Bacha Singh, Vishal s/o Bacha Singh- residents of Raha and Sanjay s/o Munna Singh, Kallu Singh s/o Munna Singh-residents of Jalala, Police Station Ghatampur. We have an old existing enmity with these people.” 17.2 However, in her Section 161 statement, she has stated that the appellants were not involved and that she named them without collecting full information. Two other witness, Rajau Sengar and Karan Singh, in their Section 161 statements have also stated that the appellants had no role whatsoever in the commission of the crime. Relevant portion of PW-1’s statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C., is as follows:- “…I had lent Rs. 8000 to Mahendra Singh long ago after selling Lahi. Vijay Singh had asked Mahendra Singh many times to repay the borrowed money but he did not give it back. Coming under the guise of this assurance, Vijay Singh left on Mahendra’s motorcycle. Sanjay Singh and Kallu Singh sons of Munna Singh and Bacha Singh s/o Mohan Singh were also standing at some distance outside the house. [2024] 6 S.C.R. 17 Shankar v. The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. They also lured my son Vijay Singh and accompanied Vijay Singh and Mahendra Singh and all four of them killed my son Vijay Singh and threw the dead body in the field near the tubewell of Mahendra Pratap Singh Bhadoria.