21. Shri Devi Dayal Prajapati deposed as PW-5. He has stated that on the date of receipt of the first information, he had recorded the statements of Laxmi Narain, Bhola Shankar, Kuldeep Kumar and the witnesses of the panchnama. Despite search, the accused persons were not found and, therefore, they could not be arrested. Thereafter, investigation was taken over by PW-4. 21.1. In his cross-examination, he admitted that though he had taken blood sample from the stairs where the dead body of Satya Narain was found, he did not send the sampled blood for chemical examination. Though he had recorded the statement of the informant, the latter did not mention in his statement that his uncle Shree Dev had exhorted the other accused persons to kill his father and that he should not be spared as he had grabbed the property of his younger brother. Again, he did not mention in the case diary that Bhola Shankar was present on the spot. That apart, Bhola Shankar did not mention the names of any assailant. 22. From the evidence tendered on behalf of the prosecution, it is clear that PW-1 and PW-2 are the eyewitnesses. When PW-1 Satya Narain and Laxmi Narain had reached Har Ki Pauri at Ambhagarh Akhada, they were joined by Kuldeep and Bhola Shankar (PW-2). PW-1 and Laxmi Narain went ahead talking with Kuldeep and PW- 2. Satya Narain was walking down the steps for a dip in the river. At that time, the accused persons arrived at the scene from the southern side of Tulsi Park. Both PW-1 and PW-2 were categorical in their evidence that Shree Dev was armed with a danda, Munna Lal was armed with kanta and Raju and Uchchav were armed with knives. Appellant Nitya Nand was carrying a country-made pistol in his hand. Though the appellant did not assault Satya Narain, the other accused persons actively participated in the assault. Hearing the cries of Satya Narain, PW-1, PW-2, Kuldeep and Laxmi Narain rushed back. When they had reached near the crime scene, appellant Nitya Nand fired a shot in the air from his country-made pistol to frighten PW-1 and the others. As the appellant fired in the air, all the accused persons escaped from the crime scene. [2024] 9 S.C.R. 49 Nitya Nand v. State of U.P. & Anr. 23. At this stage, we may mention that PW-2 was categorical in his cross-examination that he had seen the incident with his own eyes and that PW-1 was also with him then. 24. Neither PW-1 nor PW-2 has stated that appellant had fired at them nor he had fired at the deceased. The role attributed to the appellant was helping the other accused persons and himself flee from the scene of crime by frightening the people including PW-1 and PW-2 when they were about to reach the crime scene by firing from his country-made pistol into the air. The fact that the death of Satya Narain was homicidal has been fully established by the post-mortem report as well as by the evidence of PW-3 i.e.