31. The implications of the IBA Guidelines and their application will now have to be considered. 32. The IBA Guidelines have also been adopted in the V and VII Schedule to the Indian Arbitration Act and since the Award here is dated 27.09.2014, the IBA Guidelines of the year 2004 would be relevant and applicable. The working group of the IBA had determined the standards/guidelines to bring about clarity and uniformity of application and accordingly, the Red, Orange and Green lists were appended to the Guidelines, to ensure consistency and to avoid unnecessary challenges and withdrawals and removals of arbitrators. The IBA Guidelines require an arbitrator to refuse appointment in case of any doubts as to impartiality or independence. The Arbitrator is also expected to disclose such facts or circumstances to the parties which might compromise the arbitrator’s impartiality or independence. In the event of any doubt on whether an arbitrator should disclose certain facts or circumstances, the issue should be resolved in favour of disclosure. This is because an arbitrator is not expected to serve in a situation of conflict of interest. An arbitrator is also under a duty to make reasonable enquiry to investigate any potential conflict of interest. 33. The relevant entries in the non-waivable Red list, the waivable Red list, the Orange list and the Green list would suggest that those were intended to ensure the fairness of the process and also make certain that the arbitrator is impartial and also independent of the parties. Such position of the arbitrator vis-à-vis the dispute should exist not only while accepting the appointment but must continue throughout the entire arbitration proceeding until it terminates. [2024] 3 S.C.R. 989 Avitel Post Studioz Limited & Ors. v. HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius) Limited (Previously Named Hpeif Holdings 1 Limited) 34. In the impugned , the High Court adverted to the IBA Guidelines in some detail and noticed that Mr. Christopher Lau (Chairman of the Arbitral Tribunal) was an independent non-executive Director of two companies – Wing Tai and Neptune. The learned judge then considered whether he ought to have disclosed such relationship before taking up the assignment of arbitration. The Court noticed that the Award Debtors raised an omnibus objection and had invoked the non-waivable Red list as well as the waivable Red list as also the Orange list of the IBA Guidelines to claim that the arbitrators were under a duty of disclosure. With such broad- based contentions, the appellants urged that Mr. Lau having failed to disclose the circumstances, the likelihood of bias was very strong and this would vitiate the foreign Award, sought to be enforced in India. 35. Adverting to the specific entries in the IBA Guidelines, pertaining to the alleged bias of Mr. Christopher Lau (the Chairman of the Arbitral Tribunal), the High Court reached the following conclusion: 35.1. The circumstance alleged by the award debtor for arbitral bias is the business interaction between one of the group companies of the award holder with independent private companies i.e., Wing Tai and Neptune wherein Mr. Lau was an independent non-executive director.