The appellants herein filed an application in CWP No. 5960 of 2022, before the High Court of Himachal Pradesh, praying for amending the writ petition so as to challenge the second of NGT. Since common issues were being considered by this Court in Civil Appeal Nos.5348-5349 of 2019, this Court vide an dated 14th November 2022, directed the transfer of the said CWP No. 5960 of 2022 before itself. III. SUBMISSIONS 5. We have heard Shri Anup Rattan, learned Advocate General appearing on behalf of the State of Himachal Pradesh, Shri Vinay Kuthalia, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Shimla Municipal Corporation and Shri Sanjay Parikh, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the common respondent No.1 in Civil Appeal Nos.5348-5349 of 2019 and Transferred Case (Civil) No.2 of 2023.. Submissions on behalf of the Appellants: 6. It is submitted on behalf of the appellants that the State was fully aware of its duties and responsibilities as envisaged by the Constitution of India as well as the relevant statutory provisions. It is submitted that while finalizing the development plan, the State has adopted a proactive role to ensure that a balance is struck between the developmental and environmental issues. 7. It is submitted on behalf of the appellants that the development plan has been finalized in exercise of statutory powers vested in the appellants under Sections 13 to 20 of the TCP Act, after considering all the recommendations and suggestions of various expert bodies and technical committees as well as the directions and recommendations of the NGT. 8. It is submitted on behalf of the appellants that a bare perusal of Chapters 12 and 17 of the development plan would go to show that the entire environmental aspects as well as the suggestions and directions of the NGT issued vide first of NGT have been fully and duly considered before finalizing the development plan. 988 [2024] 1 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 9. It is submitted on behalf of the appellants that while taking steps to finalise the development plan, the appellants have attempted to balance the developmental requirements for catering to the needs of the expanding population, with the safeguards to preserve and protect the environment. It is submitted that while finalizing the development plan, the entire procedure as prescribed under the Statutes was duly followed. 10. The learned Advocate General as well as Shri Kuthalia submitted that the planning regulations divide the areas into different categories. It is submitted that, in to protect the environment, various stringent provisions have been made such as: (i) “In the core area, only 2 storeys + attic is permitted and parking floor is permitted only in those plots which are accessible by motorable road; (ii) In the non-core area and the Planning Area, only 3 storeys + attic is permitted and parking floor is only permitted in plots which are adjacent to motorable roads; and (iii) Rebuilding and reconstruction of old buildings has been permitted strictly on old lines. With the efflux of time in many buildings, there are different owners of each floor; (iv) In green belt areas which are lying between constructed areas, only single storey construction with attic is permissible.