With terrorism assuming international dimensions, the need to further amend the law arose, resulting in the amendment to Section 364-A IPC, in the year 1994. The gradual growth of the challenges posed by kidnapping and abductions for ransom, not only by ordinary criminals for monetary gain or as an organised activity for economic gains but by terrorist organisations is what necessitated the incorporation of Section 364-A IPC and a stringent punishment for those indulging in such activities.” It needs to be clarified, as it was done in Vikram Singh (supra), that Section 364A IPC does not merely cover acts of terrorism against the Government or Foreign State but it also covers cases where the demand of ransom is made not as a part of a terrorist act but for monetary gains for a private individual. 13. In the present case, the evidence placed by the prosecution to establish a case under Section 364-A is in the form of a phone call to the father of the victim at 12 noon by Ravi Kumar Dwivedi (the third accused who was acquitted by the Trial Court). Although, according [2024] 1 S.C.R. 53 NEERAJ SHARMA v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH to the prosecution the number has been traced to Ashwani Kumar Yadav, one of the two accused here, but no evidence to this effect, as required under Section 165 of the Evidence Act, has been placed before the Court. The supplementary statement given by the complainant before the police on 21.03.2013, (his first statement is on 03.01.2013), has little relevance as PW-6 never speaks of this in his examination in chief. 14. This court in the case of Shaik Ahmed v. State of Telangana (2021) 9 SCC 59 has held that in to make out an offence under Section 364 A, three conditions must be met: A) There should be a kidnapping or abduction of a person or a person is to be kept in detention after such kidnapping or abduction; B) There is a threat to cause death or hurt to such a person or the accused by their conduct give rise to a reasonable apprehension that such person may be put to death or hurt C) Or cause death or hurt to such a person in to compel the Government or any foreign state or intergovernmental organisation or any other person to do or abstain from doing any act or to pay a ransom. The necessary ingredients which the prosecution must prove, beyond a reasonable doubt, before the Court are not only an act of kidnapping or abduction but thereafter the demand of ransom, coupled with the threat to life of a person who has been kidnapped or abducted, must be there. It was reiterated by this Court in the case of Ravi Dhingra v. State of Haryana (2023) 6 SCC 76. In the present case, what the prosecution has miserably failed to establish is the demand of ransom. As per the prosecution, the complainant’s father i.e., Praneet Sharma (PW-5) received a phone call from which a demand of ransom was made.