This could not be undone by applying the provisions of the 1997 Act which was a subsequent legislation. In other words, in 1970, the tenancy was heritable and thus the appellants along with their mother had become tenants on the property/premises. 9. On the other hand, learned counsel Mr. Sabyasachi Chowdhary appearing on behalf of the respondent-landlord would rely on the findings given by the High Court, in the present case, and in addition, he would rely upon two s of the Calcutta High Court Sri. Sushil Kumar Jain & Ors. v. Pilani Properties Limited, 2017 SCC OnLine CAL 18807 and Satyanarayana More v. Milagrina Rose Correia, 2020 SCC OnLine CAL 957, which are both Division Bench s laying down a law contrary to the in Goutam Dey (supra). The Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court in Sushil Kumar (supra) had in fact overruled the of the Single Judge in Goutam Dey (supra). It relied on the statement of objects and reasons of the 1997 Act and its purpose which was to do away with the heritability of tenancy. The relevant paragraphs have been reproduced below: “20. The underlying logic of the in Goutam Dey is that if a right vests in a person under a statute, the same cannot be undone. As a proposition of law it may sound attractive, but it will not hold good in all cases. While it is true that certain rights if they vest under a predecessor statute 658 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports cannot be undone by a successor statute, the purpose of the statutes, the nature of the rights and the extent of the vesting of such rights are relevant considerations. 21. The 1956 Act provided for a degree of protection to certain classes of tenants in this State. In course of time, the legislative wisdom provided for a relaxation in the norms such that the protection was limited to a smaller class of persons and in certain specified situations by the Act of 1997. It cannot be said, for instance, that merely because a tenancy had been created prior to the 1997 Act, the protection enjoyed under the 1956 Act would continue even after the 1997 Act has come into operation. The 1997 Act does not admit of such a situation… * * * 23. It must also be added that courts ought to be very cautious before finding words used in the statute to be otiose or meaningless. The intention of Section 2(g) of the 1997 Act is to regard heirs of the original tenant who were dependent on him and were residing with him at the time of his death as tenants for a period of five years. That would imply that for a period of five years from the death of the original tenant, the heirs of the original tenant who were dependent on the original tenant and were residing with him will be entitled to the same protection under Section 6 of the 1997 Act as the original tenant.