While laying down the law on the doctrine of stare decisis, the Court held that in certain cases the Court may reconsider its decisions, particularly when they prove to be “unworkable” or “contrary to well-established principles”. The Court also adverted to the transition in the practice of the House of Lords in the UK, from an absolute prohibition on reconsidering previous decisions to the present position, which permits overruling of decisions in certain circumstances. The Court also quoted the Canadian position to the effect that while precedent should not routinely be deviated from reconsidering previous decisions is permissible when it is necessary in “public interest”. 38. The decision in Keshav Mills (supra) interpreted the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1922 and in the circumstances of that case, the Court did not find any compelling reasons to reconsider previous decisions on a similar point of law. The Court recognized that it is permissible in circumstances where it is in the “interests of the public” or if there are any other “valid” or “compulsive” reasons, to reconsider a prior decision. Further, the Court noted that it would not be wise to lay down principles to govern the approach of the Court in reviewing its decisions as it is based on several considerations, including, the impact of the error on the “general administration of law” or on “public good”. This exposition is, in fact, contained in the same paragraph that the appellant relies on to advance a rigid understanding of stare decisis. The bench of seven judges of this Court (speaking through Gajendragadkar, CJ) observed: “23. […] In reviewing and revising its earlier decision, this Court should ask itself whether in the interests of the public good or for any other valid and compulsive reasons, it is necessary that the earlier decision should be revised. When this Court decides questions [2024] 3 S.C.R. 497 Sita Soren v. Union of India of law, its decisions are, under Article 141, binding on all courts within the territory of India, and so, it must be the constant endeavour and concern of this Court to introduce and maintain an element of certainty and continuity in the interpretation of law in the country. Frequent exercise by this Court of its power to review its earlier decisions on the ground that the view pressed before it later appears to the Court to be more reasonable, may incidentally tend to make law uncertain and introduce confusion which must be consistently avoided. That is not to say that if on a subsequent occasion, the Court is satisfied that its earlier decision was clearly erroneous, it should hesitate to correct the error; but before a previous decision is pronounced to be plainly erroneous, the Court must be satisfied with a fair amount of unanimity amongst its members that a revision of the said view is fully justified. It is not possible or desirable, and in any case, it would be inexpedient to lay down any principles which should govern the approach of the Court in dealing with the question of reviewing and revising its earlier decisions.