The law on this aspect is no longer res integra. In the case of Rojasara Ramjibhai Dahyabhai [2024] 7 S.C.R. 411 Maharaj Singh & Ors. v. Karan Singh (Dead) Thr. Lrs. & Ors. v. Jani Narottamdas Lallubhai and another5, in paragraphs 12 to 14, this Court held thus: “12. Although Rana Mohabat Singh having failed to fulfil the terms of his contract with the appellant and execute a sale deed in his favour might have rendered the contract between them incapable of performance, but with the extinction of the title of Rana Mohabat Singh and the conferral of the rights of an occupant on the appellant, the property became transferable subject, of course, to the express covenant on the part of the appellant to do all things necessary to give effect to the agreement. Here, the suit banakhat (Ex. 25) embodies an express covenant to that effect. There is always in such contracts an implied covenant on the part of the vendor to do all things necessary to give effect to the agreement, including the obtaining of the permission for the transfer of the property. The principles on which a term of this nature may be implied in contracts are well-settled. It is enough to refer to Halsbury’s Laws of England, Vol. 8, 3rd Edn., p. 121 where the principles are summarised as follows: “In construing a contract, a term or condition not expressly stated may, under certain circumstances be implied by the court, if it is clear from the nature of the transaction or from something actually found in the document that the contracting parties must have intended such a term or condition to be a part of the agreement between them. Such an implication must in all cases be founded on the presumed intention of the parties and upon reason, and will only be made when it is necessary in to give the transaction that efficacy that both parties must have intended it to have, and to prevent such a failure of consideration as could not have been within the contemplation of the parties.” Chitty on Contracts Vol. 1, 23rd Edn., paras 694-95 points out that a term would be implied if it is necessary in the business sense, to give efficacy to the contract. 5 [1986] 2 SCR 447 : (1986) 3 SCC 300 412 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports 13. In this context, reference may be made to the decision of the Privy Council in Motilal v. Nanhelal [AIR 1930 PC 287 : (1930) 57 IA 333] . There, the facts were these. In that case, the plaintiff Mst Jankibai entered into an agreement to purchase from Rajbahadur Seth Jiwandas of Jabalpur four annas proprietary share of Mauja Raisalpur together with the sir and khudkast lands appurtenant thereto, with cultivating rights in the sir lands. The property was subject to the provisions of the Central Provinces Tenancy Act, 1920. She filed a suit for specific performance of the said contract. The Privy Council held that the contract was for a transfer of the sir lands without reservation of the right of occupancy, and that the sanction of the Revenue Officer to the transfer was necessary under Section 50(1) of the Act, which was in these terms: “50.