The relevant paragraph is reproduced as under: 692 [2024] 4 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports “14. The provision for an accused to be released on bail touches upon the liberty of an individual. It is for this reason that this Court does not ordinarily interfere with an of the High Court granting bail. However, where the discretion of the High Court to grant bail has been exercised without the due application of mind or in contravention of the directions of this Court, such an granting bail is liable to be set aside. The Court is required to factor, amongst other things, a prima facie view that the accused had committed the offence, the nature and gravity of the offence and the likelihood of the accused obstructing the proceedings of the trial in any manner or evading the course of justice. The provision for being released on bail draws an appropriate balance between public interest in the administration of justice and the protection of individual liberty pending adjudication of the case. However, the grant of bail is to be secured within the bounds of the law and in compliance with the conditions laid down by this Court. It is for this reason that a court must balance numerous factors that guide the exercise of the discretionary power to grant bail on a case-by-case basis. Inherent in this determination is whether, on an analysis of the record, it appears that there is a prima facie or reasonable cause to believe that the accused had committed the crime. It is not relevant at this stage for the court to examine in detail the evidence on record to come to a conclusive finding.” 18. Turning to the issue at hand, we note that Respondent No. 2; and Punit Pal have been charged under inter alia Section(s) 147, 148, 149, 323, 504, 506, 427, 394, 411, 302 and 120B IPC on the basis of the materials on record including but not limited to the post- mortem report; and statements of witnesses. Furthermore, on 2 (two) occasions there have been allegations levelled against Respondent No. 2; and Punit Pal alleging inter alia that the accused persons have attempted to intimidate the Appellant i.e., the Original Complainant and another identified witnesses in an effort to de-rail the trial in the present case. 19. Accordingly, in our considered opinion, the High Court ought not to have granted Respondent No. 2; and Punit Pal bail in relation to the proceedings emanating from the FIR on account of (i) the [2024] 4 S.C.R. 693 Ramayan Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Anr. seriousness of the crime; (ii) the conduct of the accused person(s); and (iii) the overall impact of the crime on society at large i.e., the accused person(s) were involved in a broad day-light murder which led to the closure of a market for a prolonged period of 10 (ten) days due to their overwhelming influence in the area. 20. In the aforementioned context, the impugned s dated 24.04.2023 and 31.10.2023 granting bail to accused Vivek Pal @ Vikki Pal and Punit Pal, respectively, cannot be sustained and are, accordingly, set aside.