It was argued before this Court that the plants in question did not satisfy the test of marketability and movability. This Court referred to the definition of movable property in Section 3(36) of the General Clauses Act, 1897, which defines movable property as property of every description except immovable property. The same enactment defines immovable property in Section 3(26), which is an inclusive definition which includes land, benefits to arise out of land, and things attached to the earth or permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth. This Court considered the definition of the expression “attached to the earth” in Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. In the facts of the case, it was held that the plants subject matter of the case, were not per se immovable property as the same cannot be said to get attached to the earth. This Court applied the movability test by holding that the setting up of the plant itself is not intended to be permanent at a given place. The plant can be removed or is indeed removed after the road construction or repair project is completed. The issue that we were called upon to decide about the meaning of the plant did not arise in this case. 48. Another decision of this Court in the case of Taj Mahal Hotel18 was pressed into service. The assessee was running a hotel. The issue arose in a cognate enactment in the sense in the enactment providing for levy of income-tax. The issue referred to the opinion of the High Court was whether sanitary fittings and pipelines installed in the hotel constituted a ‘plant’ within the meaning of Section 10(5) of the Income Tax Act, 1922. The definition of plant in Section 10(5) of the Income Tax Act, 1922 provided that ‘plant’ includes vehicles, scientific apparatus, surgical equipment, and books purchased for the purposes 35 [2010] 4 SCR 476 : (2010) 5 SCC 122 [2024] 10 S.C.R. 839 Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors. of business, profession or vocation. The Court considered whether the word plant should be given a broader meaning. In paragraph 6 of the said decision, this Court held thus: “6. Now it is well settled that where the definition of a word has not been given, it must be construed in its popular sense if it is a word of everyday use. Popular sense means “that sense which people conversant with the subject-matter with which the statute is dealing, would attribute to it”. In the present case, Section 10(5) enlarges the definition of the word “plant” by including in it the words which have already been mentioned before. The very fact that even books have been included shows that the meaning intended to be given to “plant” is wide. The word “includes” is often used in interpretation clauses in to enlarge the meaning of the words or phrases occurring in the body of the statute.