Though it is the stand of the appellants that they were in the process of establishing new institutions for getting them affiliated with the Khalsa University, a specific undertaking was given that the Khalsa College would not be touched or adversely affected by the establishment of the Khalsa University. Even during the course of hearing, a specific statement has been made by the appellants that the Khalsa College would not be affiliated with the Khalsa University. The maps have been placed on record which show the placement of Khalsa College in the campus along with the other institutions. The perusal of the said map would clearly reveal that it is only the Khalsa College established in 1892 which is a heritage one. All other buildings have been subsequently constructed having no resemblance with the Khalsa College building. It can thus be seen that the very foundation that Khalsa University would shadow and damage the character and pristine glory of Khalsa College which has, over a 492 [2024] 10 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports period of time, become a significant icon of Khalsa heritage is on a non-existent basis. It could thus be seen that the Impugned Act, which was enacted with a purpose which was non-existent, would fall under the ambit of manifest arbitrariness and would therefore be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. We are therefore of the considered view that the Impugned Act is also liable to be set aside on the same ground. 66. In the result, we pass the following : (i) The appeal is allowed; (ii) The impugned and dated 1st November 2017 passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh in C.W.P. No. 17150 of 2017 (O&M) is quashed and set aside; (iii) Writ Petition being C.W.P. No. 17150 of 2017 (O&M) is allowed and the Khalsa University (Repeal) Act, 2017 is struck down as being unconstitutional. The consequent direction is also issued to the effect that the Khalsa University Act, 2016 would be deemed to be in force and status quo as it obtained on 29th May 2017 would stand restored; and (iv) In the facts and circumstances of the case, no as to costs. 67. We place on record our appreciation for the valuable assistance provided by Shri P.S. Patwalia, learned Senior Counsel and Shri Shadan Farasat, Additional Advocate General for the State of Punjab. 68. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Result of the Case: Appeal allowed. †Headnotes prepared by: Ankit Gyan