Another example of such a category is the right of a country to be free from intervention by other countries, which also belongs to and is to be exercised by the nation as a whole.69 Unlike the previous two categories, the bearer of these rights is a collective unit and not individual constituents. Accordingly, the right can be claimed by the community at large or by an individual representing the entire community. 115. Based on the foregoing discussion, we believe that the right ensconced under Article 30 belongs to the second category, namely, 67 Ashoka Kumar Thakur v. Union of India (2008) 6 SCC 1, para 407. 68 Charter of United Nations (signed on 26 June, 1945) Art. 27. 69 Lukas Meyer et. Al. (ed. ), Rights, Culture, and the Law, Oxford University Press (2003) pp. 181. 1818 [2024] 11 S.C.R. Supreme Court Reports it is granted to a minority community at large but can be exercised by an individual or a group of individuals. This right does not fit into the first category because Article 30 specifically aims to uplift and protect certain minority communities, making membership in such a community a necessary pre-condition. At the same time, however, it is also distinct from the third category because the protection envisaged in Article 30 is toward individuals belonging to such a community and not the entire community as one single entity. Thus, while the right exists for the benefit of the whole community, it can be exercised qua its individual members rather than requiring collective action by the whole community.70 116. Having said that, it is important to emphasize that the technical issue of who can invoke Article 30 should not be used to oust the claim at the threshold. Procedure, ultimately, is the handmaiden of justice. This is especially true for contentions regarding locus and who can invoke a particular provision, especially when there is public interest at stake. Unless there is a risk of collusion between the parties or the Court believes that the interest of all the stakeholders might not be adequately represented and there might be some ‘invisible victims’, the Court typically refrains from scrutinizing who has invoked the constitutional provision and whether the claimant represents the entire community. Constitutional Courts are envisaged as liberal platforms where vital questions regarding the violation of Fundamental Rights can be analysed without being bogged down by procedural technicalities. In that sense, the substance of the claim usually takes precedence over its form, instead of the form foreclosing the substance at the very outset. 117. The locus standi of the Appellant is thus not undermined on this count as well. G.3. What is a ‘minority’ community? 118. Since during the course of hearing, or otherwise, the Respondents have not provided any reliable figures or substantial evidence to counter the Appellant’s position, it appears that it is not necessary to determine this issue at this stage, when only legal issues are being resolved. 70 Right Rev. Bishop S.K. Patro,supra note 66.