3. The High Court on its administrative side, however, recommended only thirteen candidates for appointment though the vacancies declared were twenty-two. A resolution to that effect was taken in a Full Court meeting held on 23.03.2023. We shall quote relevant provisions from the 2001 Rules in subsequent paragraphs of this along with the relevant extracts from the advertisement. In the advertisement, the relevant portions for adjudication of the subject dispute were contained under the heading ‘Eligibility and Conditions’. The following criteria for selection was specified therein:- “Preliminary Entrance Test (1) The Preliminary Entrance Test shall consist. Of:- i. General English ii. General Knowledge(including Current Affairs). iii. C.P.C. iv. Cr.P.C. v. Evidence Act vi. Law of Contract. vii. IPC (2) The Preliminary Entrance Test shall be of 100 in aggregate (3) Duration of Preliminary Entrance Test shall be of two hours. (4) There shall be negative marking of -1 mark (minus one)for each wrong answer. Main Examination (1) The Main Examination shall consist of:- [2024] 2 S.C.R. 221 Sushil Kumar Pandey & Ors. v. The High Court of Jharkhand & Anr. Paper -I Part- I Language (English) 50 Marks (Essay, Precis, Preposition and Comprehension etc,) Part- II (i) Procedural Law (Cr.P.C. & C.P.C) (ii) Law of Evidence (iii) Law of Limitation 50 Marks Paper- II Substantive Law 100 Marks (i) Constitution of India (ii) Indian Penal Code (iii) Law of Contract (iv) Sale of Goods Act (v) Transfer of Property Act (vi) Negotiable Instrument Act (vii) Law relating to Motor Vehicle Accident Claim (viii) Jurisprudence. (ix) Santhal Pargana Tenancy Act (x) Chhotanagpur Tenancy Act (xi) Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (pocso) (xii) Prevention Of Corruption Act (xiii) SC & ST Act (xiv) Electricity Act (xv) Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act) (2) Examination shall be held in two sittings of three hours duration for each paper. Viva-Voce Test (1) There shall be Viva-Voce Test of 40 marks. (2) The marks obtained in Viva-Voce Test shall be added to the marks obtained in Main Examination and the merit list shall be prepared accordingly. 222 [2024] 2 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports (3) No candidate irrespective of the marks obtained by him in the Main Examination, shall be eligible for selection for appointment, if he obtains less than 20 marks out of aggregate of 40 in the Viva-Voce. Test. Note:- Every differently abled candidate will be allowed “compensatory time” of 20 minutes for each hour of written examination.” 4. So far as the selection process involved in these proceedings is concerned, no preliminary entrance test was held, but that question is not in controversy before us. The main examination comprising of Paper-I and Paper-II carried a total of 200 marks. As per the advertisement, the marks allocated for viva-voce test was 40 as would appear from the preceding paragraph. A candidate irrespective of the marks obtained by him in the main examination was required to get at least 20 marks out of the aggregate 40 in the viva-voce test.