7248 and 7249 of 2024 Appearances for Parties A.M. Singhvi, Ramesh Singh, Mukul Rohatgi, C. U. Singh, Ritin Rai, Ms. Meenakshi Arora, Sr. Advs., Mohit D. Ram, Atman Mehta, Anand Pai, Vipul Patel, Ms. Monisha Handa, Rajul Shrivastav, Rachit Bharwada, Anubhav Sharma, Mahesh Agarwal, Parimal K. Shroff, Rishi Agrawala, Ankur Saigal, Anirudh Bhatia, Devansh Srivastava, Ms. Vidisha Swarup, E. C. Agrawala, R. Gopalakrishnan, Murtaza Kanchwalla, S. M. Algaus, Palash Moolchandani, Ms. Ekta Basin, Ms. Anushree Prashit Kapadia, Nishant Chothani, Ms. Ruchi Krishna Chauhan, Murtaza Kachwalla, Parimal Shroff, Victor Das, Anup Jain, Advs. for the appearing parties. / of the Supreme Court Abhay S. Oka, J. 1. The application for permission to file special leave petition is allowed. Leave granted. [2024] 7 S.C.R. 141 Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation Private Limited v. Samir Narain Bhojwani FACTUAL ASPECTS 2. These appeals take exception to the same and dated 7th July 2023 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay. Therefore, the same are being decided together. We are setting out a few factual aspects necessary for deciding the appeals. 3. On 31st March 1993, the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) executed a lease agreement in respect of the subject property in favour of Andheri Kamgar Nagar Co-operative Housing Society Limited (for short, ‘the Society’). It is stated to be a society of slum dwellers. The Society, by the agreement dated 6th October 1996, appointed M/s. Aurora Properties and Investments (for short, ‘M/s. Aurora’) as the property developer to implement a slum rehabilitation scheme. M/s. Aurora was to construct 237 rehabilitation tenements for slum dwellers and 40 tenements for project-affected persons (PAPs) free of cost and develop the property using the available Floor Space Index (FSI) and dispose of the same. It appears that M/s. Aurora could not discharge its obligations. Therefore, by the agreement dated 22nd September 1999 (described as an agreement for the grant of sub-development rights), the society appointed Bombay Slum Redevelopment Corporation Private Limited (the appellant) as the developer. Apart from taking over the obligations of M/s. Aurora under the development agreement dated 6th October 1996, the appellant corporation agreed to hand over 15,000 square feet of built- up area in the redeveloped property to M/s.Aurora against M/s. Aurora paying the cost of construction at Rs.600 per square foot. After that, the appellant started the development of the property. On 10th March 2003, an agreement was executed by and between the appellant and one Samir Narain Bhojwani (the respondent), under which the appellant retained 45% of the total available FSI and permitted the respondent to construct the free sale area by allotting him FSI to the extent of the remaining 55%. According to the appellant’s case, the respondent was appointed as a contractor to carry out the construction activities of the said building on the site. On 3rd July 2004, a deed of confirmation was executed to register the agreement dated 10th March 2003. Thereafter, on 11th September 2009, there was a letter/ tripartite agreement executed, to which M/s.