It is only when a legal, not a mere political, issue arises touching upon the existence or extent of a legal right that Article 131 is attracted. ………….. 113. I find it difficult to accept that the State as a polity is not entitled to raise a dispute of this nature. In a federation, whether classical or quasi-classical, the States are vitally interested in the definition of the powers of the Federal Government on one hand and their own on the other. A dispute bearing upon the delineation of those powers is precisely the one in which the federating States, no less than the Federal Government itself, are interested. The States, therefore, have the locus and the interest to contest and seek an adjudication of the claim set up by the Union Government. The bond of constitutional obligation between the Government of India and the States sustains that locus. 114. The expression “legal right” which occurs in Article 131 has to be understood in its proper perspective. In a strict sense, legal rights are correlative of legal duties and are defined as interests which the law protects by imposing 698 [2024] 7 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports corresponding duties on others. But in a generic sense, the word “right” is used to mean an immunity from the legal power of another: immunity is exemption from the power of another in the same way as liberty is exemption from the right of another. Immunity, in short, is “no-subjection”. [ Salmond’s Jurisprudence 11th Edn. pp. 276-7] R.W.M. Dias says in his “Jurisprudence” (1976 Edn., pp. 33-4) that the word “right” has undergone successive shifts in meaning and connotes four different ideas concerning the activity, or potential activity, of one person with reference to another. One of these four jural relationships, according to the learned Author, is the “you cannot” relationship, which is the same thing as the right of immunity which “denotes freedom from the power of another” (p. 58). Paton’s book on Jurisprudence (3rd Edn. p. 256) contains a similar exposition of legal rights. The legal right of the States consists in their immunity, in the sense of freedom from the power of the Union Government. They are entitled, under Article 131, to assert that right either by contending in the absolute that the Centre has no power to dissolve the Legislative Assemblies or with the qualification that such a power cannot be exercised on the ground stated. 115. It is true that the State, like the British Monarch, never dies. A Legislative Assembly may be dissolved, a Council of Ministers may go out of power, the President’s rule may be introduced or imposed, or an emergency may be declared which can conceivably affect the States’ powers in matters legislative and executive. The State survives these upheavals. But it is constitutionally unsound to say that the State, as a political entity, has no legal interest in such cataclysmic events and no legal rights to assert in relation thereto. Were it so, which then are the legal rights which the State, as distinguished from its Government, can agitate under Article 131?