24. Sakthivel, S/o Kathan (PW-2) stated that A-1 stabbed him in the stomach twice, which was at the instigation of A-2. According to this witness, A-1, A-2, and D-2, along with other persons, worked in the wine shop. His statement was recorded in the evening after the incident. He states that the showcase upon his reaching the wine shop was intact. Further, D-1 was under the influence of alcohol when PW-2 saw him, but, significantly, D-1 had not stabbed A-1, and as such, no blood was seen on the hands of A-1. 25. Senthilkumar (PW-3) states that he was interrogated the morning after the incident at 7.30 a.m. His deposition reveals him not to know as to whether D-1 (Dharmalingam) was in a state of intoxication before going to the wine shop. Nor has he seen the showcase of the shop in a broken condition. 26. The learned Trial Court found sufficient evidence to convict both A-1 and A-2 based on these three testimonies. 27. K. Raajasekar (PW-22) (the Investigating Officer) at the relevant time Inspector of Police, Kulithalai, took charge of the investigation 760 [2024] 3 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports of the incident on 4th March 2002. In his examination-in-chief, he has described how the investigation proceeded. It was deposed that on 5th March 2002 at about 12 noon, he arrested A-2 from the Pettavaithalai bus stand. He also deposed, having visited the scene of the crime twice and interrogated several witnesses. On 9th April 2002, he examined the witnesses (medical evidence) who had allegedly furnished wound certificates for A-1 and A-2. Further witnesses were examined on 10th July 2002, and a chargesheet was filed on 15th July 2002. 28. It is undisputed that PWs 1 and 2 are injured witnesses. It is a well-established principle of law, not requiring any underscoring or reiteration, that the evidence of an injured witness is considered to be on a higher pedestal than that of a witness simpliciter. 29. The learned Trial Court observed that for the reasons, (a) that the witnesses had nothing to gain from deposing against the accused persons; (b) there is no suggestion that any rival business interest was to be benefitted by Sarvana Wines being embroiled in the controversy; (c) A-2 was in fact a “good Samaritan” ; (d) that the witnesses were deposing the accused persons at the behest of the police being an unsubstantiated claim; and (e) that the witnesses cannot be said to be “interested”. The concept of interested witness, as referred to hereinabove, shows that for a person to be such, he ought to have an interest in seeing the accused persons punished. 30. There is a direct statement by PW-1 that D-1 was his relative, i.e., son of his paternal uncle. D-2 was a relative of the owner of the wine shop, who, according to him, was A-1, but in another instance, he states that A-1 was only a worker. In respect of A-2, the only statement is that it was upon his instigation that A-1 stabbed them.