It is equally settled law that after passing the decree for specific performance, the Court does not cease to have 12 [2024] 9 S.C.R. Digital Supreme Court Reports any jurisdiction. The Court retains control over the decree even after the decree has been passed. It was open to the Court to exercise the power under Section 28(1) of the Act either for extension of time or for rescinding the contract as claimed for. Since the execution application has been filed in the same court in which the original suit was filed, namely, the court of first instance, instead of treating the application on the execution side, it should have as well been numbered as an interlocutory application on the original side and disposed of according to law. In this view, we feel that the of the Bombay High Court laid down the law correctly and that of the Andhra Pradesh High Court is not correct. The High Court, therefore, is not right in dismissing the application treating it to be on execution side, instead of transferring it on the original side for dealing with it according to law.” (Emphasis supplied) 21. The above view was followed in Sanjay Shivshankar Chitkote Vs. Bhanudas Dadarao Bokade (Died) through L.Rs.8 wherein, upon finding that the applications under Section 28 were dealt with on the execution side, this Court set aside the of the execution court and directed that the applications shall be transferred to the file of the civil suit so that they could be numbered as an application in the suit. 22. The law is, therefore, settled that an application seeking rescission of contract, or extension of time, under Section 28 (1) of the 1963 Act, must be decided as an application in the original suit wherein the decree was passed even though the suit has been disposed of. As a sequitur, even if the Execution Court is the Court of first instance with reference to the suit wherein the decree under execution was passed, it must transfer the application filed under Section 28 to the file of the suit before dealing with it. Issue (ii) is partly decided in the aforesaid terms. C. Not a Fit Case for Interference Under Article 136 of the Constitution 23. Now, the question which survives for our consideration is whether, in the facts of the case, the impugned is liable to be interfered 8 Civil Appeal No.8022 of 2023 @ SLP (C) No.24720 of 2023 decided on 08.12.2023 [2024] 9 S.C.R. 13 Ishwar (Since Deceased) Thr. Lrs & Ors. v. Bhim Singh & Anr. with only because the Court which passed the dealt with the application on the execution side and not on the original side (i.e., as an application in the suit). 24. Before we examine facts relevant to the issue, we must reiterate that the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution is a discretionary jurisdiction to advance the cause of justice. The Court does not exercise its jurisdiction under Article 136 only because it is lawful to do so.9 For the purpose of doing complete justice to the parties, the Court may not interfere with the even if it suffers from some legal error.