Despite the observation in Netaji Cricket Club (supra) limiting Moran Mar Basselios Catholics (supra), Kamlesh Verma (supra) thought it fit to agree with the latter decision. 62. Recently, in S. Madhusudhan Reddy v. V. Narayana Reddy,40 a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges has accepted the meaning of the ground “for any other sufficient reason” as explained in Chhajju Ram (supra), Moran Mar Basselios Catholics (supra) and Kamlesh Verma (supra). K. ANALYSIS 63. Before answering question (a), we take up questions (b), (c) and (d) first with (b) and (c) together for answers. 64. It was with more than sufficient intensity, force, vehemence and seriousness that learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the review petitioners argued, based on their understanding of paragraph 217 of Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) that, irrespective of anything else, the same did grant them ‘liberty’ to apply for review, that availing such ‘liberty’ granted by this Court the RPs were filed, and that this Bench being of co-equal strength, instead of taking a different view, ought to read the last sentence of paragraph 217 in the manner they 38 [2008] 7 SCR 117 : (2008) 7 SCC 38 39 [2013] 11 SCR 25 : (2013) 8 SCC 320 40 [2022] 11 SCR 42 : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1034 [2024] 5 S.C.R. 987 Govt. of NCT of Delhi Through Its Secretary, Land and Building Department & Another v. M/s K.L. Rathi Steels Limited and Others (learned senior counsel) understood it, and to accept the same for holding the RPs maintainable. 65. For reasons more than one, the decision in Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) cannot come to the rescue of the review petitioners. 66. The first reason is that the submission of a ‘liberty’ being granted by Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) makes it abundantly clear that but for such ‘liberty’, the review petitioners would not have even thought of applying for review since the law on the point was no longer res integra. It is, therefore, an admission on their part that the s and s under review, as on the dates they were delivered/made, were neither erroneous (which is a possible ground for appeal, if an appeal were allowed by law) nor suffering from any error apparent on the face of the record (a possible ground for review). Therefore, merely based on Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra), a subsequent event, the review jurisdiction of this Court which is a limited jurisdiction could not have been invoked. 67. Next, we need to consider whether the last sentence of paragraph 217 of Shailendra [3-Judge] (supra) can at all be read and understood to have granted a ‘liberty’ of the nature claimed by the review petitioners. 68. This Court sitting in a combination of five-Hon’ble Judges in Vikramjit Singh v. State of Madhya Pradesh 41 had the occasion to consider an appeal where the facts were quite alike. A learned Judge (Varma, J.) of the Madhya Pradesh High Court had granted bail to the appellant. While the appellant was enjoying the concession of bail and such had not been challenged, a co-accused moved for bail.